I have the honour to inform the House that a vacancy has occurred in the representation of the electoral district of the West Riding of the county of Hastings, by the resignation of Henry Corby, Esq. In accordance with chapter 13, section 5, subsection 2, of the Revised Statutes of Canada, I have issued my warrant to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery to make out a new writ of election for the said district.


I have also the honour to inform the House that the Clerk of the House has received from the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery a certificate of the election and return of Donald A. MacKinnon, Esq., for the electoral district of East Queen's, P.E.I.


MacKinnon, Esquire, member for the electoral district of East Queen's, P.E.I., introduced by Hon. Sir Louis Davies and Mr. James J. Hughes, King's, P.E.I.


Bill (No. 118) to amend the Yukon Territory Act and to make further provision for the administration of justice in the said territory.-Hon. Clifford Sifton.
Bill (No. 119) to make certain provisions necessitated by the Demise of the Crown.- Rt. Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
Mr. CLARKE-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	Who is responsible for the continued delay in issuing forms of application and orders as to the granting of the long service decoration and medal to the militia? .
2.	Will the Minister of Militia state definitely when said orders and forms of application will be issued?
1.	There has been no continued delay. The regulations to govern the issue of long service medals are included in the General Orders for March 1st. These General Orders were approved by His Excellency in Council on March 13th. and a certified copy was received on March 16tli, 1901.
2.	Steps are being taken to have the necessary forms printed.





On the question :
1.	What is the reason that the long service medals have not been issued by the Militia Department?
2.	Is it the intention of the hon. the Minister of Militia and Defence to issue them this year?
As this is the same question which has just been asked, and as we have the information, I will drop it.


Dropped.


Mr. HUGHES (Victoria)-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
Lieut.-Col. Van Wagner's name is on the list of ' retired officers ' in the Militia List. Why I is not the name found in the ' Reserve of Officers ' list?
Because he was not transferred to the reserve of officers when retired. In explanation of that further, I have this note :
On the 8th May, 1899, Lt.-Col. Wagner i was notified that the general officer com-i manding the militia refused to recommend i an extension of his tenure of command, i and he was also informed that it was the intention of the general officer commanding to recommend that he be transferred to the reserve of officers.
Lt.-Col. Wagner did not resign, and afterwards the general officer commanding recommended that he be retired and his name placed on the retired list. No reasons were given for so doing.


1.	What is the number of battalions of active militia in each of the provinces of the Dominion?
2.	What is the arm of the service to which each battalion belongs?
3.	What is the number of men in each?
4.	(a) How many are armed with the Lee-Metford?
(b)	How many with the Martini-Henry?
(c)	How many with the old Snider rifles?
5.	What is the number of rounds of ammunition at present at headquarters of said battalions?
6.	What is the number and description of field guns attached to each battery?
7.	What is the number of rounds available at headquarters of each battery?
8.	(a) What is the number of arsenals in the Dominion?
(b)	Where are such arsenals situated?
(c)	What is the nature and number of rounds in store at each such arsenal?
9.	What is the number of employees engaged and the number of each nationality?


The hon. gentleman will bear me out in the statement that I discussed this question with him a , few days ago and a modification was agreed

upon. I will answer the question as modified. The following is the answer :
1.
Ontario	43
Quebec	 30
Nova Scotia	 9
New Brunswick	 6
Manitoba	 2
British Columbia	 3
Prince Edward Island	 2
2.	Cavalry, artillery and infantry.
3.
Cavalry	  2,298
Artillery	 3,843
Engineers	 328
Infantry	 29,476
Army service corps	 140
Bearer companies	 344
Field hospitals	 192
4.	(a) Sixty-nine corps are armed with the Lee-Enfield rifles and carbines.
(b)	. None.
(c)	. The remainder with Snider rifles, but in camps they perform their rifle practice with the Lee-Enfield.
5.
Ontario	 6,164,828
Quebec	 4,443,826
Nova Scotia	 232,850
New Brunswick	 318,517


195,540
Manitoba	 181,615
British Columbia	 479,833
<5.
'A' Field Battery, R.C.A	6
' B ' Field Battery, R.C.A	 none
1st Field Battery, Canadian Artillery, Quebec	 6
2nd Field Battery, Canadian Artillery, Ottawa	2
3rd Field Battery, Canadian Artillery, Montreal's	  6
4th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery, Hamilton	 6
5th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery, Kingston, guns, &e., transferred to 'A' Battery	
6th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery.	London	
67th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	St. Catharines	68th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery.	Gananoque	
49th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	Toronto	
610th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	Woodstock	
6lltli Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	Guelph	
612th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	Newcastle	613th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	Winnipeg	
614th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	(Port Hope) Durham	615th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery,	Shefford	
616th Field Battery, Canadian Artillery, Guelph	
6
Two guns of the 8th Field Battery, Gananoque, are on loan to the 2nd Field Battery, Ottawa.
7.
Ontario	 2,665
Quebec	   708
New Brunswick	   567
Manitoba	 282
8.	(a). One.
(b). Quebec.
(c). Inquiry withdrawn.
9. One hundred and thirty-three, including staff and foremen. I am not able to give the nationalities.


1.	Is the hon. Minister of Militia and Defence willing to allow the property owners at Macaulay Point, B.C., whose claims for damages owing to the erection of forts at that point were stated by the hon. minister to he inadmissible last session, to take their cases to the Exchequer Court?
2.	Will the hon. minister facilitate such reference to the Exchequer Court as much as possible?
3.	Is it not a fact that similar claims were paid by the Conservative government when in power?


This is a matter which must be decided by the Justice Department. On the application of any one of those interested I shall be glad to refer the question to the Justice Department for a decision. There were two claims paid on the 28th May, 1892.


Mr. BENNETT-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
Is there a daily mail service between Midland and Vasey, Ont.?
If not, when was the same discontinued?
If there has been of late a daily mail service, when was the same commenced, and if now discontinued, why was it so discontinued?
1.	The mail service between Midland and Vasey was made dally on the 13th October last, and the contractor was called upon to perform the service as increased at the rate which he received for the tri-weekly service, that is, the amount to be paid was to be increased from $119 per annum, which was his contract pay for the tri-weeltly service, to $238 per annum.
2.	On the 1st February last the post office inspector at Toronto reported that the contractor demanded to be paid at the rate of $1 a day or $313 a year, and as he would not abate his demand, instructions issued from the department to reduce the service back to tri-weekly frequency, and to invite

tenders for a dally service from the 1st July next.


Is it the intention of the government to extend and improve .the breakwater or pier at Rocky Point, Prince county, P.E.I., this year?


I may say that the question is under serious consideration at the present time.


Is it the intention of the government to allow lobster fishermen between West Point and Cape Traverse. Prince county, P.E.I., to run their lines and set their traps a few days before the 20th May, in each year, In order that they may be ready for work when the season opens?


No. The order in council fixes the day and hour for the placing or setting of lobster lines and traps in each locality and special privileges cannot be granted the fishermen mentioned in the question.


Is the government aware that upwards of 400 names were fraudulently added to the voters' list for the year 1901, in the parish of Rothesay, in the electoral district of King's county, N.B., of persons not entitled to vote in said electoral district in either local or federal elections?


The government has no official information of any frauds having taken place in the preparation of the list for King's county. My hon. friend (Mr. Fowler) is aware that the preparation of the list is under the jurisdiction of the provincial authorities, and if any frauds have been committed, I presume and have no doubt that a proper investigation will take place and the parties punished, if there are guilty parties. With regard to the last question, I might tell my hon. friend that the complete list of voters of Kings county,
N.	B., for the year 1901, certified by Geo.
O.	D. Otty, Esq., county secretary, was received by the Clerk of the Crown in Chan' eery on the 24th of December last.


MONK (Jacques Cartier) moved for :
Statement showing the receipts and expenditure of the Montreal Turnpike Trust, and a copy of the annual statement furnished the bondholders of the said corporation by the Montreal Turnpike Trust for the past ten years.
He said : I have already had occasion to offer some observations to the House upon


this motion. I spoke in French because I wished my remarks to be thoroughly understood by some of the members of this House who come from the part of the country which this motion particularly interests. I am informed that the staff of the French reporters is incomplete to-day, and I shall as briefly as possible finish my observations in English, the more so as I wish particularly to direct the attention of the Minister of Finance to the concluding remarks I have to make on this motion. I mentioned the fact, when this motion was under discussion, that the corporation of the Montreal Turnpike Trust is organized in a way which is altogether repugnant to modern ideas- organized under statutes which date back over half a century, and which are not at all in consonance with such legislation as governs to-day administrative bodies of that description. In fact, as I pointed out the other day, that corporation is entirely administered by certain trustees, a majority of whom represent the creditors of the corporation. These trustees, as the hon. Minister of Finance knows, are elected yearly by the bondholders, that is, the creditors of the corporation. Some officer of the Department of Finance goes down to Montreal in the beginning of February, and there, without taking any cognizance of the state of affairs of the company, or its mode of administration during the past year, but simply representing the Dominion government, the holder of all the bonds of the corporation, names three administrators, who form the majority of the board ; and these names are suggested to him by parties who control the patronage in the district of Montreal. In no sense do they represent the farmers who principally use the roads around Montreal, nor do they represent any other interest than the interest of those who have claims on the corporation.


Did I understand my hon. friend to say that the Dominion government are the sole creditors ?


That is, I believe, the case. They have bonds to the extent of $195,000. At any rate, the immense majority of the bonds are owned by the Dominion government, and it is well known that the Dominion government completely control the nomination of the three trustees who form the majority of the board of administration of that corporation. The two remaining trustees are nominated by the Quebec government, and are also. I claim, named irrespective entirely of the interests of the large majority of those who have to use the roads under the control of that corporation. When I tell you thaf of the five trustees who administer the affairs of the corporation, only one, I believe, is identified with the agricultural interests, you will readily realize

that the interests of the farmers, the market gardeners, and all those who largely use those roads, are necessarily neglected. The only trustee who is an agriculturist is Mr. Thomas Trenholme. The others are merchants residing either in the city' of Montreal or outside the city, and. consequently, they have neither that special knowledge which is necessary to a good administration of the great public highways around Montreal, nor are they in a position to realize readily the wants of the farmers nor to inspect as often as they should the highways in question.


Can the hon. gentleman give the names of the present trustees?


I could not give them all from memory. One is Mr. Gallibere, a well-known merchant of Montreal.


Is there one from St. Laurence ?


There is Mr. St. Pierre, a wood merchant, of Cartierville. But, I maintain that Mr. Trenholme is the only member representing the farmers. If I am incorrect in that statement, I would like my hon. friend to correct me. Now, this is a body which, I think, of all bodies, ought to he constituted under the elective principle which nowadays rules bodies of this kind. As I have pointed out to you, in this case it is the creditors of the corporation who rule' its affairs. I believe that is a great fault ; I believe it is one of the principal causes of the great dissatisfaction which exists in and around Montreal with the administration of that body. I believe it is within the power of this government to correct that fault, and it is advisable that it should be corrected as soon as possible. Another point is this, which it is sufficient for me to indicate to show how very defective this administration is. According to the statutes governing the corporation, they are not obliged in any way to render an account of their administration. This is entirely contrary to all the rules which prevail in the administration of bodies of that kind in the province of Quebec, and, as far as I am aware, in any other province under modern laws. They are not obliged to render an account to the government, nor even to the bondholders, and they are not obliged to publish any statement of their affairs annually. There is no provision in the law which obliges this corporation to call for tenders when executing any of those important public works which, from time to time, become necessary in conection with the improvement of the roads around Montreal. We find at the present moment that the revenues under that system of administration are completely insufficient to enable them to meet their liabilities. As an instance. the government arc well aware that since 1896 not one cent has been paid on


the indebtedness for interest on the large amount of bonds held by the government ; and what is the reason ? One of the principal reasons, I have no hesitation in saying, is the lack of proper legislation governing the administration. Another reason is the fact that they are obliged, owing to the expansion of the city of Montreal, to establish toll-gates at almost every road corner. At the present moment they are paying, I believe, over $13,000 a year merely for the maintenance of toll gates, for the city of Montreal is stretching out in ail directions. New roads are being opened, new municipalities are being created, and cross roads have to be established : and at every one of these cross roads the Turnpike trustees are obliged to erect what they call a check gate, and place there a toll-keeper, whose office it is to verify the payment of toll by passengers at seme other spot. The more it becomes necessary to establish toll-gates and check gates, the greater the expense becomes ; and in spite of that, they are not in a position, with their present system of administration, to give us either good roads, which we very much require, or the necessary roads. They are obliged to confine themselves strictly to those great arteries which were put under their administration over fifty years ago. and they do not open the roads which become necessary by changed circumstances. I could give you instances of a man going along a newly-opened road of a municipality, one which is not at all under their control, and for crossing one of their highways, being compelled to pay toll. Take this instance of the utter inability of this corporation to meet our wants. At present farmers coming along St. Laurent, from the county of Two Mountains, Laval and Jacques Cartier, are obliged to climb Cote des Neiges, and from the top of the mountain come down a most precipitous hill, which has been invaded lately by the Montreal street railway, with its double track. That descent is most dangerous and difficult, and it would be the easiest thing in the world for this corporation to open a road starting from the St. Laurent road at a given point, which would relieve farmers from the necessity of climbing to the top of the mountain, and which would, without any ascent of any importance, fall into the Cote St. Luc road. The proprietors of land along that projected highway have offered the necessary land, and even volunteered to subscribe money, and to furnish a large quantity of road metal ; yet. we find this corporation unable to do anything. What is the reason they allege ? They say that they have no means, that the interests of the bondholders must be safeguarded. Thus, while the interest is never unpaid, the public are entirely deprived of the facilities to which it is entitled.
Let me give another instance to show how the interests of the bondholders interfere

with the public interest. Before the advent of this government to power, the farmers of the counties surrounding Montreal were given the privilege of return toll tickets, good for the space of forty-eight hours. Why was this privilege granted ? Because such is the condition of the central market of Montreal, that farmers living any distance from the city, are under the painful necessity of leaving their farms about eight o'clock in the evening in order to secure any kind of a place on that market the following morning. They arrive in Montreal at two or 2.30 a.m., and even then are not always able to get a place. On this account the Turnpike Trust thought proper to give them the advantage of a return ticket good for forty-eight hours. That privilege was, however, taken away in 1896, on the ground that the revenue of the trust was insufficient to meet the interest on the bonds. Endeavours have since been made to re-establish that most equitable provision, but in vain.
When any one suggests any change which would have the effect of making the Turnpike Trust Act a little more in accordance with modern ideas, the objection is made that any legislation of that kind must necessarily be accepted by the bondholders or otherwise we would be interfering with vested rights. I therefore ask by this motion for a statement of the affairs of the corporation during the past ten years, so that we may know exactly the facts in the case. While there is no provision in the law obliging the corporation to furnish such a statement, I think the Minister of Finance need only to demand one, and it will be promptly forthcoming. That statement will demonstrate most clearly that it is utterly hopeless for the holders of those bonds, under the present conditions of things and with the growing needs for roads, to expect to be at any time reimbursed the amount due. And when the fact is demonstrated-as it will be by this statement-that this is a bad debt which can never be recovered by this government, I venture to suggest to the Minister of Finance, and the minister who has particular charge of the interests of the agricultural classes, that they should see that communication is had between this government and the provincial government, with the view to a proper reorganization of that corporation, and the Dominion government, upon proof positive that there is no hope for the recovery of the indebtedness, should consent to write it off and enable us to have an institution that will have a proper care for the maintenance of the roads.
I remember the late Prime Minister of Quebec, Mr. Mercier, declaring it was desirable that these toll-gates should be abolished. The thing is easy of realization. You will find no city of the size of Montreal which has such a quantity of toll-gates, meeting at every corner in its vicinity. This js an eye-sore and an inconvenience, not Mr. MONK.
only to residents but to strangers, who ask how it is possible in the neighbourhood of such a large city to have impediments to easy circulation, which are not to be found in the vicinity of American cities or of Toronto.
Our situation is such as should invite the earnest consideration of the government. And if the government find that all hope of the recovery of this indebtedness is gone, they should write it off and allow us to reorganize ourselves properly. We have given large amounts to railways and have helped other public enterprises in a variety of ways. This government collects a great amount of revenue from the city of Montreal, and if the statement of facts I have given be true, this is a motion which should commend iteself to the attention of the government.


I have followed the remarks of the hon. member for Jacques Cartier (Mr. Monk), both when he spoke on the 27th of February last, and to-day, with a great deal of interest. As the representative of the county of Laval, I have taken a great interest in the abolishment of toll-gates and toll-bridges. It is well known that the county of Laval is divided into two portions-the old county of Laval, which comprises Isle J6su, and the newer portion made up of five parishes in tile lower end of the Island of Montreal. The old county' of Laval being an island, none of the inhabitants can leave it without crossing a bridge and paying toll, and when they reach the Island of Montreal, they have to pay another toll on the macadamized road. I felt so much interested in this subject, and had for a number of years, that, on two former occasions, when I happened to run as a candidate for the local legislature, this question formed one of the items of my political programme. The first occasion was in 1888. I believe I was the first candidate aspiring to political honours who took up this subject as one of the planks of my political platform. When I ran in 1888, I studied the matter as best I could, and pledged myself, if returned, to do all I could to obtain relief for the inhabitants of that old historic county. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Monk) was then residing not far from Isle J6su, and he must have been aware that my opponent, Mr. Leblanc, took the opposite view; but, instead of trying to help me upon this question or giving assurance that he would try his best to secure the abolishment of toll-gates, he remained silent. Mr. Leblanc was elected on that issue as much as on any other. I regret that the hon. member for Jacques Cartier did not at that time think as he does now, and come to my rescue


I was not then in politics.


But, surely, the hon. gentleman was liable to come into politics.

Subsequent events have shown that not only was he an aspirant for political life, but an aspirant for the position of one of the leaders of his party. The second opportunity was in 1S90. There again the same issue was presented to the people. I had the good fortune to bring into the county the late Honors Mereier, who was the Prime Minister of Quebec-, and, in the parish of St. Martin, he pledged his government to abolish tolls on all the bridges and macadamized roads the moment the municipality should take the necessary steps to take over these works and maintain them in proper order. There again Mr. Leblanc, who was returned, fought this as well as the chief planks of my platform. And then the hon. gentleman Mr. Monk, who was not in politics, but who must have been aware of what was going on in the vicinity of Montreal, did not come to my assistance-I presume, because at that time he held the same views as Mr. Leblanc. I say this to show what interest I have taken in the subject, and it will show also to what an extent the inhabitants of the old portion of the constituency I represent are interested in the abolishment of these toll-bridges and toll-gates. It is needless for me to say that I still hold the same views. I sincerely desire that all these impediments, which may have arisen through special circumstances, should be removed. I am in favour of liberty in all its forms, and I like to see a man free to go from one portion of the country to another without Deing obliged to have his purse in his hand to make payments at these toll-gates. But if the hon. member has changed his mind, as I hope he has-for I presume that in 188S and 1890 he was in accord with his political friends- perhaps he will allow me to congratulate him. And perhaps I may be allowed to ask him if he has any plan for the attainment of the object he desires. He seems to have given the subject a great deal of consideration.


If the hon. gentleman (Mr. Fortin) asks me the question, I can only say that I have no definite plan. Even if I had studied the matter for a year and had a plan matured, and the government were not ready, my work would be in vain. And we on this side have too much to do watching the government to work out plans on these subjects. But surely what has been done in every other large city we should be able to do in the city of Montreal.


I accept the statement of the hon. member in the first place, that he has not a plan to suggest. I accept his statement, in the second place, that he has a great deal to do on his side of the House, and that he has not had time to give mature consideration to this subject. I understand that the hon. gentleman has, in fact, undertaken a great task. We have been told by the newspapers representing our opponents
that they had resuscitated the dual leadership system, which was introduced in the 50's, when their party took the name of Liberal-Conservative. At that time, as is well known, one of the chiefs was the chief of the Conservative party of Upper Canada, and the other was the chief of the Liberals of Lower Canada. If I understand aright the nature of the task assumed by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Monk), he is now supposed to be the chief of the Liberals of the province of Quebec.


I rise to a point of order. I would like to know what this has to do with turnpike roads.


I think I am perfectly in order. I asked a question of the hon. member, which he answered telling- me that he had so much to do that he had no time to consider this subject. I am now dealing with that part of his statement, and it seems to me I may be permitted to say what, to my mind, is the task he has undertaken and what are the obstacles in his way. If I am well informed, the hon. gentleman stands in this peculiar position as regards the work he has undertaken-he is chief of the Liberals of the province of Quebec, as he stands in the place of Sir George Etienne Cartier, when the alliance was "formed with himself as chief of the Liberals.


Will the hon. gentleman (Mr. Fortin) undertake to be guided by me, then ?


We will consider that later on. I wish to point out for the moment how difficult is the hon. gentleman's task. He stands, therefore, as I say, in the position of chief of the Liberals in the province of Quebec with not a single member as a follower. Supposing now the hon. member chooses to say that he stands as chief of the French Conservatives of the province of Quebec. If my impression is correct. there again he has no following, he is not even chief of himself, for he is not a full-bred French Canadian.


I rise to a point of order. This is the last day for motions of this kind, and I know many hon. gentlemen have motions they desire to press. I have made my remarks as short as possible, and to the point. I really think, Mr. Speaker, you ought to insist upon the observation of the rule which requires an hon. member to confine his remarks to the subject under discussion.


I would advise the hon. member for Laval (Mr. Fortin) to confine his remarks as much as possible to the question before the Chair.


I did not propose to go on at any length in that line, and I will now come back to the subject of the motion. I
2o79

fail to see wliat object the hon. member has in view in making this motion. He is not prepared to suggest any plans by which the abolition of these toll-gates might be made an accomplished fact. The hon. gentleman should be aware that this is no place for discussing any such plans, even though any scheme of that kind was feasible. The hon. gentleman knows very well that this is a local matter falling exclusively within the jurisdiction of the legislature of Quebec. He has alluded to the difficulties that his constituents have to overcome in passing over these roads ; he has alluded to the past administration of the .Montreal Turnpike Trust and to the present administration. I was unable to gather from the hon. gentleman's remarks whether he had any particular fault to find with the present administration. I understand that he finds fault mainly with the commission itself. He says that this commission is partly elected and partly appointed by the government of the province of Quebec. That is perfectly true ; but it was true prior to 1897. The present commission was appointed in February, 1897, therefore the system was in existence prior to 1897. Was there any suggestion made at that time to change the system that has obtained since ? No, no suggestion was made when the friends of the hon. member were at the head of that commission. Now that the friends of the present government are entrusted with the powers of that commission, there are, apparently, all kinds of fault to be found. The hon. gentleman has suggested that the present government should abandon its claim as holder of debentures to the extent of $95,000. Well, Sir, knowing what I do of this commission, I join with the hon. member in that advice. I think it is just as well for the government to abandon that claim at once. The interest on it has not been paid since 1895, and is not likely to be paid nt any time in the future. But perhaps the statement made by the hon. member on a former occasion needs to be explained. I gathered from his remarks on a former occasion that he said the interest was paid on these bonds up to 1895. Now, as a matter of fact there was no interest paid for quite a number of years ; no interest was paid in 1895 or 1898. It was a very exceptional occurrence when interest was paid, and the result has been that the present commission had to face a deficit of some $28,000 when they took control of the commission in trust in" 1897.


My authority was the answer given by the Minister of Finance (Hon. Mr. Fielding), who said that interest had not been paid since 1897.


I am not finding fault with the statement. I say the hon. member left the House under the impression


on a previous occasion that interest had been paid up to 1895.


Up to 1897.


That interest had been paid up to 1897, and none had been paid since ?


That is what I said.


Now, let me draw the attention of the House to the fact that in 1895 a statute was passed in the Quebec legislature which speaks of arrears of interest on several issues of bonds amounting to $187,200. Now, the accrued interest upon that amount had reached the bagatelle of $180,000. It is stated in the preamble of that Bill that no interest had been paid on the sum of $120,000 since the 15th of July, 1881, and that no interest had been paid upon $07,200 since the 5th of July. 1871. Therefore, the hon. member will see that his information was inaccurate when he said that up to 1897 interest had been paid. As a matter of fact, no interest had been paid upon these bonds since 1S81 in the one case, and since 1871 in the other. As I said before, interest was paid for 1895 and 1890 ; but still the commission was left face to face with a deficit, which was admitted by Mr. Mondaux, who was then secretary-treasurer, to amount to $18,000, and which was found upon the special report prepared by an auditor to amount to $28,000. Now, this shows conclusively to my mind that the trust is unable to pay interest on these bonds except by neglecting the roads ; and to that extent I agree with the hon. member when he suggests that the government should give up these bonds entirely. But this would not remedy the evil in any way. These roads go through twenty-seven or twenty-eight municipalities. There are four or five roads. There are two roads that go as far as Lacliine, crossing along the way, all the different municipalities. One road goes through Cote des N&iges, and goes down to Cartierville, through St.-Laurent. Another road leads from Mile End and, goes through several municipalities, the municipality of Villeray and the parish of Sault au Recollet. Another road leaves the eastern portion of the city and goes as far as Point au Trembles, passing through the parish along the way. I think there are altogether twenty-seven or twenty-eight municipalities interested. Now, some of those municipalities have commuted their tolls upon these roads, in other words, have acquired the roads within the limits of their own territory ; others have not. Now, I fail to see how it could be possible to maintain these roads if the government were to give up their bonds. I understand from the hon. member that he does not wish the government to give up their bonds and let the toll-gates remain.


No.


The bon. gentleman, I am sure, only wishes the government to do its share and then to see some other authority abolish the tolls. Now, what municipality will undertake the maintenance of these roads ? This is a matter that requires a great deal of consideration. I may say that the members who compose the trust to-day are just as anxious as any one for the fulfilment of that trust. They render their services without salary, and have no personal interest in the matter whatever. They have no interest whatever in it. They are just as anxious as anybody to see toll-gates removed from the Island of Montreal. But, the subject is full of difficulties of every kind. I think that nothing short of a royal commission, appointed by a special Act of the parliament of Quebec, and given extraordinary powers, can deal effectively with this subject. As it is, there are several municipalities which would not take over the roads if offered them for nothing. I know that an offer was made to the municipality of Point aux Trembles to give up six miles of the road. The receipts upon that road scarcely paid the amount of the salary of the gate-keeper. The municipality would not take it on any consideration. What is the remedy for the trouble ? The hon. member calls for a statement of the receipts and expenditure for the last ten years. What would this amount to ? It is very true the government can get such a statement. A similar request was made before the legislature, and a similar request was granted. It is a public corporation of a mixed nature, and it is bound to give information to any interested party. Any interested party may go there and obtain all these figures. But, since the hon. gentleman has thought proper to bring this subject before the House, it seems to me that he does not discharge his full duty merely in the observations he has made. I expected his conclusion would be the suggestion of a bold plan of some kind by which these obnoxious toll-gates cbuld be removed, and I was very much disappointed that he could not suggest anything to that end. The hon. gentleman has alluded to what was known as the 48-hours ticket, which was sold to the farmers and parties interested, just a short time before this new commission assumed control of the affairs of the trust in 1897. The hon. gentleman knows very well that this 48-hours ticket was nothing but an election dodge, in order to secure votes probably for the hon. gentleman himself, or, for some friends of his party. This meant a loss to the commission of somewhere in the neighbourhood of $4,000 a year, and the hon. gentleman must also know that the receipts have been so much decreased by the establishment of the electric railways and by the introduction of bicycles, and so forth, that they can hardly pay the ordinary
expenditure of the trust and keep the roads in a proper condition. Now, I do not know that the remarks made by the hon. gentleman call for anything more to be said upon the subject. I repeat that I am very anxious to see these toll-gates and toll-bridges totally disappear. There is no portion of the whole province of Quebec where these are more cumbersome than for the inhabitants of the old county of Laval, wherein I reside myself, but I would like to see somebody coming here with a definite scheme by which a proper end could be attained.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman (Mr. Fortin) has found fault with my hon. friend (Mr. Monk) for introducing a motion to find out and inquire what is the amount due by this trust company on the Island of Montreal to the government.


That is not the motion.


He found fault also with the hon. member for Jacques Cartier because, as he said, in some election campaign the hon. member for Jacques Cartier, or his friends, had made an election cry about the abolition of what we look upon in our section of the country as a relic of barbarism-toll-gates. He also found fau:t with my hon. friend because he has not a practical plan by which these toll-gates can be abolished. It seems to me to be the consensus of opinion on both sides of the House that the claim of the government against this trust which has the duty of keeping these roads in order, is worthless. There is $180,000 of interest and $190,000 of capital due to the government, while, with the receipts of the Turnpike Trust, there is no prospect of receiving anything. The hon. gentleman asks for some plan by which these toll-gates can be abolished. I would suggest a plan to him. If he would look to the conduct of the people of New Brunswick and of Nova Scotia, and in some way or other have the claims of these municipalities referred to the Exchequer Court, which would look into the equities of them without any legal formalities to be gone through, perhaps he would be able to get something for the municipalities down there. After all, here is a claim which the government have against this Turnpike Trust, of which there is no probability and no possibility of getting anything. Would not a simple plan be for the government to say to the parties who own these roads :	You
gain nothing out of these roads, but you have to make the expenditure for keeping them in repair. If we forego our claim will you abolish the toll-gates altogether ? If you do not do it, we will enforce our claim to its utmost. There is a simple plan. Then, the hon. gentleman says, that the municipalities will not take charge of these roads. That is a new doctrine. The municipality has to take charge of every road in every


The motion of the hon. member for Jacques Cartier (Mr. Monk) calls for papers which are quite proper, and therefore there is no objection to its passing. I am inclined to think, however, that the remarks that were made by him on this motion were calculated to lead some of us to imagine that the duty of looking after the reads in the province of Quebec belongs to the government of the Dominion. That certainly is not what he would seriously propose, and when he suggests that the government of the Dominion should do this or that in the matter, I am afraid I shall have to remind him that the government of the Dominion are only interested as creditors or bondholders. AVe have nothing to do with the management of provincial roads. Under the Act of Union, certain securities belonging to the provinces passed to the control of the Dominion. Amongst these were claims against this Turnpike Trust : they came under the control of the Dominion, and for some years a portion of the interest was paid. Then, there camp a period of years, owing, no doubt, to the difficulty of maintaining the roads, when the interest was not paid. About the year 1895, I think it was, the claim of the government for principal and interest amounted to upwards of $400,000. It is only fair to say that half of that was for arrears of interest. The capital sum due was about $200,000. A compromise was then come to. which was deemed at that time to be a fair one, whereby half of this claim for principal and interest against the Turnpike Trust was wiped out, and it was agreed that the Dominion should only be a creditor to the extent of $200,000, and at a reduced rate of interest. The Dominion has practically contributed as a free gift $200,000 to this enterprise, and it is now to be asked to give up the balance. I am not going to offer any emphatic opinion now. but, if the Minister of Finance is to be the watch-dog of the treasury, Mr. HAGGART.
I think, perhaps, he may have to be on guard, not only against my hon. friend from Jacques Cartier (Air. Alonk), but also against my hon. friend from Laval (Mr. Fortin), who seems to be looking in the same direction. I suppose we all agree that it is desirable that toll-gates and toll-roads should be abolished. I had a fad of that kind in my own province, and I take some pride in the fact that the last toll-bridge in Nova Scotia was abolished under my administration, but, it was not abolished by any Dominion grant, but abolished by the' municipal and provincial authorities coming to an understanding and paying off the company, and making it a public highway. I have no desire to say what might be done in the end. The motion of the hon. gentleman (Air. Alonk) calls for information which we shall be glad to furnish. I do not want to admit that the debt is a hopeless one. A Finance Minister never wishes to do that. However, before a proposal is made that the government should give up its claim, I would like to have a clearer understanding as to what is going to happen then. It is well that the House should understand that already the Dominion has given up its claim to the extent, principal and interest, of $200,000 on acount of this trust fund.


Has the interest been paid since ?


I am glad my hon. friend (Air. Gourley) reminded me of that. After the readjustment took place, it was contemplated that the interest would be paid, and that they would gradually pay off some of the principal. They paid for a year or a year and a half the interest under the rearrangement, and they also paid the sum of $5,000 on the capital. It is represented, however, by the trustees who succeeded the administration of that day. that that amount of $5,000 was not paid out of the earnings of tire road, but was paid practically out of the capital, if I may so express it, because it is said that the roads were allowed to run down, and that when the new trustees came into office they were obliged to make good the defects, and that therefore, the earnings of the roads did not justify the payment of the $5,000. Of course, I only give that as a statement of the trustees, for I have no personal knowledge of the matter. After paying interest for a year or two on the readjusted sum, the payment ceased, and for the last couple of years no interest has been received. As to the capacity of the trustees.
I have no reason to doubt that they are very estimable gentlemen. I believe that under the late administration, the chairman of the trustees was an excellent newspaper man, and a man who is capable of running a successful newspaper can generally do pretty nearly everything on earth. The gentleman who is now the chairman of the trustees is a merchant of high standing in

the city of Montreal, and I have no doubt that the trustees are doing the best they can to administer the trust. I suppose that the real trouble is that the demands for the maintenance of the road are so great that it is difficult to meet th*e payments of interest and to maintain the roads.


I desire to thank the Minister of Finance (Hon. Mr. Fielding) for the statement he has made. I understood from his remarks that the matter was a proper one to bring before this House, and that
Copies of all leases, contracts or agreements for the rental of all buildings now occupied, or to be erected for and occupied by the Federal-government in the city of Ottawa.


Motion agreed to.
PRIOR (Victoria, B.C.) moved for :
Copies of all specifications and plans issued
he would be ready to lend himself to an by the Department of Marine and Fisheries when investigation of the financial ability of this calling for tenders -for the construction of two cnmnrntion to nav its debt But I cannot , government vessels in British Columbia. Also corporation to pay its a ID .	>
J . copies of all tenders received for construction
say as much foi my hon. friend foi Lava) oJ samei together with a statement showing the (Mr. Fortin). I thought he would give me anlount of the deposits made by the several ten-a very hearty support ; but, he seems to derers, &c., names of the successful tenderers, blame me for not coming down to this , and all correspondence and papers connected House-which he admits has no jurisdiction with the same, including that in connection with in the matter-and take -up an hour and a i the withdrawal of one of the successful ten-half explaining about the maintenance ot' ! ders-
'	' ' The MINISTER OF FINANCE (Hon. W.
S. Fielding). Stand.


This is the second time this has been asked to stand.


The Mmthese roads. What has he got to say about that ? Why cannot he corroborate what I have said about the financial standing of this corporation ? The matter began in 1888, and he has been looking into it for fourteen years, but he has not to-day any plan . of any kind whatever to suggest. I ister of Marine is absent, but the last inthink the House will be satisfied with the formation I had was, that the contract had statements made by the Minister of Finance, not been awarded.
and by the hon. member for Lanark (Hon.
Mr. Haggart). It is a thing that is feasible, since it has been done everywhere else, and when we have the assurance of the government, that upon proper proof that; well, this is a worthless asset, they will leave us free to arrange this matter.
Hon. Mr. PRIOR, That is three weeks ago. Better let the motion drop.


Very
Motion dropped.


Mr, F. D. MONK (Jacques Cartier) moved for :
I did not give any such assurance.


As this is the last day for
motions of this kind, I would ask the gov eminent to permit the Order paper to be gone through so as to pass the unopposed motions.


In moving the motion which is in my name, am I to understand that there is no discussion allowed on it ?


There is no discussion at this stage.


Then discussion, for :
the duty of the government, while constructing the canal for the general wants of the Dominion, to supply wherever necessary proper means of communication from one bank of the canal to the other. As I have stated, the bridge at Cote St. Paul is too weak to admit of electric cars passing over it; and I understand that it is too narrow I move, without t when open to admit of the free and easy | passage of A'essels coming down the canal..

I am informed that the Bohemian, coming down the canal, at that point, touches on both sides. But the chief inconvenience is the want of proper communication between the city of Montreal and the town of Cote St. Paul a,nd the municipality of Verdun. It is impossible for the Montreal Street Railway to cross, because the bridge would require to carry thirteen tons, whereas I believe it has only sufficient strength to carry seven tons. So that the street cars only run as far as the bridge. There is no doubt that if they could cross jhe bridge and run as far as Verdun, where the line already reaches, and pass by a circuit back to Montreal, the greatest possible advantage would result to Cote St. Paul, Verdun and the city of Montreal itself. I believe that the people of Cote St. Paul and vicinity have communicated with the government on this Subject on one or two occasions; and at their request I have called at the canal office at Montreal and solicited from the resident engineer there, Mr. Marceau, the favour of an estimate of what a new and enlarged bridge would cost. I have not been able to obtain that information in time for this motion; but I would invite the earnest consideration of the Minister of Railways to this subject. I believe it is admitted now that a tunnel under the canal would be very much better than a bridge over the canal. I believe that was established in some way at the time the difficulties arose in connection with the construction of the Curran bridge. This is a particularly favourable spot for the building of a tunnel, for the land is low on both sides, and I do not think the tunnelling would be expensive. Under these circumstances I would ask the Minister of Railways to give his. earnest attention to this request.


I happen to know something about the bridge in question, and about the wants of the town of St. Paul in connection with it, and I entirely concur in the demand made by the hon. member who has just taken his seat. The town of St. Paul is a very progressive locality. A few years ago it formed part of the parish of St. Paul; then it became a village, and afterwards a town. There are various industries in operation within its limits, and altogether it is a very considerable and progressive place. To my personal knowledge-for I have been for the last ten or twelve years the legal adviser of the municipali