Bill (No. 128) for the relief of Lilias Middleton.-Mr. Rosamond.
Bill (No. 129) respecting the St. Lawrence and Adirondack Railway-Mr. Monk.
Bill (No. 130) for the relief of James Ward McDonald-Mr. Lennox.
That the petition of the Great Northern Railway of Canada; presented this day; praying the House to suspend all rules and formal notices regarding a Bill to be introduced amending the Act incorporating the Great Northern Railway of Canada and Acts amending same by enacting that notwithstanding the provisions of section 13, chapter 40 of the Acts of Parliament of Canada, 1892 (55-56 Victoria, c. 40), the bonds issued by the company secured upon the railway, exclusive of the bridge over the Ottawa river by indenture of trust and mortgage, dated the 1st of January, 1900, by and between the company on the one part and the Central Trust Company of New York on the other part, and designated as Series A, and the bonds issued by the company upon the bridge built over the Ottawa river, secured by deed of trust and mortgage, dated the 1st of January, 1900, by and between the company on the one part and the Central Trust of New York as the other part, and designated as Series B, shall all rank equally, pari passu, both upon the railway of the company and the bridge over the Ottawa river, and the revenues of both the railway and the bridge shall be treated and considered as one security for all the bonds of both Series A and B ; that the trustee or trustees for the holders of bonds Series A and B may, in the event of default by the company, sell the railway and the bridge over the Ottawa river, together for one price which shall be distributed amongst the holders of bonds of the railway, Series A and B, without distinction, in proportion to their respective holdings, and if the railway or the bridge be sold separately, the holders of bond3 Series A and B, without distinction, will be entitled to rank upon the price realized in the proportion of their holdings respectively; notwithstanding the expiration of the time for presenting petitions for private Bills, be read and received, and referred to the Select Standing Committee on Standing Orders.
He said : I may say that this is rendered necessary by reason of the fact, as I am instructed, that those who were about to underwrite or purchase the bonds required, and the company agreed, that it would be wise to have the bonds on the railway and the bonds on the bridge applied pari passu on the railway and on the bridge. By chapter 40 of 55 and 56 Vic., power was given to the railway company to issue bonds to the extent of $20,000 a mile on the railway, and to the amount of $500,000 on
4407	COMMONS	4408
the bridge ; and the trustee deed recites that the bondholders and the railway company are agreed that these shall rank pari passu. As this is in a sense entirely a family matter, I do not think that the House will have any objection to the legislation being passed this session.


I was called away while my hon. friend was speaking, and did not hear that he gave any reasons for urging this legislation, or whether or not any private interests could be aftVcied by it.


I did explain that no private interests could be affected, because it was entirely, as it were, a family matter. Thd trust deed and mortgage upon which the bonds are secured provides for such legislation. If the underwriting and the necessary financial arrangements had been made in sufficieut time for the company and the bondholders to have given notice for the legislation, that would have been done; but, that was not possible ; and as it is a matter in which only the bondholders and the company can be interested, and they have both agreed that such legislation should be applied for this session, I do not think it possible that any private interests can be affected. On the other hand, if the legislation be not obtained, it may jeo-jjardize the success of the company in carrying out the financial obligations which, by the issue of these bonds, it has assumed.


Motion agreed to.
PRIOR (Victoria, B.C.) Before the Orders of the Day are called, I would ask the right hon. leader of the House to give his attention to some correspondence I have received concerning the Alaskan boundary dispute. Last year I asked in the House :
Has tiie iargo map of the Dominion. which was lately exposed to view in the vestibule of this building, been sent to the Paris exhibition as an official map of Canada exhibited by the government?
Is it true that the boundary between Canada and Alaska, commonly known as the ' Alaska boundary,' is marked on that map according to the United States contention, and that the boundary according to the Canadian, or British Columbia, contention, is not shown at all?
To this question, the hon. the Minister of Agriculture replied :
The map in question was sent to Paris as one of the exhibits of the Department of Public Works, but not as an official map. It is true that the boundary between Canada and Alaska, commonly known as the ' Alaskan boundary,' is marked on that map in two ways, marking the American contention and the Canadian contention as to the boundary, and each of these markings is distinctly stated to be what it represents, ^ so that I do not think there can be any possible difficulty or doubt as to what is meant.
Mr. McCarthy.
Last year I wrote to Mr. Begg, who has taken a great deal of interest in this question, and we both wrote to Mr. Brymner, who was then in Paris, asking him to go to the exposition and examine the map. I have not got Mr. Brymner's answer to myself, as I unfortunately left it at home, but I have a letter here from Mr. Begg on the same subject, dated 17th April, 1901 :
I have been looking over the letter sent to me by Mr. Brymner of Paris, who visited the exhibition at your request, and mine, to see if it was as represented-one provisional boundary for British Columbia and another for United States. In his letter to me dated July 17, 1900, he says : * I had your note re the frontier question, also a letter from Col. Prior, House of Commons, Ottawa, asking me to go and see if it was really as you stated, that the boundary marked ran up Portland Canal, and not up Clarence Sound, and if two boundaries were given and marked " provisional." There is but one boundary marked, and that is the one claimed by United States, and there is absolutely no mention made of its being provisional. There is no distinct colour between American and Canadian territory, so it is very difficult to trace the line, the area being so great (covered by the map) that nearly all the names have been left out, so that neither Portland Canal nor Clarence Sound are mentioned, Wrangel being the only name given in that neighbourhood.' My object in alluding to this matter now is that this same map may be sent to Glasgow exhibition, and it would be well to know if the erroneous boundary is marked running up Portland Canal, and if the British Columbia provisional boundary along Clarence Straits, as shown on British Columbia maps, is entirely left out.
Mr. Brymner's statement is undoubtedly correct, and it agrees with what I supposed were the facts of the case.
Of course, I have not seen the map myself. but if Mr. Brymner's statement, both to Mr. Begg and myself be correct, namely, that the only boundary marked on the map is that which the Americans contend for, the government is greatly to blame for having allowed such a map to be put on exhibit. No doubt if on this map only the American contention is shown, that will be brought in as an argument in favour of the United States whenever the matter goes to arbitration.
I would ask my right hon. friend whether he will find out if it be true that the American boundary is the only one indicated on this map, or whether there are two distinct boundaries marked on it and both stated plainly to be provisional ?


I shall call the attention of my colleague the Minister of Agriculture to the representations of my hon. friend. I may say, however, that in view of the advice we have received from our law offi-ecrs, it is very hard to maintain that the boundary runs up Clarence channel. The treaty says in so many words the Portland canal, but there is a difference in opinion between the Americans and ourselves as to where that channel is. We claim that it is

west of Pearse Island. They claim that it is Observatory Inlet. As to endeavouring to have the line pass along Clarence channel, which is a pretension Mr. Begg has often submitted to me, I do not think any one, who will take a careful view of the matter, can be convinced of the correctness of that pretension. The point on which we and the Americans do not agree, is as to what is Portland channel. They want to make it run up Observatory Inlet and then to the west, making out that Observatory Inlet is only a small inlet running into the interior. We, on the other hand, contend that Portland channel is as it is described on the map of Vancouver on which the treaty of 1825 seems to have been based, namely, all that channel of water which runs west of Pearse Island.


I do not think that this has anything to do with the question whether the map is wrongly marked. Whatever boundary is described on it, should be marked provisional.


The only provisional line we have agreed upon is around Lynn canal, and if my hon. friend will look carefully at the relief map which is exhibited in the library, he will see that that is the only provisional line we have agreed to.


On the 11th March, the House voted two addresses, calling for correspondence between Canada and the British government regarding the enrolment of the Baden-Powell police force, and the commissions granted Canadian officers in the British army. Part of the correspondence is down, but that which I want especially, the correspondence between His Excellency and the Secretary of the Colonies, has not yet been laid on the Table.


I have recently given orders to have the correspondence and papers brought down, and they will be down in a day or two.


Mr. FORTIN moved third reading of Bill (No. 26) respecting Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
Mr. Speaker, this question has already been thoroughly discussed, and I do not propose to detain the House at any great length with further discussion of it. I must say that in the first instance, I was in favour of granting this charter to the Canadian Pacific Railway to build from Teulon to the Narrows of Lake Manitoba, but the discussion which has since taken place has served to convince me that it would not be proper to grant the charter. Various reasons
were brought out in debate which have led me to believe that the best policy for this House to pursue would be to refuse to grant this charter. The question is very much larger than the mere one of deciding whether this particular charter shall or shall not be given, or whether the sixty miles of road shall or shall not be built under the Great North-west Central charter. It seems to me that the details now under discussion show that there is a principle involved very much larger than would appear on the surface- a principle, I think. Sir, which is closely associated with the foundation, so to speak, of the railway position in the Dominion, so far at least as concerns the opening up of new districts and the giving communication to districts into which settlers have already gone, but which have not, up to the present, been given railway communication. To illustrate the principle to which I refer, I would ask this question:	Should or should
not railway companies which, by their charters, are bound to certain responsibilities and duties with regard to particular districts, be allowed to assume further responsibility before they have shown their ability to meet those they already rest under ?
The particular matter under discussion, it seems to me, sheds light upon the broader question of which I speak. As I pointed out the other day, we have large districts in the North-west Territories, north of the Qu'Appelle valley, in which there have been for years several hundreds of settlers. The Canadian Pacific Railway to-day stands- and for the last three or four years have stood as another company stood before the Canadian Pacific Railway-under agreement to give these people railway communication; and up to the present that agreement has not been fulfilled. The other day the hon. member for .South Norfolk (Hon. Mr. Tisdale) laid particular stress upon the agreement involved in the granting of a railway charter by this House, and he read a lecture to the House upon the duty of parliament to strictly observe the agreement involved in the giving of these charters. I could not help thinking that that was rather unnecessary, for I had not in my recollection a single occasion when parliament showed any disposition not to observe its end of the agreements with railway corporations. On the other hand, it seems to me, parliament on many occasions, has shown too great a willingness to allow railway corporations to depart from their end of the agreements. In the case to which I referred last Monday, as I have just said, the Canadian Pacific Railway stands-or rather stood, until a few days ago when they came down and got a new arrangement with the sub-committee of the Railway Committee of this House-under agreement to give that particular part of the country railway communications immediately. They came down the other day and

asked an extension of time, and immediately got a compromise and an extension of time. Year after year they come to parliament and ask permission not to fulfil their agreement, and on nearly every occasion parliament very kindly grants the permission. I think there can be no successful dispute of that part of the case so far as regards this charter covering the North-west Central country. But after they had come to this House and pleaded their inability to fulfil their agreement with parliament and with the people residing north of the Qu'Appelle valley, aud after they had arrived at a compromise with the sub-committee of the Railway Committee of this House, they make application for a charter covering something over 100 miles from Teulon to the Narrows of Lake Manitoba in the province of Manitoba. They thereby showed that the plea which they made before the sub-committee was not altogether a true plea, for the request for this charter is in effect a declaration that they are financially able to go on aud build a hundred miles of railway. However, 1 do not propose to g<5 at further length into that point. The question I wish this House to answer this afternoon is whether a company should be allowed to assume further responsibilities until it has shown its ability to fulfil the agreements under which it already rests. Some lion, gentlemen say that it is not proper for parliament to seek to compel anybody to build railways. I am willing to agree to that; but I think it is quite proper to compel a railway company to build a road which it has agreed to build-which is certainly the position of the Canadian Pacific Railway with regard to the North-west Central. The right hon. First Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier), on Monday last when we were discussing this question, suggested that those of us from the North-west Territories who were making the contention that I am making this afternoon were, to some extent standing in the position of the dog in the manger-that we were ready to declare that unless the needs of the settlers in our own districts were met we wrouId endeavour to prevent the meeting of the needs of the people in other parts of the country. I beg to submit that that is not the case in the present instance. If it were the case,
I would not srand here and oppose the granting of this charter. The position, as I understand it-and I may say that my information on this subject is gathered from statements made by my hon. friend from Selkirk (Mr. McCreary), who represents that part of the country-is that there are practically no settlers in the section of the country through which this Teulon line is intended to run. This being the case, those of us from the North-west who oppose this Bill are not taking a stand against any settlers of the province of Manitoba. And here let me point out another reason which Mr. SCOTT.
should weigh with this House. If this charter is granted to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, the district through which this proposed new road is designed to run may be in very much the same position in the future as the district of which 1 have been speaking, north of the Qu'Appelle valley, is in to-day. The Canadian Pacific Railway at present have the North-west Central country practically pre-empted. They have a small portion of the line built, and the people beyond that are thus practically prevented from dealing with any other railway builders or promoters than the Canadian Pacific Railway people. This is, as I say, a practical pre-emption in favour of the Canadian Pacific Railway. Suppose the Canadian Pacific Railway is granted a charter over this proposed route from Teulon-and I do not speak as I do because it is the Canadian Pacific liailway that is to get this charter; I would speak the same way if it were any other company, say the Canada Northern, the Mackenzie and Mann interest. The Canadian Pacific Railway, having got this charter may build a few miles, but they may fail to complete the line. Immigrants, knowing that the charter is granted and supposing that the line will be built, will probably push in there. But the Canadian Pacific Railway, instead of giving these people railway communication may come to parliament and ask for extensions of time. They come here every year aud ask for extensions of time for some or other of the railways for which they hold charters in the western country. If this is done, we shall have gentlemen arising in the House and telling ns that we should not deal harshly or arbitrarily with the company, that our interests are bound up with theirs and that we must grant the extension of time or their interests, and the interest of Canada, will be detrimentally affected. With regard to this particular charter, it appears from the information that has been placed before this House, that this application is in the interests of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company alone. It has not been shown that any person along the proposed line of railway is anxious for the road to be built, or anxious for this charter to be granted. On the other hand It has been shown in a manner to leave very little doubt that there is practically no person on the line of railway who is interested in the matter, and who wants the road to be pushed on. It came out clearly, in fact it was admitted before the committee by the representatives of the company, that they did not hope to reap any traffic from this road until they had passed the Narrows of Lake Manitoba and got into the Dauphin country. The Dauphin country, as the House knows, is already well served by the Mackenzie & Mann road ; the Dauphin section of the Canadian Northern road already serves the people in that district: and while

I suppose they would have no objection to having a second line built and thereby securing competition, still we hear of no outcry from the people of the Dauphin district, no evidence that they are anxious for this line.
No doubt one reason that will be urged against adopting the proposition I make against the third reading of the Bill will be the technical reason that the matter was threshed out in the Railway Committee, and that this House should not reverse the decision of the committee. Now I pointed out the other day that the particular matter which we brought up was not threshed out in the Railway Committee. A certain phase of the question was brought forward by the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. McCreary), and that was threshed out, and when the consideration of that business was finished, the time of the committee expired and the committee adjourned. The committee met next day at 10.30 a.m. in place of 11 a.m. I, myself, and other gentlemen from the North-west did not know that the committee was meeting at 10.30. For my part I went to the committee at 11 o'clock that morning for the purpose of bringing this matter before it, and found to my surprise that the committee had already been sitting half an hour, and that tiie Bill had already been reported by the committee. But even if it were the case that we had failed intentionally or for another reason to bring the matter before the committee, I would ask the House not to allow that technical reason to prevail. No matter what may be the fault of particular members, that * should not affect the real position of the question, and I would ask the House to give its verdict upon the reasons presented in opposition to the Bill and not upon any technical reasons. With this explanation I move that the Bill (No. 26) be not now read the third time, but that it. be read this day six months.


As I have the honour of having brought this question before the House in the first place, I desire to say a few words on the amendment. Regarding the contention of some hon. gentlemen that this Bill having been threshed out in the Railway Committee we, the members of the Northwest, should not now reopen the question in the House, I want to say that so far as I am concerned the Bill was not threshed out in the Railway Committee. As my hon. friend from Assiniboia (Mr. Scott) has stated, the Railway Committee, on the morning this Bill went through, met at 10.30 a.m. instead of the usual hour of 11 o'clock. T have been in this House for five years, and I had never known an occasion that the Railway Committee met at 10.30 in the forenoon. I did not look at the paper that was sent me, so I did not know the hour the committe was to meet ; therefore I think the North-west members have a right to
avail ourselves of the privileges of members of the House to discuss this question on the present occasion, inasmuch as it is of a special interest to our part, of the country. With regard to the principle which is laid down in the discussion of this question, 1 want to say that that principle has beeu adopted, it was adopted the other morning in the Railway Committee by the Minister of Railways and Canals with reference to this very same Bill. Now what are we asking for ? The Canadian Pacific Railway came down to parliament and asked for a charter to build a road from a certain place in Manitoba to a point called Sifton's Landing in the Dauphin country. They are asking for a franchise that will in the course of events become very valuable ; therefore I think it is only right that we, representing the west, should ask the Canadian Pacific Railway Company to build some portion of the road for which they already have a charter. We have taken the ground that the Canadian Pacific Railway Company are not asking for fresh charters for the purpose of constructing roads, but for the purpose of preventing other corporations from building these roads, in other words, keeping them from going in and occupying the ground. Now with reference to this question of principle, I find in looking over the Statutes of 1899. 62 and 63 Vic., chap., 58, an Act respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, that section 1 of this Act says :
The Canadian Pacific Railway Company, hereinafter called ' the company,' may construct, acquire and operate a railway from a point at or near the north terminus of its Stonewall branch, in the province of Manitoba thence northerly and north-easterly to a point on the west shore of Lake Winnipeg, between Gimll and Arnes; and also a railway from a point at or near Reston, or. the company's Souris branch, thence in a general westerly direction to a point in the Moose Mountain district, thence in a westerly and north-westerly direction to a point at or near Regina.
I find by this Act that the Canadian Pacific Railway have actually a charter to build this road to Gimli on the shores of Lake Winnipeg. I suppose the Minister of Railways and Canals was aware of the fact that the Canadian Pacific Railway Company had a charter, and when they came down to the House and asked for this charter for the Teulon branch, the Minister of Railways and Canals moved in committee an amendment, which was carried, and which was to this effect: That the company would not be allowed to exercise the powers granted under this charter they were applying for until they had carried out the conditions of this old charter, the conditions of this charter I have in my hand, and went to work and built this road into a place called Gimli so as to give the settlers in that portion of Manitoba railroad communication. Now in carrying out that very same principle we ask that the company shall not be allowed


Mr. Speaker, the position which is taken now by the western members is more sound than the one that was taken the other day when they wanted to amend this Bill by adding a clause which would have the effect of forcing the construction of another branch of railway as the condition of the granting of this charter. Now they simply ask that this charter should not be granted at all on account of the Canadian Pacific Railway not having fulfilled their obligations in respect to another branch. When the question came up the other day, I had occasion to take part in the debate, simply because I desired to point out that the Northwest is not the only part of the country that is suffering from such a state of things. I think that the hop. member for Saskatchewan (Mr. Davis), though looking at the question from a local point of view, has put his finger upon one of the great inconveniences in this country, that is, that we grant charters with too great facility to railway companies, and that when these companies are organized, we grant them facilities for building new branches without looking with sufficient care to what they have done in so far as their past obligations are concerned. As I pointed out the other day, a company, the name of which I have forgotten, received a charter twenty-five or thirty years ago for a line, and it began the building of that railway. The charter was for a railway from Montreal to Lake Temiscamingue through Laval, Terrebonne, Ottawa, as it was before the division of the county of Ottawa was made, and Pontiac. Afterwards they allowed their charter to
become null. Then a new charter was obtained from parliament. Then they entered into a lease with the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, and they finally sold their charter to the Canadian Pacific Railway without any provision being made for the completion of that branch. Of course, if I were to take the same position as is taken by the hon. members who have complained of the Canadian Pacific Railway, I would say that the Canadian Pacific Railway are entirely responsible for the neglect to build that road ; but, the fault rests with the directors of the old company, who sold their charter to the Canadian Pacific Railway without taking proper care to see that the rights of the people interested in the building of the railway should be protected. Therefore, the Canadian Pacific Railway became the owners of the charter without any obligation whatever to construct the line They simply waited for the proper time to build it. Now, I do not think it would be a matter of justice on my part to come here and ask that the Bill should not be granted for another branch of the same line until that branch, in which the settlers to whom I have referred to are interested, is completed.
I think each case should be judged on its own merits, but, at the same time, it emphasizes the fact that the government, who, after all, have complete control over legislation, private as well as public should look with more care into the charters that are asked for, either by new companies or by old companies, to extend their lines. The government should give more attention to the additional powers that are asked for by companies from time to time to increase their transportation facilities. It occurred to me the other day, that it was most improper to couple with the Bill then before the House, an outside question which had nothing to do with it. However, that may be, the government should adopt some means to insure that railway companies should be obliged to fulfil their obligations. We are sometimes told that the best way to force companies to carry out their obligations is to catch them when they come before parliament for subsidies, but when they ask for subsidies it is for a special railway, and if we then make objections because they have not built another branch,
| the reply is always ready : That we should i not object to subsidies being voted for this special line, but that we should reserve ! our objection until the company ask sub' sidies for the line which w,e complain has not been built. It is evident, however, that if a railway company refuses to build a branch, those interested will have a long time to wait before the company would ask for a subsidy for that branch. We all know that when the Canadian Pacific Railway wants to build a branch railway they find a way to ask for a subsidy, and they probably will get it if the railway is deemed necessary. The question now before the



House is another illustration of the evil which exists, not only in the North-west Territories and Manitoba, but in all the provinces in Canada. When a charter is once granted by parliament, the plea is set up afterwards that we have no right to object, but, it may happen frequently that the objection develops ten years or twenty-five years even after the charter has been granted. No charter should be granted to any new company, nor to any existing company, for the extension of their line, until we have valid reasons for granting the charter, and until we have evidence of the good faith of those who seek the charter, that they will build the road, and not hold that charter in order to prevent other parties from getting a charter over the same ground. Although I cannot support the motion of the hon. member (Mr. Scott), I do say that the government should study the question as to whether these charters should not be granted with a little more care. When once they are granted the government should take means to see, that the object of those charters is accomplished in due time and with satisfaction to the people. For my part, I would be glad if the government should take action in this direction, because in the counties of Labelle, Wright and Pontiac, settlers have gone in for the last ten or twenty years, and have undergone heavy sacrifices in opening up new land, cutting timber, and performing ail the arduous duties of pioneer life; yet, these settlers are to-day without any railway accommodation. That not only places the settlers in a bad position, but the whole province of Quebec is loosing revenue, as the settlers have to burn the very finest timber because of lack of means to send it to the market. After the pine, spruce and hemlock have gone, there remains the very finest maple and birch, which are the raw materials for valuable industries in the province of Quebec, but which we are now not able to forward to the manufacturing centres. There is a branch of the Canadian Pacific Railway extending 100 miles, but there it stops. Another company cannot apply for a charter because the Canadian Pacific Railway has the field occupied, and there is apparently no means of forcing them to build the line further. Although I must vote against this resolution, I repeat that I hope the time is not far distant when the government will study the question of taking more care in the granting of charters, and of seeing that the obligations held by the various railway companies under these charters are fulfilled.


I have a good deal of sympathy with the object of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Scott) who moved this amendment. I take it that he has done so, not because of any opposition to this charter being granted, but, as giving notice . on behalf of the representatives from the | North-west, that now and at any time when j Mr. BOURASSA.
the Canadian Pacific Railway comes here asking for something, these hon. gentlemen will insist that the North-west Central shall be built. That is a pretty extreme position to take, but I believe the facts justify it. For years and years a charter has been held for this line, and settlers have gone in ahead of the railway expecting that it would be extended, but in many cases they have become weary waiting, and have had to pack up and leave their farms deserted. We are, to some extent, responsible for this,
; because our immigration literature has always attracted the settlers to these parts where charters for railways have been granted. It does seem to me that in the future we should be honest in our immigration literature, and state that there is no chance of a railway being built in certain districts. I remember when this Bill first came before the committee, the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. McCreary), in whose constituency the proposed line is, very strongly urged that there was no necessity whatever for building a railway in that district, because there were no settlers there, there was no business there, and nothing for the railway to do until it turned around the north of the lake and came into competition with other lines which are now serving the country to the west. I believe the contention of the hon. gentleman was right. He urged that the Railway Committee should put a clause in the charter stating that the power granted should not be enforced until such time as the company had constructed the branch to Gimli. The committee accepted that clause, and I believe that already a construction gang has been put to work, and the rails are being laid. However, these gentlemen now come and ask us to insert another clause. I rather admire their energy in doing so. So far as it is a notice that hereafter all charters applied for will be resisted until such time as the company shows its intention to construct under existing charters, I am prepared to support it. There is a strong feeling in the west against giving charters, the intention of which is not to build lines, but to prevent other companies from building lines. There is certainly very good reason to believe that, to a very considerable extent, that is why this charter is being asked for. It is not that they really intend to build, but only to hamper other companies which are projecting lines.


I wish to take the opportunity of supporting this motion for the purpose of emphasizing the position which was taken a few days ago on the general question, that railroad companies should be compelled to fulfil the obligations already entered into by them before they are given further privileges. This is a principle susceptible of application from one end of the Dominin to the other, and not confined at all to the North-west. Many parts of the country are suffering
4421 MAY 6, 1901 4422	
from the failure to support this principle; but I think it is only fair to say .that as a matter of fact the North-west Territories has Suffered and is suffering more than any other part of the country, and that it is suffering more because of this particular North-west Central charter than because of any other charter. Now, I want to deal with a point which seems to be in the minds of many members of this House, namely, that the North-west is asking for something in this connection, and is in the debt of the Dominion of Canada for railroad construction. So far from the North-west being in the debt of the Dominion of Canada for the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, the account is largely the other way. The length of Canadian Pacific Railway which benefits the North-west, extending from the Red river at Winnipeg to the foot of,the Rocky Mountains at Calgary, is about 850 miles. That is the only part of the line that cau be considered as actually tending to develop the North-west Territories. In aid of the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, 25,000,000 acres of North-west land were appropriated as a bonus. The line from the Red river to Galgary certainly did not cost more than $20,000 a mile, or a total of $17,000,000. It would not cost nearly that much if duplicated to-day ; but supposing that it did cost what it is said in the public returns to have cost, namely, $17,000,000, and reckoning the lands in the North-west Territories which were appropriated as a grant in aid of the construction of the whole line as valued at one dollar an acre, that leaves the Dominion of Canada in debt to the North-west Territories to the amount of $8,000,000 on account of the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway and the bonus thereto. Mr. JOHNSTON (Cape Breton). Where did the lands come from ? Mr. OLIVER. The lands came from the North-west Territories; they are in the North-west Territories. Mr. JOHNSTON (Cape Breton). Where did they come from before that ? Mr. OLIVER. They were always there; they never shifted. They certainly did not come from the maritime provinces. The great cost of the Canadian Pacific Railway, as every one knows, is in those parts of the line which traverse the province of Ontario and the province of British Columbia, not that part which traverses the North-west Territories or Manitoba. It is true, the productive, earning portion of the Canadian Pacific Railway is situated in Manitoba and the Territories; and our contention is that not only has our land paid for the road, but our labour keeps it running. That is surely not a charge against us as being in debt to the rest of the Dominion. As to the value of these lands, it is argued that they were worth nothing until the rail-139J [DOT]	way was built. But, I am given to understand that these lands were mortgaged'to the amount of $1.25, and the good cash was raised on them, before a mile of the railway ever reached the Territories. So that the lands were not only worth more than $25,000,000, but the money which they were worth was actually realized and used for the construction of the railway riot only through the North-west Territories, but in the province of Ontario and the province of British Columbia. It is true that a large amount of money has been paid to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company for the construction of its line for the development of the North-west Territories. That part of the line which lies betyveen the Red river and Lake Superior, some 450 miles, was built out of the [DOT] treasury of this Dominion, and was handed over as a free gift to the company. The building of that portion of the line cost this country between $18,000,000 and $20,000,000, and you say that Manitoba and the North-west are in debt to this Dominion because of that vast expenditure. Let me say to the House that if that road had been built, if that expenditure had been made, for the benefit of the people of Manitoba, that province would not to-day be mortgaging itself to the extent of $17,000,000 as the only means of getting fair rates for the transport of its produce over that particular stretch of country. I say that the province of Manitoba and the North-west Territories are not in the debt of this Dominion for the construction of that road. If it pleases Ontario, Quebec and the maritime provinces to spend $18,00(1.000 for the benefit of themselves, or for the benefit of a railway company, that is their business; but they have no right to charge it up to us, when that expenditure has been so far from achieving the result aimed at that the province of Manitoba has to incur such a huge additional liability to achieve that result. - In regard to this North-west Central Railway and the land grant, let me place the facts before the House. The attempt was made the other day to discredit our argument because we were not posted as to what had become of that land grant. I am in a position to-day, to inform the House. The land grant to the North-west Central Railway, at the rate of 6,400 acres per mile, was held for the company from the year 1S86, until the 20tli of February. 1900. As a matter of fact, over 700,000 acres of North-west lands were scheduled to the company during that time, although during the greater part of that time not a mile of the railroad was completed, and at the longest limit only 50 miles have been completed. It is only fair to the present government to say that the land which was actually earned by the building of the 50 miles was scheduled to the company by order in council of the 20tli of February. 1900, and that the rest of the land grant has

lapsed. That is something which the country should know, and which the government should be given credit for. But our point remains the same, this vast area of land was tied up from settlement for fifteen years, for the benefit of this particular railway company-this land that was valuable enough to have built the railway itself, which was not built, not because of any lack of proper inducement towards building it, but for the sole purpose of perpetuating railway monopoly in the Northwest Territories.
It is well that the House and the country should understand that the conditions are peculiar with regard to this North-west Central charter, and it is because of these peculiar conditions that we have dared to make the strong stand we have made and support the strong motion we are supporting in connection with that railway. We desire to use this particular instance, which is one of the most extreme, for the purpose of establishing the general principle, that it is not well for this country to allow speculation in railway charters, whether by large companies or small ones, in one part of the country or another. The interest of the country demands that wherever a company is granted a charter, that company shall be compelled to use the charter which it has received ; and the fact that this policy has not been acted up to in the past has been one of the principal reasons for the disappointment throughout the whole of this Dominion in the lack of progress of the Northwest Territories during past years. But a new day is dawning in the Territories, new ideas are prevailing, and we hope that this House will inaugurate a new policy witli regard to railway development, so that the twenty years we are now entering upon will not be twenty years of disappointment such as those we have passed through.
Amendment negatived ; Bill read the third time, and passed.


House in committee on Bill (No. 88) to incorporate the Canadian Nurses' Association. -Mr. Clarke.
As far as my judgment goes, there does not appear to me to be any necessity for this Bill, nor is it in the public interest that we should pass it, more especially with the conditions which it contains. It seems to me always a mistake to do, as I am afraid this will accomplish, create a close corporation. I think that the parties who are asking for this Act, representing some of the large hospitals in the city, are going to give a standing to nurses wrlio graduate from those institutions in preference to others who will graduate from institutions quite as well qualified to give the training desired. If the parties de siring this legislation would give the same Mr. OLIVER.
privilege to all hospitals throughout the country, which are considered worthy of Dominion and provincial grants and which have passed inspection, and are as well qualified to give training to nurses as the larger institutions, the objection to it would be removed. It is all very well for the promoters to say that it is not their intention to create a close corporation or a privileged class, but if such be the case, then why not amend the Bill, and put the hospitals in the smaller towns or cities on the same footing as the larger institutions.


I am sorry that the hon. gentleman did not, at an earlier stage, intimate the objections he has now made. The Bill has been again and again before the committee, but, at the suggestion of some hon. gentlemen, was held over. However, in its present shape, it passed -unanimously through the committee. If I understand the meaning of the English language, there is nothing in the Bill to justify the assertion that the intention is to establish a close corporation. Certainly nothing could be further from the desire or intention of the ladies whose names appear as incorporators than the forming of a close corporation. And if the hon. gentleman who has just spoken will recall the procedure of last year, he will acknowledge that the Bill of last year was withdrawn because it was thought that it might be said respecting it that those who were named as incorporators, coming from one city, intended, possibly, to make a close corporation under the provisions which they sought to have enacted into law. When that was pointed out to the hon. member for St. Antoine division, Montreal, (Mr. Roddick) he withdrew the Bill at once. This Bill having the same object in view has been reintroduced. The names in the list of incorporators, I think, is the best possible proof and guarantee that we could give to this committee and to the public that only the interests of the nursing profession are intended to be promoted. I need not read the list of names. It includes ladies who have been connected with the profession of nursing in the leading hospitals of this country from Vancouver to Charlottetown. I can say for the ladies from Toronto, whose names appear on this list, that they stand in the very front rank of the profession. Miss Snively has been lady superintendent of the Toronto General Hospital for many years ; she has been president of the American Nurses' Association, and is at present one of the executive of the International Nurses' Association. Miss Brent was for years, if I am correctly informed, the superintendent of the Grace Hospital, the second largest hospital in Toronto, and is at present in charge of the Sick Children's Hospital. Miss Jean Smedley is a graduate of Victoria Hospital in Montreal, who has taken her diploma in the Johns Hopkins and

Sick Children's Hospitals, and. is now the superintendent of the Western Hospital. X mention these facts, because I am familiar with the record of these ladies as nurses, and I know that they stand at the very head of the profession of nursing in the city of Toronto. They have nothing to gain by having their names placed upon the list of incorporators ; it will mean a great deal of work and a great deal of worry, and a great deal of responsibility, so far as they are concerned. The Bill is promoted by those who are interested in the welfare of nurses and the maintenance of a high standard for the profession. The main desire is to put the nursing profession on a higher level ; the legislation asked for is not designed to establish a close corporation, it is purely benevolent; it conflicts with no existing interests ; it disturbs no existing rights or privileges ; it impairs no certificates past, present or future. The Bill does not take away from any persons who are qualified, but who do not join the association any rights or privileges which they now enjoy. It does not impair the validity of the certificates of which they have become possessed. It is purely a question of standing, and the desire to place before the nursing profession in Canada a high ideal and

	*


, My hon. friend (Mr. Clarke) says that there is no intention of establishing a close corporation. Now, nobody said anything against the character of the incorporators or against this legislation, so long as it secures equal rights to all. My hon. friend says he has no intention of depriving any person of any benefit that may arise "from having a certificate of qualification while remaining outside of this association. Why not put that in the Bill ? That is all I ask.


I do not understand the meaning of what the hon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Sutherland) says.


The hon. gentleman must understand that I said nothing against the incorporators, nor against the nurses being incorporated as an association. If it is to their benefit to be incorporated, I heartily support the proposition. But what I do object to in this Bill-and parliament thought it well to have the Bill withdrawn last year for the same reason


No, I have given the reason. It was objected to because those who asked for it came from one city.
getting special benefit by this legislation over others who are properly qualified.


What is there in the Bill that gives the members of this association any privileges ?


I will tell the hon. gentleman. The Bill provides that only nurses who have graduated from a hospital having forty beds or over shall be entitled to be members.


I feel that I am almost entitled to ask the hon. gentleman if he has read the Bill. Objection was taken in the committee to that provision in the Bill, and it was stricken out, and it was left to the incorporators to make by-laws and rules and regulations to say who should be members.


I may inform the hon. gentleman that I have read the Bill. I am not interested in this matter any more than is my hon. friend (Mr. Clarke). I am sure that the desire of both of us is to advance the interests of the nursing profession. I think I can show the hon. gentleman that he is completely wrong with regard to his amendment, and if he can show the contrary, I shall have nothing more te say. It is true that the clause was struck out in committee, as stated by the hon. gentleman, but the amendment that was made makes the case twenty times worse so far as parliament is concerned. Formerly it was provided that those were eligible who graduated from hospitals with forty beds or over ; but now those who are incorporated are allowed to say who are to have the privi