Which of the departments is invested with the control, maintenance, &c., of the beacons on the River Richelieu, between Sorel and Cham-bly?


I would ask my hon. friend to let that rest until we get some further information as to which department has control of these beacons.


What are the respective salaries of the caretakers of the public offices at Three Rivers, Montmagny, Sorel, St. Hyacinthe, St. Johns (P.Q.), St. Jerome, Quebec and Montreal?
The MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE (Hon. Sydney Fisher), in the absence of the Minister of Public Works :
Salary per year of caretakers of public buildings :
Three Rivers customs house.... $300
Three Rivers post office	 400
Montmagny, no salary, receive^,rent of offices.
Sorel	$400
St. Hyacinthe	 400
St. Johns	 350
St. Jerome	 350
Quebec post office	 700
Montreal, Dominion buildings. No caretaker.


1.	How many new ice guards have been constructed since 1896 in the parish of Ste. Anne de Sorel?
2.	What has been the total cost thereof? The MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
(Hon. Sydney Fisher). In the absence of the Minister of Public Works :
1.	Five.
2.	$5,543.57.


1.	Has Mr. AurSIe Pacaud, the publisher of Le Progrgs, of Windsor, Out., a lease of the government building which he occupies as a printing office? If so, wrhat rent does he pay per annum?
2.	Is he in arrears for rent? If so, how much ? What steps are the government taking to collect the arrears, if any?
3.	When was the lease executed? Is Mr. L. N. Castanier, customs officer at Windsor, one of the lessees?





In the absence of the Minister of Public Works :
1.	An arrangement was made with Mr. Pacaud by which he was to pay $10 a month, for two years, and make necessary repairs to the old Weights and Measures building at Windsor, and after the two years to pay $12 a month.
2.	Orders have been issued to collect the amount of rent now due, which is $210.
3.	As the lease w;as under pleasure, and for a small amount, it was not thought necessary to enter into a formal lease. The department Is not aware that Mr. Castanier is one of the lessees.


1.	Referring to the statute 60 and 61 Victoria, chapter 5, section 1, subsection 1, has the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, or any other company referred to in said subsection, conveyed or caused to be conveyed to the Crown in the interest of Canada, any and what coal-bearing lands in said subsection referred to?
2.	If so, has the Governor in Council prescribed any and what conditions with respect to the holding, disposal or dealing with such lands by the government?
3.	Has the government or the Governor in Council disposed of, or otherwise dealt with the said coal lands, or any portion thereof, in any and what manner ?
4.	Has the government or Governor in Council disposed of the said lands, or any portion thereof, to any persons or corporations? If so, to what persons or corporations, and upon what terms have such lands been so disposed of, and what portion of such lands have been so disposed of?


To 1, 2. 3 and 4, the answer is, no. But, I may say for the further Information of my hon. friend, that the railway company has been for some time ready and willing to transfer the lands so soon as they might be selected. Tbe selection is a matter of considerable difficulty, and involves a great deal of work. Ever since the snow went off the ground last year, and until the work became impossible again last fall, I had a party of topographical surveyors, and also an expert geologist, with the necessary assistants, going over the country for the purpose of putting the department in a position to make the selection. The plan of the territory has now been prepared, and I have all the information that is necessary for a practical selection. As soon as the snow is off the ground, it is the purpose of the government to send a properly equipped party, including men with the necessary expert knowledge, to determine upon the selection.


Mr. ROCHE (Marquette)-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	Has Mr. Good-lands, formerly postmaster at Ooodlands, Man., been dismissed from that position?
2.	If so, why? Were charges made against him, what were their nature, and by whom made?
3.	Was an investigation held?
1.	Yes. '
2.	On the ground of political partisanship, representations having been made by the member for the constituency. The Postmaster General accepted such representations and ordered his dismissal.
3.	No investigation was held.


1.	What is the name of the officer who received tile claims for Ashing bounty and who distributed the cheques to fishermen in Queen's county, P.E.I., for the year 1900?
2.	How many claims were filed, and ho-w many cheques issued for said year?
3.	What are the names and post office addresses of fishermen who claimed bounty and were paid same, with the amount paid each?


1.	W. 0. Hobkirk, fishery overseer, Queen's county.
2.	and 3. I must ask my hon. friend (Mr. Hackett) to move for a return. I could not fill up ' Hansard ' with the hundreds of names of fishermen with their post office addresses who received, bounties. If I did it for Queen's county, I might be called upon to do it for the other counties in the maritime provinces, and that would take up a whole ' Hansard ' of itself. If my hon. friend desires special information. I will be happy to show him the list in the department, and he can examine it ; or, if he prefers to do so, he can move for a return.


But there will be no opportunity to move for a return.


There will be no objection. It can lie put on the Notice paper, and we will take unopposed motions some day.


But notices of motions will not be reached.


I would just point out to my hon. friends that there are thousands of names and post office addresses of fishermen who have received bounties, and a separate ' Hansard ' would be needed if I should give the names of all in the maritime provinces. There are some hundred in this county alone.


1. Has the Minister of Marine and Fisheries ordered an investigation into the causes of the
loss of the schooner Jennie May, at Ebbsfleet, P.E.I., as promised in his letter of the 25th May, 1900, to Capt. Thomas Reid, as follows :-[DOT] ' I regret very much to heas of the loss you have sustained in going into the harbour of Ebbsfleet, as you allege, from want of buoys. I shall have immediate inquiries and a thorough investigation made into the alleged absence of these buoys. If the officials of the government are to blame, I will have them severely punished '?
2.	If such investigation has been held, what is the report of the fcfficer?
3.	Has any person been paid for the loss thus sustained?
4.	If so, what is his name, and the sum paid in connection with such loss?


1.	The minister did not promise an investigation into the loss of the Jennie May in his letter of the 25th May, 1900. He promised to investigate the alleged absence of the buoys ; a different thing entirely. It is alleged that the loss of the vessel was due to other causes.
2.	The promised investigation was made. The report of the officers state that the buoy contractor was notified to place the buoys on the 5th of May, but owing to the impossibility of getting chain at Ebbsfleet for the can-buoy, the buoys were not put out till the 16th of May. This date was the earliest one on which the buoys were placed for many years. The officers also reported that the loss was due to causes which the buoys could not have prevented.
3.	No.
4.	Nothing has been paid.


Is it the intention of the government to make the immediate improvements in the Southampton harbour that the Minister of Public Works found necessary on his recent visit to that place, and what are the improvements the government propose to make?


Tlie matter is now receiving consideration.


Summary report of the Geological Survey for the year 1900-Hon. Mr. Siftou.
The MINISTER OP FINANCE (Hon. W.
S.	Fielding). Before the Orders of the Day are called, I desire to say a word to give notice respecting estimates. We propose to resume the consideration of the estimates of the Minister of Railways and Canals tomorrow afternoon. To-day we proceed with the Election Bill, but if there is time for estimates during to-day's sitting the estimates of the Minister of Agriculture will be taken up.
I would ask the Prime Minister if lie would fix a day next week -Wednesday would be convenient-for tlie further discussion of the transportation question. I have a motion on this subject on the paper, but I am afraid it will not now be reached in the ordinary course, and there will be no possibility of reaching it except by the consent of the leader of the House.


I shall be happy, Mr. Speaker, to proceed with the discussion on Wednesday next.


Mr. GEORGE STEPHENS (Kent, Ont.) Before the Orders of the Day are called, I wish to call the attention of the government to a matter of immediate and pressing importance. When I reached Chatham last Friday I found that the bar at the mouth of the River Thames had so accumulated that the boats from the city of Chatham could not get out into the lake. I wired to the Minister of Public Works, this being a copy of my message :
Chatham, April 6, 1901.
J. Israel Tarte, Ottawa.
Steam barge " Ireland " stuck on bar since April 3rd. Cannot get off. Only seven feet water. Best time to do work now. Other boats waiting; cannot get out. Chatham dredging plant ready to begin work; price, $8 per working hour. Answer quick.
(Sgd.) GEORGE STEPHENS.
I waited until yesterday afternoon for a reply to this message, but did not get any. I then saw the Prime Minister and asked him to speak to the Minister of Public Works. Last night at eight o'clock I got this reply :
Office of the Minister of Public Works of Canada,
Ottawa, 9th April, 1901. George Stephens, Esq., M.P., Ottawa.
Dear Mr. Stephens,-Your telegram dated at Chatham, April 6th, has come to hand in due course. We have nothing to do with accidents to ships. It is the reason why I did not authorize the work suggested in your despatch.
Truly yours,
(Sgd.) J. ISRAEL TARTE.
Do I understand that the hon. member (Mr. Stephens) will conclude with a motion ?


Yes. Yesterday afternoon, I received this message :
Chatham, Ont., April 10, 1901. George Stephens, M.P., Ottawa.
Major Gray expected here to-night. Have you orders for him to see about bar at river?
(Sgd.) CHAS. HADLEY.
I have not been able to see the hon. Minister of Public Works in Ills office. I met him in the lobby yesterday morning as he came out of the committee room, but he would not give me a hearing. He would not give me any information whatever. I met him in the afternoon and tried to show him this telegram, but I could not get him to stop and look at it or pay any attention. To-day I have another telegram ;
Ottawa.
Can you not get reply to ours yesterday to George Stephens, M.P., signed ' Hadley.' ?
(Sgd.) Chatham, Ont.
I have not sent any reply to these telegrams, for the simple reason that I have not been able to get any information, and do not know what to say. Traffic by the river is at a standstill. Our lumber merchants in Chatham, who bring their lumber by boat from Georgian Bay points are unable to bring in material, except by rail, which is much more expensive. Buildings now under construction in Chatham cannot be proceeded with because building stone cannot be brought in. There are several boats now waiting ready to start, but they cannot get out. I do not see any reason why this work should not be done at once. I confess I am surprised at the manner at which the subject has been treated by the hon. Minister of Public Works. I know that he is a very busy man, but, if he has not time to attend to the business committed to his charge, one would think that at least he could treat members of the House with courtesy. I move that the House do now adjourn.


You had better resign and bring on another election, and then you will hurry the matter up.


I cau quite understand the importance which the hon. gentleman attaches to the work of clearing the bar being done at once, and am not at all astonished that he should feel rather warm over the delay in doing that work. There is a capital dredging plant on the ground, and it seems very extraordinary that that dredge should not have been put at the work. The price asked is $8 per hour for each working day, which is the ordinary price for dredges of similar capacity. I hope that [DOT] the Minister of Public Works will not delay any longer, because this is a matter of great concern to the people of that locality and the shipping interests.


It is quite true that my hon. friend from Kent brought the matter to my attention, but he must remember that at this jieriod of the session, when the House sits to a late hour and the committees are called at an early hour, such matters do not always move as promptly as would be satisfactory, but I have no doubt that my hon. colleague, who is not in his 'place just





now, will do wliat he can to meet the views -of my hon. friend.
The delays mentioned by the hon. member for Kent are quite inexcusable. We are told that there is a surplus of $8,000,000 in the treasury. Surely a few hundred dollars could be devoted to enabling the prosperous city of Chatham to carry on its essential business of getting lumber, stone and all the other supplies, which must necessarily come by the wrater route. It appears to me that the town of Chatham has a substantial grievance in this matter. We are voting large sums yearly to the Department of Public Works exactly for such improvements as are required in this case-improvements that are urgent. And, as has been pointed out by the hon. member for Kent, there is a dredge right on the ground ready to do the work at the government price of $8 per hour, so that in the shortest possible time the sand bar could be removed and the navigation made clear. It seems extraordinary that a member of parliament should be obliged to rise in his seat and call attention "to a matter of this kind, which should have been remedied the very first moment the attention of the Minister of Public Works was called to it.


I am sorry the hon. gentleman (Mr. Stephens) did not see fit to notify me that he was going to bring this matter before the House, but as he is a new member, this course probably did not suggest itself to him, and we will not be the worse friends on that account. A barge or a boat has grounded at Chatham, and it does not come within the province of the Department of Public Works to float boats that are grounded. The duty of removing such obstacles belongs to the Department of Marine and Fisheries. Besides, I have no money available for dredging purposes, and I cannot carry on work -without money, more particularly in a case like this in which it is not my duty to interfere. I would be very glad indeed if it were my duty, but there are boats grounded nearly every week in the St. Lawrence, in navigable waters, and I am never called on to send down dredges or other boats to haul them off.
My hon. friend would perhaps not have called the attention of the House to this were he aware of the fact that my youngest daughter is down with typhoid fever, and that the very first moment his telegram came, I had to leave for Montreal. I returned as soon as I could, and then answered the telegram.


Surely the hon. gentleman does not pretend to say that he would not be justified in sending a dredge at once to clear the harbour and trust to the House to vote the money.


Has the hon. gentleman not got a vote for this in the estimates of this year ?


My hon. friend knows that until the money is voted I cannot use it, and at this moment I have not a dollar voted.


I asked the hon. minister if he had the money in the -supplementary estimates and he said he had, and I supposed that he would be prepared to go on and spend it. The company which owns the dredge would not be very exacting about getting paid at once, and would be quite willing to wait. And as regards the ungrounding of the boat, my telegram merely mentioned the fact that the boat had grounded, so as to emphasize the necessity of going on with the dredging at once in order to enable other boats to go over the bar. I did not ask him to take the sunken boat off the bar, but simply mentioned the fact in order to impress him with the importance of immediately setting the dredge to work to clear the bar so that boats could pass with facility, ilf this work be not done, navigation will be stopped and steamers will not be able to ply to and fro and may be tied up all summer. If that is what is going to happen, then Canada must be a very much poorer country than I thought it was.


Bill (No. 63) to amend the Franchise Act, 1898-The Solicitor General (Hon. Charles Fitzpatrick)-read the second time, and considered in committee.
On section 1,
The hon. Solicitor General might explain to the committee the effect of this amendment.


Paragraph c of section 5 of the Franchise Act now reads :
The voters' lists shall he those prepared for the several polling divisions so established, and which on the sixtieth day next preceding the clay fixed for the nomination of candidates for *such Dominion election were in force or were last in force under the laws of that province for the purposes of provincial elections.
The intention is to omit the word ' sixtieth,' so as to have it read that :
The voters' lists shall be those prepared for the several polling divisions so established and which on the day of the date of the writ for such Dominion elections were in force or were last in force under the laws of that province for the purposes of provincial elections.
This eliminates the sixtieth day altogether. The clause as it now reads provides that the voters' lists shall be those in force sixty days previous to nomination.


There is another 1 amendment effected. Instead of the date of

nomination you take the date of the election.


Yes, the date of the issue of the writ.


I would like to ask the hon. Solicitor General if this refers to some particular district, when the words ' polling divisions so established ' are used, or, does that' mean all the divisions throughout the Dominion.


All the divisions throughout the Dominion.


I would like to ask the hon. Solicitor General if there is any doubt under the clauses as prepared that the lists in force on the date of the writ will be the lists that will 'govern the election, because, if the Solicitor General will notice, the clause says further : ' Or were last in force.'


I do not think that these new words make any material difference.


I would like to ask the hon. Solicitor General whether this amendment will cure a state of affairs that occurred in British Columbia at the last election. According to the local Act, the list is revised twice a year-I think on the 1st of May and the 1st of November. If these are not the exact dates it is not material, but, it is a fact, nevertheless, that the revision took place a few days before the election, and as sixty days had not intervened between the revision and the election the electors had to use a list that was nearly seven months old. Owing to that there was a large number of men who lost their franchise. Will this do away with that state of affairs ?


This amendment is intended to meet absolutely such a case as that pointed out by the hon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Prior). The object is to have the latest list for the election.


May I ask the hon. Solicitor General if it is a fact that the voters' lists used in the last general election were some of them the provincial lists of last year and some of them lists of the year before ? Iam informed that in many constituencies the voters' lists were not at all of the one year, but that some of them were the lists of laiSt year, and some the lists of the year before.


I presume there were some places in Ontario where the revision would not take place at a fixed period of the year and the list would not come into force within sixty days, and that, notwithstanding that it would be the list for that year, it would not be used for the election. Now, it is intended to so arrange matters that the list to be used will be the list in force at the date of the issue of the writ for the election, without any reference to any previous time of revision.





Perhaps it is rather late to discuss the 'question, for the discussion of which I rise at the present moment. I see in this clause, you have virtually adopted the provincial voters' lists, which may be iu force from time to time, or, In other words, you give to the province the right of fixing the qualification of the voter or to decide who shall be the voter in Dominion elections. I may be entirely wrong, but I contend that we have no power to do that, that it is a power that is vested entirely in the Dominion parliament, and that we cannot, as we propose to do in this Bill, divest ourselves of that power and give it to the local authorities. I am objecting to it on the constitutional ground. The hon. Minister of Justice must have considered that point. It must have been brought before his department, and I -would like from the Solicitor General an authoritative statement on behalf of the department whether the power is vested iu the Dominion parliament to divest ourselves of the authority which is given us under clause 41 of the British North America Act and to give that power to the provincial legislature.


I think the constitutional principle that the hon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Haggart) has laid down, is absolutely correct, that we have no power to delegate to the local parliaments the right to fix our franchise. But, this is not what we are doing. We are adopting the franchise of the provincial parliaments. We are not delegating to them the right to fix the franchise, but we are adopting the franchise that they have fixed. There is a broad distinction between the two, and I would like the hon. gentleman not to overlook the-fact that previous to the adoption of the Franchise Act of 1886, this was the system which prevailed. It was only in 1886 that we assumed the right to make the franchise. This system is no new departure. It is adopting the old system, which was in existence from confederation down to 1886.


I am glad to hear that we agree upon the legal point. Now, the question is one of fact. The hon. Solicitor General says that we have adopted the voters' lists which were in force in the provinces at a particular time. If that were so, I admit that we would be perfectly within our jurisdiction, but does he not see the distinction that it is not the voters' lists which are in force, but the voters' lists which may be altered from time to time by the provincial authorities that we are adopting.


Is it the intention to adopt the marked ballot as well as the provincial voters' lists, because if you propose to adopt the marked ballot I for one will fight it here all day.


The provincial franchise was adopted when we introduced this Bill two years ago, and it was

adopted after a very lengthy discussion. Then the question raised by the hon. member for Lanark (Mr. Haggart) as to our right to adopt the provincial franchise, was disposed of. With respect to the ballot, that question will come up on the Bill to ameDd the Elections Act.


I understand the ballot will be secret ?


Oh, yes.


All right.


As far as my judgment goes, that is the principle upon which we have gone for the last two years.


In the electoral district of Nipissing when the government changed the date of last election the voters' lists for Nipissing were prepared the same as tney would be prepared for any ordinary township, and as other electoral districts in Canada used lists that were nor prepared in 1900 but prepared previously, how does it come that the government by order in council changed the date of the election in Nipissing ? The hon. gentleman from Nipissing (Mr. McCool) is elected on a list prepared less than sixty days previous to the election, and that being so, surely his election must be illegal. I wish to know from the Solicitor General why an order in council was passed changing the date of the election.


I would not like to sit in judgment upon what has been decided by the Ontario courts in respect to the Nipissing election, and no opinion I would express would have any effect as against that judgment. It involves a question of fact as to which we cannot agree. So far as my knowledge goes there are unorganized territories in the Nipissing district within which the electoral lists must be made at a time fixed by the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, and these are made at certain periods previous to the election. It was in consequence of the electoral lists in these particular districts not having been ready that the returning officer reported to the government that he did not have lists which would enable him to carry on the election.


That only applies to cases where they have a registration list and not ordinary lists. The Nipissing list was prepared in 1898, and that being so, surely it does! not come under the Franchise Act of the Dominion which says that lists prepared under the Registration Act must not be older than twelve months. If it does not come under the Registration Act it applies in the ordinary way as in a municipality iu which there is no registration list at all. So far as the Solicitor General sitting in judgment on the decision of the courts goe^, I submit that it is our duty as repress
sentatives of the people, when we discover a defect in the election law, that we should set it right so that this kind of thing would not occur in the future. It does seem to me as a layman and from the consideration I have given the Election Act, that an unfair and undue advantage has been taken of the electors of the Nipissing district for the purpose of party gain and for no other object.


I do not think that the Solicitor General apprehends what the judgment in the Nipissing case was or he would not have answered my hon. friend (Mr. Ingram) as he did. The only thing decided in that case was, that on account of the returning officer hiding himself on nomination day, no nomination could be effective. The judges did not discuss the question as to whether or not there was a legal postponement, because that did not come before them. Therefore, the question put by thei hon. gentleman (Mr. Ingram) is entirely relevant. I think it would puzzle the Solicitor General to show any authority in the Governor in Council or any one else to postpone that election under the circumstances. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Fitzpatrick) may have an opportunity before the session is over of giving us some information on that point, if he can. I would like to ask the hon. gentleman what he intends to cover by the words ' or were last in force.' The objection raised by my hon. friend from Jacques Cartier (Mr. Monk) is well worth considering. The lists are either in force or not in force on the day of the writ. It may be that some reason for these words has escaped my attention, but for the present I cannot see that the words ' or were last in force' will do anything extept possibly create a doubt in the mind of some officer as to what lists he should use.


My hon. friend (Mr. Borden, Halifax) will bear in mind that these words are merely a repetition of the section of the statute as we now have it. There is absolutely no change. There must have been some reason for the words, because the matter was fully discussed in the House, and I have no doubt it was explained to the satisfaction of my hon. frienck


There were several things in this Franchise Act that were not explained toj my satisfaction. A great many inaccuracies occurred in the statute as passed which none Of us seem to have noticed, or which if they were noticed were not corrected. This may be one of them. I hardly think it is a sufficient answer for the Solicitor General to say that there must have been some reason in 1898 which none of us can now recall. The question is : Whether we have any reason now. I am not raising this point out of any factious desire to have it changed, but I suggest to the Solicitor General that these words may eon-

[DOT]2787

[DOT]fuse the officer. Do not these words give him an alternative, and will he not stop to *consider whether he has to use the lists which are in force on a particular date or the lists which having regard to that particular date were last previously in force ? I venture to think that these words will create a doubt and can serve no useful purpose.


I am quite certain they do serve a useful purpose. 1 am prepared at present merely to explain the changes in the law and I cannot give the reason for this now. There is no reason why we should dispose of the Bill to-day, and 1 will explain the matter when we get into committee again.


The language of the section is ; were last in force under the laws of that province for the purposes of a provincial election.' It is possible that some officer might think he had a choice between the lists in force at the date of the Dominion writ, or the lists that were in force at some Immediately previous provincial election.


I am quite sure I shall be able to make it quite clear to my hon. friend that there is really no ambiguity about it, and that it is not intended to leave it to the returning officer to decide which list lie shall use in an election-because that would be utterly incongruous.


I would like to call the attention of the Solicitor General to one practical result which might result from this law. At the present time the lists in use are those in force sixty days prior to the isue, of the writ ; and in the province of Ontario it is quite possible that a county judge, before whom an appeal has been taken, might have given his decision only a day or two before the issue of the writ, in which case it would be impossible in all probability to get copies of the voters' list until within a few days of the election. The hon. gentleman will understand that it takes some time after the county court judge gives his decision, to get the voters' list printed in Ottawa. I have always supposed that was one reason why the sixty days were allowed under the present law, and that provision has been an advantage in that respect. In the last election I had some difficulty in getting my lists from some municipalities ; and if an election happened to come on in October or November in any year, there would certainly be a great deal of difficulty In many constituencies in the province of Ontario if the lists used were as provided by this clause, no time being allowed for printing. If the hon. gentleman objects to sixty days, perhaps a compromise might be struck by saying thirty days.


The sixty days were put in the Bill when introduced so as to prevent the local government tam-Mr. BORDEN (Halifax).
pering with the lists previous to the election ; but, that provision was found to work so disadvantageous^ in many parts of the country that lists over a year old had to be used. The desire of everybody, it seems to me, is that we should have the ireshest lists available for use in an election. My hon. friend says that it is possible that an appeal may not be disposed of by the county judge until shortly before the date of the election. My hon. friend will bear in mind that the list to be used is me list in force at the date of the issue of the writ.


I am speaking from my own experience when I say that it takes a certain time to get the list printed. I only wish to have sufficient time allowed for that purpose. Perhaps a fortnight would be enough. In the months of October and November these courts are being held in the province of Ontario, and it is perfectly certain that there would be a number of constituencies in which the judgment would be given only a day or two before the writ was issued. The result would be that one side or the other, certainly one side, would have to go into the campaign without any voters' list, and I am sure the hon. gentleman would not wish to subject even an opponent to such a hardship as that.


I think it would be a disadvantage to us all if you abolish the sixty days. For the reasons stated by the hon. member for East Hastings (Mr. North-rup), many of the lists will not be printed, and candidates will be put to the inconvenience of using a list which lias probably been revised just two or three days before the issue of the writ, whereas the lists made up sixty days before the issue of the writ could be printed at the Printing Bureau and sent to the different candidates in time for the election. At present candidates have a great deal of difficulty with the registration lists which are prepared within a day or two of the election.


I would like to ask the Solicitor General if it would not be possible, while he is amending the election law, to have the election held at some stated time, so that we might know when it is coming on, and if it would not be possible to have it in November, or at some time when the farmers are not very busy. Then, everybody would know six months before when the election takes place. That would be a step in the right direction, and there is no reason why it should not be done in Canada as it is in other countries. I see no reason why we should not be as advanced in Canada as they are in other countries.


I have on the Order paper a Bill to amend the Election Act, and when that comes up there will be an opportunity to discuss that question.


Does this clause in any way conflict with the Ontario statute as to the registration of voters in towns and cities ? Because, as I understand this clause, the list to be used is the list in force on the day the writ is issued, while the list under the Registration Act does not come into force until some days after the issue of the writ.


In the Bill to amend the Election Act, which will come up after this Bill is disposed of, I am dealing with that particular point.


I quite agree with the hon. member for East Elgin (Mr. Ingram) that this is a very important question. In the province of Ontario, after the local lists are printed, courts are held by the county court judges. Then, the revised lists are returned and posted up in the office of the clerk of the peace. Assuming that a list has been corrected and is to be found in the office of the clerk of the peace on the 1st of November, then, according to the wording of this Act, that would be the list in force ; and were an election to take place on the 15th of November


That could not be, because there must be thirty days at least.


Assuming, then, that it would be held on the 30th of November, what would be the result ? The government candidate might see that list on file in the office of the clerk of the peace was at once sent to Ottawa ; and the government, by reason of their influence in the Printing Bureau, might see that that list was at once sent back to the riding, particularly if it were strongly in favour of the government candidate. But, another list from another riding, which was not in favour of the government candidate, might be sent to Ottawa, and might be delayed in the printing. Then, what list would be used ? I think under some clause of the Act, the list on which the election is to take place is the list furnished from Ottawa, not the list posted in the office of the clerk of the peace. The result of this change will be that the government, in the event of the date fixed for an election and the printing of the lists being close at hand, can have those lists used which they wish and suppress or delay those they do not wish to use.


It is purely a question of the balance of convenience, and there are certainly conveniences resulting from either system. It seems to me that we ought to make some sacrifice in order to get a fresh list, especially as the getting of it does not bring about the result pointed out by the hon. member for Simcoe (Mr. Bennett). The returning officer is Obliged to apply to the clerk of the peace of Ontario, who is the custodian S8i
of the list, and he may possibly get a list that never reached Ottawa at all, if it is the list in force at the time of the election.


There is just this disadvantage, that the clerk of the peace may not furnish the deputy returning officer a printed list at all, because the list was not prepared in time to be sent to Ottawa and printed. You will simply have a list with the names written in, which will open the door for fraud for every kind on the part of the deputy returning officer. He might, if he felt so inclined, lay that list conveniently where somebody might tear a whole page out, and those whose names were on that page could not possibly vote. Then, when the clerk of the peace gives out the list to be copied, those copying it might add names and omit names, and that is why we contended, when the present law was before the House, that the lists placed in the hands of ,the deputy returning officers, should be the printed lists issued from Ottawa.


If we leave the law as it is, we will be in a better position because we will know, sixty days before the election, the exact lists which will be used, and there will not be the same opportunity to partisan returning officers and Crown attorneys to tamper with the lists.


When the written list is made up in the office of the clerk of the peace, it is made up from a printed list compiled by the judge, and which the judge leaves in the office of the clerk of the peace. That list will have names written in and others scored out, and might easily be tampered with.


These points were discussed very fully when the Bill was first introduced, and all these inconveniences were pointed out, but I do not think my hon. friends can find a case of the kind they have pointed out, which occurred during the last election.


Because you acceded to our request to have the lists printed at Ottawa.


We are not making a change in law in that respect. The lists will continue to be printed at Ottawa except such as come into force immediately before the election, and in such case you would have to apply to the legal custodian for a copy. I fail to see the probability of the frauds pointed out by my hon. friends being committed.


Should an election take place, for instance, on the 7th of November, you will find, a day or two previous to the issue of the writ, several municipalities in which the lists have just been completed and others again in which they are not completed, and every candidate will have the

disagreeable task of providing' himself with the lists in these municipalities in which they were prepared a day or'two before the writ issued. AVhy not retain the sixty days, which will give amide time to have the lists printed at Ottawa, and avoid that necessity.


The same thing may happen whether you have the sixty days 'or not. In my election last year, in one of the municipalities the list of last year was used while in all the others we had to use the lists of the previous year. But although in one municipality the list had been revised before the sixty days, a certified copy had not'been sent by the judge to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery, and consequently we had no list until a short time before the election, and I had 'to fall back on the old provincial lists until I got the new one a few days before the election. Whether the delay 'be sixty days or less, you may have the same trouble.


Every lawyer will bear me out in saying that if an election should come on in October or November in Ontario, the very difficulty pointed out must arise in the majority of municipalities. And it would be an utter impossibility to obtain the list from 'Ottawa. Whatever drawbacks there may have been in the former Act, at least it relieved us of this difficulty. It is absolutely certain that in a majority of constituencies in Ontario, we should be driven to take the list from the office of the clerk of the peace, and whether or not he might be trusted, as suggested by my hon. friend, those who wish to face the matter honestly know that it is almost as bad to have a large proportion of the people suspecting fraud as to have fraud actually occur. I trust the Solicitor General will see his way clear to amend the Act in such a way that even suspicion of fraud will be removed.


I am sure the Solicitor General will see the importance of making some change as indicated by the hon. member for East Hastings (Mr. Northrup). Take, for instance, the village of Hastings in my county, or rather the county which I have the honour to represent


Hear, hear.


Perhaps I have shown the same weakness that ministers show when they talk about ' my department.' I always fancied that 'their' departments did not belong to them, but that they were the servants of the people. In the riding I have the honour to represent, it was found that the list was printed in Ottawa, except for the village of Hastings. There was no revision for that village, the election taking place on a voters' list that was in the hands of the clerk of the municipality. There had been no application for a revision, and there-Mr. INGRAM.
fore the list was in the hands of the clerk unrevised for sixty days. Thus, the village of Hastings voted on a list that was a year older than the rest of the riding.


A year younger.


Yes, a year younger. Now, the question is : Where are we going to get the list ? Supposing that an election comes on in thirty days, the list that was in the hands of the clerk when the writs were issued would be the list on which the election would take place. How can you get that list printed in Ottawa ? The Solicitor General will see that the Printing Bureau cannot print the lists for the whole Dominion in thirty days. I am not talking from a party point of view, for this does not affect one party more than the other. No matter what side the candidate is on, it would be impossible to get the list printed in Ottawa. This only shows the absurdity of having the local legislature provide the lists for election of members of the House of Commons. We should prepare our own lists. I believe the Solicitor General intended to prepare an honest list and have an honest election law ; but, with the facts brought to .his attention, he must see that last year's Franchise Act and election law will not remedy the difficulties which I feel satisfied he intended to remedy. Frauds have been perpetrated, and I am confident that unless some provision-I do not pretend to be able to suggest anything, but I am sure the Solicitor General will see the need of some change-unless some provision is made, it will be impossible to prevent frauds in the future. .


We had an experience in the last election that should be a lesson to us as to adopting the proposed change. 1 address myself particularly to members on both sides from the province of Ontario, and I venture to state that not 10 per cent of new lists for 1900 were used in the last election. In Bothwell, there was but a single case in which the list for 1900 was used, and that arose out of the assessment having been changed some years ago from February to July. The election was held late in the year-the 7th November. But any hon. gentleman will see the utter impossibility of having lists prepared and printed if the work is to be done in the Printing Bureau. It was a physical impossibility in the past, and must continue to be so for the future:	There might be many reasons why the change the hon. gentleman proposes should take place, but I do not see how it will overcome the difficulty I have just pointed out, so far as the province of Ontario is concerned. This is not a party question, and I appeal to hon. gentlemen on both sides if their experience in Ontario has not been that less than 10 per cent of the lists of 1900 were used in the election,

though that election took place on the 7th November.


The same difficulty would meet us In Quebec. For instance, if the election writ was dated between the 20th April and the 1st June, the parties interested would have the greatest difficulty in obtaining the lists, because the registrar of the county cannot possibly furnish these lists without taking on an additional staff of employees. It would be equally difficult to get the lists from the secretary-treasurers of the municipalities. The registrar for the registration division of Montreal East, who was the custodian of the list of the county of Jacques Cartier, found it impossible to con form with the provisions of section 10. If the Solicitor General will look at section 10 of the Act of 1898, he will see that it pro vides that within ten days the custodian of the lists must transmit to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery a copy of the lists. In the ease I speak of, the custodian of the lists found it impossible to do that. Even by taking on a large additional stall of employees, which cost very dear,, he required twenty or twenty-five days before he could have the lists copied and forwarded to Ottawa. The provision which it is proposed to substitute would leave it impossible for the parties interested to procure the lists in their divisions, except at very great expense.


I appreciate the fact that this is a matter that we have to consider from the standpoint of the convenience of members of the House. We need give no consideration whatever, so far as I can see, to party politics in this matter. The difficulties, as I understand the matter, are these : Our present system leads to this result, that is if you take the list in force sixty days beifoire the ettectibn, yon are liable to have election lists more than a year old. That is the inconvenience thar. has resulted from the law in its present form.


But the hon. gentleman (Hon. Mi'. Fitzpatrick) will not pretend that the change he proposed will overcome that difficulty.


The change will, to a very large extent, obviate that difficulty. But it will bring about this other difficulty-that, instead of having lists printed in the Printing Bureau at Ottawa we should be obliged to depend on the copies of lists we get from the custodians of "the lists, the local officials. That is the question for us to consider, which of the two inconveniences are we most willing to submit to. So far as I am concerned, I have an absolutely open mind on the subject. As 1 said before, there is a portion of this section that I will refer to later on and explain. But I would like to hear all that can be said
both for and against the amendment ; I do not intend to dispose of that section to-day.


I would ask the leader of the opposition to read subsection 10 which I think meets the difficulty he has suggested with respect to the lists being sent to the Printing Bureau.


There is another important point that will affect our friends opposite as well as us.


Nothing can affect you that does not affect us.


Tlie last portion of section 10 of the Franchise Act affects us in this way : Supposing the sixty days provision is abolished, and the lists are not printed by the Printing Bureau and furnished by the government, then each candidate, in order to obtain them, would have to go to the custodian and the latter would have to comply with this provision of section 10 :
The fees to be paid for such certified copy shall be those fixed by the provincial law for furnishing such copies to applicants therefor, and if there is no fee fixed by the provincial law, it shall be 25 cents for each 100 names, including additions and descriptions, and 50 cents for the certificate.
Take my own case where there are 10.000 names, it will cost me over $20 for the list, and we all know that one copy would never do on which to conduct an election.


You get twenty free.


No, the law cannot be carried out because the list has just came into existence. Therefore, the government would not be in a position to supply it. Then we would have to apply to the custodian who keeps the list and to pay him for it. Now, I contend it is not a fair thing that the candidate should have to pay for these. I think in the way the law stands now, the government is really the proper source to which each candidate ought to apply for lists.


That is the intention of the statute as we have now got it. With respect to the lists which reach the Printing Bureau, a certain number are distributed gratis to the candidates. But I admit that when the list is to be taken from the legal custodian, who will be the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery in Ontario, then you have got to pay him regular fees for the work he does.


I would like the Solicitor General to tell me which of the three custodians it is to whom we apply, whether to the county court judge, the officers of the municipality t6 whom he sends the list, or the clerk of the peace. That difficulty arose in my constituency. When the returning officer got the list he found out that there were three parties in the riding who were equally legal custodians of the list.


So far as the province of Ontario is concerned, I understand the local Act makes the clerk of the peace the custodian of the list, but I speak subject to correction. In the province of Quebec he sends it to the clerk of the municipality and the registrar of the county.


I think some lion, gentlemen do not remember the exact procedure in the province of Ontario. After the courts have been held the county court Mr. FITZPATRICK.
judge returns to the clerk of the peace the list, and in that list are the interlineations, giving the names that have been added and the names that have been struck out. That list is then in the hands of the clerk of the peace, and if an election is coming on the clerk of the peace furnishes to each deputy returning officer a written list, not a printed list at all-he furnishes him with a written list. Now, the clerk of the peace would never think of doing t