In regard to petitions Nos. 1 to 42, asking aid for the construction of the Montreal bridge, as they involve the expenditure of public money, and in addition as petition marked 41 has not, as required by rule 85, three signatures attached to the prayer, they are out of order. The same thing applies to petitions Nos. 43 and 44 which ask a sum of money to be expended for a harbour of refuge on the Bay of Fundy. These two petitions asking for the construction of that harbour also involve an expenditure of public money and are therefore out of order. The only petition which is in order therefore, is the first one.


Bill (No. 93) respecting the Hudson's Bay and North-west Railway Company-Mr. Oliver.
Bill (No. 94) respecting the Calgary and Edmonton Railway Company.-Mr. Barker.
Bill (No. 95) to incorporate the Penny Bank.-Mr. Osier.
Bill (No. 96) to incorporate the Manitoba and Keewatin Railway Company-Mr. McCreary.
Bill (No. 97) to incorporate the Dominion Railway and Power Company.-Mr. Cowan.
Bill (No. 98) to incorporate the Montreal * Subway Company.-Mr. McCarthy.
Bill (No. 99) respecting the Montreal and Southern Counties Railway Company.- Mr. Demers (St. John and Iberville).
Bill (No. 100) to incorporate the Toronto and Niagara Power Company.-Mr. Campbell.
Bill (No. 101) to incorporate the Nepigou Railway Company.-Mr. Campbell.
Bill (No. 102) to incorporate the Gaspe and Western Railway Company.-Mr. Talbot.
Bill (No. 103) respecting the Lake Champlain and St. Lawrence Ship Canal Company.-Mr. Malouin.
Before the Orders of the Day are called, I wish to mention to my right lion, friend that 1 observe a press despatch from Washington yesterday in these terms :
Washington, April 2, 1902. Secretary Hay and Mr. Raikes, secretary of the British- embassy today signed a treaty extending to the British colonies .he provisions of the original treaty between the United States and Great Britain for the preservation of industrial properties.
There was some such treaty more particularly with regard to trade marks in 1877; subsequently a treaty between France and Spain and other nations to which the United States and Great Britain also became parties at a later date. I understood that these two conventions already applied to the British colonies. I would like to know whether my right hon. friend has any information on the subject which he would like to give to the House V


The government has uo information whatever upon the subject, but of course its attention has been called to the despatch quoted by my hon. friend, and we have asked, and at this moment are expecting information with regard to it. Without having received any such information, I am quite sure of one thing; That whatever treaty has been concluded by Great Britain with the United States, would not



ipso facto apply to the colonies, but that the colonies will be left to decide for themselves whether or not they shall be parties to that agreement whatever it may be.


House resumed adjourned debate on the proposed motion of the Minister of Finance (Hon. Mr. Fielding) :
That Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to go into committee to consider of the Ways and Means "for raising the Supply to be granted to His Majssty ; and the proposed motion of Mr. Borden (Halifax) in amendment thereto.
['I was not present at the committee when this Bill was discussed. Probably the Minister of Railways and Canals (Hon. Mr. Blair) has had the matter under consideration and if the usual provisions in the bridge Bills are included in this that is all that is necessary. I would suggest that we proceed with the Bill, reserving this one point.\nSubsection C of section 8 allowed to stand.\nProgress reported.']
Mr. Speaker. At the hour at which I moved the adjournment of the debate last night, it seemed inadvisable to ask the House to listen then to the remarks which I feel it incumbent upon me to make in this debate. I would not have cared to enter into a discussion of the public questions of the day at this time, had it not been for some statements which have been made by gentlemen on the opposite side of the House in regard to two or three matters in which I am somewhat, personally concerned, and in which I have been taking considerable interest during the present administration. Hon. gentlemen opposite have made some statements in this debate which I cannot help characterizing as not only reckless hut rash, inasmuch as *they have shown thereby the lack of study of the condition of affairs and of what has actually occurred under the administration of the present government during the last few years.
First, let me say a word or two in regard to a matter which was brought up by my hon. friend and colleague the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright), when he spoke a week or two ago in this debate, in regard to certain figures pertaining to the census which has been taken by my department during the past year. Hon. gentlemen opposite alleged that my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and Commerce had made statements which could not be substantiated, and one hon. gentleman, the hon. member for Pictou (Mr. Bell) undertook to disprove some of those statements, and asked that further proof of them be submitted. I venture to think that my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and Commerce put this matter in an incontrovertible form before the House, so far as the broad question is concerned. The statements which he made did not go into such detail as could perhaps be called absolute and entire proof on every point; but they were sufficiently detailed. I think, to appeal to the mind of any unprejudiced individual who either heard or read them, and to prove his main contention, which was that the census cf 1801 was unduly swelled in the figures of population, and that therefore


comparisons on this point were unfair to the progress and prosperity of Canada during the last decade, and that it was necessary to show that these were unfair, or else the people of the world and the people of our own country, in studying the census, might not understand and appreciate to the full extent the immense progress which Canada has made in the last few years.
Now, Sir, I have under my hand a number of statements which go into greater detail than those submitted by my hon. friend. I venture therefore to supplement what he has stated by placing some of these statements before the House and the country. They are far too voluminous for me to read them all ; but I wish to read some specimen ones, which I have taken very much at random, amongst the many papers which were laid on the Table by the Minister of Trade and Commerce, and other statements which I have prepared. My hon. friend from Pictou claimed that in the taking of the census of 1891 extreme care had been taken by the government and the minister in charge of the department at that time to insist that the enumerations should be carefully and accurately made. He pointed out that, in so far as industrial establishments were concerned, the enumerators were instructed to include only those which had an annual output of $200. He therefore concluded that it was only such establishments that were included in the tabulation of the census of 1891, and that it was quite reasonable that industrial establishments yielding an annual output of $200 should be regarded as industrial establishments.
I have under my hand the instructions which were issued to the enumerators in 1891, and I find no such statement in those instructions. There was no instruction given to the enumerators that they should only include industrial establishments which gave an annual output of $200. As a matter of fact, that was the same instruction as was given in 1871, in 1881 and in this last census. I do not quarrel with that instruction, but I want to correct the impression that was conveyed by the remarks of my hon. friend from Pictou.
But, further than that, I find that in these tabulations not only did the enumerators take industrial establishments which had not an annual output of $200, but here in the bureau at Ottawa such establishments were included to a very large number indeed. I have in my hand the third volume of that census, which gives these industrial establishments. I have not undertaken to go through the whole 386 pages of that volume, but I did go through the first 80 pages, and as a specimen I find that in those 80 pages there are 339 industrial establishments included in the tabulation the product of each of which was less than $200- a pretty fair proportion, in fact a very large proportion of the whole number.


What Is the proportion of the whole number ?


I have not worked out the exact proportion ; but these 339 establishments had a total annual output of $44,500, or an average of $144 for each establishment, instead of $200. This shows that the industrial enumeration was not made on the basis which has been alleged.
But, Sir, there is a much more important part of the tabulation and the enumeration which I also want to go into, that is, for the population. Hon. gentlemen opposite and their friends in the country have been making certain criticisms of the census of 1901. In the first place, I may say that the instructions that were given in 1901 with regard to the enumeration were practically the same as the instructions given in 1891, 1881 and 1871. It is true there was one difference made in the census of 1891, which was pointed out by my hon. friend from Pictou, that difference being that people who had been absent for more than 12 months were not to be enumerated ; and my hon. friend took great credit to the government of that day for taking that precaution and thereby preventing the enumerating of people who had left the country or left the particular-locality permanently. Now, Sir, what have we found ? We have found, by a careful investigation, in so far as it has gone-and it has gone very far indeed in the province of Quebec, and a reasonable distance in the province of Ontario-that if that instruction was given, it was disregarded to such an extent that we must conclude that it was wilfully disregarded. The enumerators, some of them, ignored it entirely ; because I shall be able to show, not by .general statements of the number in the aggregate, but by individual statements, that many individuals and their families were enumerated who had been more than 12 months absent from the place where they were enumerated.


May I ask the hon. member a question ? Was not the first question of the enumerator this :	In the event of
any of the members of the family being away, do you expect them to come back ? In the event of their not being expected back, the next question was :	Have they
been away more than a year '? But in the event of the first question being answered in the affirmative, even if they were away five years, the enumerators would be obliged to include them.


There were no such instructions. The instructions were that if they were absent more than twelve months they should be held to be away permanently and should not be put on, but, as a matter of fact, they were put on in 1891 in numerous instances. In the census of 1901 the instructions were
that they should not be put on, and we have no proof or suspicion that any were included who were away more than twelve months.
Hon. gentlemen opposite have taken two positions on this question. First, they claim that the census of 1S91 was correctly taken and then they imply that the census of 1901 was not. The accusation is made that in the province of Quebec, in the census of 1901, the enumeration was excessive, that some people were counted who should not have been, and that in Ontario fewer people were counted than should have been on the schedules. I venture to say that I can prove that in the province of Quebec in 1901 no more people were enumerated than should have been, but that in the census of 1891 names were put on to an enormous extent that should not have been enumerated at all. If, therefore, there is any accusation of favouritism committed by either government in unduly swelling the population of the province of Quebec, that accusation comes with ill grace from Jion. gentlemen opposite, because it was really the late' government which was guilty. Let me cite a few instances just to show how the administration of these hon. gentlemen opposite proceeded in taking the census in 1891. Let me first say that in the investigation which I caused to be made, we found a ready means of obtaining information in the province of Quebec, where there is a large Catholic population. And I took care to have the investigation made in those counties in which the population is practically and .entirely Catholic, and not where there is a large mixed population. My hon. friend from South Lanark (Mr. Haggart) spoke of the counties of Drummond and Arthabaska, in which there is a mixed Catholic and Protestant population, and he argued that the reason of the disparity was that in the parochial census the Protestants were not included, but in the counties where I have had an investigation, the details of which my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and Commerce laid on the Table the other day, the county of Drummond and Arthabaska does not appear because we limited our inquiry to those counties where there is a homogeneous Catholic population and where, therefore, the census bulletins should give results similar to the parochial censuses.


In every case has the hon. gentleman observed this rule ?


Practically.


Practically-that is another thing.


The hon. gentleman knows perfectly well that there is no part of the Dominion, no matter where, where there are not some

people of a different religion from that of the majority, but the numbers are so small in the counties I have alluded to that they can be practically ignored. My hon. friend is not so familiar with the province of Quebec perhaps as some of those who come from that province, and know more about it.
An lion. MEMBER,, ) V e do not know very much about it.


That is a pity.
The MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, As my right lion, friend says, that is a pity. Comparing the census taken by the late government in 1891 with the parochial statistics, we find that the numbers in the former were in every case much the larger, whereas in the census of 1901 there are four counties, namely, Bellechasse, Bagot, Port-neuf and Lotbiniere, where the parochial statistics are larger than those of the official census. In other words, if any error has been made by the census enumerators in 1901 it is due rather to their having failed to count all the people than to having unduly swelled the numbers.


Were these censuses taken at precisely the same period ?
I find again Norbert Charbonneau, aged 30, and his wife, aged 31, both have left the parish over fifteen years. Their children were also registered in the census of 1891. Aged 5 years, 3 year's, and 9 months respectively.
None of these people ever resided in St. Jean de Matha, yet their names appear in the census schedule.


Was this investigation made under oath ?


It was made by the parish priests.


That makes no difference.


It was made by people who knew the locality and had personal knowledge of the individuals who were living in the parish for years.


Mffien were these investigations made ?


Last year.


And the fifteen years date from last year ?


They were taken within three months of each other, and the figures I will give afford such glaring and convincing proof that no one can imagine for a moment that any difference could be due to any radical change in the population within that period. In these twenty-one constituencies, to which I have referred, the difference in 1891 between the official census and the parochial censuses is 40,000 to the. advantage of the former, or, very nearly 2,000 per constituency of an excess in the official over the parochial census. But in 1901, on the contrary, the difference is only 8,000, or about 400 per constituency.
I would ask the House to bear with me while I read a few of the details just to show in what way this enumeration was taken in 1891 and what were the results. I have here the returns from the county of Joliette, the evidence of the Rev. Mr. Morin, attested by Dr. Turgeon and Mr. Dugas. 1 am not making any general, statement, but taking individual instances and giving individual proofs, and .here is one of the first instances that I find :
Leon Charbonneau, aged 39, and his wife, aged 36, absent from the parish for at least the last fifteen years. Yet they are registered in the schedule of 1891 as being present and having six children, namely, Joseph, aged 10; Leon, aged 8; Elizabeth, aged 6; Lea, aged 4; Elise, aged 3, and Olive, aged 2. These people have been absent fifteen years, but they and their six children were registered, and not one of these children was born in that county.





Y'es. But it was only ten years between the two censuses,
Phillippe St. Ama, 34 years, and his wife, Athelia, were enumerated in 1891 though they never resided in St. Jean de Matha. Still they were counted with their four children, aged respectively 9 years, 6 years, T years, and 2 months. That family was absolutely unknown in that parish, never having lived there either temporarily or permanently.
Here is another instance :	Alexander
Houle, aged 42, and his wife, Mafie-Anne, aged 40. They left for the United States eighteen years ago, but still their names appear on the census schedules of 1891 together with those of eight children, aged from sixteen years down to two years. And two of these children appear in the schedule as having the same name, which strikes one as rather peculiar.
Onesime Cleremont, aged 36, and his wife, aged 34, were absent in the United States when the census of 1891 was taken, but their names and those of three children appear in the schedule.
A little further down we find the name of Onesime Cleremont, aged 38, and his wife, aged 39, and three children. The enumerator, not content with entering absentees once, counted them twice.
Then there is the name of Jean Baptiste Piette, aged 46, with those of his wife, aged 40, although they left St. Jean de Matha twenty years ago.
Their names appear on the census schedules, with two children-Marie Sara, aged 15 years;.

Melina, aged 13 years. Immediately alter the name of Jean Baptiste Piette and family, we find again Maxime Piette and Lea Piette, aged 33, with six children-Marie Louise, 'aged 14 years ; Rose Anna, aged 14 years ; Alexandrine, aged 12 years; Marie, aged 10 years; Joseph, aged 8 years; Napoleon, aged 6 years-which is a repetition of the same Maxime Piette and Lea Piette, already referred to as having left for the United' States 15 or 18 years ago.
Here again, the family, the father and mother and six children are reported twice over, and none of them ought to have appeared on the schedule list. I cannot read all these cases, but I am trying to read fair specimens.
Louis Roeheleau, aged 60, and his wife, Agathe, aged 56, are registered with five children : Joseph, aged 34; Louis, aged 36; Elie, aged 29, Alarie, aged 15, Nathalie, aged 17. But they have never resided in the parish, according to people who have never left the locality during the last 20 or 25 years. One old resident of St. Jean de1 Matha said that he remembered that about 40 years ago, one Louis Roeheleau was living in the parish, but he .'lever saw him since that time.


I would like to ask the name of the clergyman in that case.


Rev. Jean Baptiste Morin.


How long has he lived in that parish ?


I have no memorandum on that subject, but he has lived there for many years.
Paul Guilbault, aged 48, is regisfcred with his wife, Philomene, aged 30, and 18 children.


Hear, hear.


I wish hon. members to notice that the wife was 30 years of age, that her eldest sou, Joseph, was registered as 24 years of age. The other children were :
Elizabeth, aged 23; Marie, aged 22; Philomene, aged. 20; Pierre, aged 19; Olive, aged 18; Melina, aged 17, Armeline, agid 16, Paul, aged 15, Georges, aged 14; Miose, aged 13; Hormisdas, aged 12; EugSne, aged 11; Martin, aged 10; Ar-sgne, aged 9; Albert, aged 8; Norbert, aged 8; Marie-Anns, aged 3 months.
The father was 48 and the wife 30, with 18 children, and all were registered.
But Paul Guilbault and his wife and his alleged children have never resided in St. Jean de Matha. It is said in the locality that the same Onesime Plouffe above mentioned in this report had a son-in-lawr by the name of Guilbault. He was residing, at that time, at St. Damieu, in the county of Berthier, but he has left many years ago for the United States, and has never come back to the country. He has never resided in St. Jean de Matha.
This is another specimen of the way the census was stuffed in the province of Quebec in 1891. I have a number more here,
but I will not detain the House by reading them,


Go on.


All right. I will take another at haphazard :
Alem Parent, aged 23, is registered with his wife, Marie-Louise, aged 18, and their daughter, Rose-Alba, aged 4 months. Alem Parent is the son-in-law of Jean-Baptiste Layer, who was residing in St. Jean de Matha in 1891. Parent himself has always been living in St. Beatrix and never in St. Jean de Matha. This did not prevent the enumerator from registering him and his family twice. The second time he was recorded as follows : Olem Parent, aged 21; Marie Louise Parent, his wife, aged 19, and Rose-Anna, their daughter, aged 3 months.
Olivier Belanger, aged 42, is registered with his wife, Celina, aged 35, and four children : Joseph, aged 8; Henry, aged 7; Albina, aged 5, and Arthur, aged 3. These people are absolutely unknown to the old residents of the1 parish. They are probably some relatives of Mrs. Emelie Robillard, an old lady of 70 years old, who then resided in St. Jean de Matha. But if Olivier Belanger and his family ever lived in the parish, it is over twenty years ago.
And so on.	[DOT]


Go on.


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Hughes, Victoria) wants me to go on, but I have cases from other counties here that I want to give.


Will the hon. minister lay on the Table the names of the enumerators in each case ?


I will look up the name.


Will the hon. gentleman name the enumerator charged with this fraud ? And I would like to ask also whether he has made inquiries of the enumerators in any of these cases, and, if so, in which, and what answers has he got ?


I shall be glad to look up the names and lay them on the Table.


Has the hon. minister made inquiry of the enumerators charged with this fraud ?


In some cases that has been done.


Has It been done in this particular case ?


I cannot, at this moment say as to that.


Does not the hon. minister think it would have been fair to ask an explanation before making this charge on the floor of this House ?


The probability is that when an enumerator

lias made such an exhibition as that, his evidence would not be worth taking. I have here some, cases from the county of Bagot also. In St. Liboire we find the same kind of thing occurring to a very great extent. Here is one item I would like to read :
The stuffing in the town of Acton Vale and in the Parish of St. Andre of Acton, is probably larger, and the evidence of it is absolutely undeniable. Mr. J. E. Marcil, M.P., for Bagot, has resided in Acton Vale for the last forty years, and for thirty years he has been engaged in. business either as a clerk or as a merchant. He had consequently every opportunity of knowing every one in the locality. Mr. Marcil examined in our office the schedules of 1891 and has pointed out to us the names of those who had left the town of Acton Vale or the parish of St. Andre of Acton many years previous to the census of ten years ago.
Then the names are given [DOT]
Joseph Gagnon, aged 24, son of Alderic Gagnon and of Sophie Gagnon, is registered in the census book, but has not resided in the town of Acton Vale for the last fifteen years.
Leon Mousseau, aged 24, and Alexandre Mousseau, aged 21, both sons of Bdnonie Mousseau and Genevieve Mousseau, are registered on the census book, but have left the locality for over fourteen years.
Parmelie L'Heureux, aged 24, daughter of Leon L'Heureux, appears on the census book, but has not been living in Acton Vale for the the last sixteen years.
Louis Favreau, aged 26; Louise Favreau, aged 14; Dorinda Favreau, aged 21; Eustache Favreau, aged 20; Georges Favreau, aged 18; Charles, aged 31; Marie, aged 11; Delima, aged >0; Johnnie, aged 28; Angele Favreau, aged 47, and John Favreau, aged 35, are all sons and daughters of Louis Favreau and Angele Favreau. They appear in the census book but they were all born in the United States, and have never resided in Acton Vale.
Clara Lambert, aged 19, and Mary Lambert, aged 19, daughters of Pierre and Celima Lambert, are registered, but they had gone to the United States many years previous to the census of 1891.
Joseph Leveillee, aged 43, and his wife, aged 26, are registered with eleven children


Who makes that report ?


Mr. Marcil.


Who is Mr. Marcil ?


The present member for Bagot.


Oh, oh.


Who knows the county so well that he has been elected as a Liberal, the first time in many years that a Liberal could be elected there.
The enumerators in the parish of St. Ephrem d'Upton have not been more scrupulous ten years ago than in some other localities in the county of Bagot. Here follow's a list of persons who should not have been registered on the census book.


Was any explanation asked of this enumerator ?


1 cannot tell which were asked for an explanation and which were not.


Does the hon. minister know that any were asked ?


Yes. I will take also the county of Rouville in which a most extraordinary condition of affairs was shown.
In the county of Rouville there were 3,123 people enumerated on the Dominion census

more than the parochial census of the same year showed. This is the way in which the work was done in the village of Canrobert:
Pierre Reiadeau, aged 44, and his wife, One-sime, aged 37, are reg stered with eight children: Philias, aged 17, Emma, aged 15, Arthur, aged 13, Rosanna, aged 11, Maria, aged 9, Azarie, aged 7, Thais, aged 5, Fiorina, aged 3 ; that family have left Canrobert village 14 or 15 years ago.
Julien Coiteux, aged 58, and his wife Octavie aged 50, are registered with seven children : Napoleon, aged 22, Zephirine, aged 21, Emma, aged 19, Octavie, aged 17, Louis, aged 16, Joseph, aged 13, Delia, aged 11 ; that family were not residing in Canrobert.
Here follows a list of persons entered in Richelieu village who should not have appeared at all, because they all lived in the United States or had gone to other parts of the province more than twelve months previous to the census of 1891. The list is given here, with the names and details.


Who makes that report 7


This was made by the parish priest.


What is his name ?


His name is not here. Then I have the county of Lotbiniere, another one of the same character.


I do not wish to be constantly interrupting the hon. gentleman, but in any of these places where he lias made inquiries of the enumerator and has received an answer, will he be good enough to state it, in connection with his other remarks.


I told the hon. gentleman a little while ago that I could not lay my hands on the information to show which enumerators inquiries were made from and which were not.


Would the hon. gentleman be able at some subsequent stage to give us that information ?
The	MINISTER	OF	AGRICULTURE.
I will try to.


We would like to have that.
The	MINISTER	OF	AGRICULTURE.I have	thus far pretty	completely showedthe result of the investigations in the province of Quebec. As I said at the beginning, these	investigations	have been conducted
comparatively easily because of the peculiar conditions in that province which enabled us to get, not only the general figures, but the absolute details and statements of the individual.


Would the hon. gentleman allow me to ask him a question ?


Certainly.


I understand from the statements he has read now, he wants to show that a large number of French families in the province of Quebec were enumerated in 1891 that should not have been ?


I was not particular to say that they were French, but as a matter of fact I think they all were French.


I would like to draw the hon. gentleman's attention to a statement he made when the Cote circular was before this House two years ago. The hon. gentleman stated then that the French families of the province of Quebec were not properly enumerated, that a large number of families were not taken in that census of 1891 ; and that for the purpose of getting at the correct number of French families in the province of Quebec this circular was issued by Mr. Cote. How do these two statements coincide ?


There was a statement made that in the province of Quebec a large number of people that ought to have been enumerated were not enumerated. Our investigation shows that whether that was the case or not, a very large number of people were enumerated that ought not to have been enumerated. The two statements do not conflict at all. It may well have been that people who ought to have been enumerated were not enumerated, but at the present time I have given proof that hundreds and thousands of people were enumerated who had no right to be enumerated.


Will the hon. gentleman explain to us how these parties were enumerated that should not have been enumerated other than those he now mentioned ?


I will go on with my argument, if the hon. gentleman will allow me, at a later stage perhaps he may speak and say what he wants to. Now we did not wish to confine the investigation by any means to the province of Quebec. Although the difficulties were much greater in the province of Ontario, still a slight investigation was made to find out whether anything like the same conditions obtained. I may say at once that we did not find anything like as much of this sort of thing in the province of Ontario as we did in the province of Quebec. Whether the difficulties in Ontario were so great that we could not get at the facts, or whether there were no such errors committed, I am not prepared to say ; but I state frankly that the difficulties of obtaining this information in Ontario are much greater than they are in Quebec. Now we chose five places in Ontario for that in-

vestigation, they were chosen at hap-hazard, we chose them without knowing in the slightest degree what the results were going to be, we chose them chiefly for the reason that they showed certain inconsistencies in the figures, they showed that while the number of families had increased and the number of dwellings had increased, the population had decreased.


That is reasonable.


It is very unfortunate, if it is so, and it is rather an extraordinary condition of affairs. One of these five places was the township of Thurlow and the city of Belleville. A slight investigation showed that the census seemed to have been correctly taken there, there was nothing to show that there had been any stuffing of the lists. But in the other four places there did appear to have been stuffing, in Huron West, in Goderich and Clinton we found errors of that kind. In Goderich we found sixty-three persons out of 3,839 who ought not to have been there, and in Clinton, thirty-eight persons out of 2.633 who ought not to have been there, with an undue swelling of the list hy 1-7 per cent and 1-5 per cent. In North Middlesex-


Before the hon. gentleman reads that, will he say who gave that statement ?


Mr. D. F. Macpherson, and he gives the names of the individuals, and all about them. [DOT]


Let us have the names.


I am not going to read them all, I will lay the names on the Table. I will read a few :
George Nimmens, page 13, lived in London in 1891 ; Martha Tebbutt, page 25, taken twice in Goderich township and in Clinton ; James Robb, page 3, never lived here. A farmer in Tucker-smith ; Fred Crabb, page 19, in Michigan in 1891; Charles Crabb, in Toronto in 1891 ; Charles Gib-ton, page 23, in North-west Territories in 1891 ; Colin Sinclair, page 27, in Detroit in 1891 ; J. M. Proudfoot, page 4. in Winnipeg in 1891 ; William MeCallum, page 3, in Vancouver in 1891 ; William Campbell, page 12, in Chicago in 1891 ; Christine Mclver, page 3, taken twice in Goderich town ; Minnie Gordon, page 24, in Nebraska in 1891 ; Angus McKay, page 28, in Buffalo in 1891 ; Frank Simmons, page 35, in American army in 1891; Robert Reid, page 38, in Brantford in 1891 ; Donald McIntosh, page 46, in Detroit in 1891 ; Wilson Cox, page 50, in North-west Territories in 1891 ; Maggie Burns, page 51, taken twice, in Goderich town ; John McIntosh, page 55, at Sault Ste Marie in 1891 ; William Vivian, page 5, in Michigan in 1891.


Would the hon. gentleman permit me to ask him if the report Hon. Mr. FISHER.
states that these parties were away more than one year ?


They were not there at all. In South Norfolk I find there were 3 per cent away in Simcoe, and 3 6 per cent were added to the list in Port Dover. Then I find a similiar condition of affairs in Cornwall. The inquiry was difficult to make, and I have a report detailing the means taken to arrive at the facts: In order to make the report as authentic as possible I examined the assessment rolls of the municipalities, together with the registers of the high and public schools of the district for 1891, and a comparison of those records with the census schedules has shown that in many cases persons were counted at their homes in the country by one enumerator, and in their boarding houses in the town by another. Many of the pupils attending the Cornwall high school were recorded in this way, and so also were domestic servants and others. In some instances it has been difficult to identify persons of the same family name, such as McDonalds, Frasers, McPhails, &c., who are numerous in the district, and where I had any doubt I have marked such names with a star. All other names given on the appended list as duplicated in the census are susceptible of the clearest verification and I am sure that many others might be furnished if one's memory and exact local knowledge could recall every person who lived in the district ten years ago and disci-iminate between the floating and tfie fixed elements of the population. Here is a list of 150 persons whose names were duplicated and appeared twice on the schedule of that census division.


What division was that ?


In Cornwall. I have here a list of the individuals named, of the two enumerators wno enumerated them, the places in which they were enumerated, Cornwall town and Cornwall township, many enumerated twice In the town, some enumerated twice in the township, but all of them enumerated twice, once in the town and once in the township, as the case may be. This goes to show that the stuffing of the lists was not alone carried on in the province of Quebec. We have another proof of that which was given to this parliament in 1894 by my hon. friend the present Minister of Militia (Hon. Mr. Borden), who at that time proved conclusively that in his county of King's N.S., there was a very great stuffing of the lists. That proof was given so conclusively at the time that my hon. friend the member for Pictou (Mr. Bell) the other day, acknowledged it ; he granted that it was true and he simply defended it by saying that the enumerator was prosecuted and bad to leave the eoun-

try. As a matter of fact tlie enumerator did not leave the country ; he only went into a neighbouring county, where, apparently, the Minister of Justice of that day was not able to reach him or to punish him. We have another fact which goes to prove the same thing. I have here some returns of the school population in the province of Nova Scotia, and I find some confirmatory facts in that connection. Here we have the different counties with their populations in 1S91 and 1901 with the increases [DOT]or decreases as the case may be, and we have also the statement of the school children for these two years. I find that in some counties the population actually decreased very materially while the school population largely increased. It seems hardly possible that the difference can be actually so great. It points to the fact that the change between 1891 and 1901 cannot have been correct in both instances. There is no possible reason for supposing that the population of the school children was in any way changed or tampered with. But it is quite possible that the census of 1891, with the proof that we have which the hon. Minister of Militia gave in regard to King's county, was tampered with extensively at that time. In Annapolis county the population decreased 3T per cent, but I find that the number of school children increased 12-3 per cent. I find in Antigonish that while the population decreased 15 per cent the number of school children increased 1 per cent. In Colchester the population decreased 8-3 per cent while the number of school children increased 9-9 per cent. In Higby the population only increased 2 per cent while the number of school children increased 21 per cent. I find that in Hants the population decreased 9-9 per cent while the number of school children increased 8T per cent. I find that in King's county the population decreased 2 per cent while the number of school children increased 21 per cent. Here, we have a confirmation in this comparison of the statements which were made by the hon. Minister of Militia. We have here the key' to the solution of the difficulty and I would venture to say that the same key will open the lock in regard to other counties in that province. We have in Queen's county a decrease in both cases. In Victoria county there was a decrease of 14 9 per cent in population, and an increase of 1-5 per cent in the number of school children. I think that what I have submitted to the House thus in detail, and I have only taken these figures at haphazard from the mass of detail that I have here, is sufficient to show that whatever may be the census of 1901, the census of 1891 was, generally, throughout the country, very unduly swelled by the manipulation of the enumerators. I venture to say that it accounts to a large extent, if not entirely, for the fact that in the comparisons of the growth of the population the growth from 1891 to
1901 is actually and in fact much greater in population than it was from 1881 to 1891. Therefore, we as Canadians need not blush ns we would otherwise have to do at the comparative stagnation and lack of growth of the population in our country. I venture to think that there are other points which tend to prove the same thing. There was one notable fact in regard to the census of 1891 which shows how easy it was to misrepresent the actual growth of population. In the census of 1891 while the names of the people are given, there is no address given of the people. there being no place in the schedules of 1891 for this purpose, and consequently, there is no sure and accurate way of laying your finger on an individual except by the iocal knowledge of other people. In the census of 1901 we have obtained not only the names of the people, but in tire cities, we have given the street and house number of every individual on the list of the census, while in the country parts we have given the lot and range and the position of the house of each individual whose name appears on the list, the schedules of 1901 being so drawn as to provide for this. The result is that with the census of 1901 anybody can prove to a demonstration whether an individual was present or not, while, with
just as many people as they desire to do because there are no immediate means except by the local knowledge of some other individual of laying your finger on a man who was reported as being present or who might not be present. This is a most extraordinary difference in the manner of taking the census and one to which I wish to draw the attention of the House and the country. There are some other matters in connection with the census to which I wish briefly to allude.


Would the hon. member (Hon. Mr. Fisher) pardon me ? He speaks of a great mass of information. Is he referring to what has been laid on the Table of the House or to something else ?


To what has been laid on the Table of the House and to what I have been reading from here to-day.


I take it for granted that he will lay all the information on the Table of the House in so far as it has not already been laid on the Table ?


Certainly. There has been one effort made in the province of Ontario, and it is the only one I know of in the Dominion of Canada which has been undertaken, for the purpose of showing the incorrectness of the census of 1901, and that is the effort that was made

In the city of Toronto. I was rather surprised that the hon. member for West Toronto (Mr. Clarke), in alluding to census matters, did not allude to this. I can only take it for granted that he felt that the census of 1901 was completely justified and verified by the police census which was taken in Toronto soon afterwards. The hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce (Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright) gave a good many of these figures to the House and I will not therefore go over them but I will point out that the assessment department1 of the city of Toronto took their census between April 1st and October 1st, the mean of which was the 1st of July. The assessment department showed a population of 205,887, a smaller number than the Dominion census which showed a population of 208,045. If therefore we were trying to minimize the population of Ontario we evidently did not do so in the city of Toronto. The police census of the city of Toronto was taken some time afterwards and it showed a population of 221,000. The difference between the Dominion census and the police census was completely accounted for by tne fact, that in the police census 4,439 pupils who are non-residents of the city were included, and these ought not, and were not enumerated by the Dominion census enumerators. The number of patients in the hospitals who were non-residents was 527, and in other institutions there were 175 nonresidents. The hotels reported that on November 10th, the day on which the police census was taken, 1,413 transient visitors were enumerated who would not be enumerated in the Dominion census, and it is reasonable to suppose that there were at any rate 1,000 transient visitors in the city who were not in the hotels. This, with the natural increase within the two dates would give a complete confirmation of the Dominion census of 208,000, because the difference which can thus be made up between the two is practically 13,000.
There is another fact in regard to this about which I would like to say a word. In the directory census of the city of Toronto an effort was made to show a much larger figure. The directory census has on frequent occasions been referred to, but we have found on investigation that the estimates in these censuses are very uncertain and very irregular. The estimate made by the directory of the city of Toronto has varied very materially; a different multiplier has been taken to make up the estimate in different years, and some of these estimates have ranged very much higher than the municipal statistics, -and some of them very much lower; showing a very wide difference and consequently showing the utterly unreliable character of such a census. I was rather surprised that my hon. friend from Toronto (Mr. Clarke) did n-ot deal with this matter. He certainly had the opportunity to do so, but he left Hon. Mr. FISHER.	,
it without any cavil, and I therefore take that as a practical confirmation of the census of 1901.
I have dwelt at some length on these things, because I have felt, and I still feel that it is important to show to the country and to sh-o-w to the world, that the population of Canada has not been so- stationary during the last ten years as it would appear to lie from a comparison of the census of 1891, with that of 1901. I want to speak a little further upon another phase of this subject of population, and the census will have to necessarily come into that part of my address also. I stated a few moments ago that one object of discussing this was to show that the progress of Canada had not been so slow as it appeared by the census returns to have been. I believe I can show from tihe census figures, and other figures which I can place before the House: that not only has the growth of Canada during the last ten years been considerably greater -than it was during the ten years preceding, but that in those ten years, the growth of Canada during the last five years of the period has been greater than it was in the fifteen years preceding the advent of this present government to power. The Minister of Finance alluded to that briefly in his speech, and the Minister of Trade and Commerce showed pretty conclusively that the development and progress of Canada had -been very much greater during the last five years than it had been during any previous five-year period in the history of this country. And furthermore, the hon. gentleman (Sir Richard Cartwright) went on to show that in some respects the progress of Canada had been greater during the last five years than in the fifteen years preceding. Hon. gentlemen opposite themselves acknowledge the prosperity of the country. I want to give a little proof of wiliat that prosperity is, and in this connection I will refer to the speech of my hon. friend from Toronto (Mr. Clarke). When he was dealing with the increase in the population between 1881 and 1891, and between 1891 and 1901. the hon. gentleman (Mr. Clarke) stated that the increase of population during the last decade had been less -than it was during the first decade. I do not know where he got his figures, but they are certainly not the figures of these three censuses. As a matter of fact, in 1881 the population of Canada was 4,324,810 ; in 1891, the population of Canada was 4,833,239 ; and in 1901, the population of Canada was 5,371,051. The increase from 1881 to 1891 was 508,429, but the increase from 3891 to 1901 was 537,812, or, about 30,000 increase more in the last decade than in the first. This is no very great difference I confess, but still it is to the advantage of the last decade.
Now, Sir, in the province of Ontario we have municipal statistics and these statistics enable us to deal with, not only the decen-

lilal census periods, but also with) the conditions trom year to year. Before I go into that I should say that these 'municipal statistics have to be taken with a certain reserve, because in the early days in 1881 and 1882 and 1883, these municipal statistics were not as carefully or as accurately compiled as they were afterwards. Up to 1S81 they were avowedly imperfect, and therefore the figures for 1881 are acknowledged to be, not by any means correct; so that when we come to compare 1881 with 1891 we do so simply for what it is worth. In these ten years there was an increase of
226,000	according to the municipal statistics. But there is this curious fact to be noted: that in 1882 and 1883 there was a sudden increase from 2,000 increase to 19,000 increase. In 1883 and 1884 the increase in the population was 40,000, according to these municipal statistics; in 1884 and 1885 the increase was 33,000, and in 1885 and 1886 the increase was 38,000. Knowing as I do something about the way in which these municipal statistics were handled in the province of Ontario at that time, I am aware of the fact-and I have no doubt lion, gentlemen from Ontario here are also aware of the fact-that these enormous increases were due to the improved methods in the compilation of these statistics.


They are just as loose now as they were then.


Possibly so, and if the hon. gentleman (Mr. Clancy) is right, then the comparison made by the hon. gentleman from Toronto (Mr. Clarke) would not be of very much value. As a matter of fact it was only about 1882, that these statistics began to be in any way carefully and completely compiled. In 1885 and 1886, when they had got to the point at which the statistics were compiled about the same as they are now, the increases did not go on to the same extent. In 1890 and 1891, the increases went down almost as low as in 1881 and 1882. I find that in the ten years from 1891 to 1901, these municipal statistics show an increased population in the province of Ontario of 102,626, but they show in the five years from 1891 to 1896, an increase of 50,165, and in the five years from 1896 to 1901, they show an increase of 52,426; or in other words, these same municipal statistics in the province of Ontario show that the population was increasing more rapidly during the last five years than it did in the five years preceding.
There are one or two other points in this same connection. We have in this Dominion census -a statement of the numbers of the foreign-born population of Manitoba, the North-west Territories and British Columbia. which shows the immigration that has come into that western country. The increase of the foreign population in the different periods was as follows :	From 1881
to 1885, 19,000; from 1886 to 1890, 31,526; from 1891 to 1895, 38,728; a total immigration of foreign-born people into that part of Canada in those fifteen years of 89,932. But from 1896 to 1900, there was an increase of 94,527, and from the 1st of January, 1900, to the 31st of March, an increase of 6,451, a total of 100,978. So that we find that 11,000 more foreign-born people came into that country since the present government came into power than came in during the whole fifteen years preceding.
We have also the fi