That from this date to the end of the Session Government Orders have precedence on Thursdays immediately after Questions to be put by members.


Motion agreed to.
Before the orders of the day are called, I wish to bring to the attention of the government the fact that the committee room in the tower used by the Committee on Agriculture and Colonization, is entirely too small for the needs of that committee ; and, as the old railway committee room has been vacated since the new one has been finished, and is comparatively idle, I think we ought to be allowed to use that room, which is not occupied except on days when the Committee on Agriculture and Colonization does not usually sit, and therefore it seems to me that it could be used by that committee without inconvenience to any other.


That would hardly do. The Banking and Commerce Committee meets there, also the Public Accounts Committee, and I understand that the Senate Railway Committee is going to meet there. So that I think that room will be fairly occupied for the rest of the session.


The Banking and Commerce Committee could surely use the Private Bill's Committee room, which is vacant most of the time. I think the Public Accounts Committee is not so large that it could not use the tower room conveniently.
The MINISTER OF FINANCE (Hon. W.
S.	Fielding). The Public Accounts Committee is large and usually has a number of witnesses, and I would not like to take the step recommended by the hon. gentleman if it would interfere with the meetings of that committee. With regard to the Senate, I hope that arrangements may be come to under which the Senate Railway Committee

can use the Railway Committee room on alternate days. There are no reasons why we should not come to a friendly understanding and avoid any difficulty. If several committees are called on the same day, of course there may be confusion, but the chairmen of the respective committees can easily arrange so as to prevent any trouble of that kind.


House resumed adjourned debate on the proposed motion of the Minister of Finance (Hon. Mr. Fielding) :
That Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to go into committee to consider of the Ways and Means for raising the Supply to be granted to His Majesty ; and the proposed motion of Mr. Borden (Halifax) in amendment thereto.
['I do not imagine that at this hour the committee will desire to proceed with any business, I therefore move that the committee rise, report progress, and ask leave to sit again.']
A good deal has been said by hon. gentlemen opposite, Mr. Speaker, regarding the increased expenditure of this country, and that is a subject which perhaps has not been dealt with on this side as fully as it might be. In view of what these hon. gentlemen opposite have said and in view also of the feeling which, I am free to admit, may exist to some extent in the minds of sincere believers in Liberal principles and firm supporters of this government, that we have not been faithful to the instructions given to us or to the platform of 1893, I would like this afternoon to tax the patience of the House somewhat by entering into the details and giving figures bearing on our expenditure. 1 know that it is not very pleasant for the House to have to listen to a long array of figures, nor is it at all agreeable to me to enter into these somewhat dry details, and I shall endeavour to be as brief as possible and weary the House as little as I possibly can in this respect.
Borne hon. members of the opposition have charged my hon. colleague the Finance Minister with not having put his case fairly, but to my mind he gave us an honest, clear and fair statement. In fact I think that he. put the case which might be urged against the government in a stronger light than was necessary. He informed the House that he anticipated having to add some millions to the public debt tliis year. I tbink that, in stating the amount be did he took the view of one wiho was anxious to present rather the least hopeful view ot the future, and thus, like a wise financier, err on the safe side by giving a forecast which would be more likely to result in an agreeable disappointment to the people than the reverse. I am in hopes, judging by the trade returns and the financial situation, as I view it, that our expenditure will fall short of the figures mentioned by the Minister of Finance, and that it will be found that my hon. colleague, in his budget speech, Ken. Mr. FIELDING.
presented a case against the government stronger than the facts would warrant.
My hon. friend, the leader of the opposition, gave us a statement of the increases under the various heads of expenditure, but there he stopped. He did not enter into any comparisons. He made no allowance for the altered condition of affairs at present compared with those of the years preceding this administration. The hon. member for Centre Toronto (Mr. Osier) also referred to the increase of expenditure in a general way. It is, however, very easy to make general statements, but much more difficult to particularize. I have taken the trouble to scrutinize the various expenditures, and at the risk of wearying the House, I propose to give the results of my researches, and I am convinced I shall be able to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of all fair-minded men, that comparing service with service, and taking into account the rapid development of the country during the last five years, its great increase in population-


Hear, hear.


some say even seventy millions of dollars in the expenditure. I ask fair-minded men, in judging of the increased expenditure, to take into account the difference of the circumstances of the country now and in bygone days. A business man's expenses increase with the growth of his business-so with a nation. The government had to keep pace with the advance movement. It would have been remiss in its duty if it had failed to do so. Bearing these facts in mind-the growth in the trade of the country and the evident increase that we have in the population-let us proceed to a scrutiny of the expenditure. We will take first the ordinary, the controllable expenditure. For the purposes of this comparison I take the year 1894-95 and compare it with the year just closed. I take the year 1894-95 because it is well known and will not be denied-at any rate it cannot be successfully contradicted- that the expenditure accounts for 1896 under hon. gentlemen opposite were not completed accounts. I know that in my own department amounts were left over to be paid after the year had elapsed. It was an election year and the full expenditure was not shown. Therefore, I take the year 1894-95. The ordinary controllable expenditure for 1901 was $46,866,367. In 1894-95, the ordinary expenditure was $38,132,005. These figures show an increase in 1901 over 1895 of $8,734,362.
Now on the face of it this looks large, but let us consider the details before passing judgment. I propose to go through all the departments, and thus afford an opportunity to any hon. gentleman who follows me to point out which of these particular expenditures he takes exception to. I call upon them to do that; and I mention to you, Mr. Speaker, right here, that the position of the opposition at this present moment is one that absolutely justifies every dollar of expenditure that has been made, and every dollar that has been added to the public debt. Why do I say that ? Why, Sir, the Minister of Finance has made his budget speech, he has given the fact that our expenditure has been increased ; he has not hidden the fact that on ordinary expenditure there has been an increase ; he has not hidden the fact that on capital expenditure there has been an increase ; he has not hidden the fact that there has been an addition to the public debt. These hon. gentlemen know that, and now is the time, now is the opportunity, if they dare do so, to offer an amendment and have it fairly debated. It was their duty to do it, to put a resolution before you, Mr. Speaker, declaring that the expenditure was unwise, unjustifiable, but they have not done it; and the fact that they have not done it proves conclusively to my mind that, they themselves being the judges, being conversant with the public accounts and the state of the country, are satisfied that the extra expenditure has been well and wisely made,


and that there is no fault to be found with it. Sir, they do not venture to do so. If ever there was a time to challenge that expenditure it is now. It is very easy for them to rise and make speeches and let them go broadcast throughout the country, but the way for them to show that they are in earnest is to place themselves upon record against these expenditures


And so we will.


But you have not done it, and this is the time to do it when the financial statement is being discussed. The hon. gentleman sees the weakness of the position. Instead of introducing an amendment, an amendment so vague in itself that we cannot tell what it is, a thing that has reference to something that is not clear even in their own minds-instead of introducing that amendment, if they believe their own statements that there has been unjustifiable expenditure, why it was their bounden duty to move an amendment to that effect, and place it in your hands challenging the administration of the affairs of this country and dividing the House upon it; and, Sir, we would not have shrunk from the test and from the discussion that would have ensued. Let me go through these departments in detail, and as I do so-1 think hon. gentlemen will agree with me that while there has been an increased expenditure, necessitated by the circumstances and conditions of the country, I think they will admit there is nothing to be alarmed about. Take the first item, the sinking fund, there is an increase in that of $478,025, Nobody is alarmed about that, it is simply a cross entry,, that is all. In immigration therp is an increase of $249,077, nearly a quarter of a million dollars. Now perhaps hon. members opposite join this in the general statement that there has been an unjustifiable increase in every department of the government. But what are the facts with reference to immigration ? Have we had full value for the expenditure under that head ?


No.


No, does some hon. gentleman say ? Then we hope he will put himself ou record as condemning it. But if he does he will have to face these facts when he puts his motion before you, Mr. Speaker, that according to the records of the Interior Department, in the five years from 1897 to 1901, 190,000 immigrants have been brought into the country, and what is better, they seem to be staying here. Every western man knows that immigration has been greater during the last five years than for any previous like period. The figures prove that. Homestead entries :
1891	 3,523
1896	 1,857
1901	:	8,167

Do you tell me that a quarter of a million dollars of extra money expended in the way it has been under the Minister of the Interior, bringing in that 190,000 people, settling up these homesteads, has not been a good investment for this country ? Why, Sir, the added commerce of this country alone justifies that increased expenditure. You can see it from the increased number of patents of Dominion lands issued :
1891.
1896.
1901.
2,449
2,665
6,461
And as I said before, the government and railway companies sold $454,641 worth of land in 1896, and in 1901, $2,454,899. I say, and I believe the country will say, that the increased expenditure under the head of immigration is justifiable, and has been a wise investment on the part of the minister who conducts that department. During the last fiscal year no less than 18,000 people came from the western states to settle in western Canada, many of them our own sons coming back to this land, when there is a government in power making a condition of things here which entices them to return. This spring, reports from responsible customs officers indicate that there is a great rush of incoming settlers from the States. Permit me to quote an extract from a letter of one of the sub-collectors of the Customs Department stationed at North Portal, which is at the. boundary of Minnesota :
Since the rush began we are almost swamped with work both night and day. What with settlers coming in and wheat going out the railway yards are full all the time.
That is cheering. Swamped with work, night and day, with immigrants coming in with their settler's effects. And yet the hon. gentleman opposite would propose a resolution in this House affirming that $250 -000 of an increase is unjustifiable. Why, in the ' Evening Journal ' of Ottawa we saw a day or two ago this item clipped from the Medicine Hat ' News ' :
Pouring Into the West.
1 he influx of settlers to the Canadian west is simply wonderful. At Medicine Hat we are in a position to size up the great incoming, especially of Americans, as we see here daily train load after train load of would-be settlers, bringing with them carloads of miscellaneous effects -horses, cattle, implements, household stuff. The exodus, fhis time from the states into Canada, shows that the undeveloped riches of western Canada are becoming known, and Canada is coming into her own. The rush of settlers is unprecedented, and is taxing the railways to the limit to handle the business in connection with their trade.
Now it may be said that these settlers are coming in of their own accord. The Minister of the Interior has had a few men throughout the western states for a few years past to promote immigration from that 73
country, recognizing the fact that they are a most desirable class of settlers ; and their work is bearing fruit, and no fault can be found with that comparatively small increase of expenditure which has brought about such results, especially when we remember the fact that every one of these incoming settlers who settles in that country becomes himself a most valuable immigration agent by the letters he writes to others ; and great as has been this in-ciease of immigration, we can scarcely imagine at what ratio it will continue to grow m the years that are coming, and that without a greatly added expenditure on the part of this government. This, I claim, to be wise legislation, wise administration, and in the very best interests of the country.
Now, we come to the next department, that of arts, agriculture and statistics presided over by my hon. friend the Minister of Agriculture (Hon. Mr. Fisher) The increase here is $480,000. It is accounted for largely this year by an expenditure of $249,907 for the census, and for cold storage $100,059, for which there was no corresponding expenditure In 1895 except a small item of $5,729 charged against the belated preparation of the census in that year. Then, in exhibitions we have had Glasgow, Buffalo and Paris, and we spent $164,823 on these exhibitions. Any one who is conversant with the success of the Canadian exhibitors at these different exhibitions, I think, will admit that it was money wisely expended. It was money expended for the benefit of all classes of the community, not any one industry alone, but for all, and the accounts of the Glasgow exhibition especially are most cheering in their nature. Canada has been advertised, trade has been increased to a wonderful extent there, and also to a more limited extent at Buffalo, but even at Buffalo the Canadian commissioner's quarters were thronged dally with people making inquiries about the North-west Territories and other portions of the Dominion. The benefits to be derived from the Paris exhibition were fully explained to us by the Minister of Agriculture last year. This accounts for an increase of $162,864. Is that expenditure to be condemned or is it to be approved ? Was it not a wise expenditure, the laying out of that small sum at the present time to be returned ten-fold, though not perhaps in the manner in which you put it directly in cash into your pocket, but which will manifest itself in the increased prosperity of the people of the country ? Then, in promoting the dairying interests of the country $20,000 more was spent last year. But the hon. Minister of Agriculture had no charge of $40,000 for the purchase of cheese and butter as in 1895. The maintenance of experimental farms only cost $4,700 more last year and we know the valuable work being done there, too.



I ask what expenditure there has been in connection with the Department of Agriculture that has not been wisely made or productive of good.	.
In legislation there is an item to which, perhaps, there might be a little exception taken by bon. gentlemen opposite. There is an increase of $231,155. This is largely accounted for by the increase in the sessional indemnity granted last session. If our hon. friends are feeling very badly about that, or, if any of us feel badly, we can reduce that increased expenditure by telling the accountant that we will be satisfied with the old sum that we received before.


Are you prepared to make a motion to that effect'!


Does that include the hon. gentleman's increase of salary as well 7


In civil government there is an increase of $52,000.
I suppose any one will admit that you cannot, with the increasing work that is devolving upon the government, expect that there will not be some increase.
In the government of the Yukon there is an increase of $271,000 spent by the Department of the Interior on ordinary or consolidated fund account. Now, there was no corresponding expenditure in 1891-95, but everyone knows, or should know, that while $274,000 was expended there, as far as any taxation upon the people of Canada is concerned outside of the Yukon territory, it lias no bearing whatever, because, if y|,1| go to the Public Accounts you will find there a statement which shows that since and inclusive of 1891-95 there lias been an expenditure in the Yukon of $5,915,21(5, while the revenue derived from that district amounts to $6,700,193, the surplus of revenue over expenditure being $755,000. Now, though you had a swelling up of the expenditure made under tlie Department of the Interior by $274,000 on Y'ukon account, it did not cost the people of this country one cent of taxation outside of the Yukon. The Yukon paid for itself and put $755,000 into the public treasury besides.
Under the head of administration of justice there is an increase of $117,550. Of this amount $71,787 was spent in the Yukon, while $3,701 was spent for enforcing the alien labour law. There were no expenditures under these heads in the year 1895. There is an increase of $20,000 in the pro-\ ince of Ontario and of $10,000 in the province of Quebec for additional judges. Of course, justice must be administered, and it is necessary, with the growing condition of the country that facilities shall be given for the settlement of disputes. This is an item, however, which I think will very well'bear comparison with previous years. In 1890 there was an expenditure for the administration of justice of $709,784; in 189o it had swollen to $755,682, while in 1901, ex-


eluding the Yukon, it amounted to $798,Ho, so that the expenditure has not increased at as great a ratio during these years of plenty as during the previous years.
Under the head of fisheries there is an increase of $47,529. This is practically accounted for by three new necessary services : Steamer for fisheries and customs protection in British Columbia $19,973, cold storage for bait $12,674, and fish hatcheries in British Columbia and Gaspe, $19,981. These are the items of increase. Who will say that these items are not justifiable ? I believe that the credit for providing cold storage for bait is to be given to the hon. senior member for Cape Breton (Mr. Kendall), who pointed out that the expenditure would be of great benefit to the hardy fishermen who live down on the coast^ tlieie, and listening to him with the most intense interest, as I have endeavoured to do to every hon. gentleman who has taken part in this debate, coming from whatever part of the Dominion he may, I heard him state that he thought he could see a way m which this important departure might be still further extended with advantage to the fishermen by providing something of the same kind for the deep sea fishermen. As far as I am individually concerned, he will not need, if he can perfect a scheme of that kind, to ask that the cost be taken out of the bounty that the fishermen get at the present time, thus reducing it by th. amount, but I think this Parlikment w 11 willingly vote him any amount that is in reason.


How do you reconcile that increase with the fact that the decision of the Privy Council took the fisheries away from you largely ? Notwithstanding that there is an increase in the expenditure of the government.


It did not take the ocean away from us.


It was decided that the fisheries belonged to the provinces, except of course the Atlantic fisheries.


In public works there has been a very great increase. There has been an increase of $1,644 310. Now, that is a large increase. I frankly admit that if the people of this country want to stop every improvement; if they want to stop all expenditure on these public works, the government can do that. But it is for us to consider whether it would be wise policy for the government to do so. In a prosperous period such as we have had, when the finances of the coun-trv warranted needful public expenditure, and when the public works in many parts of this Dominion had to be repaired or renewed to save them from utter collapse owing to the dilapidated condition into which they fell during the Conservative government, the question for us was : Is it

wise that we should preserve these public works for the benefit of the people of this country ? Of course, as I have said, we can stop this expenditure if we choose. If we want to stop all expenditure we do not by any manner of means need to raise the amount of revenue we do, and we could confine ourselves simply to carrying on the ordinary machinery of the government. But there are other duties devolving upon the government and upon parliament. We have a country to be developed and to be improved, and there are certain expenditures which 'while benefiting the country bring back to us valuable returns. In such cases there should be a wise expenditure of public money.
On public buildings we expended in 1901, $1,195,847 and in 1895 there was only expended on these buildings, $486,275. It will be seen that we spent a great deal more than was expended in 1895, and if we spent it properly the people of Canada have the benefit of it. If we did not spend it properly, then of course we are to tolaime, but our hon. friends opposite do not make that charge against us. On harbours, rivers and dredging in 1901 we expended $1,636,726, while in 1895 the expenditure was only $1,075,993. We expended over half a million more in dredging our rivers and harbours last year than we diid in 1895. Is that.an unwise expenditure? Who will say that it is? Remember, that expenditure was not confined to the harbours and rivers within the boundaries of the constituencies of hon. gentlemen on this side of the House, but it wias a general expenditure in different parts of the Dominion; deepening harbours where it was necessary it should he done; giving increased .accommodation to the vast flow of trade and commerce, especially on the great lakes where we need all the [DOT] harbours that can be provided in order that we may bring that vast traffic down through our own magnificent lake and river system, to the summer and winter seaports of Canada. That expenditure is made to enrich the producer in Canada who puts into bis pocket in actual cash every cent that is saved in transportation, and it benefits the whole country as well for it gives employment and wages to the men who handle that grain at Canadian ports. On slides and booms, and upon roads and bridges, and so on, there has been an increased expenditure. These have been some of the expenditures for public works and I do not know that 1 need enlarge more fully upon that subject. The sum of $60,000 represents the expenditure on a telegraph line eastward to the Straits of Belle Isle in the interest of our shipping. We built a telegraph line to the Yukon, so that the far away city of Dawson, almost within the Arctic circle, that it used to take weeks and even months to reach, is now brought within daily communication of the Capital of the Dominion because a telegram given to the operator at 73J
Dawson reaches Ottawa on the same day. These are all expenditures that we had to make and which, if they were wisely made no one will find fault with. I uo uot kuovv that even our Conservative friends opposite will find fault with these expenditures. When the estimates are under the consideration of the House I noticed that these hon. gentlemen instead of objecting to grants, rise one after the other in their places to point out where a further expenditure could be made in the public interest in their different constituencies, and it is perfectly right on their part to do so.
In the lighthouse, coast, ocean and river service there is an increase of $130,783, and $36,000 of this was spent for the construction of lighthouses in excess of what was spent before. Who -will find fault with that ? On an additional -steamer for this service $27,000 extra was spent and for a new lighthouse and fog alarm in Lake Brie $24,000.
The cost for mail subsidies and steamship subventions increased $115,930. Here is an item which effectually refutes -the statement that lit is impossible for a government to benefit the farmers of this country. What do we give these steamships subventions for ? Why does my hon. friend the Minister of Agriculture (Hon. Mr. Fisher) expend money for -cold storage ? It is because he wishes to benefit that portion of our population which belongs to the agricultural community, and -seeing that he can reduce the -cost of carrying their goods in prime condition rto -a foreign market, he expends money to -provide these cold storage facilities in order that the tillers of the soil may get one cent or two cents a pound more for their produce. That is the reason why we give these increased subsidies to steamship lines, and who will deny that that is a wise expenditure V Under the head of s-teamship subventions twenty-nine services were -subsidized last year, as against eighteen -in 1895.
The expenditure upon superannuation increased by $59,122. In reference to that let me say that so far as I am aware no additional term o-f yeans has -been added to the superannuation of any employee by this government and it will hot be forgotten that this government two or three years ago substituted for the Superannuation Act, another Act which is self sustaining and applies to new appointees after July, 1898.
For militia and defence -there was an in-cx*ease of nearly -half a million dollars. I merely mention that -because it is weli known that that money was for the better equipment of -our volunteers, and the expenditure has never to my knowledge been questioned or even criticised.
On the mounted police service there has been an increase of $266,025, but $498,824 of that was expended for the mounted police in the Yukon, and as I -have pointed out the

Yukon has paid for the Yukon, and has paid for that expenditure along with the others. Therefore, if you deduct the expenditure for the Yukon police, you will find that the service generally costs us less than it did before.
In the North-west Territories government there was an increase of $200,761. For my part it seems to me-although I am not inviting people to ask for additional aid to the government-but it seems to me from the facts within the knowledge of every man, that that item ought to be increased in fairness of the settlers who went into the North-west, who are charged with the expenses of the government and of educating the youth, and whose expenditures are bound to increase commensurate with the increase of the population. No one will find fault with that expenditure.
Under the head of 'miscellaneous' there has been an increase of $118,000, and $60,000 of this represents the grant that was given to beautify the city of Ottawa, and in return for which we receive considerations from the city authorities in the line of a water supply and so on.
The interest on the public debt increased $341,660. But let us look at this for a moment. The expenditure for interest in 1890 was $9,656,841, and in 1895 it had increased to $10,466,294 ; an increase in these five years of $809,453. In 1901 the expenditure for interest on the public debt was $10,807.954. During the five years since 1896 it had increased by $341,660 as against $809,453 increase during the previous five years of the Conservative government: That is quite a difference. Then, I trust the hon. gentlemen opposite have not forgotten that when they went out of office they left this country in debt ; that they were not paying their way. Several millions were added to the public debt, and they had not provided for the interest on that, because it had not become due until our first year, and therefore there is a debt which ought to be charged against them. In these different departments I have shown the increases to the amount of something like $5,000,000 out of the $8,000,000 increase in the ordinary expenditure.
I come now to the expenditures under the head of collection of revenue, that is, customs, excise, post office, railways, and minor revenues. Now, a good way to judge whether there has been extravagance on the part of the government or not is to compare the revenue derived from these different sources with the amount expended in collecting that revenue. If that is done, the comparison stands to the credit of the Liberal government. In 1894-5 the expenditure under this head was $9,129,416, and the revenue collected was $33,97S,129, the percentage cost of collection being 27 per cent of the amount collected. In 1901 the expenditure was $12,503,249 ; but the revenue was $52,514,701, the percentage cost of collect-


ion being only 24 per cent, or 3 per cent less than it was in 1895. If it had cost as much per cent last year as it did in 1895, the expenditure would have been over $1,600,000 more than it actually was. That, I think, points to economy and efficient administration. That is a statement that will enable any one who has thought that the expenditure in these different departments had increased, to see that there has been nothing reckless or extravagant in the conduct of them.
Take the post office department as an illustration. Its expenditure in 1901 was $3,931,446 and its revenue was $3,441,504. In 1895 the expenditure was $3,593,647 and the revenue was only $2,792,789. The increase in the expenditure in 1901 over 1895 was $337,799, hut the increase in the revenue during the same period was $648,715. This shows nearly $2 more revenue for every dollar expanded ; and this has been accomplished along with a reduction of 33% per cent on the cost of transmitting those millions and tens of millions of letters which have circulated through this country ; with a reduction in the cost of carrying a letter to the British Isles from 5 cents to 2 cents, and with all the other advantages that have come to the country, sucli as additional mail routes and other facilities which had never been in use before.
Then take the Intercolonial Railway, another of	the departments in which
there is	expenditure for the collection of revenue. Last year the working expenses of the road increased by about $2,500,000 ; but do not forget that the revenue increased by fully $2,000,000. I may be told that there was a deficit this year in the Intercolonial Railway. But I may remind you that there was a surplus last year. On a great public work of this kind, you may have a surplus in one year and a deficit in another. The profits of a great railroad cannot be judged by the results of any single year. This year there has been an expenditure of many thousands of dollars that will result in saving expenditures for years to come. So I think there is nothing to be alarmed at, even though there happens to be a deficit this year.
I am not as fully conversant with Yhe departments of other ministers as I am with my own, and I will just illustrate by reference to the customs department, how the increase of expenditure is not only necessary, hut is perfectly justifiable and perhaps worthy of commendation instead of condemnation. In the department of customs there has been an increase of expenditure from 1895 to 1901. In 1894-5 the expenditure was $917,632 ; in 1901 it was $1,123,817, which was an increase of 22-40 per cent in the expenses of working the department. The revenue, however, in 1894-5 was $17,890,516, while in 1901 it was $29,106,979. The expenditure increased 22-46 per cent while the revenue increased

over 62 per cent. I may be met by hon. gentlemen opposite with the objection that your customs officers can as easily take in $10 on an entry as $1. But I would point out that the tendency in trade at the present time is for importers to repeat orders, so that the entries are really more frequent. In 1895 the number of entries inwards was 501,357 ; in 1901 there were 739,809, an increase of 47 per cent. The entries outwards increased 150 per cent. The railway reports inwards increased 51 per cent, and the railway reports outwards increased 85 per cent. There are 115 more ports at which the revenue is collected.
The percentage of the cost of collecting the revenue in 1894-5 was 5-13 per cent. It cost $5.13 on every $100 to collect the customs revenue in 1894-5. Last year it cost us $3.86 on every $100. With all the extra work I have pointed out-work that brings in no revenue at all, such as special officers that have to be engaged at Coteau, Fort William and many other places, owing to the volume of trade and commerce going through this country and demanding the attention of the Department of Customs; but from which we have no direct revenue added to the treasury-with all this extra work the cost of collecting is less than it was in 1894-5. . Had it cost last year the same percentage to collect the customs revenue as it did in 1894-5, we would have expended $369,371 more than we did. We therefore saved that much in proportionate work to the government of this country, and in that increase of labour I have not asked credit for the new improvements we have made in the service-improvements which have cost this country large sums of money, but which, I believe, this country approves. Take my statistical office, there is $44,000 of expenditure there charged up, which was not incurred ,in 1894-5. Two years ago 1 asked the House to sanction this expenditure, and the House generously did so. It does not bring any revenue, tout this is what it does. On April 4, there was placed on the Table, and ready to be placed in the hands of every member of this House, a complete statement in detail of the whole trade of this Dominion to the end of February, or about thirty-five days after the close of the month, you had in your possession a detailed statement of the whole trade and commerce of this country, from ocean to ocean, as complete as you could get it in the Trade and Navigation Returns, which you used to receive six months after the close of the fiscal year, and not before. That is something, I believe, the people are glad to have. That tells in what directions our trade and commerce is expanding. That gives information to hon. gentlemen of which they are glad to avail themselves. But it costs an extra expenditure and brings in no revenue, and yet is included in the expenditure I have given you. And notwithstanding that and other items I could mention of a corresponding character, it
has cost us less to collect our revenue last year than it did in 1894-5. For instance there is the secret preventive services, on which we spent $5,000, and there is an expenditure of $7,000 on extra preventive service to prevent smuggling, and I venture to say that that expenditure has been repaid to the country ten times over. Unfortunately, however, for the Customs Department the benefits are not to toe found in the added customs receipts, but will be found in the augmented inland revenue receipts, caused by our people 'buying the products of this country instead of foreign products smuggled into Canada. Then there is an additional expenditure of $18,000 for additional revenue cruisers and also $3,000 additional for customs uniforms. We thought it only right that the officers of this Dominion, who have to meet the travelling public at the border points, should have something more than a little medal to show their authority, When examining baggage. We thought that this government ought to put these officers in a decent uniform, so that our people need not be ashamed of the appearance of these men who have to meet the travelling public and examine their luggage. There are altogether some $92,000 additional expenditure by this government on new services that did not exist in 1894-5; and if I were to deduct that amount, as I should do to make a fair comparison, from my expenditure, instead of .their being a proportionate saving .in the cost, of collecting the revenue of $369,371, there would be a saving of $401,371.
I have no doubt wearied the House with these items, but I did think it worth while, in view of the statements made by our friends opposite, that we should examine a little .into detail, and I believe that the information I have given will be satisfactory to those who wish to be in a position to know just what extra expenditure was paid and the purposes to which it was put, and the government are not afraid of their verdict.
Let me now call your attention, Mr. Speaker, to this fact, which I think is most important, namely, that while there has been this increased expenditure of $8,000,000 odd, it has been defrayed out of revenue, and a surplus of over $19,000,000 left in the treasury. Whereas, during the last five years of Tory rule there was a net deficit of over $4,000,000.


Does the hon. gentleman mean to say that the $19,000,000 has been left in the treasury ?


I say that 'in the five years this government have been in power, we have paid all our ordinary expenditure and have a surplus left amounting to $19,743,527.69.


What has become of it '!


I shall deal with that point a little later. I was


Hear, hear.


And for which I propose to give good reasons when I reach that part of my subject. But even if we have spent the surplus on capital account, as we did, let me ask the hon. gentleman iii all fairness:	Was it not better
to have in those live years that surplus of $19,000,000 and spend it on capital account, which must do some good to the country, than have done as they did, during their last live years of office, namely, not meet our ordinary expenditure but absolutely run the country in debt ? Which is the better '! Which would my hon. friend rather have V Would he rather have us go back to the old times and have to borrow money to carry on our ordinary expenditure, or so arrange- as we have done-that under a lightened taxation we still have millions to spend on capital account besides paying all ordinary charges ?
I lind, on looking at my papers, that 1 anticipated my hon. friends opposite would want some light upon this poinit. For 1 have a note here :	1 Our opponents may
say you spent that surplus of $19,000,000 and more too on capital account.' And 1 have noted here : True, and for what have you spent it ? Here I have the details of the capital and other special expenditures of the present government. We can call it all capital expenditure, for, as hon. gentlemen opposite understand very well, it all goes into capital account, although the special expenditure, such as my subsidies and the like, is kept in the books, as it has been under all administrations, under the heading of special account.
The present government has spent under this heading of capital, in the last five years, $41,622;572, as compared with $26,858,798 in the previous five years, or an increased capital expenditure of about $15,000,000. Thus, we have expended on capital account during our five years $15,000,000 more than hon. gentlemen opposite did. And, for my own part-I do not know howi others may feel about it-I am not in a mood to apologize for it, but rather in a mood to approve and commend it. For what services was this money expended ? These are the expenditures in round figures :
St. Lawrence river	canals'.. .. $10,890,000
Trent canal	 1,623,000
*Welland canal	 244,000
Sault Ste. Marie, canal	 645,000
Lachine canal	  883,000
Rideau canal	 13,000
Total for canals_______ $14,000,000


Government railways	 $8,700,000 Improvement, River St. Lawrence	 1,460,000
Railway subsidies, including
Crow's Nest Pass	 8,270,000
Militia	 1,670,000
Yukon	 1,043,000
South African war	 2,450,000
Dominion lands	 838,657
Small services account for the balance. Now, to what do hon. gentlemen opposite take exception In these expenditures ? Do they condemn the expenditure on the canals ? They had entered upon it themselves, and were proceeding with it at a very leisurely pace-and borrowing money to pay for it. But, when this government came into power they recognized the fact that all parties were agreed that the St. Lawrence canals should be deepened. We had fourteen-foot navigation from the great lakes, through the Welland canal and a large part of the St. Lawrence river, but there were parts where you could not send a boat drawing more than eight or nine feet. As the strength of the weakest link determines the strength of a chain so the shallowest point of your navigation determined the size of the vessel that could be brought down from the great lakes. We believed that the country would sustain a policy that would complete this system of navigation, and that the people would like to see it done while they were alive-for men	take more
interest in things when they are alive than when they are dead. We engaged contractors, and their electric lights blazed on the banks of these canals, making the night as the day, while double gangs of men worked in order to complete the system of navigation. And it is completed. As a result of this expenditure, you have made Fort William and Port Arthur, Canadian ports at the head of Lake Superior, fourteen hundred miles from salt water-you have absolutely made them ocean ports. A vessel loaded at those ports may pass through that mighty waterway down to Montreal, on to Quebec, and, if need be across the broad Atlantic and land Its cargo, as has been done, at Liverpool. Do hon. gentlemen opposite now say it would have been better to have sayed that $10,000.000 out of our $19,000,000 of surplus, not to have had the canal and still be $4,000,000 in debt. Is that the alternative hon. gentlemen opposite would favour ? Then, take the government railways. On these you have spent $8,700,000. Have you not an asset for it ? Have you not added to the length of the system ? Have you not strengthened and improved the railway in all directions ? This improvement was necessitated by the progress of railway business. We need to-day larger cars, heavier locomotives, and these entail heavier rails and stronger bridges. Of course, these things cost money meanwhile. But we have every reason to believe that this expenditure will result In an augmented revenue or les-

sened expenses. Who finds fault ? Who says the Intercolonial Railway should not have been brought to Montreal, the great commercial emporium, instead of being left to terminate in a field, as you might say, at Levis ? It is true that a cry was raised against this in days gone by, but we do not hear it to-day. Who objects to the $1,460,000 spent in improving the River St. ^Lawrence .
I represent an agricultural constituency, yet I approve that expenditure. Why ? Is it out of love for the city of Montreal ? I value Montreal and its residents very much, as I do other places in this Dominion and those who live in them ; but it is not wholly for that and without thought of the interests of my constituents that I favour this expenditure. I wish to improve this waterway and the harbour of Montreal primarily because the harbour of Montreal cannot take all the shipping that seeks to come there.
I want all the ships that will come to Montreal to have facilities for doing so. Why . The more ships that come there looking for trade the lower will be the freight rate ; and every cent off the cost of transporting a bushel of wheat, or every dollar off the cost of transporting a steer, means a cent or a dollar in the pockets of the farmer in my constituency. This is a Dominion question and one in which the producers of this Dominion generally are interested. Then, take the railway subsidies, including the subsidv to the Crow's Nest Pass Railway, the total being $8,270,000, and also the expenditure on the South African war of $2,450,000 which this parliament granted willingly. If these expenditures had not been undertaken, we should not have added a dollar to the public debt, and would have had all these other improvements besides. Do hon. gentlemen opposite object to these subsidies to the railways ? Does anybody object to the subsidy to the Crow's Nest Pass Railway ? We do not hear them say so One hon. gentlemen ventured to refer to it the other night-I think it was the hon member for Leeds (Mr. Taylor). He told us a yarn to the effect that he had found something crooked about it


Did not you increase the subsidy granted by the late government ?


What was crooked about it ?


Ask Joe Martin ; he will tell you.


The hon. gentleman tells us to ask Joe Martin. If I remember well, the hon. gentleman's (Mr. Taylor's) statement-I have not had time to look it up in ' Hansard,' but if I am wrong the hon. gentleman can correct me- w-as that there had been some corrupt bargain with the Canadian Pacific Railway to take Joe Martin, as he calls him. and for this we w-ere to give an increase of subsidy.


' And you did it.


Where did the hon. gentleman get the news, and when did he get it ?


The hon. gentleman (Hon. Mr. Paterson) will not contradict it conscientiously.


Will the hon. gentleman tell me how long^ he has had this information and yet kept it from the public. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Taylor) refuses to tell us where he got his information and how long he has had it. But this we do know-that hon. gentlemen opposite were loud in their denunciation of the Crow's Nest Pass subsidy when they were upon the political platform addressing the electors. The Crow's Nest deal and the Crow's Nest steal was the way they rang the changes on the words.


Hear, hear.


Some hon. gentlemen say ' Hear, hear.' That is the way in which they do it. Well, Mr. Speaker, will you listen to this argument and see whether it is correct 1 I voted for the Crow's Nest Pass Railway grant, and I believed that it was in the public interest, and that being the case, there may be in the minds of some people an idea that I erred in judgment, that I made a mistake. P>ut they can forgive an error in judgment, they can forgive a mistake if they believe the man is honest in doing what he thinks is right. But if these hon. gentlemen opposite, as by their cheers they now allege, believed there was something wrong, _ something corrupt, and if they knew it and never voted against it, as they did not, I ask if the country can forgive them ?


Louder.


Your shouts of ' louder ' will not drown the judgment of the people of this country. If hon. gentlemen imply there was corruption in the deal that was made in the House of Commons, and they sat there as one of the parties to it, the judgment of the country will be that, while they may forgive a man who honestly did what he thought was m the interest of the country, they cannot forgive men who sat there and knew that a corrupt bargain was feeing put through and never dared to record their vote against it That is the position. Now, what about that Crow's Nest Pass Railway ? Let me illustrate how I think a government can benefit a country by wise expenditure. Let me illustrate also how, under our system of raising revenue by a tariff and customs duties levied upon many articles, the operation of which may give more direct benefits to one section of the community than another-how it is possible that those other sections of the community may also benefit, perhaps not so much through the tariff, as I hy a wise expenditure of the money col-

iected from the tariff, to the advantage of che other classes who contribute, the artisans among them. Let me illustrate this principle by the bargain that was made with the Crow's Nest Pass Railway. By that bargain you opened up your vast Kootenay mining districts, a source of wealth to the Dominion of Canada, opened up a market for the farmers of Alberta, made running arrangements with other roads upon the payment of a fair rental to use their line and got 50,000 acres of coal land that are held by this government to prevent any monopoly of that valuable mineral in that district. What more ?
SPROULE. Two mililon dollars to the Globe ' newspaper.


Two million dollars to the 'Globe' newspaper, and the hon. gentleman knew it at that time, and yet supported the resolution ! feir, what more, I say ? This government, careful of the conditions of all the people of this land, recognized the fact that the bargain that was originally made with the Canadian Pacific Railway by our friends opposite, imposed terms and conditions with reference to freight rates to be charged over that road that could not be altered until the company earned 10