What, discriminating duties does Germany now impose upon the following Canadian imports, viz.: Apples, butter, barley, beans, buckwheat, clover seed, oats, pease, rye, wheat and agricultural implements ?
The MINISTER OF FINANCE (Hon. W.
S.	Fielding). I think the expression 'discriminating duties ' in the question is apt to be misleading. I do not think it would be correct to state that there are discriminating duties in Germany against Canadian products. Germany has two tariffs; one of a favoured character which is extended to countries having treaties with Germany ; the other applies to the countries with which Germany has no treaties. Canada having no treaty with Germany, her goods are made subject to the higher tariff, but there is no specific discrimination against Canada.


May I be allowed to say that about two years ago-


Order.


Well, I beg to move the adjournment of the House. About two years ago the same question was asked by the Hon. Mr. Foster, then a member of this House, in exactly the same words, and it was answered by the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I thought that was a good precedent, and I adopted the same words for that reason, thinking the Minister of Finance would give me an answer as the Minister of Trade and Commerce answered the same question.


I have answered the question of my hon. friend. I say that there is no discrimination against Canada, but Canada having no treaty with Germany, our goods are subject to the higher tariff. I did not refuse to answer the question.


The conditions are the same now as they were at the time the question was asked before, and I simply took that as a precedent, and thought the

question would be answered in the same way. I beg to withdraw the motion.


There is no motion made, and I would respectfully ask honourable members not to move the adjournment for such purposes, because any question may be brought up on a motion to go into Committee of Supply.


If my hon. friend wants to ascertain the two scales of duties on the specified articles, I will get the information for him.


Mr. MONK-by Mr. Casgrain-asked :
1.	By whom were the ballots used in the last election of St. James Division, Montreal, printed ?
2.	How many ballots were printed for said election ?
3.	What was the cost of said printing ?
4.	Why were not said ballots printed at the government Printing Bureau ?
To the iirst and fourth questions, the answer is that the ballots were first printed at the Printing Bureau according to the form prescribed by the statute, a copy of which I uow lay upon the Table of the House. The ballots so printed were sent to the returning officer, with the particulars-the names of the candidates, etc.-left to be printed at the local printing office. In this case the particulars were printed at the office of ' La Patrie.' The cost was $19.25. The number of ballots so sent for St. James division was .11,000.
Mr. MONK-by Mr. Casgrain-asked :
1.	By whom were the ballots used in the last Laval election printed ?
2.	How many ballots were printed for said election ?
3.	What was the cost of printing said ballots ?
4.	What is the total number of persons employed at the government Printing Bureau ?
5.	How many have been dismissed since 1st January, 1901 ?


The answer is similar to that given to the previous question. The ballots were first printed at the Printing Bureau, and were then sent to the returning officer with the particulars left to be printed at a local printing office. In the case of Laval 6,000 were sent. I think the number of electors there is about 5,000. The local particulars were also printed at the office of * La Patrie.' I have not yet the information as to the cost. The number of employees in the Printing Bureau is 440. None have been dismissed since Jan. 1, 1901, but 26 have been suspended.


Mr. MONK-by Mr. Casgrain-asked :
1.	What is the total amount expended by the government on telegraph lines in British Columbia and the Territories since the 1st September, 1896, up to the present time ?
2.	What proportion of this total amount has been expended under contract and tender ?
If the hon. gentleman will be good enough to make a motion, the whole statement will be brought down.


Mr. MONK-by Mr. Casgrain-asked :
1.	What is the total amount paid by the government to the Montreal ' Herald ' newspaper since the 15th July, 1896, up to the present date?
2.	What is the total amount paid by the government to the Toronto ' Globe ' during the same period ?
3.	What is the total amount paid by the government to the Halifax ' Chronicle ' during the same period ?
4.	What is the total amount paid by the government to 'Le Soleil' of Quebec during the same period ?
5.	What is the total amount expended by the government in the relief of distressed Canadians abroad during the same period ?
6.	Why is not the entire government printing done at the government Printing Bureau ?
The information relating to questions 1, 2, 3 and 4 is already before the House, and will be found in the Auditor General's reports for the several years, the items being particularly mentioned. In answer to question 5, my hon. friend the Minister of the Interior will be able to give the information, he hopes, to-morrow. To question 6, it is not always possible for the Bureau to do the work required by the government promptly, and therefore a portion of it has to be sent outside.


1.	Is Oscar Beauchamp in the employ of the government, and what position does he hold at St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary ?
2.	When was he appointed to such position ?
3.	On what recommendation has he been appointed ?
4.	Is the government aware that Oscar Beauchamp, deputy warden of the St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary, was one of the most active organizers of the last election in Laval, in favour of Charles A. Wilson, one of the candidates ?
5.	Has the government been informed that the same Oscar Beauchamp organized public meetings in favour of one of the candidates in the said election ?
6.	What attitude does the government purpose taking in regard to public employees who take active part in a Federal election ?
7.	Have the employees of the St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary the right and permission to make use oj the government horses and vehicles for the purpose of political organization in a Federal election ?


1. Oscar Beauchamp is deputy warden of St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary. He was appointed on the 21st February, 1899, on the

recommendation of the then Minister of Justice. To the fourth and fifth, I say no.
With respect to the 6th and 7th, certain vicious practices had crept into St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary previous to 1896, and we have done our best to suppress them, and I hope we shall he able to do so in the near future.


1.	Has the government appointed a successor to the late Dr. Fortier as physician of the St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary ?
2.	If so, who has been appointed ?


1.	Yes.
2.	Dr. Adolphe Allaire.
4.	Public tenders were called for. The advertisement inviting tenders was inserted in the following papers published in the province of Quebec :-Montreal-' Herald,' ' La Patrie,' 'Witness,' ' Shareholder ' ; Quebec-' Le Soleil,' ' Telegraph '. Sherbrooke-1 Le Progres.' St. Hyacintlie- 1 L'Union,' 1 La Tribune.' Three Rivers- 1 L'Efioile.' Arthabaskaville - 1 L'Union.' The advertisement was issued by the King's Printer on May 31st, 1901, but the department is not aware of the exact dates on which the advertisement was published in the several newspapers.


Annual Report of the Department of the Interior for the year 1901 ; also Aunual Report of the Department of Indian Affairs for the same year.-Hon. Clifford Sifton.
1.	Who is the postmaster of St. JSrome, county of Terrebonne ?
2.	Has the government been informed that Daniel Longpre, postmaster of St. Jerome, during the last election, remained actively working in favour of Charles C. Wilson, one of the candidates, in the county of Laval ?


The answer to the first question is Dr. Daniel Longpi'6. The government has not been informed that Daniel Longpre, postmaster at St. JfirOme, during the last election, remained actively working in favour of Charles C. Wilson, one of the candidates in the county of Laval.


1.	Who is, or who are, the coal supplier or suppliers to St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary during the year 1901 and 1902 ?
2.	What amount of coal has been purchased for that institution from the 1st of April, 1901, from each of the suppliers ?
3.	What prices have been paid for each kind of coal purchased ?
4.	Were public tenders called for ? If so, in what newspapers and at what dates were they published ?


1.	E. Cavanagh & Co., contractors for hard coal; T. F. Moore & Co., for soft coal ; A. Baile, for coal screenings.
2.	No coal was purchased between April 1st and June 30, 1901. The following quantities have since been purchased E. Cavanagh & Co., 1,350 tons ; T. F. Moore & Co., 1,053 tons; A. Baile, 825 tons.
3.	Furnace coal, $5.53 per ton ; egg coal, $5.66 per ton ; stove coal, $5.89 per ton : soft coal, $4.33 per ton ; soft coal screenings, $3.70 per ton.





LEFURGEY (East Prince) moved for :
Copies of all petitions, letters, telegrams or correspondence of any kind during the past year between the Board of Trade of Charlottetown and Summerslde, Prince Edward Island, and the Ministr of Marine and Fisheries, or any member of the government, with reference to the placing of the winter steamer 'Stanley' upon the route between Summerslde, Prince .Edward Island, and Cape Tormentine, New Brunswick. He said ; Last year I brought this matter before the House and took occasion to point out the obligation which the Dominion is under to keep up steam communication at all times of the year between Prince Edward Island and the mainland, and the unsatisfactory manner in which that obligation is performed. I also pointed out that the shortest and safest route both for passengers and freight was between Summerside and Cape Tormentine, and that the steamer ' Stanley,' which was then lying at Georgetown at the disposal of the government, should be put on that route in order to ascertain its practicability. Some of the men most experienced in navigating through the ice in our province were confident that this route was very practicable, but the test was continually postponed on untenable excuses. The piers were not in repair, although the Department of Public Works had ample time to put them in condition, and had promised to do so. At all events the late Minister of Marine and Fisheries did not take any action apparently on account of local prejudices, with which he was shackled and to preserve his eastern support, but now we have a new Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Hon. Mr. Sutherland), who is apparently actuated by a desire to have the best route between the island and the mainland put to a proper test. He has had the ' Stanley ' put on this route, and the result has been eminently

satisfactory,-in spite of the obstacles thrown in the way of giving the route a fair and impartial trial.
1 have in my hand a copy of a letter addressed to the hon. the Minister of Marine and Fisheries by the Summerside board of trade, which I propose to read to the House :
February 13th, 1902.
Hon. James Sutherland,
Minister, Marine and Fisheries,
Ottawa.
Dear Sir :-After patiently watching the operations of the * Stanley ' on the Summer-side-Cape Tormentine route, we are compelled to enter a protest against the manner in which, the intentions of your department are being carried out.
From the first it has been glaringly apparent that the heart of the captain and of the entire crew, has been averse to the success of the test of this winter route.
Without going into a detailed history of the working of the ship from the first, we beg to submit a few of the more recent incidents. It has been claimed that a cordon of ice had formed near the outer edge of the harbour board ice by a strong westerly gale a few days previously, through which Capt. Brown claimed it was almost impossible to put the steamer.
On Tuesday, 4th Inst., some 60 or 70 men accompanied the ship-sent out by the board of trade-with the intention of cutting through the cordon. The 'steamer went out at an exceedingly rapid rate, taking about thirty minutes to get through a cut of about Si miles. The men worked where directed by the officers of the ship, for about three hours, when the steamer was backed up avoiding the cutting made, and went through by another way without assistance and without much difficulty ; she returned the same evening without going to the edge of the board ice.
On Wednesday, 5th, again accompanied by 25 men she went out rapidly to the place she left the previous evening ; she was run into heavy ice and stuck. The first officer directed the men to clear away the ice from the bows, which, from the experience of the day before, the men protested against doing, but a captain of the ice-boat service-who was a passenger

indicated another .route. The latter route was bushed and the steamer went through it into open water without further difficulty, showing conclusively, that the steamer, properly managed, could have been put through this cordon without any outside assistance.
Having got through into open water at one p.m., instead of proceeding on her voyage to Cape Tormentine, which she could have done quite easily, and where she could have reached without difficulty, she proceeded to within two miles of Carleton Head, island side, with a clear lead of water four miles ahead and two miles wide, turned and came back to. Summerside, arriving at four o'clock, p.m. It will be observed that the steamer was more than half way to her destination, returning thence to Summerside in less than two hours when she could have reached her destination in much less time.
On Thursday, 6th, she left Summerside at 7 a.m., and instead of going through her cut as rapidly as she did on the two previous days, when the men who were sent out to assist, were on board and as she did on the previous evening when returning, she took three hours in 6
making the distance to the board ice. No condition of weather obtained to account for this difference; and had she gone this morning as she did on previous days,-and as we are satisfied she could have done-she could have reached Cape Tormentine quite easily and returned that day. Instead, she only succeeded in going about half the distance when it commenced to snow, when she returned to the board ice where she remained until the following morning.
Instead of getting away next (Friday) morning at 7 o'clock as she should have dqne, and made the trip while the weather was clear, she delayed till 9 o'clock a.m., before leaving, with the result that she again met thick weather and did not cross till the next day, Saturday, when she reached Tormentine at about mid-day. She lay at Tormentine till Monday morning, 10th, when she returned to Summerside ; since when and up to this writing, even worse manipulation has been going on. For instance, on Wednesday, 12th, she left here at 7 a.m., arriving at Tormentine at 11.15 a.m., with only two cars of freight to discharge,-one to take in. And notwithstanding the most favourable conditions, she lay there all night.
On Tuesday, 11th,-the finest day of the winter-she lay at the wharf at Summerside making no attempt to effect a crossing. And so it has been from first to last, with other instances even more glaring than those related. In addition to this we have to say, that the captain's language in the presence and hearing of passengers has been such as to call forth indignant protests on their part.
It is just possible that these difficulties have arisen through the captain's age and consequent timidity, which last characteristic appears to be most pronounced. We have also, good cause to believe that the agent of the department at Charlottetown is aiding and abetting, if not directing, the captain in the adverse manipulations of this ship. In a word, the whole course 'of this test has been, and is known to have been, a farce, which we respectfully ask the department to investigate and amend.
To avoid a repetition of the difficulties complained of, we would suggest, that with the captain-or with another captain, if the department sees fit to displace the present officer,-an experienced ice-boat captain be employed by thei department to act as an ice pilot.
We have the honour to be, Sir,
Your obedient servants,


On behalf of Council, Summerside Board of Trade.
This document contains specific charges against the officials of this boat, and. implicates also the agent of the Department of Marine and Fisheries at Charlottetown. It is a direct impeachment of the captain-one that calls for an immediate investigation. If the captain of the 'Stanley' is too old or too timid, he should be discharged and a younger and more capable man put in his place. There are certainly other men competent to take charge of the boat. If, on the other hand, he is acting under the advice of the agent in Charlottetown, who appears to be of too vacillating a nature and incompetent to direct the operations, the sooner that oflicial is removed the better. All we ask is that the test, which the people of Prince Edward Island have been for years


calling for, should be given every assistance by the department. So far it has proved successful, and should not be further hampered by any incapacity on the part ot the officers or agent of the department.
There is another cause also which operates against the complete success of this route. Although the Minister of Marine and Fisheries has been apparently doing everything possible on his part and is evidently not cognizant of the actions of the officers of his department or of the ' Stanley,' he evidently has not the cooperation of the Post Office Department. We find that when this boat was put on the route and was making daily trips, carrying passengers and mails, private individuals, on two different occasions, had to hire special trains to carry passengers and mails from Summerside to Charlottetown. This is a condition of affairs which should not be allowed to exist in this twentieth century. Every facility should be given for the transmission of passengers and mails, and such neglect on the part of the government should meet with prompt condemnation. We were promised a dredge at Tormentine last year to facilitate the landing of freight from the ' Stanley.' And, notwithstanding the promise which was, as I believe, made by the department, the dredge was taken down and was kept at work practically doing nothing all summer, in the locality of Murray Harbour. All I wish to say further is that, the superiority of this route being established, it seems too bad that the intention of one department should miscarry by the non-co-operation of other departments. I would respectfully ask the Minister of Public Works to do all in his power to put the pier at Cape Tormentine in proper condition before next season. I would also ask the Postmaster General to see to it that we have train communication along with the boat. Since the mail has been transferred, as it has been during the past week, when the Str. 'Minto' was fast in the ice, I notice we are getting our mails more regularly and the steamer is making more regular trips, showing that, when the department takes hold of the matter, owing to the necessity of transporting the mail, the officers are ready and willing to perform their duty. I conclude my remarks by asking the hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries to investigate this matter at the earliest possible moment and have it put to rights.
Mr. EDWARD HAC1CETT (West Prince, P.E.I.) I desire to make only an observation or two in support of what has been said by my hon. friend (Mr. Lefurgey). This question has been brought to the attention of this hon. House many times in the past. And it will be brought to the attention of the House many times again, I can assure you. Mr. Speaker, so long as justice is not done to the people of Prince Edward Island.
Last year, the Minister of Marine and Fisheries of that time was absent in Prince Edward Island when the discussion of this subject came up. The two boats, the ' Minto ' and the ' Stanley,' were blocked in the ice between Georgetown and Pictou, and the hon. gentleman, after coming here from Prince Edward Island, was obliged to admit that he had been imprisoned for twelve days in Prince Edward Island because the government steamers could not keep up communication with the mainland. In calling attention to these matters, we are not speaking solely in the interests of the people of Prince Edward Island, but in the interests of the people of Canada. For, the people of every province have large dealings with the people of Prince Edward Island, and immense quantities of manufactured goods and other merchandise from all parts of Canada are being sold in the island province. It is very necessary in the interests of all who engaged in or benefited by that trade that communication should be maintained in the winter as well as in the summer, as was guaranteed to the people of Prince Edward Island at Confederation. Sir, after this matter had been brought up last year, and after it had been admitted that communication between Prince Edward Island and the mainland had not been maintained, what did the government do ? So clear was it that the terms of Confederation had not been fulfilled and that communication had not been maintained, that the government actually gave compensation to the extent of $30,000 a year to the people of Prince Edward Island for non-fulfilment of these terms. I believe that if both these boats had been kept on between Georgetown and Pictou, instead of having one running between Summerside and Cape Tormentine, communication would not be kept up constantly with the island. But if the advantages of the western route are recognized, and if these boats are efficiently managed, there need never be any occasion for further demand for compensation. The steamer was brought there at the urgent request of the people of Prince county. And I wish to say that I do not blame the hon. minister, for I believe that he has done his very best in this connection. He saw that there were two boats and that, in justice to the people of the western pait of the province, one should, be brought there to keep up communication. We have no fault to find with the hon. minister in this regard, but we do find fault with the captain of the boat and his officials. We were told last year that the ' Stanley' could not ply to Cape i'ornieutine, because there were not proper terminal facilities for handling the freight. Last year the government-I do not know which department-constructed there a good warehouse. I was surprised, when I last crossed from Summerside to Cape Tornien-tine, to find that that warehouse was packed with goods from every province intended for consignees in Prince Edward Island. But,

owing to tlie incompetence and neglect, and want of energy, of tlie captain of the boat, these goods remained in the warehouse for days before they could be transported to Prince Edward Island. I took occasion to travel by that boat. I am a strong advocate, as strong as my abilities will permit, of testing the western route. On Thursday, the Gth of February, I sought to cross from Prince Edward Island by that boat on my way to the Capital. We had a fine morning. The people of Summerside had turned out en masse the day before to cut through the cordon or ice bridge that had formed at the mouth of the harbour. We went that Thursday morning from the wharf to the outer edge of the cordon in about two or three hours. The captain made an attempt to push on to Cape Tormentine to land his passengers. He went about a mile or so outside the harbour into the straits of Northumberland, where there was nothing but floating ice alternating with great stretches of open water. Yet, the captain turned around, and in the evening we were at the mouth of Summerside harbour, after losing twenty-four hours of precious time. But I would like to remark that, whereas the usual'time of leaving Summerside wharf is seven o'clock in the morning, on this second day, though the weather was fine and everything favourable for a start, the captain did not leave his berth until nine o'clock. On Friday we started again and made progress through the ice until within a few miles of Tormentine wharf when a snow storm came on and the captain returned again to Summerside harbour. If he had left in the morning at seven o'clock he would have landed the passengers at Cape Tormentine as he was required to do by his instructions; but after being in the Straits all of Friday, on the next Saturday afternoon he landed us at Cape Tormentine. I can assure the minister that this letter of the Summerside Board of Trade conveys to the Minister of Marine and Fisheries the sentiment of the people of that section of the country, and of the people of Prince Edward Island generally. I can assure him also that this is not a party question. The Hon. R. C. McEeod, President of the Summerside Board of Trade, is one of the members of the Liberal government in the province of Prince Edward Island. The gentleman who wrote this communication, Mr. D. K. Currie of Summerside, is the editor of the 'Pioneer,' the government organ in that town. It is therefore not a party matter. It is simply a case of the people of the western end of the province standing up for their rights without any bias of party feeling. We are asserting our rights, we are asking what is only a matter of justice. As I said before, so far as the minister is concerned, there is not a word of complaint, but iu connection with the captain and the officers of that boat there is great cause for complaint.
6J
I don't want to say here that the captain, using his judgment, was not perhaps correct, but I say that what has occurred, according to this memorandum of the Board of Trade to the minister, requires to be investigated. Let him ascertain whether it was owing to any want of energy, any want of push, or old age, or whether it was owing to any political influences surrounding him in the east end of the island. It is said that many people living at Charlottetown and at Georgetown are opposed to this western route. If it was any of these influences that I have mentioned which delayed the boat which was sent there for the purpose of making a thorough test of the navigation of that route, I say the matter should be investigated, and the men who were guilty of culpable neglect or worse, should be dismissed from the government service.
This may be the last for some years that you will hear of this matter, because I trust that the minister will act, having now proper facilities at Cape Tormentine. I am sorry to say that when it became known that the dredge ' Prince Edward,' used for dredging the harbours of Prince Edward Island and the neighbouring coast of New Brunswick, had been ordered to Cape "Tormentine in connection with the opening up of the route there in order that the steamer ' Stanley ' might lay alongside of the pier, then there was some political action by people living east about Murray harbour, people having political issues at stake, which took that dredge away from where she had been ordered by the department, for the purpose of advancing certain political interests in another direction. I say it was a mistake, more than that, it was wrong to take that dredge away because a few individuals in the eastern end of the province required her services in order to advance their political interests. All we want in the western part of Prince Edward Island is justice and fair play. That is all we require of this government. We may fight them hard, and we do fight them hard, and they fight us hard, but we do not want them to use the public money of this country for the purpose of advancing the political interests of the local government at the expense of the people of any section of this country.


I am sorry indeed that tlie lion, gentleman has yielded to the temptation once more of speaking of things that he does not seem to know much about. There is, as we all know, a place called Cape Tormentine, he should know all about it, and still he speaks of it as if he did not know anything about it. When we took office, there was a wharf there, a pier that had been built with material that the worms had eaten up almost entirely. The work could not hold together, as my hon. friend should know. We had to repair that work

at great cost. We could not repair it as fast as my hon. friend would liave liked, perhaps, or would have done If he had had half a million'dollars at his disposal. The work was badly built, we could not rebuild It, and we have been repairing it. It is not our fault that the condition of affairs exists there of which the hon. gentleman complains, it is the fault of those who built the pier, and my hon. friend should know it. He does know it, but of course he has exaggerated the evil and has made a false impression on the House. The work was badly built, and we could not rebuild it in a day or two. Nor can it be said that the dredge should have been sent there some time ago. Sir, there is in this country a very important island called Prince Edward; a dredge was set apart for the benefit of Prince Edward Island. There is also a place on Prince Edward Island called Summerside. When we took office there were no harbour works there. I have given a contract for the erection of harbour works, and my hon. friend, instead of giving credit to me, sacrifices me to the best of his ability, and tries to create a bad impression on the House against my department. In two words, the works at Cape Tormeutine built by the former government were no good, they had been destroyed when we took office, and on this side of the island there were no works at all. We are now erecting these works, and the hon. gentleman is not pleased. Well, I cannot at the present time do anything more for him, except to invite him to exercise a little more moderation when he speaks of things for which his political friends in the past are to blame.


There can be no objection to bringing down the papers moved for by my hon. friend from Prince Edward Island (Mr. Lefurgey). I must, however, express some regret at the feeling that has been exhibited by the members for the county in discussing the efforts of the captain, under the direction of the department, in endeavouring to find out whether it is practicable to have winter navigation between the points named. Remembering the discussions that have taken place in parliament in years past, and the manner in which this matter has been often pressed upon the attention, not only of the present government but of former governments, on representations made by the Board of Trade of Summerside, and having at our disposal the government boat ' Stanley ' I thought it was better to make an earnest, businesslike and honest effort to see whether there was a practicable winter route betwen Summerside and Cape Tor-mentine. I took counsel with the committee of the board of trade, and I must say that I have discussed with them almost everything in connection with this matter, and accepted their suggestions in almost Hon. Mr. TARTE.
every respect. After deciding to go on with the trial, and giving instructions as to how it was to be carried on, the board of trade expressed their approval of everything that was done. I must admit that probably as the head of the department I went further than is usual in cases of this kind, because I recognized, and recognize now, that we were risking property, and perhaps the lives of the officers on the boat, and of the passengers that might be on that boat, by forcing the captain to take more risks than in his judgment he thought he should. However, as I said at the request of the members of the board of trade, and hearing what they had to say, and remembering the criticisms of the past, I have pressed upon the agent in the island, Mr. Lord, I think his name is, and the captain of this boat the great necessity of trying to remove any cause of criticism and fault finding with regard to the effort that was made.
My hon. friend, although representing that district, cannot help but know that there is something to be said on both sides and that while he may earnestly think that this route may be successfully navigated I may say that I only hope with* him that it may be found to be so. There have been found in the past, and I am afraid in the present trial, great difficulties to conteud with. In view of the criticisms that have been made of the representative of the department on the island and of the captain of the boat-I may say that the council of the board of trade, in the hon. gentleman's constituency spoke of the captain, who has been in charge, in the highest possible terms characterizing him as a man capable of undertaking the work and one in whose integrity they have every confidence. *At their suggestion I took a pilot living, I think, in Summerside ; at least a man who had been on that route for a great many years for a commercial company, so that it would give the greatest possible satisfaction to the people of the district to know that they had a man in charge in whom they had implict confidence and who was also familiar with every foot of the district, both land and water. Further than that I would like to take this opportunity of saying that I think my hon. friend is somewhat mistaken in regard to the feeling of the people of the eastern portion of the island, or of Charlottetown. When the matter was under discussion I received a resolution from the Board of Trade of Charlottetown, a competing port, I suppose, requesting that an effort should be made to find out whether winter navigation could be maintained or not; so that, officially, I have no reason to believe but that the people of that city and of that section of the island were in full sympathy with every effort which was being made. I am told that in the past certain little jealousies had existed, political and otherwise, but so far as I am concerned I can assure my hon. friend who

Has spoken I have not the slightest intimation from any representative or individual, but what was favourable to going on with this work and making every possible effort to carry it out successfully. X think I may say to the House that I went just as far as it was possible for a minister taking the responsibility in giving instructions to the captain and officers of the boat to make every effort to carry out this work. I may briefly refer to the instructions given to the officers in charge. The agent was instructed to :-
Direct the captain to proceed to Summerside to be in readiness for beginning trips between Summerside and Gape Tormentine when the Steamer ' Northumberland ' is withdrawn.
If I understand it the steamer ' Northumberland ' is a boat belonging to a commercial line which does the work in the summer time and as soon as it is found to be dangerous on account of ice the government steamer would be ready to be put on this route.
It is the purpose of the department to keep up communication as far as possible by giving this new route a fair trial and every possible effort should be made by you consistent with the safety of the ship and mails, and the lives of the crew and passengers to keep the steamer running. The department will rely upon your discretion and judgment to make the experiment as successful as possible and also to determine whether the winter route between Summerside and Cape Tormentine is practicable.
I may say to the members from that locality and to the members of the board of trade who represented the citizens of the district and on whose representations I authorized this trial to be made, for fear that something might arise such as the hon. gentleman lias referred to here to-day and because there would be differences of opinion, that I went to the length that in case of any difficulties being met with, before taking any action to stop the effort that was being'made, the captain was instructed to consult with the hon. Mr. Yeo, the hon. member for Westmoreland (Mr. Emmerson) and the members of the council and the board of trade. It reads here : ' The members of the Board of Trade of Summerside '. I thought it was the council only that I had in mind. If so, this instruction has gone farther than I intended ; therefore, he was to consult with the members of the board of trade before ceasing the effort that he was directed to make. He was also given full authority to wire the department under any circumstances. In conclusion I may say that so far as I am concerned and so far as the officers of the department were concerned, there was nothing suggested to be done by the representatives of the district but what was done and as evidence of that I have had letters, and I have a resolution passed by the people of the district, expressing great satisfaction that the action was taken and that the details of it were being carried out. Although I cannot agree with the criticisms that are being made of the captain to show that at least I am still honest and desirous of making every effort to have this work carried out I may state that yesterday I sent this telegram on the receipt of the letter to which the hon. gentleman referred.
Ottawa, 19th February, 1902. Hon. R. C. McLeod,
Summerside, P. E. I.
I am in receipt of resolution from Summer-side Board of Trade. The department has every confidence in Captain Brown's ability and integrity but I would be willing nevertheless to send down Captain McElhinney the nautical adviser of the department to advise with you if desired
(Sgd.) JAMES SUTHERLAND.
I have gone futher ; I have asked them to suggest to me the name of any one with the technical knowledge necessary under these circumstances to take charge of the boat. If my hon. friend will suggest a man of character and ability to assist in carrying out this work to see whether or not there has been any lack on the part of the department or of the captain and officers of the boat, I would be only too glad as the head of the department to see that his suggestion is adopted and that every effort possible is made-I may add consistently with using reasonable judgment, and with considering the safety of property and of lives. I do not think that my hon. friend, or any other hon. gentleman, would ask me to insist upon the captain or the officers of the boat committing a useless reckless act. I have made inquiries and even from the members themselves I have the highest recommendations of the captain of the boat who is described as a man of ability and of character and I would be very sorry to know that there is any reason' for feeling that he had not been making every effort in the direction in which he has been instructed to proceed. I have chosen I believe, an officer of standing, being at the head of this branch, a man who I am told is familiar with the locality and I believe every person-at least representative men in the island on both sides of politics-have every confidence in his integrity and ability in connection with this matter. Instead of stopping here, or admitting any defeat in the trial that we are making, I would be pleased to have him go down there and advise with the board of trade and with the members of the council in*regard to this work. I have no objection to bringing down the papers in connection with the matter.


LEFURGEY (East Prince, P.E.I.) Mr. Speaker, I may just say for my own part and for my constituency that we have no intention of finding any fault with the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Hon. Mr. Sutherland) for the action he has taken in the matter, nor can any fault be found with the instructions he has given to the

agent of the department down there. Still the charges made might very well occur under these instructions without any fault of the minister. Whatever communication or conversation he had with members of the board of trade at the time the arrangement was made, this letter came to us from the board of trade and we were bound to take notice of it. The board of trade is a non-political body and it has for its president one of the members of the local government, which is Liberal. Coming with such strong protestations against the officers and the captain of the boat, we simply had to bring it to the notice of the minister that he might take action on it. For my own part, I think that the Minister of Marine and Fisheries has been doing all in his power, in the light of the knowledge at his command, in the interest of that route.


Motion agreed to.
Statement in detail showing the quantity of vegetables imported from the United States and entered at the ports of Montreal and Toronto during the years 1900 and 1901 respectively, as well as of the amount of duties collected by the government of Canada during the said two years, at each one of the said ports.-Mr. Leonard.
Copies of ill petitions, resolutions, letters, &c., addressed to the government in relation to an increase or a readjustment of the duties on vegetables, and of all replies sent by the government to said resolutions, petitions and letters.- Mr. Leonard.
House in Committee of Supply.
Charges of management, $181,743.80.
The principle item of the increase in this vote is $10,000 for the printing of Dominion notes. That is due to the fact, as the House will readily understand, that the circulation of our Dominion notes is constantly expanding, and also to some extent to the fact that there is a demand on the part of gentlemen both inside and outside of parliament, that we shall supply more notes and cleaner notes.


Hear, hear.


There has been criticism that the notes are not as good as they ought to be, and in order to do away with the necessity for that criticism we intend to try as far as possible to give a constant supply of new notes. That, together with the expansion of circulation, called for an increased appropriation.


Is the minister calling in old soiled notes as rapidly as possible?


Yes. j Perhaps I ought to explain that the banks *


can almost always obtain clean notes if they desire to issue them. I suppose it is a matter of opinion as at what stage a note becomes unfit for circulation. Some bankers would be very fastidious while others might not be so. Our rule is to supply clean notes whenever the others are returned to us. We intend to do that on a larger scale in the future than in the past, in order to meet the disposition of the public to have clean notes. I do not want to adopt the rule of the bank of England, which is that when a note is once issued and returned it never goes out again. I think we can meet the wishes of the people by a moderate extension of our present system.


The action of the minister is very commendable, especially in view of the existence of small-pox throughout the country. I know that bankers are very much annoyed about the condition of these bills and they would prefer very much to have a frequent issue, instead of being compelled to handle these old musty notes which no doubt tend to spread disease.


They should disinfect them.


I am glad to learn from the Minister of Finance that lie proposes to expend more money in the printing of Dominion notes. I think he is rather out when he states that the government is always ready to supply the banks with clean notes. To my knowledge it is a most difficult matter to get from the Receiver General new $1 bills or any kind of $1 bills at all in some seasons of the year. It is almost impossible in Toronto to get a sufficient number of $1 bills to supply the every day requirements of the banks, and so they have to use the old bills over and over again. I am glad to see an increase in this item if it will result in giving a plentiful supply of fairly clean government notes of the smaller denominations.
Governor General's Secretary's Office, including A. F. Sladen at $1,700, notwithstanding anything in the Civil Service Act, $10,740.


There is a slight increase, chiefly owing to the advancement of Mr. Sladen, who is virtually one of the Governor General's private secretaries. The other increases are $50 and $30 statutory increases to one clerk and one messenger.


You have an increase in this department of nearly $1,000-quite a respectable increase. There were increases last year and the previous year as well, so that you seem to be running it up pretty rapidly.


I do not think the number of the staff was Increased, but one or two gentlemen in the office have been advanced, for reasons

which I think are satisfactory to the Governor General's secretary.


What is the reason for the clause, ' notwithstanding anything in the Civil Service Act ? ' Has he not passed his examination ?


Yes, but he could only be given a $50 increase by the usual method. This gives him a larger sum.
Office of the King's Privy Council of Canada, $31,240.	.


Will the hon. minister explain the increase ?


A new chief clerk is appointed, Mr. F. K. Bennett. He is simply transferred from the first-class without any increase of salary. One junior second-class clerk is promoted to the second class. He now receives $1,000, being at the head of his class, and the change involves an increase to $1,100. There is an increase of $30 for a mesenger and the usual statutory increase of $50 for each of the others.


I notice that you give the statutory increase of $50 in only a few Instances.


It is pretty generally given.


So far as my department is concerned, I have found all my officers to be deserving of the statutory increase, and I have given it to all except one who was at the highest of his class, and 1 promoted him.


Are you increasing the staff by appointing another first-class clerk ?


No. Mr. May, who is promoted, has been twenty years in the service. The number of officers is exactly the same as last year-twenty-three.


Is this Mr. Bennett the man who was engaged in the Post Office Department ?


No, he has been in the Privy Council office for twenty years.
The Department of the Secretary of State, including W. FoTan at $1,400, notwithstanding anything in the Civil Service Act, $38,510.


The increase is due to thirteen statutory increases of $50 each, one special increase to Mr. Foran of $100, and a statutory increase to a messenger of $30.


Will the hon. minister explain why it is that the government appear now to have adopted the principle that not only are all the civil servants eligible
for the statutory increase, but all are entitled to it, whereas in previous years it was repeatedly said that only those would get it who were recommended as specially deserving.


I do not think the government has any different view as to the legal aspect of the case. We have been advised that as a matter of law or right, these gentlemen are not entitled to it. Its payment is discretionary, but the discretion is being exercised this year and last year more liberally than previously.


Has every officer who has been reported by the deputy as entitled to the statutory increase got it 7 The MINISTER OF FINANCE. Yes. Hon. Mr. HAGGART. And only those who are reported get it 1 The MINISTER OF FINANCE. Except in one case, in which the name is specially mentioned.
The Department of Public Printing and Stationery, $30,300.


The Increase is explained by thirteen statutory increases at $50, one promotion, which adds $100, and two $30 increases to messengers.


Who is the person promoted 1


Mr. G. Andrews.


Was there a vacancy in the superior class ?


The number of second-class clerks provided for is the same as last year. So I presume there must have been a vacancy.


Did every one in that department who was recommended by the deputy get the statutory increase ?


That is my information.
Office of the Comptroller of the N. W. M. Police, $10,850.


In this office, which is under the control of Mr. White, there' are five different employees, each of whom has been in the service ten years and more. To each of these has been recommended an increase of $50 and to each the increase is given.


I have some inquiries to make regarding this branch, which I suppose I may make just as well on further estimates.


If my hon. friend has any inquiry to make he may make it now or later on when the further estimates come down.


It would he more convenient then.

Office of the Auditor General, $31,612.50.
The MINISTER OF FINANCE (Hon. W.
S.	Fielding). There is a small increase here of $275 but the statutory increases cover that and a great deal more. There has been some re-adjustment in the office so that the full amount of statutory increase is given to all those entitled to it without our requiring the full extra vote.


What is the nature of the re-adjustment. This office is costing us a good deal, and it is time some reduction should be made.


I can hardly hold out the hope that it will cost any less, for there is no diminution of zeal in any respect on the part of the Auditor General and his officials. I think that the expense is not excessive considering the work done, but whether such a large book is required is another question. There has been one officer superannuated and some changes owing to promotions. The officer superannuated was receiving a salary of $1,800, and it is that saving which has enabled the statutory increases to be paid with a very small total increase in the vote.


How long was that officer in the service who was superannuated?


He was there the full twenty-five years. He was a very old official-Mr. Simpson, and in the superannuation returns the hon. gentleman will And all the particulars.
. Department of Finance and Treasury Board, including J. Fraser at $2,400, notwithstanding 