Mr. THOMSON (North Grey)-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	What is the commercial agency of the government of Canada ?
2.	When and how was it inaugurated ?
3.	Who are Its officers ?
4.	What are their duties ; and what remuneration do they receive ?
The phraseology may be open to question- ' What is the commercial agency of the government of Canada ? ' Assuming, however, that I understand what the hon. gentleman means, the answer to his questions are as follows :
1.	Commercial agencies were established by Order in Council of the 21st November,
1891.
2.	The Order in Council of the 16th March,
1892.	Various appointments throughout the West Indies were made at that time to date from the 1st April, 1892. Since then others have been appointed.
3.	The present officers are :
J. S. Larke. Sydney, Australia.
D. H. Ross. Melbourne, Australia.

J. G. Jardine, Cape Town, South Africa.


Ball. Birmingham, England.
A. E. Poindron, Paris, France.
G. E. Burke. Kingston, Jamaica.
R.	Bryson, St. John, Antigua.
S.	L. Horsford. St. Kitts, British West Indies.
Edgar Tripp, Port of Spain, Trinidad.
C. E. Sontum, Christiania, Norway.
4. Their duties are to promote trade between Canada and the countries in which they are located. Their remuneration depends upon the duties performed, and runs from $250 to $3,000 per annum. The minor officers are paid at the rate of $250 ; those in Australia and South Africa, who devote their whole time, at the rate of $3,000 per annum.


What are the names of the agents, or caretakers. at the following small stations on the Prince Edward Island Railway, viz.: St. Louis, Elmsdale, Coleman, and Conway ? And the amount of wages, or salary, per month, or year, paid each respectively ?
The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS AN1) CANALS (Hon. A. G. Blair). The names and amount paid the caretakers of the following small stations on the Prince Edward Island Railway are :
Stations.	Names of	AmountCaretakers.	paid	each.
per month.
St. Louis..	..	John Perry	
$10	50Elmsdale..	..	James Forsythe	
8	33Coleman	N. McKay	
12	50Conway	A. M. Palmer	
8	33


1.	How many cars of the various classes, which had been contracted for, or purchased for the Intercolonial Railway previous to the 1st July, 1902, have been received into stock since that date ?
2.	How many cars of the various classes, contracted for, or purchased for the Intercolonial Railway cn or after 1st July, 1902, have been received into stock since that date" ?
3.	How many additional locomotives have been received into stock for the Intercolonial Railway since 1st July, 1902, inclusive, and what is the total number now in service ?


1.	No cars have been received on capital account since July 1st, 1902.
2.	Two hundred platform cars, twenty-cue stock cars and two snowploughs have been received since July 1st, 1902, on revenue account.
3.	Eight locomotives have been received since July 1st, 1902, on capital account, and two locomotives on revenue account, making the total number now in service 287.


Before the Orders of the Day are called, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Public Works (Hon. Mr. Sutherland) to what I consider a poor arrangement with reference to this Chamber. I think we are suffering more here this year than ever before, when we had the windows on both sides and at the west end open. I understand that the engineer says that if the windows are open it will interfere with the fans now running, which fans make such a noise that lion, members on the hack benches can hardly hear themselves speak when they address the Chair. These fans may he good for ventilation, hut it would lie better to have them running when the House was not sitting. I see by the thermometer that the temperature here is 74. It was about the same yesterday, though I venture to say it was nothing like that outside in the shade. It appears to me that we are in a sweat box here.


The other side are.


I think members on both sides are. In other years when the windows at the sides and end of the Chamber were open, we had a better atmosphere than we have this session, and I would recommend the Minister of Public Works to have that plan tried. It would he no trouble to open tile windows ; we could try it for a day and stop the fans while the House is sitting.


At least, my hon. friend (Mr. Taylor) cannot complain, as many others are doing, that he is being frozen out. I have noticed the noise of the fans, and have given instructions that they should be stopped during the sittings of the House. As to opening the windows, I spoke to the architect about it, and he says that if this were done, the fresh air would escape through the windows instead of circulating through the building. I will try to have the difficulty remedied. It is a difficulty that has existed, apparently ever since the Chamber was built. A great deal of money has been spent to remedy it, but. I am sorry to say, without as good an effect as we could desire.


Before the Orders of the Day are proceeded with, I would like to bring to the attention of the government the recent imposition of a duty by the United States on pulp wood imported from Canada into the United States. The regulations of the duty have been changed,
| and we find now imposed upon peeled wood,

that is, wood that has been peeled either by hand or by machinery, a duty amounting to something like $1.25 to $1.50 per cord. I would like to know it the government have been notified about that, and what action the government propose to take in the matter.


I am not aware that this matter has been brought officially to the notice of the government, but I will make inquiry and let the hon. gentleman know to-morrow.


I would like to draw the attention of the acting Minister of the Interior to a return that I moved for on May 4th, in reference to the acquisition by the Saskatchewan Land Company of the Qu'Appelle, Long Lake and Saskatchewan Company's land grant. The hon. the acting minister said it would only take a few days to prepare this return. I also moved for another return on March 30th, in reference to the disposal of the school lands. I would like to have the acting minister bring these returns down very soon.


House went in committee on the following proposed resolutions :
1.	Resolved, that the government may aid the extension of the line of the Canadian Northern Railway Company from Grandview, the point where what is known as the Gilbert Plains branch of the said railway ends, to a point at or near Edmonton, a distance of about 620 miles, and also of the Prince Albert branch of the said railway from a point 100 miles east of Prince Albert to Prince Albert, a distance of about 100 miles, by guaranteeing the principal and interest of the first mortgage bonds, debentures or other securities of the company to the extent of $13,000 per mile of the line, interest on the said bonds to be at the rate of three per cent per annum payable half-yearly, and the principal to be payable in 50 years.
2.	Resolved, that the said bonds, debentures or other securities shall be secured by mortgage forming a first charge upon the lines of railway so aided, and all property and franchises in connection therewith, and all revenues derived therefrom by the company ; provided that with respect to that portion of the said line from the end of the Gilbert Plains branch to the westerly boundary of Manitoba, a distance not exceeding sixty-five miles, tile said mortgage shall be a first charge to the extent of only $10,000 per mile, but shall also rank on the said portion next after the charges heretofore created ; provided also that the said mortgage shall be a charge next after a first charge of $13,000 per mile (to be created by the company) on that part of said Prince Albert branch.
3.	Resolved, that the said mortgage shall also form a charge next after the charges existing thereon upon all the lines and branch lines of
railway of the company now In operation, and all property and franchises connected therewith, and all revenues derived therefrom by the company.
1. Resolved, that the kind of securities to he guaranteed as aforesaid, and the forms thereof, and the form and terms of the mortgage securing them, and the form and manner of guarantee, sfiall be such as the Governor in Council approves of.
5.	Resolved, that upon the said guarantee being signed on behalf of the government, the government shall become liable for the payment of the principal and interest of the securities guaranteed, and the said payment shall be a charge upon the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
6.	Resolved, that the rates and tolls to be charged for the transfer and carriage of freight and passengers upon the lines of railway 30 aided and upon the lines owned by the Canadian Northern Railway shall be under the control of the Governor In Council or of such authority, commission or tribunal as is designated or constituted under any Act of the parliament of Canada for the regulation or control of the business of railways.
7.	Resolved, that the Governor in Council or any authority created by parliament for the purpose may also grant running powers over any portion of the lines hereby aided to any other line of railway upon terms considered equitable.
8.	Resolved, that it shall he unlawful for the Canadian Northern Railway to lease or sell any of its lines or any portion thereof to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company or to amalgamate with the said company or enter into any agreement with the said company whereby rates upon freight or passengers shall be pooled ; hut this provision shall not extend to traffic or running arrangements made with the assent of the Governor in Council.
9.	Resolved, that any money paid by the government of Canada under the guarantee herein provided for shall be held to be paid In discharge of the liability of the government, hut not in discharge of the liability of the mortgage securing them ; and the money so paid shall be held to be still secured by the said securities and mortgage, and the government shall be subrogated in all the rights of the holders of the securities, the interest upon or the principal of which has been paid by the government, and the government shall in respect of all the moneys so paid be in all respects in the position of security holders in respect of whose securities default has been made in payment to the extent of the moneys paid by the government.-(The Minister of Railways).


These resolutions, it will be observed, contain the proposals of the government in the way of granting aid towards the construction of certain portions of the line of the Canadian Northern Railway. I apprehend that there is no railway which could be projected in Canada to-day which would have stronger claims upon the favourable consideration of the government and of parliament for assistance to any necessary extent than the line of railway which is mentioned in these resolutions. The main portion of the line of this road, that is to say, that portion extending from Grandview, in the province of Manitoba, to Edmonton, has not only been
JUNE tO, 1903
located, but its location lias been approved as required by law. Therefore, we know whereof we speak when we say that the country through which this railway passes is one of exceptional fertility, and one which will, without any reasonable doubt, afford, in a very short time, not only a substantial amount of traffic, but a paying traffic, to the railway. It will be noted that the mileage for which aid is to be authorized in these resolutions aggregates about 720 miles.
One portion of the line has not yet been finally located, or at all events, the location has not been approved of. That is the portion east of Prince Albert not exceeding 100 miles. The main line, as I may describe it, because it will be the main line of the Canadian Northern which extends from Grandview to Edmonton, passing through Battle-ford, will not exceed 620 miles. As to the quality of land in this district, we are informed by the officers of the Interior Department. that the raiway is tributary to a fertile soil aud a country SO per cent of which is capable of yielding the best quality of wheat the North-west Territories can produce.


You are speaking of the 100 miles ?


I am speaking of the 620 miles from Grandview to Edmonton. The same may be said in refrence to the other section as well, as I am advised. Perhaps, not quite the same percentage, but very nearly so, and the section of the country through which the 100 mile branch of the railway passes east of Prince Albert, is pretty well filled up by settlers. People have been settled there for very many years, they have flocked in within the last few years in increasing numbers and they have been expecting that a railway would be constructed through the district for many years past, until, as I am advised, they have become almost hopeless in. regard to it and the disposition is believed to exist in many of them to throw up their hands and abandon the country altogether if railway construction does not take place at an early day. Taking into account the class of country through which the 620 mile section from Grandview to Edmonton, runs, it will be fair to assume that no reasonable amount of obligation, no reasonable amount in the way of bonded indebtedness which may lx? placed upon that undertaking in order to ensure its construction will not in the course of time be fully paid, not only the interest paid, but tlie principal amount returned. There is, I think, no doubt in the mind of any person who has made himself acquainted with the result of the operation of the lines of the Canadian Northern Railway in portions of the province of Manitoba and the west, that the business which-will be created upon that line of railway will not only suffice to pay the working expenses almost at
the outset, but will suffice to pay at a very early day the interest charges upon its bonded indebtedness as well. No one, I think, will question but that in view of the magnificent country through which that railway passes, and in view of the rapidity with which people from other lands as well as from some portions of our own country are flocking into the North-west Territories and settling in the district, that the obligation rests upon the government to see to it that no time is lost in ensuring the early construction of a railway through that territory. I think there is no more imperative obligation resting upon the parliament of this country than to bring railway conveniences and railway accommodation at the earliest possible moment to the settlers who have gone in there with the expectation of making their homes there and in the further expectation of finding these facilities afforded them. If that be a fact, and I think it will not be disputed by this committee, the question which rested upon the government was this : Was it reasonable to suppose that the company which has been chartered to construct this line would be able to as speedily as the necessities of the country required lay out and construct and put that line into operation of its own means and relying upon its own financial strength and relying in addition to that only upon the character of the credit which would attach to the undertaking among financiers abroad ? I think it would be a disappointment to the country, I think it would be expecting too much of the company, and that we would be likely to retard aud injuriously affect the interests of the people who have settled in that territory if we were to wait until conditions exist which would enable the company to carry that work through itself without assistance. Time would be lost and it appears to me and to the government time is the very essence of the whole question in connection with the construction of this railway. Well, having decided in our minds that the obligation rests upon the government to give all the assistance to this company that was possible1. and that we could not afford to wait until the company of its own means and with the resources which it had in its own hands should be able to build the railway, and having come to the conclusion that the duty rests upon the government to assist this company in carrying out its undertaking. the question then arose as to what form assistance would take. It is well known to this committee that for years past there has been a genera] and uniform policy on the part of both the present and preceding governments to make grants by way of bonus to such companies as the government felt were entitled to be assisted, giving out of the public exchequer for ever very substantial sums of money for the purpose of enabling these enterprises to be carried through. But, it appeared to us

that iu a work of this magnitude, in an undertaking which would involve such a very large amount of money if we were to pursue the policy which lias hitherto obtained and having regard to the fact that we could make the necessary advances, or afford the necessary assistance without any question or doubt in such a manner as would not involve in the carrying cut of the scheme one dollar of charge ultimately upon the treasury of the country, we felt that it was a venture, that the proper policy to pursue was to give assistance seasonably necessary to carry the enterprise through without any loss to the Exchequer of the country. We have come to the conclusion, upon negotiation with the gentlemen who are promoting the carrying out of the Canadian Northern schemes	that	this sum	of$13,000 per mile,	which	Is	named	inthe resolutions, would be ample for the purpose, not an	excessive	sum	byany means, but	that	it	would	be
reasonably ample for the purpose. And we come to the further conclusion, that it would be a wise course for us to take and less burdensome upon the country; a course which would ensure the return of every dollar that might be directly or indirectly secured by the government assistance; relieve the government ultimately of all obligation in respect to it; if we were to incumber it to the amount of $13,000 per mile. It will be of course for the committee to say whether or not our conclusions in this regard have been wisely arrived at, or whether any more favourabe plan could have been devised by which the aim which I think we all desire to attain should be attained, and attained within the shortest possible period. We propose therefore to ask parliament by these resolutions to authorize us to endorse as it were, the obligations of this company to the extent of $13,000 per mile. We guarantee the interest upon these bonds at the rate of 3 per centum per annum. The company are able to make their loan upon these securities at a low rate of interest. They avail themselves of the credit of the government; they profit by the fact that with our endorsation-particularly as the credit of Canada stands to-day in the great financial centres-they will be able at a very much less annual charge than could possibly be achieved in any other way to secure the money which is required from government to complete the undertaking at the smallest possible cost and to afford every possible reasonable guarantee that the results would be the best which it would be possible to obtain. In my remarks I propose to pass over the minor details of the resolution


Is it expected that the company will be able to sell their three per cent bonds at par, with the government endorsation ?


They are very hopeful about it.


The committee will observe that the resolutions provide for a first charge of the $13,000 per mile bond issue upon all the lines which we are here aiding, with a single exception. I will state what that exception is. There are about sixty-three miles between Grandview in Manitoba and the western boundary of that province which are not subject to a first lien to the extent of the $13,000 per mile. With the exception of that sixty-three miles about, the balance of all the mileage bears from the outset a mortgage to secure these bonds, a first charge upon the railway for the $13,000 per mile. As to the sixty-tliree miles the committee will observe that the mortgages will only get a mortgage endorsed by the government as a second charge upon these sixty-three miles, because in the arrangements which were made by the Canadian Northern Railway with the government of Manitoba there was a clause under which they were entitled to encumber all their railways within the limits of the province of Manitoba to the extent of a first charge of $10,000 per mile. And there were some miles of their railway in that province, among others this sixty-three miles, upon which that charge had not been executed.


Did they not get the aid of the province of Manitoba to build that sixty-three miles ?


I do not know that they did; I think not. They gave the province of Manitoba a general mortgage, the particulars of which I will briefly state to the committee, so that they will see just what the character of our securities are. The first lien for the $13,000 per mile, with the exception of the whole of the line built under these arrangements, in the province of Manitoba and in the province of Ontario, and throughout the whole system of the Canadian Northern Railway we take and obtain a mortgage of a second charge on top of the existing mortgage which has been given to the Manitoba government, or if not given to them, given under the arrangement they have made.


Are we right in understanding that on the whole of the Canadian Northern system including Ontario we will have a second mortgage ?


Yes. We have a blanket mortgage over their whole enterprise from Port Arthur through to the west.


Then I misread the second clause. I understand you that on sixty-tliree miles we have a second mortgage for $10,000 a mile, but as I read this you have a first mortgage of $10,000 per mile.


A first mortgage.


lrou said a second mortgage.


I failed to make myself clear to the hon. gentleman. We get a $13,000 per mile mortgage upon all except the mileage between Grandview and the Manitoba western boundary. On that we only get a $10,000 mortgage. The clause that I refer to in the contract with the Manitoba government reserved to the company the right to encumber any of their lines in that province which they had not previously encumbered, to the extent of $10,000 per mile before the mortgage to the Manitoba government could take effect and become a charge.


In that case, how can this government secure a first mortgage to the extent of $10,000 a mile upon that section ?


Because this company have never issued the mortgage.


They have not used it.


They have not used their power to encumber it and they are using it now. We fall short there to the extent of $3,000 per mile in getting a security by a first mortgage in respect to this sixty odd miles.


Does the security include rolling stock and equipment ?


Yes. The mortgage will be given upon the property of the Canadian Northern Railway, will cover its whole line, its branches, its undertaking, and property of every kind and description without exception of any kind or nature whatsoever.
The position of the encumbrances now existing on the Canadian Northern Railway line, is, as I am advised, as follows :	On
the main line from Port Arthur to the Rainy river there is a first charge of $20,000 per mile.


Who owns that mortgage-the public ?


I presume the public; yes. On all lines in Manitoba there is a first charge of $10,000 per mile. This first charge of $10,000 consists of two charges, one of $8,000 and one of $2,000, aggregating $10,000. That is the position as between Port Arthur and the Rainy river, and all the lines in Manitoba. The $20,000 per mile from Port Arthur to Rainy river is collaterally secured by a charge on the lines in Manitoba next after the $10,000 per mile above mentioned. So that in point of fact, our position as guarantor of these bonds, so far as the lines from Port Arthur to Rainy river and the lines in the Manitoba district as well are concerned, would be this : We would have before us encumbrances to the extent of $20,000, which we would have to
retire or answer for, with the single exception of the $10,000 mortgage on the sixty odd miles between Grandview and the western boundary of Manitoba.


There is a first mortgage for $10,000, and a second collateral for $20,000. Would it not be correct to say that there is $30,000 of prior charges ?


Undoubtedly the $20,000 which was given in respect to the Ontario lines and collaterally charged on the Manitoba lines would add $20,000 to the existing $10,000 charges; but, stating the matter broadly, there would not be obligations for1 $30,000 over the whole line.


Oh, no; just on the Manitoba lines. |


Might I ask the hon. minister what is the obligation of the road to the government of Manitoba on the Manitoba section at the present time ?


The obligations of the company, whether to the government or the bondholders, are all included. I am not speaking with absolute confidence when I say that I think the bonds they have issued are held by the public and have the government guarantee.


To what extent per mile ?


$10,000 per mile. The first was for $8,000 and the next for $2,000, both guaranteed by the government. So that they stood subject to $10,000 per mile before this other arrangement was made.


Could the minister tell us the total amount approximately guaranteed by the government of Manitoba on that road?


It is not furnished to me here; but I take it that it is very easily ascertained, because if you add up the present obligations, the mortgage of $20,000 in the Ontario district and the $10,000 in the other district, you will have the total.


What information has the government obtained as to the cost of construction of this road ?


Our information is that the road will cost to build and equip more than the $13,000.


A standard railway ?


Yes, a first class standard railway.


How much ?


We have liad varying estimates from $1(5,000 to $17,000.


Will the hon. minister lay on the Table the information he has obtained from competent persons as to the cost, so that we shall have an opportunity of examining it ?
' The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS AND CANALS. I will send and get the information, and will bring it down at one of the later stages.


I understood the hon. gentleman to say that the government were willing to guarantee the bonds to that extent after having received information as to the cost of construction. The hon. gentleman has not given us as full information as we would like to have in regard to the cost of construction and equipment.


I procured through my chief engineer a statement of the estimated cost of construction, and equipment. Then we had estimates from the company's engineers showing what they were basing their calculations upon.


Would it not be reasonable to lay all the information on the Table?


I think there would be no difficulty in doing that.


In the district through which this railway passes, west of the Manitoba boundary, how much of the country on each side of the railway, say forty miles wide, is still owned by the Dominion? Have we a large interest in the land ?


We must have a considerable interest; but to what extent I do not know.


I may inform the hon. gentleman that we have an interest in nearly all the homestead lands. The odd numbered sections mostly belong to different railway corporations; but all the even numbered sections which have not been taken up are the property of the government.


The other sections belong to railway corporations ?


Some of them belong to the government, I fancy, but a good many of them to the Canadian Pacific Railway.


With a good deal of what the hon. minister says in regard to this matter I am sure we all agree. There is no doubt about the urgent need of railway extension in the western part of Canada, and particularly in the vicinity of Edmonton, which I am sure merits all the encomiums which the hon. minister has bestowed upon it. In visiting that part of the country during the past year, I was Mr. CLARKE.
particularly struck with the possibilities of the town of Edmonton and the country around it, and I am sure there is not a man in this House who would bo disposed to hamper in any way the development of railways in that country. At the same time, this is a project which involves on the part of this government a guarantee to the extent of <$9,3(50,000, which, during a period of fifty years after the date of the subsidy, will be considered, I suppose, for certain financial purposes at least, as part of the public debt of this country, because we shall be under obligation for that amount in certain contingencies. Therefore it seems to me that we ought to consider in the first place, whether or not this project is part of any comprehensive scheme which the government have in hand for the development of transportation facilities in this country. It seems to me that we ought to know from the government whether or not it is part of a scheme for railway extension to the Pacific coast; whether or not it is part of a scheme which looks to the development and the utilization of our great national ports and harbours and the development of our ports on the great lakes ; and generally port of a scheme for transporting the products of the west, not only to the Atlantic coast, but to the markets of Europe. This matter was brought to the attention of the House last year, and the right hon. gentleman who leads the House, in the closing days of the session, stated that the conclusion of the government with regard to aid to a line in the west, would be arrived at very shortly. Apparently the decision of the government was somewhat delayed, and putting aside other considerations for the moment, I regret that delay, because I think that the development of railway communication in the west would probably have been advanced much more rapidly if the government had come sooner to a conclusion. We have had in the western part of this country a very inconvenient state of affairs with regard to a large colony from the mother country and we have had the pe pie from this district complaining, not only during years past, as the hon. gentleman has mentioned, but during the past year of the lack of railway communication.
On previous occasions in this House, I have pressed the view that there should be some definite scheme decided on by the government with regard to transportation. I do not believe that any government is justified, at this stage of the history of transportation in Canada, in dealing with that question from the standpoint of 300 400 or 500 miles of railway, but that it should map out some definite scheme and include in it the navigation of our great lakes and the equipment, as national ports, of those ports in Canada which the government may think best deserving of consideration. I do not believe that

any other scheme of aid to transportation *will produce as good results as a comprehensive and carefully thought out scheme, such as I have suggested. I do not know whether or not the government have considered the question in that light. We know that the gentlemen who are at the back of this undertaking are very enterprising and have done much for railway communication in Canada up to the present, and we believe that any legitimate efforts on their part to aid transportation should receive reasonable assistance. But what does this scheme look to in the end ? Does it look to a transcontinental railway V Does it look to any line from the great lakes to the seaboard, by means of which the company operating this railway as far as Edmonton, or it may be in the future to the Pacific c a st, will have a through line of communication to the Atlantic coast, and thus give the people of this country advantages in tlie way of transportation which they would not perhaps otherwise enjoy ? Has the government any of these matters under consideration ? It has had all the time necessary for reflection and consideration and study, which my right hon. friend, the Prime Minister asked for last night in respect of another matter. This matter has been before the government for more than a year, and it seems to me that the House might reasonably have expected that the hon. Minister of Railways and Canals, in announcing this scheme to-day, would have been able to give the House some definite policy, which would cover, not only the 600 miles west to Edmonton, but from Edmonton to tlie eastern seaboard and possibly to the Pacific coast. I do not know whether the speech of the hon. Minister of Railways and Canals is to be regarded as a renunciation by him of the scheme which he propounded in the west some few months ago.


I had only a dream.


It has been suggested that it might be called a nightmare. I do not think that my hon. friend put it to the western people as a dream.
The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS ANI) CANALS. I used the language any way.


That it was a dream V


Yes.


I think that my hon. friend, in his persuasive manner, might have used the expression 'dream' and yet made the people of the west regard it as a possible reality in the near future, if the hon. gentleman bad the power to carry cut that policy which he thought best in the
interest of the country. That is what I have to say with regard to the general features of this scheme. With regard to what might be called the details, hon. geutlemen have asked my hon. friend for information as to the cost of the line, and I think that that is a very pertinent inquiry. I think that he ought to furnish the House all the information with regard to the cost of the line, because we are embarking on a pretty large undertaking ; and while we are disposed to do everything necessary and reasonable for the purpose of furnishing railway facilities to that part of the country, still in the public interest we must be careful that we do not do anything more than is reasonable and necessary in that behalf. I am under the impression that lines have been built in tlie province of Manitoba-indeed I think that tlie lion, gentleman lias so announced-I am under tlie impression that enterprises of a somewhat similar character have been successfully floated, upon which the guaranteed bonds amounted, in tlie first instance, to no more than $8,000 per mile. Tlie lion, minister informed me of what I knew, lint what had escaped my memory at the moment, that there was a subsequent guarantee given by the Manitoba government of a further sum of $2,000 per mile.


Seine of those lines got assistance from tlie provincial government and municipalities. This line gets no more assistance than we are giving it.	[DOT]


The hon. gentleman should place before tlie House all the information of that kind in order that the House may form the conclusion whether or not the sum of $13,000 is no more than a reasonable sum for the purpose of furnishing these railway facilities to which people of tlie west are no doubt entitled. There is another subject on which we should-have a little information and possibly some discussion, and tliat is the question of capitalization. I do not know what the capitalization of this c mpany in respect of this line will am :unt to, but I think the majority of members will agree that we cannot be too careful in seeing that it is not put at so high an am unt that it may be used afterwards as an argument against the control of rates by the government, which is so essential and especially so important to the people of the west. I think therefore that my hon. friend the Minister of Railways and Canals should give us a little more information. I have already adverted to the comparison between the subsidy to this line and other similar lines in Manitoba. The hon. minister forestalled another question which I was about to ask by stating that this is the only assistance which this company is receiving from any government or municipality. I think that I am correct in this.


Yes.


There is a further question I would like to bring to the attention of the hon. gentleman before going into the details of the measure, and that is whether or not the government are to have any supervision over the construction of this railway, not only as regards the mode but the cost as well ? Is that provided for in this resolution ? If not, does not my hon. friend think that there should be at least such government supervision over the construction of that line, as is usually to be found in the subsidy agreements entered into by the government during the past fifteen or twenty years. I do not know that any further suggestions occur to me at this moment, except that I would like to say to the hon. Minister of Railways and Canals that while we may go on and, with profit, discuss this afternoon some of the details of this matter, I would like the final discussion of it to be postponed until we get a little more information on the questions involved, and also until the return of my hon. friend the ex-Minister of Railways and Canals (Hon. Mr. Haggart), who is out of town to-day. I presume there will be no objection to the delay of a day for this latter reason. The announcement made at the close of the sitting last evening did not include, so far as ' Hansard ' shows, the announcement that this matter would be brought up to-day. Otherwise I am sure my hon. friend from Lanark (Hon. Mr. Haggart) would have allowed his other engagement to stand and would have remained for the purpose of dealing with this subject to-day. As it is, he has gone away without any knowledge that this matter would be brought up. I do not know that he has anything to remark upon it, but still, as he is very conversant with matters concerning transportation, I should like to have him present before the matter is finally passed in committee.


I am quits sure the hon. member for Halifax (Mr. Borden) has no intention of conveying a wrong impression, but I think that the rather urgent and pressing way in which he spoke of the production of these papers after what I had said to my hon. friend from Toronto (Mr. Clarke) would tend to convey the Impresison that there was some hesitation on my part in acceding-


Not at all. 1 beg my hon. friend (Hon. Mr. Blair) to acquit me at once of any suggestion of the kind. I assure him that I had not that in mind, because I knew that he has accepted the suggestion at once. I merely mentioned it by way of reiteration.


I shall be very glad indeed to produce the information the hon. gentleman Mr. BORDEN (Halifax).
desires, and will do so, if possible, on the next occasion when the resolutions are taken up. And I see no objection at all to the final passing of these resolutions being deferred until these papers are forthcoming. The hon. member has passed some criticism, not upon the resolutions themselves, but upon what he considers the unsatisfactory attitude of the government with respect to the general question of transportation. And the hon. gentleman seems to be under the impression that it would have been very proper for the government, on the occasion of introducing these resolutions, to have stated to the House just what the general idea of the government was ns to the proper methods of thoroughly and adequately dealing with the question of transportation as a whole. While I can understand my hon. friend's impatience and anxiety to know at what conclusions the government have arrived, or may arrive, upon this question, still, I cannot for myself, perceive that it was at all necessary that we should make the introduction of these resolutions the occasion for any such declaration of general policy. This railway enterprise stands by itself. We know that it has been in the public mind for some time and that the railway has been progressing by degrees, adding to its general plan, reaching out and extending year by year. As it has made progress under the charters it has received, it has been asking for further charter power. I do not know whether, when the Canadian Northern was started in the Rainy River District, it was in the minds of the promoters of that undertaking to continue westward until they reached the Pacific coast. But, if it was not in their minds, their ideas became enlarged, for they have obtained from parliament power to construct all the way to the Pacific. We are not now offering any proposals to parliament beyond Edmonton; we do not ask that asistance be rendered to this railway beyond that point. And we are perfectly safe in asking parliament to assist the undertaking to that point, because, unquestionably, whatever is done in any other direction will not conflict in the remotest degree with this undertaking. If this undertaking stood alone, it would justify the asistance which we are asking parliament to give it, and it is not such a project as might be altered, changed or varied in its character in any degree by any general scheme which the government might find itself able, later on, to suggest to parliament. The government has not yet matured its views with regard to the question of railway policy concerning a transcontinental line. We may be able, before the close of the present session, to give parliament some knowledge on that point, or we may not. But, what I wish to impress upon the committee is that, whether we do or not. it would not affect in the slightest degree the measure which we are now submitting to parliament for assist-

ance to the Canadian Northern between these. points mentioned in the resolution.
I note what the hon. gentleman has said on the subject of capitalization of this railway and


I was not speaking of this railway in particular, but. of all railways.


Well, what applies to all railways, would, of course, apply to this. 1 am speaking within the knowledge of many of the members of the committee when 1 say that my views on this subject have been expressed upon previous occasions, and generally they are quite in accord with what the hon. member has stated. I think we ought to keep a very watchful eye on the question of capitalization ; and I think that in the Railway Committee, where these powers are conferred, we do the best wo can. When, before this project of the Canadian Northern had fully assumed its present shape, but when it was apparent that they were going to extend their lines over a very considerable portion of our northwestern territory, I called the attention of the Railway Committee, which was very largely constituted at the time-many hon. members now in my eye must have been present on that occasion-to the capitalization, and said : This railway is asking for powers to capitalize at a very large sum, and I think it would be proper for us to have in our minds the absolute certainty that, in some form or other, this company is likely to be aided, directly or indirectly, from the treasury of the country. A result of what took place was that the amount of total capitalization which the company asked authority to issue was very much reduced.


It was about cut in two.


My hon. friend reminds me it was about cut in two. I think it was in the neighbourhood of $46,000,000 or $50,000,000. Speaking from memory, we cut it down to $24,000,000 ; so we made a very substantial reduction, and entirely in view of the thought which the hon. member has expressed to-day. Now, as to supervision during the construction of this work, I may say to my hon. friend that many provisions will be found in the contract when it is entered into which it would not be necessary to include in the resolutions now before the committee. The government will feel it to be its duty to see that it is abundantly satisfied as to the character of the road which is to be constructed, as to the quality of the work done, as to the standard, as to the expenditure, so that the bonds which are issued may be well within, certainly not in excess of, the amount which they would be earning during the progress of the work.
I omitted to say that the road will be a first class road in its character generally, its alignment, its grades, its curves, &c. It is possible to lay down a railway along the route-we have seen the plans and profiles, it has nearly all been surveyed instrumental-ly-and we know that a road from Edmonson to Port Arthur will not exceed at any point a higher grade than one-half of one per cent, or twenty-six feet to the mile. Imagine such a length of railway as this constructed through that country, and only showing a grade of one-half of one per cent per mile. Certainly this is an element of immense value, because they will be able to earn a dollar where another road, with one and a half or two per cent grades to combat, could not earn half a dollar.


Do I understand the hon. gentleman to say that that is the grade on the Rainy River section ?


Twenty-six feet to the mile.


Going east ?


It is not stated so by these gentlemen to me. The statement is a general one, as it was handed to me. I suppose, perhaps, it was an oversight. The quality of the line, we will see, is very superior. In connection with the question of cost, I may make this remark : This railway will bridge across the Saskatchewan river twice.


Four times- once across the South Saskatchewan and three times across the North Saskatchewan.


Well, then, the cost of bridge construction will be larger than I imagined.


That shows the necessity of having the fullest possible information.


Speaking of the estimate of $13,000, I think it will occur to anybody who has had any experience in railroad construction that $13,000 is a very low estimate indeed for a first class railway properly equipped.


What amount of equipment is covered by the government guarantee ?


We stipulate for an ordinary equipment when the line is first built, to be included in the first cost. It would not be reasonable to require such an amount of rolling stock as they would require when the business grew and became very heavy. We treat them upon the same basis as we treat all other railways in their initial stages.


Does this mortgage cover simply the roadbed or the roadbed and equipment ?

43 SO


It covers all, the terminals and all the property of the railway company. When It was suggested a moment ago that in the province of Manitoba the company was able to construct its line with a smaller subsidy, with guaranteed bonds of $S.000 per mile at first, and then Increased to .$10,-000, it must be borne in mind that that was very far from covering all the assistance which the railway company received. In the first place, over a good many miles of their system they had 0,400 acres per mile ; then from Port Arthur through to the Rainy River district and a portion of the Rainy River district, covering 120 miles, they had from this parliament double the usual subsidy, viz. 6,400 dollars per mile. So the amount of assistance which was given by the Manitoba government was largely supplemented in these various ways.


I must take issue with the proposition as laid down by the Minister of Railways to-day. He says this is for a local branch, for a small portion of the road, that it is not a part of any general plan. I say we should have a statement here to-day giving us a general plan, showing how the government propose to deal with the transcontinental railway proposition. He has opened wide the door for assistance, and every railroad running through a new country where there are settlers desiring railroad facilities, is bound to be assisted by the government. His statement went that far. He said : Here is a new country, available for settlement, there are settlers in it, and the government feel bound to assist this road. Welt, if they say that in this case, they must say it in all cases ; and they should have been prepared to say today whether this proposition to aid a transcontinental road is to be followed next week by another proposition to aid the Grand Trunk Pacific road. We have no statement whatever in that respect. Now, when the government came down to the House with this proposition, they were bound to come prepared to state their general policy on the transcontinental railway question. They have not done it. I cannot vote for a proposition of this kind. For what has happened ? This railway running from Port Arthur to Winnipeg in the west heretofore has been very largely bonused by the people of this country. When the first portion of this railway was considered in thiq House, I took the position then that if public money was to be put into a road, it should be a government owned' railway, for the only way to solve the railway problem is for the government to own a road from one ocean to the other, a road controlled by the people, and its ratios regulated by the people in such a way that every other road will have to live up to that standard. They should have done that long ago, they should have done that with the Rainy River road, and the minister said Mr. FOWLER.
he had some idea of it in his mind, but he said at the time : This is only a small section, let this go through. Now comes along another section, and he says : We must take this as part of a proposition, let it go through. The country expects something very different from the government. They expect that the government should outline its policy in regard to transcontinetal railways. The only thing to do if they are putting in public money is to build a government road. Hon. gentlemen have heard a good deal in this House about a government owned railway, and they have heard a great deal from their supporters. Some years ago only a few of us took that view, but now there is a growing demand in the country for a government owned railway. This is one of the signs of the times. There are hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House who said that free trade was bound to live for ever, and that the protectionist proposition was not a policy which would la