Bill (No. 194) respecting infectious or contagious diseases affecting animals.-Hon. Mr. Fisher.
1.	Of the twenty-four instances in which con-cilators have been appointed for the settlement of labour disputes, under ' The Conciliation Act, 1900,' in how many cases has a settlement of the dispute been arrived at as the result of the appointment of such conciliators ?
2.	In the case of such settlement, if any, in how many instances has the settlement sustained the claims of the employees ? (b) In how many instances has the settlement sustained the claims of the employers ?
3.	Of such twenty-four conciliators, how many have been officials of the Labour Department ?
4.	In the event of any settlements of disputes having resulted from the appointment of conciliators, why has not a memorandum of the terms of each settlement been Sled with the Minister of Labour, as suhselctton three of section four of the Conciliation Act requires ?


1.	There have been fifteen instances of the settlement of labour disputes by a conciliator, under the provisions of the Conciliation Act, 1900. Two of these were cases of strikes averted as the result of the appointment of a conciliator under the Act. There was in addition, one case in which, the intervention of the department having been requested by one of the parties to a threatened strike, negotiations were subsequently suspended at the request of the same party, and the matter in dispute left for final adjustment to the parties immediately interested.
2.	In the case of the fifteen settlements referred to, three have been in favour of the emplovers, five in favour of the eni-


ployees, and seven the result of compromises and mutual concessions. Two of the strikes in question arose purely out of misunderstandings and were settled by explanations of the real situation.
3.	With the exception of the cases in which the Minister of Labour acted as conciliator, the conciliator appointed under the Act has invariably been an officer of the Labour Department.
4.	The cases of conciliation effected under the Conciliation Act have not been effected through the medium of boards of conciliation, or of representatives of the different parties, as contemplated in subsection 3, of section 4, but have been effected through the instrumentality of officers of the department, and in each case the settlement has been announced in the next issue of the ' Labour Gazette.'


1.	Has the attention of the census commissioner been called to alleged errors in the religious classification of the people of the counties of Carleton and Victoria, N.B., especially of the free Baptists ?
2.	Has the commissioner asked the enumerators. or any of them, in the counties of Carleton and Victoria, N.B., to revise their returns, with the view of the correction of errors in the religious classification ?
3.	Was such revision made, and what report did the enumerators of the counties of Carleton and Victoria make to the commissioner ?
4.	Has the commissioner corrected his compilation of the religions of the people of the counties of Carleton and Victoria, according to the corrections made by the enumerators ? If so. what changes have been made in the totals of the several denominations in those counties ?


1.	The attention of the census commissioner has been called to alleged errors in the religious classification of the people of New Brunswick, with especial reference to Free Baptists, but not in particular to the counties of Carleton and Victoria.
2.	The enumerators of Carleton county have been asked to revise their returns.
3.	The enumerators of Carleton county have reported that the religions of the people were entered on the schedule, exactly according to the information given to them by the people at the time of census taking ; but that when the revision was made during the present year, they were informed of cases in which persons entered on the schedules as belonging to one particular sect of Baptists, or as Baptists simply, belonged or were attached to some other sect of the same denomination. The compilation was made according to the entries in the schedules, the correctness of which has been attested by the oaths of the enumerators.

4.	The tables were published before the revision in Carleton county was begun, and no changes have been made in the totals of the several denominations.


Mr. WILMOT-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	Has the attention of the Census Department been called to alleged errors in the religious classification of the people of the counties of Sunbury and Queen's, N.B., especially of the Free Bapitist denomination ?
2.	Has the commissioner directed the enumerators, or any of them, in the foregoing counties, to revise their returns, with a view to the correction of errors in the religious classification, if any ?
3.	If so, what report did the above enumerators make to the commissioner ; and will that officer be directed to correct the classification of the religions of the people in the above counties ?
:
1.	No, except generally for the whole province.
2.	Yes, concerning persons who were recorded as ' C. Baptists,' whose identical sect was in doubt.
3.	The revision showed that some persons so described were Calvinistic Baptists, and that others were Christian Baptists, and the corrections were made for the first volume of the Census Report, the Christian Baptists being counted as Free Baptists, and the Calvinistic Baptists as Baptists.
STENOGRAPHERS IN YUKON TERRITORIES. Mr. BENNETT asked :
1.	Has Mr. J. A. Valiquette been appointed stenographer for the Territorial Court of the Yukon ?
2.	Has he also been appointed private secretary to Judge Dugas ?
3.	If so, is the government paying him the same salary as the other official stenographer ?
4.	Is it the intention of the government to provide each of the three Yukon Judges with a private secretary ?
5.	Has the government received any intimation that the time of the court stenographers is not fully required in Their official duty?
The MINISTER OF JUSTICE (Hon.
Charles Fitzpatrick.)
1.	Yes, in place of Mr. Shepard, transferred to Gold Commissioners' office.
2.	No.
3.	Yes.
4.	No.
5.	No.


1.	How many letter carriers and post office employees, in Montreal, Toronto, Hamilton and Quebec, have been deprived of their holidays in the years 1896, 1901 and 1902.
12G4
2.	Is it the intention of the Postmaster General to grant the usual holiday to all men employed in the post offices of the above cities this year ?
3.	Can such a holiday be given to the Montreal post office employees in the present condition of that office ?
The POSTMASTER GENERAL (Hon. Sir William Mulock.)
1.	None so far as the Post Office Department knows.
2.	Yes.
3.	Yes.


1.	Is the government aware that the city council of Montreal has unanimously adopted the following resolution :
1 Whereas the harbour of Montreal is recognized as the national port of Canada. Whereas the recent longshoremen's strike affected the trade and commerce of the Dominion of Canada. Whereas the Militia Act stipulates, in connection with such an emergency, that the pay of the force requisitioned may be advanced out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada :	Be it resolved, that the Dominion government be humbly requested to pay the militia employed on the property of the harbour of Montreal during the said longshoremen's strike.'
This was carried unanimously.
2.	Is it the intention of the government to relieve the ratepayers of the city of Montreal from the payment of the cost of calling out the militia at the time of said strike ?
3.	What is the total amount of said cost ?
4.	Will the government treat the ratepayers of Montreal as well as it has treated the ratepayers of the town of Valleyfield ?


1.	The government is aware that the city council of the city of Montreal has adopted the resolution set out in the question, but it is not aware whether it was adopted unanimously or not.
2.	Under the provisions of the Militia Act the government has no power to do so.
3.	$18,850.42.
4.	The government has no power to discriminate as between ratepayers of the different communities.


Mr. OLIVER-by Mr. McCreary-asked :
Are Canadian Pacific Railway lands in the North-west now subject to school taxation, as a result of the recent legal decision by the Manitoba courts ?
The government is so advised.


Mr. LEFURGEY-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1. Is the government aware that the winter steamship ' Stanley ' is in such a condition as
to render her unfit to perform the winter service between Prince Edward Island and the mainland ?
2.	Has it been reported to the government that the hull of the ship has been weakened and plates bent and indented by contact with the ice, greatly impairing her usefulness as an ic6 steamer ?
3.	Is it the intention to send SS. ' Stanley ' to a first class shipyard in Great Britain during the present summer for repairs ? If not. Why not ?
1.	The government is not aware that the steamship ' Stanley ' is in such a condition as to render her unfit to perform the winter service between Prince Edward Island and the Mainland.
2.	It has not been ofimially reported to the department that the hull of the ship has been weakened. There are some indentations in the plates, which must result from a service of that nature, but they are not sufficient to impair the usefulness of the ship. These indentations will be removed where possible and new plates placed where necessary.
3.	No, as work can he done here.


Before the Orders of the Day are called, I wish to ask whether the Minister of Trade and Commerce is prepared to make an announcement with regard to the Fast Atlantic Service.


I hope, to-morrow.


The MINISTER OF INLAND REVENUE (Hon. M. E. Bernier) moved second reading of Bill (No. 187) to amend the Electric Light Inspection Act. He said : This amendment is simply to provide for the recovery of penalties from corporations when corporations are owners of electric plants.
Motion agreed to, Bill read the second time, considered in committee, read the third time, and passed.
Bill (No. 186) to amend the Inland Revenue Act, read the second time, and House went into committee thereon.
On section 1,
The change is in making the duties payable on the first instead of the sixth of the month. All articles produced by manufacture are required to be either warehoused or entered for duty at the close of each month. Any article produced during tin;


month, if not placed in warehouse, was allowed to be held by the manufacturer until the sixth of the following month before the duty was collectable. At the present time very little goods are so held over, and in order that the accounts of the different divisions might be closed at an earlier date, the payment of duty is fixed the first day following the close of each month.
On section 3,


Why is there a proviso that this subsection shall apply to all transactions subsequent to the 1st of July, 1902? Are there any questions in abeyance in connection with that ?


The change is owing to the fact that it has been determined that the quantity of fusel oil or other refuse removed from spirits produced from molasses is greater than that found in spirits produced from gram. Grain spirit is left at 3 per cent, and molasses spirit fixed at 4 per cent. The provision is made retroactive so as to cover the operations of the current fiscal year, and thus enable the manufacturers to take advantage of this law.
On section 4,


The only change is providing for the payment of the duty on the first instead of the sixth of the month, and is rendered necessary by the change in section 1.
On section 5,
The MINISTER OF INLAND REVENUE The only change is to make it clear that packages of cut tobacco weighing one pound do not require to have the gross, tare and net weight marked thereon, and to permit the removal of cut tobacco from one manu-factorv to another as raw material for the purpose of blending or further treatment before being packed and placed on the market. In fact, the only change is with regard to cut tobacco.
I wish to move the following as an additional clause :
That subsection three of section 241 of this Act as enacted by section 11 of 52 Vic., chapter 15, be repealed and the following substituted m
lieu thereof :-	_	, ,
3 When it is ascertained by the quarterly stock-taking that the standard of production established by or under this Act has not been reached by any bonded manufacturer, the duty on the quantity of spirits equivalent to the deficiency so determined shall become due and payable within one day of the close of each quarter, except that in cases where a deficiency has been found, and where the Minister of Inland Revenue, after a proper inquiry, is satisfied that such failure to reach the established standard was not due to any fraudulent dealings by the manufacturer, the quarter iu which the deficiency arose and the one immediately following may, for the purpose of computing the standard of production, be merged and dealt with as one period. The provisions of this section shall apply to all transactions subsequent to the first day of July, 1902.

The reasons for this addition are the following :	In many bonded vinegar manufactories, the standard of production (100 proof gallons of vinegar from each twenty-five proof gallons of spirits used) is not reached owing to the generators becoming defective and incapable of properly converting the alcohol into vinegar. In consequence manufacturers, at times when it was impossible for them to produce the required standard of production, have been compelled to pay an assessment to bring the production up to the standard fixed by the department. It is felt that, in cases where the cause for such deficiency in production is found to be beyond the control of the manufacturer, and not due to any fraudulent practices, the privilege should be granted of merging two quarterly periods into one. In the past the department merged one quarter with another, extending over three or four quarters : but a year ago we were advised that we had no authority to do this, though it had been the practice for many years, perhaps twenty years or over, and this provision is to limit the time to six months.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


Bill (No. 188) to amend the Weights and Measures Act, read the second time, and House went into committee thereon.
On section 1,
The MINISTER OF INLAND REVENUE iHon. M. E. Bernier). This section is new and exempts postal scales of a limited capacity from the provisions of the Act respecting inspection. Those small scales are used only to determine approximately the amount of postage payable upon letters or other articles sent through the mail. The true amount of postage is determined by the post office authorities. These scales are in many cases exceedingly small and of frail construction, and their inspection, which is now required by law, is not essential in the public interest, as the legal determination of the weight upon which postage has to be based is ascertained by the officials of the Post Office Department.
Mr. MeCREARY. I would ask the hon. minister to defer action until some members from the west are present who are aware of t'ne particulars. I think that the hon. members for Marquette and Macdonald wish to make a few remarks and have some suggestions to offer. I am not thoroughly acquainted with the practical working of the Bill myself. I notice that the hon. member for Lisgar is absent as well. I think it would be well to allow- this Bill to stand over until another day. I move that the committee rise and report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
Motion agreed to, and progress reported.
House went into committee on Bill (No. 174) to amend the Customs Act.-The Minister of Customs.
This is a Bill to define what is meant by the surtax, which is a new expression. It is not a Bill imposing the surtax, but a definition of what the surtax means.
On section 3, subsections 1 and 2,
The subsection added to section 4 of the Customs.Act by section 2 of chapter 22 of the statutes of 1895, is repealed and the following are substituted therefor :-
There shall be a Board of Customs, which shall consist of the commissioner of customs, or any officer for the time being acting a.s such, who shall he the chairman of the board, and such duly qualified officers of customs as the Governor in Council from time to time appoints; and the said board shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to it by any Act of the parliament of Canada or by the Governor in Council ; and three members of the board shall form a quorum and be competent to transact the business of the board at any meeting thereof, whether regular or special, called by the chairman, of which quorum one member shall be either the commissioner of customs or the officer for the time being acting as commissioner of customs.


Would the minister please explain the additional expense that this organization will throw upon the country ?


So far as the alteration of the Board of Customs is concerned, It will entail no extra expense-perhaps lessen it. At present the Board of Customs is composed of an officer in Victoria, an officer in Halifax and officers in other outlying ports. The repeal of the existing section and the provision that there shall be a board, the members of which shall be nominated by the Governor in Council, the number of whom can be added to if the necessity arises, will enable us to summon meetings of the board more rapidly and at less expense. With reference to the subsection as to the assistant commissioner, that w-ill add $2,800 to the expense.
On section 3, subsection 3,
There shall he an assistant commissioner of customs, appointed by the Governor in Council, who shall hold office during pleasure, and shall have such powers and perform such duties as are assigned to him by the Governor in Council. or by the Minister of Customs.


Has the hon. minister selected the assistant commissioner*?


Yes, Mr. John Bain.


Did tile lion, minister give the reasons for the appointment of an additional member of the staff

at the time when the resolutions were passed in committee ?


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Borden, Halifax) may recollect that the subject was debated when the vote for the salary of the assistant commissioner came up as one of the items in the estimates for my department. After discussion, the committee passed the vote. The appointment is made necessary by the growing work of the department. For many years there was an assistant commissioner, but, when. Mr. Watters left the service, no successor to him in the office was appointed.


When did Mr. Bain come into the service ?


In 1890.


Is he a first class clerk ?


Yes.


He is secretary to the minister, is he not ?


Yes.


This will necessitate the appointment of a private secretary to take Mr. Bain's place ?


I am not, so far as I remember, taking a vote for any additional help.


Will Mr. Bain fill both positions of deputy commissioner and private secretary 1	*


He may not be able to give the time to the duties of private secretary, as he will be under the direction of the commissioner, and will be pretty fully occupied with his duties as assistant commissioner. Much of the business for which I have to avail myself of a private secretary is of a public nature. So, I think, there will be no difficulty in getting on without increasing the staff.


Is it likely that Mr. Bain, considering the time that he has been in the service, will be as efficient an officer for this position as some member of the staff who has been longer engaged in the work V


Mr. Bain has been a very efficient officer. I have no doubt that he will worthily discharge the duties of assistant commissioner.


He has only been in the office a few years, and I presume he came in a new man. Then, again, does this not involve an injustice to others who have been in the department for a longer time and who, from length of faithful service, are entitled to promotion, as well as likely to be more efficient than Mr. Bain could have become in the time he has beeu in the office ?


I think there is no difficulty of that kind. There Mr. BORDEN (Halifax).
is no one in the department who has any feeling about that-none that I am aware of.
The Customs Act is amended by inserting the following section immediately after section 4:-
The Minister of Customs may, from time to time, authorize the employment of such temporary or acting officers of customs in the second or outside division of the Customs Department as are required to carry on the work of the department ; but no such officer so employed shall receive a higher salary than he would be allowed if appointed permanently to the same rank or class ; nor shall any such salary be paid until voted by parliament.


I do not think that section really necessary. It has been the practice of the department since before I came into it to employ men in this way-the department could not be worked otherwise. An officer dies suddenly and his place must be filled. A temporary appointment like this is made. But, when Mr. Newcombe,. the Deputy Minister of Justice was looking over the Act, he thought that possibly it would be well to provide definitely in this way so that there could be no possibility of doubt.


What is meant by saying that ' no such officer so employed shall receive a higher salary than he would be allowed if appointed permanently to the same rank and class ; nor shall any such salary be paid until voted by parliament ? ' As I understand it, there are no classes in the outside service. This, then, compares the position of a temporary appointee with a position that does not exist ? Perhaps the hon. minister will explain.


There are ranks in the outside service-appraisers, chief clerks, clerks, landing waiters, tide waiters, &c.


How would their positions compare with the classes in the inside service ? For instance, does a chief clerk outside rank the same as a chief clerk in the inside service ? Surely not.


No.


How does the hon. minister reconcile that ?


It does not need reconciling. If the hon. gentleman (Mr. Clancy) will look at the Civil Service Act he will find the ranks or grades of the outside service of the Customs enumerated and a minimum and maximum salary fixed. The exact salary is not fixed, nor do these officers come within the class of those for whom the $50 annual advance is given-the inside service. So, if we appointed a landing waiter temporarily, he could not be paid a higher salary than if he were appointed landing waiter by Order in Council.


Has the minister already power under the law to make these appointments ?
On section 4,


We think so, it has been done for years.


Then, what is the meaning of the clause in the Bill ?


I explained that. There is a revision of the statutes taking place at the present time, and, in looking through the Customs Act the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Newcombe, thought it would be as well that we should have the power stated here expressly. It is absolutely necessary for the working of the department.


I suppose this will be the finishing touch to the Civil Service Act ?


No.


This will give it the coup de grace ?


No, it will not affect it.


The hon. minister, under this, can appoint temporary officers and keep them there as temporary officers at his own pleasure, without it being necessary for them to pass any examination. Will that be the effect of this clause ?


Yes.


Then, what will become of the Civil Service Act ?


Yes ; but they are appointed temporarily. We impress upon them the necessity of qualifying so as to be placed on the permanent staff. They are anxious to get on the permanent staff as soon as they can. For instance, where a collector dies it may be necessary to fill the vacancy at once at that port by some one who has not passed the civil service examination. We have to appoint a collector immediately, and there may be no meeting of the treasury board perhaps for weeks. In these cases we appoint them acting collectors, and as soon as we can we get their medical certificates, and at the first meeting of the treasury board they are made permanent.	.


Then these people need not pass the civil service examination, they may be appointed under the provision of this law ?


Yes.


And they can remain in the service at the pleasure of the minister without passing the civil service examination ?


If then-services are required.


Then practically the Act is done away with.


No more than in the past.


Would it not be better to leave the custom that has prevailed heretofore ? Because if we pass this clause we will admit the principle that temporary officers may be employed contrary to the present law.


No, I would not say that.


Does not the minister interpret that clause as meaning that he may employ temporarily parties who have not submitted to the test of the civil service examination ? I know that has been done, it is being done now; but it would be a mistake to give it the sanction of the law. The minister himself said it was scarcely necessary to pass this law. But if he does pass it, he sanctions a complete departure from the existing law.


No, I would not say that. The Deputy Minister of Justice thinks it would be as well to have the practice put in this express language. It has been the practice of the department from the beginning, and it has been absolutely necessary to follow this practice to carry on the work.


The Minister of Customs said there were a number of so-called temporary officers in the service, some of whom might have been employed as long as twenty years continuously, and the reason they were not put upon the permanent staff of the department is that the time had passed by when they could very well take the civil service examination. There may be some force in his observations with regard to that, but does not this Act put that custom on a permanent basis ?


No.


Will it not have that effect ?


No.


It seems to me it will. Let us assume that we must continue these men who have been for a long time in the service, and who are not on the temporary staff, although to all intents and purposes they are permanent officers. Now, if the minister, in this clause, simply proposes to take power to appoint temporary officers of the department whose employment as such shall continue only for a limited period, it would be a different proposition, from that which is before us. But this provision is wide enough in effect to repeal the whole Civil Service Act so far as the hon. gentleman's department is concerned; because all he has to do is to appoint a man as a temporary officer, and he remains in the department receiving the salary, it may be up to the limit, as if he were a permanent officer. It puts upon a permanent basis that which is now only a custom, and is continued for

tlie reasons of expediency and necessity which the hon. gentleman mentions. If the provision were limited to the appointment for six months, or for such a period as would be reasonable, I could understand it; but I cannot understand the necessity of a provision having so wide a scope as til at which is presented to the House now.


There are cases where we have to appoint them temporarily for the summer, when there may be a press of work. But there will not be the same danger that the hon. gentleman apprehends. Under the present law we can appoint any one in the place of a preventive officer and make him permanent at once; and the minimum and maximum figures that are fixed for the salaries would allow a very wide range. So there is no more danger than before, the department is getting at once more power than it has already, because we could appoint them permanently at once as preventive officers. But we do not wish to do^ that. We have to appoint them temporary at first, and then we urge upon them to pass the examination. But as I said, there is no more danger of wiping out tire Civil Service Act in doing this than under the present law, because all we would have to do would be to appoint them under that clause regarding the appointment of preventive officers and assign them to any duties we liked.


After over fourteen years' experience as collector of customs in the port of Halifax, I may say that I do not know of a single instance where an officer in the outside service was required to pass the civil service examination. The outside service generally consists of landing waiters, tide waiters, lockers, &c., and they are appointed just because they are smart, active people. I do not think the service will be improved by compelling these people to pass the civil service examination. I know that all the time I was in the custom house the outside service were not required to pass the examination. There was no such a thing as a chief clerk, or a clerk at all. wanted for the outside service duties, because they brought their returns into the custom house, and records were kept in the custom house by the officers who were required to keep those records themselves. I think you will find that this is the practice in all the large ports.


The other evening we brought this same question before the hon. gentleman. I am rather surprised that lie does not propose in this Bill to make the temporary officers permanent, clean up the sheet entirely, and see if this grievance cannot be remedied once for all. I mentioned the city of Windsor the other evening, where I find there have been ten preventive officers appointed since the hon. gentleman took hold of the department. There had been men appointed there as preventive officers Mr. BORDEN (Halifax).
years before that, and they are still on the temporary list, and I suppose all the new appointments are made permanent. That is what we complain of on this side of the House, that political influence is brought to bear, and men are put on the permanent list who are not entitled to be put on over men who have already been long in the service. If the hon. gentleman put these men on irrespective of their party politics, then perhaps there would not be so much cause for complaint.


I shall lie glad to have them all pass the examination, and in some cases they have passed, while in others they have not. But the hon. gentleman must not think that I am guided by political influence in making these appointments. There have been at least as many Conservatives put on the permanent list of preventive officers as there were under the old government. There were as many Conservatives put on the permanent list as there were others, or at least, as many as had been appointed by the old government.


There are some Conservatives left.


So that it would not be right to make recriminations in that way.


I know of cases of men there who are not on the permanent list and they are as good officers as ever were stationed at Windsor. There are no complaints against them. This is growing to be a very serious complaint, and it will take up the time of the House session after session unless the grievance is remedied. I could see no injustice if there was something in the shape of an Act giving the hon. Minister of Customs power to put these men on the permanent list. Here is an opportunity now, and we could insert an amendment providing for that in the Bill now before the committee.


May I suggest to the hon. minister that if it is the intention of the minister, in making these temporary appointments, simply to place these persons in a training school to prepare them for making an attempt to pass the civil service examination, he might do this by saying that such appointments made after this date shall only hold good for a limited length of time, say six months, and if they are not then able to pass the civil service examination their services will be dispensed with.


I think that is a very wise suggestion of the hon. member for East Sim-coe (Mr. Bennett). There is no doubt that under this clause the hon. minister can employ an officer who is not qualified and keep him employed. That is the intention. It is bad enough that the custom lias prevailed in the past. I do not think we should give 1 the sanction of law to it, and the way to

guard against that is to carry out the suggestion that has been made and which I have incorporated in the amendment which I am now about to read : ' Provided such temporary employment be not continued for a period of more than six months.' This would permit employees to qualify under the Civil Service Act, and would prevent such abuses as those which we know are occurring. I move to add to the section the provision that temporary employment should only last for six months. .


The objection to that amendment would be that if you employed a person temporarily during the busy season of the year and you required to do the same perhaps next year, the person who had had so many months' training would be the very person the collector would want to put his hand on to continue the service for another year.


Could he not qualify in the meantime ?


My experience lias been that in the outside service the qualification required in the inside service is not necessary, and it has not been the practice to ask for the examination of a man in the outside service. These men are in a good many ways more like labouring men with a good education than clerks who would suit in the inside service.


In that case I think it would be better to amend the Civil Service Act directly, and not do it in this way.


Yes. I think that would be a better way than by pressing this amendment if it is considered desirable. In regard to what the hon. member for East Elgin (Mr. Ingram) says, I do not think we could make such an amendment to this Bill. The proposed amendment is one that could be introduced any year, but there would have to be a consultation, and the government would have to be agreed upon it. It is a subject that is on my mind, but I cannot deal with it this year. The suggestion as to six months employment, of course, will not work, because there is only a qualifying examination once a year. There might be an officer appointed very shortly after the examination that takes place this fall, and it would be a year before the board met again, so that six months would not do. If any time at all were fixed, it would have to be a year.


Make it a year.


Would it be fair to make a provision of that kind now ? I think there would be something like a moral obligation to put all officers on the same plane, and we would have to put away all the temporary officers we now have who have been employed for fifteen or twenty years, and who know their business just as well as any officers in the inside service.
It would not accomplish anything if there was any fear that the department would be worked in an impi-oper or unfair way. If there was any danger that political influence might be brought to bear on the minister and he might not hold the scales evenly, you do not obviate it by that, because, as long as there is that provision. I could appoint a temporary clerk and if he could not pass the examination at the end of six months, if I wanted to retain hiip, I could simply appoint him permanently as a preventive officer.


The department has power to do wrong, any way.


It has the power. I do not think the hon. member for East Elgin (Mr. Ingram) will find that there has been any consistent course pursued of ignoring men because of the difference in their position, and I am sure there has not been in the cases he has mentioned. I could give scores of cases where men appointed long before I came into office have been put upon the permanent list.


I think I can fairly complain in these cases I have quoted, because I know some of these men very well, passing up and down there very frequently, as I do. Of course, this side may change to the other, as I am confident it is going to soon, and the friends of hon. gentlemen opposite would be in the same position then as our friends are now. It is hard to explain why men who have been in the service ten or twelve years at least are overlooked, while those who have only been in a few years are made permanent.


I think there is no doubt that the hon. minister is right when he says that he could evade the law, any way; but I do not think that is an argument for us to change the law, because that is what we are doing in this section. In the amendment which I presented I intended to provide for the future only. I have no objection to stating that any amendment with that new disposition will apply to the future, but I think it does that without any such expression. I am quite willing to change the period of six months to a period of one year, but I think it is very desirable that we should not by this subsection change the general trend of the law in regard to qualification for the civil service. What the hon. member for Victoria, N.S. (Hon. Mr. Ross), said may be quite true also. It may be true that in the outside service examination and qualification are not necessary, but it is in the law, and I think we should leave it there.


I think if the hon. gentleman (Mr. Monk) would inquire at the port of Montreal, or Toronto, or St. John, or Halifax, he would not find a single instance where a preventive officer has passed the examination, or was requir-

ed to do so. The education of these men might be more practical perhaps than that of a good many whose education is designed to enable them to pass the civil service examination. The men in the outside service are more like workingmen. A locker receives casks into his warehouse, and he sees they are properly placed and delivered on warrant from the custom-house. These men do not require to pass an examination, and the chances are they would not be as good as they are if they did.


I believe the hon. gentleman is quite right in a good deal of what he says, but is it not the proper course to amend the Civil Service Act so that these gentlemen might be properly appointed.


That is just what I want. I want to get them the increase of salary and promotion they would be entitled to if they did pass the examination.


This amendment does not accomplish that, and under it the minister can appoint any number of temporary clerks to remain there during his pleasure.


If the position of surveyor of customs should become vacant, under this Act the minister could appoint an acting surveyor who had not passed the examination, and he could draw his salary and fill the position during the pleasure of the minister. Would not that make him virtually a permanent employee ? Suppose in the town of Prescott the position of chief clerk were to be vacant, and no doubt there would be a great number of applicants for it, perhaps the government might wish to appoint some one who did not pass the examination and they would appoint him as acting chief clerk. If be filled that position for a number of years he would virtually hold it permanently, although he was not appointed by Order in Council.


Until an officer has been appointed on the recommendation of the treasury board and sanctioned by the Governor in Council he does not become a permanent employee. He might be acting landing waiter and be paid, but he could not be appointed permanently to that rank until he bad passed his examination. and he would lose his time if he were ill and would not be entitled to holidays and so on.


We have a vacancy in the town of Prescott in the Inland Revenue Department which has existed for some time, and if the Minister of Inland Revenue were to introduce such a Bill as this he could appoint a person who had not passed the civil service examination. and the Minister of Inland Revenue knows that there is pressure brought upon him to do that now. Suppose lie should appoint a man as acting inland revenue collector and he remained in office for some years, he would be recognized by the public Hon. Mr. ROSS (Victoria)..
at least as a permanent officer, and in the case of a change of government or a change of minister even, it would be unfair to dismiss an officer of that kind. I think myself that a person should be appointed to such a position only until such time as he would have an opportunity of passing the civil service examination, and if he failed at first he might be credited with his percentage or something of that kind, but at all events there should be some limit. The public now believe that it is impossible for a minister to appoint a person to a vacancy until he has passed the examination and for that reason the minister is saved a great deal of trouble. If you pass such legislation as this there is no doubt that your staff will deteriorate in time.


In reply to the member for Jacques Cartier (Mr Monk) I wish to say that this is no evasion of the law at all. The law at present provides that inspectors, collectors and preventive officers in the Customs Department may be appointed without examination and without reference to the rules for promotion prescribed. All that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Monk) would accomplish by his motion would be that if a person were appointed, and at the end of the year he would not bo able to pass the civil service examination, he would be dismissed. The civil service examination is largely clerical and I venture to say it would trouble the hon. gentleman (Mr. Monk) and myself to pass it now. I dare say we could pass it when we left school, and although I do not want to say anything against laws that are in vogue, yet when you come to a practical department like customs, the qualifying examination, in my judgment, is of very little avail. You want general knowledge, you want good judgment and in some cases you want a knowledge of the methods of trade. If a man proves himself to be a good officer, but could not pass the examination, we could then appoint him a preventive officer under the law. But 'wherever we can get them to pass the examination instead of appointing them preventive officers and saying: You discharge the duties of landing waiter, if he does pass the examination his title would be landing waiter or tide waiter or clerk or whatever he is. This makes the practice a little more regular, but there is no change.


Is not that exemption in the civil service law wide enough now ?


This does not make it any wider, but this permits the appointment of an officer temporarily. In some cases these appointments must be done in an emergency and sometimes you cannot summon a meeting of the Treasury Board and get His Excellency's assent in a day or two. There are times when, after a long session of parliament perhaps, some ministers are taking a well-deserved rest for a day or two, and you

might not be able to get a meeting of the Treasury Board or of Council; or His Excellency might be away ; and a month might elapse without anything being done. You must have persons to attend to these duties, and so you appoint them temporarily. The object of the Bill is not to discharge men from the service or get more men into the service without reference to the Civil Service Act. It is simply the result of a suggestion from the Department of Justice that it would be better to have this additional provision that when a person is temporarily appointed to a certain office he shall not receive a larger salary than is paid to a permanent officer of the same rank or class.


Has that been the practice ?


No. In the case of preventive officers there is no limit at all.


The hon. minister knows that it is not customary to appoint a temporary officer to one of the high positions in the service, such as surveyor of customs ; and he would not appoint a man as a preventive officer, and then assign to him the duties of a surveyor. If he has done so, I think he has not rightly understood the law. Under the proposed provision. the minister could appoint any person to the position of acting surveyor, and virtually make him permanent. I understand the minister to take the position that he could appoint any person as a preventive officer, and then allow him to fill the position of chief clerk or surveyor of customs in the city of Toronto.


Yes, he could, but the appointee could not be styled chief clerk ; he would be acting clerk. A great many men who have been appointed preventive officers are taking entries, and are as efficient officers as we have. I think that I have shown that this is a proper provision, and it would be better for the hon. gentleman to withdraw the amendment.


I do not understand liow the hon. minister can say that this Bill which he asks us to pass makes no change. He stated, when we first took up this section, that it was almost unnecessary to pass it; and yet the fact is, if I am not mistaken, that the question having been referred to the Department of Justice, Mr. Newcombe, of that department, stated that the system at present was irregular, that the law was not being observed, and that it would be necessary to pass this amendment in order to regularize the position of these employees. I do not think there is any doubt that under this provision, if we pass it, the Minister of Customs may name a temporary officer, and employ him from year to year temporarily, without subjecting him to what the law requires-the qualifying test of a civil service examination. We had under discussion a day or two ago the estimates of the lion. Minister of Customs, which we now pass eu bloc. The evening before last we voted $129,000 for five or six branches of the Customs Department, and having had the money voted in that general way, the minister can keep a temporary employee continuously in his service without our knowing anything about it. We shall not even go through the form of voting his salary every year notwithstanding anything in the Civil Service Act. I do not say that the deputy minister of Justice was not right in making that suggestion to regularize the position of those employees ; but the object we ought to have in view is to improve our civil service, not to spoil it, as we have been doing for many years past by this custom. The hon. gentleman knows how in 1896 a very large number of civil servants were dismissed without any opportunity of being heard. I will not go back upon that; it was fully ventilated at the time ; but in my own aounty the number of civil servants who were dismissed without notice and without any opportunity of defending themselves was very great, and much hardship was incurred. Here we are at present still further mutilating our civil service organization. We are doing the exact opposite of what they have been doing in years past in the United States, where they had a deplorable civil service. Under the Cleveland administration a set of men undertook to improve conditions, and at the present moment for over five thousand employees of the government of the United States, there is no more trouble with the spoils system, and they cannot be dismissed. The United States are improving their civil service. England has a much better system of patronage and civil service than we have in Canada, and here we are opening the door to abuse. It has been said on this side of the House, and I think it is worthy of the consideration of lion, gentlemen opposite, that they are preparing trouble for themselves. We know how members belonging to the ministerial party are bothered with demands for employment. Under this section, if we pass it, there would be far greater demands, and members will not have the defence of saying that those who solicit employment will have to pass an examination, because under this proposed section they may be employed temporarily, so to speak, for ever. Under these circumstances, I think we ought not to give the sanction of the law to the unfortunate custom which has prevailed in all the departments in the past, and I think the amendment that has been suggested would be a protection not only to the public, but for hon. gentlemen opposite themselves, and particularly for those in charge of the government departments. We might modify it in the direction suggested by the hon. member for Grenville, so as to provide that

temporary employment will not last beyond the period fixed for the next civil service examination, and that this section will not apply except in the future, if that is necessary. I think all our efforts ought to tend to the improvement of our civil service, and not to its deterioration, and I think the hon. minister, on reflection, will himself acknowledge that we are readily helping him by this suggested amendment.


I do not think the suggested amendment in any way adds to the appeal of the hon. gentleman who has just spoken. I think, on the contrary, that the amendment has for its object to cause some of the abuses that have existed for the last twenty years to disappear. My hon. friend is aware that under the Civil Service Act, provision is made for the appointment of officials to the civil service, first, after examination, and, second, on a special report of the deputy head of the department to the effect that the person has special qualifications. In addition to these two modes of appointment, we have, in subsection 2 of section 37, a provision that Customs inspectors, collectors and preventive officers may be appointed without examination and without any reference to the rules of promotion That is to say, you can appoint preventive officers without any reference whatever either to examination or to promotion. But there is no provision in the law defining the duties of a preventive officer. and the practice has grown up in the last twenty years of assigning preventive officers to the performance of special duties. The authority to do this is to be found in section 5 of the Act, which provides that the Customs Department shall have the control and management of the collection of cust