Report of the Department of Militia and Defence for the year ended December, 1902. -Hon. Sir Frederick Borden.
Ross, Esq., member for the electoral district of Yukon, introduced by the Prime Minister (Rt. Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier) and Mr. Scott.


(Translation.) Mr. Speaker, the object of the Bill which I am now introducing is to amend the Supremd Court Act so as to give that court exclusive jurisdiction in federal matters, such as is vested in the supreme court of the United States.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
(Translation.) Mr. Speaker, this Bill is the same as that introduced by me last session.





Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
THOMPSON (Haldimand and Monck) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 24) to extend the power of loan companies. He said:	The object
is to give to some existing loan companies, incorporated under an early Act, similar privileges to those incorporated under a later and more generous Act.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
WHEAT SHIPMENTS FROM PORT HURON AND FORT WILLIAM, &c.
['This is the language of the code and it is better to keep to that language.']
How many bushels of wheat were shipped from Port Arthur and Fort William during the season of navigation of 1902, and the destination of same (by water to other lake ports) from said ports ?


In reply I beg to say :
Wheat shipped by vessels and destination of same during season of navigation, April 11th, to December 5th, 1902, from the ports of Fort William and Port Arthur.
Canadian
Vessels.
Owen Sound. .1,308,160.10 Midland ..	..8,316,972.30
Parry Sound. .3,515,760.20 Pt. Edward... 192,904.10 Meaford ..	..1,009,332.30
Goderich.. ..2,759,484.40 Kingston ..	..4,985,176.50
22,087,791.10 Buffalo.. ..	636,558.50
Pt. Huron..	827,293.20


Vessels. Totals.
1,308,160.10
8.316.972.30 3,515,760.20
192,904.10
1.009.332.30 2,759,484.40 4,985,176.50
22,087,791.10 .,256,928.10 11,893,487.00 869,945.20 1,697,238.40
Total bush..23,551,643.20 12,126,873.30 35,678,516.50
On account of the elevator at Port Edward being burned, the elevator at Port Huron was used for the 1,697,238.40 bushels, which eventually came back to Canada, so that the real shipment to United States was only 11,893,487 bushels, and the total to Canadian ports would be 23,785,029.50 bushels.


The hon. gentleman asked last week for the total receipts at the various ports. I was not able to give the receipts at Sarnia, but on subsequent inquiry I find that they amounted to 3,884,391 bushels during the season of navigation of 1902. I would also state that in the answer I then gave with reference to the port of Goderich, there was an error. The receipts were given as 2,226,600 bushels. They said 3,220,600.


Was the Minister of Justice correctly reported in ' Hansard ' of February 21, 1902, when in answer to a question as. to when a successor to Judge Prendergast would he appointed, he replied ' in the immediate future ?'
The MINISTER OF JUSTICE (Hon.
Charles Fitzpatrick). I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of the statement contained in ' Hansard ' with respect to the appointment of Mr. Myers who was appointed the 3rd of January, 1893. I am informed that] he was at the time a member of the local legislature for the electoral division of Minnedosa. province of Manitoba.


Mr. ROBINSON (Elgin)-by Mr. Sproule -asked :
Is it the intention of the government to introduce a system of free rural mail delivery in any part of the Dominion during the present year ?
In the absence of the Postmaster General (Hon. Sir William Mulock) I may inform the bon! gentleman (Mr. Robinson) that the matter referred to in his question is under the consideration of the government.


Mr. MONK-by Mr. Sproule-asked :
1.	To whom was the contract for 25,000 tons steel rails, to be delivered in June, 1903, given?
2.	At what prices ?
3.	Who were the other tenderers ?
4.	What were their prices ?
The contract for these rails has been awarded to a Glasgow firm and the contract itself has been sent forward for execution, but has not yet been received. Until the contract itself has come back executed, it would not be in accordance with the custom in these matters to allow the names of other tenderers to transpire. I should be very glad to inform the hon. gentleman who has made the inquiry as soon as we receive the contract executed, so that he may repeat the question.


Is it the intention of the government to introduce any legislation at the present session regarding private bankers, so that the transactions of such bankers may be made more public than at present, and enable depositors to ascertain their financial strength ?


It is not in contemplation to
introduce any legislation of the character mentioned in the question. Persons who call themselves private bankers stand in the same relation to the public as any other business persons.


How mAch has been paid to date in connection with taking the census of 1901 ? What further sum will be required to complete the census of 1901 V Has the expenditure in connection with that service been completed ?


In answer to the latter part of the question, I would inform the hon. gentleman (Mr. Clancy), that the expenditure has not been completed. The remainder of the question is covered by a motion before the House, in response to which the information will be promptly brought down.


Mr.	LEONARD-by Mr. Morin-asks
(translation) :
1.	Has Dr. Duchesneau, Warden of St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary, given in his resignation ?
2.	If so, has the government accepted it ?
3.	If not, has the Minister of Justice, or any one belonging to the Department of Justice, had any interview or correspondence with the warden of St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary on the subject of his resignation ?
(Translation.) The answer to the first and second questions is : No. As to the third question, I would say that there has been no official correspondence or interview on the matter.


Mr. TAYLOR (South Leeds)-by Mr. Sproule^-asked :
1.	Has P. D. Tyerman received any sums of money from the government, or from any department of the government, during the past five years ?
2.	If so, what sum or sums has he received during each of the said years, and from what department or departments, in each instance ?
3.	For what service or services were the said respective sums paid to the said P. D. Tyerman in each instance ?
With respect to the Department of Agriculture, the answer to the hon. gentleman's (Mr. Taylor's) questions are as follows :
1.	Yes.
2.	1901-02, $619, from the Department of Agriculture, 1902-03, $883, from the Department of Agriculture.
3.	For professional services and expenses incurred in connection with the small-pox outbreak in the territories.

The following answers have been received from the Department of the Interior:
1.	Yes.
2 and 3. The following amounts were paid P. D. Tyerman during the past five years through the Department of the Interior :
Year.	Service. i	Amount1899-1900.	Professional services inspecting and treating Doukho-bors and other immigrants including expenses and	$ 57 001900-1901.	Professional services attending diphtheria cases at Schwitzburg, &c., expenses	$ 430 00 $ 270 801901-1902.	Professional services inspecting and treating immigrants,	
Total		$ 757 80
The answers received from the Department of Indian Affairs are as follows :
1.	Dr. Tyerman has received sums of money from the Department of Indian Affairs during the past four years.
2.	The following sums were received by him :
Fiscal Year.	Amount.	Agency.1898-1899	$ 211 50	Carleton.1898-1899	554 70	Duck Lake.1899-1900	427 00	Carlton.1900-1901	1,610 45	Duck Lake.1900-1901	305 54	Carlton.1900-1901	871 57	Duck Lake.1901-1902	1,027 00	Carlton.1901-1902	473 00	Duck Lake.5,480 76	
No payments were made previous to 1898-99.
3.	The sums were paid him for medical attendance upon the Indians of the Carleton and Duck Lake agencies, North-west Territories.


1.	On what date was the contract signed for the construction of locks on the Red river, at St. Andrews, Manitoba ?
2.	What is the time specified in the contract for completion of the work ?
3.	What is the total amount of consideration of the contract ?
4.	What percentage can be advanced to the contractor on accepted work ?
5.	How much has so far been advanced and paid ?
6.	Is there now any possibility of the contractor completing the work within the speci-


fled time ? If not, what action is to he taken to ensure speedy completion ?
7.	Has application been made on the part of the contractor for change or waiver of specifications, as regards material to be used, the schedule of wages to be paid, extension of time, or other material clauses ?
8.	Have any changes been agreed to ? If so, what are they ?


1.	18th July, 1900.
2.	19th July, 1903.
3.	$469,000.00.
4.	90 per cent.
5.	$2S,045.00.
6.	The contractor has until the ISth July, 1903, to execute his work.
7.	Yes, as regards material through a largely signed petition.
8.	No.


Mr.' LEONARD-by Mr. Morin-asked :
1.	Who is the person, or who are the persons, in charge of and responsible for the printing of the electoral lists ?
2.	In the case of errors of addition or of omission of the names of electors on the electoral lists at the King's Printer's, who is the one to be held responsible for such errors ?
The King's Printer prints the lists as received from the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery. If any errors occur in the printing, the King's Printer is the responsible officer.


Did Mr. Harrison, a Dominion Inspector of Fisheries, resign that office previous to becoming a candidate for the New Brunswick Assembly ?	'
If so, has he been reappointed, and at what time ?


Mr. Harrison resigned his office as inspector of fisheries on the 16th February, 1903. He has not been reappointed.


Copies of all correspondence, Orders in Council, or applications, relating to or concerning the grant or concession to A. N. C. Tredgold, or to the Hydraulic Mining Syndicate, either separately or associated with A. N. C. Tredgold, of claims, rights or privileges, on Bonanza, Bear, and Hunker Creeks, or their tributaries, or elsewhere in the Yukon.-(Mr. Bell).
(Translation.) Copies of all correspondence, letters, documents, etc., relating to the difficulties in regard to the Indian Reserve of Doncaster, in the county of Terrebonne.-(Mr. Desjardins).
(Translation.) Copies of all correspondence, letters, and documents relating to the request made to the federal government in connection with the building of a post office in the town of Terrebonne, county of Terrebonne.-(Mr. Desjardins).
(Translation.) Copies of all correspondence, letters, documents, specifications, plans concerning the deepening of the river JSsus, from the end of the Isle to the end of the Pacific Bridge, on the said river, so as to allow the passage of vessels drawing five feet of water.- (Mr. Desjardins.)
(Translation.) A statement giving,-
1.	The names of all the immigration agents employed by the government in foreign countries.
2.	The names of the countries wherein each of such agents does his work.
3.	The place of residence of each one of such agents.
4.	The salary paid to each one of them.
5.	The travelling expenses paid by each one of them.
6.	The office expenses and other expenses made or incurred by each one of such agents during the last year of his employment.-(Mr. Bourassa).
SPROULE (East Grey) moved for :
Copies of all correspondence between the government, or any member of the government, and W. W. Fitzgerald, of Grenfell, Assa., or any one in his behalf, regarding his homestead and pre-emption, which were cancelled.
He said :	I am not familiar with the
facts in this case, and, therefore do not propose to say anything about it. I only desire to get the correspondence so as to satisfy Mr. Fitzgerald that everything was regular, as he seems to think it was not. I have made inquiries in the department, and so far as I know, everything was done regularly. Mr. Fitzgerald wishes to get the correspondence, and therefore I make the motion.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. TAYLOR-by Mr. Sproule-moved :
For a return showing the total cost of the taking of the census for 1871, 1881 and 1891. Also, the amount paid on account of the taking of the census for 1901, up to March 1, 1803.
I move in amendment that the following words be added :
Also a statement showing the nature of the information given in the census of 1891 and in that of 1901, and the mode of remuneration of the enumerators on each occasion.


I desire to avail myself of this motion to call the attention of the Minister of Finance to what seems to be a growing evil in tins House, 10
namely, that when we ask a short question the information answering which it is within the capacity of a clerk to prepare within ten or fifteen minutes, we are told on this side of the House that we must wait for a return ; and when the motion is put upon the paper to bring down that return, though it would probably not involve a great deal of time, the hon. gentleman rises in his place and proposes an amendment that involves considerable work, thereby delaying the information which the House is entitled to. I just desire to say to the hon. gentleman that I do not think he is treating this side of the House fairly.
I can understand that there are many cases where questions may be asked upon both sides of the House in relation to which a return would better give all the information required, but that involves a great deal more work. But I want to say to the hon. gentleman that the question asked by my hon. friend from Leeds (Mr. Taylor), and the one subsequently asked by myself, do not involve much work. If the hon. gentleman expects to get along with the work of this House-and we on this side desire to aid him in every possible way-I can tell him that he is not pursuing the right course in order to accomplish that object. I repeat that the hon. gentleman's refusal to give the answer from his seat in the House rather than oblige members on this side to ask for a return, which may turn out to be quite a lengthy one, is unfair, and is narrowing the rights and privileges of the opposition of this House. I hope the hon. gentleman will reconsider his position, and that he will give me the information that I have asked, specially in view of his amendment just made to the motion of my hon. friend from Leeds, which adds a great deal of work to the original motion.


The point of the hon. gentleman's remarks is that this amendment is going to cause considerable delay. If it should so prove, my hon. friend's position will be justified ; but if the information is promptly brought down, I do not suppose he attaches much impoi'tance to the form in which it is brought down. I can promise the hon. gentleman that there will be no unreasonable delay.


Is the hon. gentleman prepared to say what day that return will be brought down ? The reason I ask is because the information is important, and we should have it at once.


I cannot fix a day, but I will promise the hon. gentleman the return will be prompt.


I would just remind the hon. gentleman that it is necessary the return should be prompt, because there are items in the estimates which we wish to discuss with those figures be-



fore us. Therefore the Minister of Finance will see the importance of furnishing to tlie House the statement at the earliest possible moment. His amendment, of course, will necessitate a great deal of delay.


Practically no estimates touching this subject will be proceeded with until the information is brought down.
Motion, as amended, agreed to.


Before the Orders of the Day are called, I would like to ask the leader of the House whether it is the intention of the government to introduce a
general telephone Act this session, as was promised last session.


I would ask the hon. gentleman to give notice of this question.


Bill (No. 8) to amend the Expropriation Act (the Minister of Justice) read the second time and House went into Committee thereon.
On section 1.
Mr. Chairman, it seems to me to be a new principle to introduce into the expropriation power, under the general power of eminent domain, which is given the government to exercise. Perhaps the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Fitzpatrick) will explain whether there is authority in any other country to exercise this power to the limited extent that is proposed now. The government have the power to take property where it is essential in the interest of the community upon giving a fair remuneration for it, but, I have never heard of the power being given to exercise the right of expropriation for a limited period. There may be some other countries which exercise this right and there may be a precedent in England for it but I have never heard of such legislation before.


Mr. Chairman, I am not aware that there is such legiislation in England, but a Bill similar to this was introduced into this House a few years ago and passed. It was rejected in the Senate because the Bill made the law applicable to cases then pending in the courts, and of course, that was a departure from the general principle which the Senate could not sanction, and as a result the Bill was withdrawn. There is nothing, in my judgment at all events, more natural than that the government should have the right to take a property for a limited period,of time, if the uses for which the government want


the property are sufficient to justify them in exercising a limited control over it. Take the construction of a public work in the vicinity of a quarry, for instance; we want to build a lock on a canal, why should it be incumbent upon the government to expropriate the quarry and to retain it for all time to come when in all probability we only require to use the quarry for one or two years ? Why should the g jveminent not have the right, if they are willing to pay for it, to take the property for any limited time the government desire, to use it for that time and after the expiration of that time to allow it to revert back to its owner ? It seems to me it is a very wise principle in legislation not to encumber the government with the property after it becomes useless and after they have used it for a certain period of time. I want my hon. friends to understand that the object of the Bill is to enable the government to acquire the use of property for a limited period of time, that is to exercise the right of expropriation for a limited period, at the expiration of that time the property to revert to its owner, the government paying for the damage the man may have suffered during the time that the government had used it. There is nothing unjust or unfair in that proposition as it appears to me.


The hon. gentleman must see at once what is involved in that ? How is it possible when you make the expropriation, to know the user of it that you intend ?


You are obliged to state the time for which you require it.


How are you going to be able to say whether you are going to take ten yards of stone from a quarry or a million yards of stone at the time of the expropriation ?


You are obliged to do that in expropriating permanently. When you are going to expropriate permanently you know the property you are going to expropriate and the judge assesses the value of the property. The elementary principle is to determine the quantity of stone you are going to take. I have had experience with cases of this kind.


The hon. gentleman entirely misunderstands my argument on the question. When you expropriate for the use of the government and exercise the government's right of eminent domain you know the value of the property.


How do you know ?


Why should the public ie benefited at the expense of private indi-'iduals ? Why should my property which s expropriated for a limited time be ruined ind then that the government should have lower to throw it back on my hands ?
The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS AND jA.NALS. The hon. gentleman evidently ibjects to the principle of expropriation .1 together.


No, I do not.
The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS AND lANALS. It is as unjust to take a man's iroperty from him altogether as to take it or a limited term.


There is a difference, f you take a piece of my property for all ime to come the arbitrators can settle what hat property is worth, but no arbitrators ould settle the value of a property that the government was only going to take for a united time.
The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS AND lANALS. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Coch-ane) evidently does not believe that there an be any equitable expropriation of private iroperty for public uses, or else he would lot suggest that objection. I say that it is 10i
just as much of an outrage to take a man's property altogether as it is to take it in part. Suppose a public work is going on and that you want to place the necessary plant on private property during the two or three years that the work is going on. You can judge how long you may want to use that property and you will be careful to expropriate it for such a time, or if you do not expropriate it for a sufficient length of time you would have to expropriate it later on for a further term. You are bound to compensate the owner of that property for any damage he will suffer, and if he is compensated to that extent what has he to complain of ? Why can it not be as easily estimated what damages the owner of a property will suffer if you take it for two years as if you take it for ever ?


That is exactly the point.


Suppose you want to take a dwelling house for ten years, is there no way of ascertaining the just amount the owner should receive for that period.


There is no trouble at all in a case of that kind.


Then there is no trouble at all in any case. Now in the case of a quarry- suppose there is a quarry right alongside a public work and that it would be in the public interest to expropriate only a part of that quarry ; assume that that quarry is equipped with all the necessary plant for its working ; assume that the government wants to expropriate one quarter or one half, what difficulty w'ould there be in the way of estimating the value of that part of the property which the government wanted to expropriate. Surely the owner would be paid full compensation to cover any injury he would suffer. Unless this committee can be convinced that no method can be devised by which a property owner can have just and reasonable compensation for the limited interest you are taking in his property then there can be no objection to this Bill.


But you are dealing with a quarry that has already been opened. There is a difference between the expropriation of such a quarry and the expropriation of a quarry that has not been opened.


What is the difference ?


The difference is that w'hen a quarry is opened there is no damage other than for the material you take out of it, but if you expropriate land on which to open a quarry and you pay perhaps for only one fifth of it, you will destroy it for all time to come for any other purpose because it might be that no one else would want to use that quarry but the government.


The hon. gentleman has answered his own objection. If It were found impossible to estimate fairly the amount of damages that would be done to a quarry that is not opened, then the owner can claim from the tribunal all the compensation he could possibly suffer, and unless the government is able to bring evidence to show that he does not suffer full damages they would have to pay the bill ?


What is the object of your Bill then ?


The government would take a portion of that quarry sufficient to give it enough stone to suit their purpose, and it would have to pay for it. There is no danger that any one who has his property taken is not going to get all the compensation he is entitled to ; the danger is the other way.


The minister says that if the property owner does not know what user the government is going to take of the expropriated property, he can ask the fullest damages possible. Why not take the whole property, then ? The owner should receive payment for all the value put upon the property. The trouble of an expropriation for a short time is the difficulty of knowing the damage or the value of the user.


That is for the court to determine.


Suppose a property is covered with timber, and it is necessary for the government to take the timber off the land for two or three years.


You cannot do that under the Expropriation Act.


Yes, you can. It is an absolute expropriation of the property for the term for which it is taken, to cut timber or to do anything else with it.


Timber is not real estate once it is cut.


It is real estate when it is growing on the land. The stone in the quarry is also part of the real estate. The minister sees the absurdity of the proposition in regard to timber, but he says the Act does not apply to that. Why does it not apply to that just as well as to the stone in the quarry or to the soil ? The application is the same. If the property is expropriated for a term of two or three or five years, it is as absolute an expropriation as an expropriation forever. How is the party whose land is expropriated to know whether the government is going to use the whole of the quarry or only a portion of it ? He can only know the amount he is entitled to when the government abandons it. No legislature in Mr. COCHRANE.
the world has ever before made provision for the partial exercise of the right of eminent domain. I never heard of it either in the United States or Great Britain. There is only one way to exercise the right of eminent domain or of taking the property of an individual for the purposes of the Crown, and that is to take it absolutely and pay for it.


I do not know that it is necessary to discuss with my hon. friend the question of the partial exercise of the power of eminent domain ; but I want to point out that when it is desired to expropriate property for the purpose of public utility, the first thing a government has to do is to give a notice containing a description of the property and having attached to it a plan of the property which it is intended to expropriate. At the same time, it is necessary for the government to deposit the amount of money which is considered to be the fair value of the property taken. If you want, for instance, to expropriate a quarry which has not been opened, the first thing necessary is to ascertain the quantity of material contained in the quarry, otherwise it is impossible for the government to estimate or the court to determine how much the compensation should be. Before the amount to be paid by way of compensation can be determined, it is necessary to ascertain the extent to which the government is going to benefit and the extent to which the individual is going to be prejudiced. If the government wants a part of the quarry-one half or one third or one fourth-it is as easy for the government to determine what the value of that portion is, as it is to determine the value of the whole. I put it to the common sense of the House whether it would be right for the government in case they want to use a quarry for the purpose of extracting 100 or 200 cubic yards of stone rom it, to be obliged to expropriate the whoie quarry in perpetuity, and after they have extracted what they require, to have the property lie useless on their hands ? Is it not more fair and equitable for the government to say, we want that quantity of stone, for that we are prepared to pay, and after we have paid for that, then the property reverts to the orginal owner. To what extent is the original owner prejudiced ? From his quarry so much stone has been taken, he has been paid for the quantity so taken, he has been paid for damage caused by the expropriation. He has not suffered any loss, and the property remains on his hands. Is that not more fair and equitable than to require the government to expropriate the whole property ?


Could not the government dispose of the quarry ?


In what way could the government, under these

conditions, dispose of a quarry to benefit the public ?


What good would the property be to the owner after it had been destroyed for all time to come ?


If it is destroyed for all time to come, he gets the full value of it.


You do not know what damage you do till you are through with it.


If you do not, you cannot expropriate. It is for the government to make out their case.


Suppose the government required a few cords of stone, and upon the basis of that the compensation was fixed ; but it turned out that they required three or four times that amount.


They would have to pay for it.


Would the arrangement be according to a schedule of prices ?


No. My bon. friend must bear in mind that when the government or anybody representing the government enter on a man's property for the purpose of expropriating it, it is incumbent on the government to determine the limits of the property they require. They are looked upon as trespassers and the courts require them to describe the property they wish to take, they cannot go an inch beyond that description. If the government expropriate 300 or 400 yards of stone, when that quantity is exhausted they are obliged to leave the property or give a new notice of expropriation, because the expropriation is always held to be for the benefit of the party from whom it is expropriated.


By the wording of the hon. gentleman's Bill, he may expropriate a limited estate in the property of any individual. He may expropriate a property for sufficient length of time to take 300 of 400 cubic yards of stone out of it. ,


The limit would have to be described in the notice for expropriation. In that notice you must inform the court what you intend to take, and are bound strictly by its terms. There is no rule more firmly established than that you cannot go one inch beyond the limit of your notice.


That is as to boundary but not os' to the estate.


Yes.


You have the right to occupy during a given term, and during that occupation you take out a certain quantity of stone.


Not under the
power of eminent domain.


We are changing the law.


You are establishing the principle of absolutely expropriating for a limited term and for a limited purpose. You are to have absolute property only for the purpose of taking out a certain quantity of stone.


Let me give a case which has actually occurred. In connection with a public work, it is necessary to put a guy on an adjoining property, and that guy is only required for the purpose of a derrick or putting up a pier. Why should you be obliged to take that piece of property for all time when you only required it for two or three months and it was absolutely useless to you afterwards V Let me put another case, and one that has occurred within my knowledge. You have a quarry some distance away from the construction you are building, as in the case of the Quebec bridge. To get to that quarry you have to pass over two or three pieces of property. You only want the right of way while you are constructing your bridge, after your bridge is finished, the right of passage is absolutely valuless. But under the law you have to expropriate those pieces of property for all time. Would it not be fair that you should simply pay the owners for the use of their property during the time you required it and then hand it back to them. Is it fair that you should have to buy that property for all time ? It seems to me that the fairness of the rule asked for is quite evident.


I beg to differ from the hon. gentleman. I could understand his argument with reference to an easement, for instance, for the purpose of building a dam, or some other public work, but that case is provided for in most of the local acts of the local legislature.


Not at all.


In some cases it is.


We have not got it with us in Quebec.	.


The fair way when a government wants a property even temporarily, is to buy it out, and then resell it when no longer required. In what different position would the government be at the end of the term, if it held the property, than that in which the owner would be when the property reverted to him? I could understand the argument with reference to easement but cannot understand it with reference to real estate. When you exercise the power of expropriation, you should, exercise it absolutely. After you have no use for the property, it is just as valuable to you as to its former owner. Let it be sold

30C
and recoup yourselves in that way just as the former owner would have to do.


I cannot understand why my hon. friend should say that the only fair way is to take the whole property. Fair to whom ?


To all parties.


Fair to the owners whose pio-perty you are taking ?


Yes.


What constitutes fairness ? Is it not fair to give a man all that the user of his property is worth ? Can there be anything fairer than to pay a man all he can reasonably ask ? If you want your neighbour to allow you the privilege of using a piece of his ground for a short time. Would it not be fair that he should say : ' Pay me for the time I have it and I will give it to you.' Would it not be equally fair for the government to say : ' Give me the use of your property for a certain time and whatever is fair I will pay.' The amount of compensation is determined and the government pay for it. Is there any unfairness in that ? It simplifies procedure, saves public money, does not take anything out of the pockets of anybody and justice is done all around.


It is an excessive power which the government exercises- that power of expropriating property for public purposes and the owner is not bound to part with his property to the public except on certain conditions. One of these is that it must be required for the use of the public generally, and the conditions under which he may be compelled to give up what is his are very limited in most countries which enjoy a constitution. Unfortunately they are not so limited under the constitution we have in this country and the constitution of Great Britain. That power of expropriation is one which comes down to us from the Roman law, and is never exercised except in its absolute sense of taking the property and paying for it in full. There has never been any such thing known as a partial expropriation, or taking a man's property for the part of the time and then returning it to him. When you want to use his property, take it and pay for it, and when you no longer require it, it is just as valuable to you as to the man from whom you took it.


The hon. gentleman then objects to the principle of expropriation ?


I do not, but I say that the principle of expropriation is only justified in extreme cases. The exercise of Hon. Mr. HAGGART.
that right was very limited under the Romar law. It is also limited in the United States and in every country in the world except here and Great Britain. It is supposed tc be exercised only in one manner and only for the use of the public and in the public interest. A property may be expropriated but only on condition that the owner shall have a fair consideration and that it should be expropriated in a fair manner and absolutely taken and paid for in full. But we are here extending the power of expropriation by providing that property may be expropriated for a month or six weeks or even only a few days in order that you may run a tramway' through it to some quarry ; but if you want to do that you should buy the property absolutely and pay the owner for it.


According to the last argument if the government were to build a railway through a man's farm the government would not only have to buy that portion traversed by the railway but the entire farm.


I think the government are endeavouring to legislate in a way that is going to give them and all future governments a great deal of trouble. The hon. minister speaks of expropriating a quarry. Surely he must know what a quarry means. Very often they expropriate land in which there is a good quarry. But it is only made valuable by being opened up. Would the government buy it, open it up and so make it valuable, and then, having paid a considerable sum' for it give it back to the previous owner at a valuation ? This would open the door to an amount of corruption in connection with property of that kind that the government probably does not foresee. It is easy to work the surface of a quarry; but if an enormous quantity of stone were wanted, they would have to go very deep. How are you going to have the value calculated ? I suppose the owner of a quarry, like any other owner, owns to the centre of the earth. How, then, are you going to get at the value ? It seems to me that, if the government are going to open up and put quarries into working shape and then get rid of them, the legal department of the government will be kept busy. I cannot understand the reason of the proposition. Cannot the government buy stone as an ordinary contractor buys it ? Why do they wish the power of expropriation-unless it be that they have their eyes on some quarries they wish to buy. It seems to me it is no argument in favour of this expropriation proposal to say that stone is necessary for the building of a bridge or something of that kind. There are any quantity of quarries from which the hon. minister can get the material under contract at competitive prices, and so buy his stone a great deal cheaper than any government can get it by proceeding In the manner here proposed. I

say this is a method which will cause a great deal of trouble to the government and loss to the public. If the government take powers of this kind, how can they refuse to incorporated companies the same power ? I do not know where the thing is going to end, but I can see that it will lead to great difficulties before it is ended. The government had better let the matter drop where it is, and buy their stone as the private companies do that are buying stone and building important works on the most economical principles.


It is evidently the hon. gentleman's (Mr. Brock's) opinion that the government ought to allow itself to be) held up by anybody who happens to have a quarry in the vicinity of a public works. That is the principle that has prevailed up to the present time, but we cannot sanction it any longer.


I think they will hold the government up just as much under this power of expropriation. Is there only one quarry in the country ?


There may be only one in the vicinity of a public work.


Why, their name is legion. You can get stone laid down at public, works cheaper than the government can get it by this expropriation method.


I suppose this is limited to government expropriations-it does not extend to railway companies.


This is sin amendment to the Expropriation Act, but that Act is sometimes made applicable to railway companies also.


That is what I thought. So, you give this power not only' to the government but to the railway companies ?
The MINISTER OF RAILWAYS ANI) CANALS. No, only to the government.


No, my hon. friend (Hon. Mr. Haggart) understood me perfectly. This Expropriation Act is applicable, in the first instance, to public works. If you incorporate a railway company or a company to carry on any other public enterprise, you may make the Expropriation Act applicable to that company. Parliament may grant that power or it may not-it is for parliament to exercise its discretion in that matter.


But does that power extend to railways which have charters at the present moment ? Some of them,1 or all of them, have the right-


Under the Railway Act-


They have the right to exercise this power of expropriation
just as the government 'have. Will this ex-tention of the power of expropriation apply to those railway companies that already have charters ?


No.


Surely it must. To make applicable to them the Expropriation Act is to make applicable to them not only that Act but any amendments to it.


I am at a loss to understand how the Minister of Justice can reconcile his own arguments on this subject of the expropriation of a quarry. Let us suppose a case :	Suppose the hon. gentleman owns a quarry contiguous to the site of a proposed public work. Suppose that that quarry has no value except as a source of supply of stone for that public work. The government would naturally say :	We only
want a portion of the stone, and so we will expropriate a quarter of the quarry. But. the value of the whole quarry is in what is taken for that public work. How. then, will the damages be fixed ? Would the government take all that is valuable in the quarry, pay for only a portion of the value, and leave the valueless part in the hands of the owner ? Is the hon. minister prepared to say that that would be a fair proceeding ? The hon. minister, as I understand him, says he would return the quarry to the owner because it is of no value. But it is of no more value to the owner than it is to the public. The only object in expropriating a quarry under such circumstances is to benefit the public by securing stone cheaper than it could otherwise be secured. But why should the individual owner yield a right he possesses merely because of the accident of the location of a public work ? If the government expropriate a quarry, they ought to pay every cent it is worth to place stone there from the nearest rival quarry, no matter what the distance may be. The value in the property belongs to the individual and not to the country, and, if the public take the property they should pay full value for it. Then, I do not see that the Bill provides for any prospective profits, but merely for damages. I shall not argue that point because I am not a lawyer. But I do not see just what the effect of that clause would be. The only actual damage that the owner could claim would be that sustained through the taking of a quantity of stone from his quarry, leaving out of account the whole value of the quarry under the Expropriation Act. I cannot see how the hon. minister can reconcile the exercise of such a power with the fact that the government will have taken the whole value of the property.


I think I should have to leave the court to assess the damage. That is entirely beyond our jurisdiction.

304:


Has the hon. minister (Hon. Mr. Fitzpatrick) any case in mind by which we might judge more definitely of the effect of this clause ?


I mentioned a moment ago the case of Stewart and the Queen, the case of a quarry, from which it was necessary to take a certain quantity of stone. Nothwithstanding that we only took a small part of the stone of the quarry, the government was obliged to purchase the whole quarry, and it now remains absolutely useless, so far as the government is concerned, as a public work. There is the other case, where a public work was separated to some extent by a strip of land from the quarry, and it was necessary in order to get it to pass over a man's property by a tramway. This work at the outset would last perhaps a year and a half, but in order to pass the tramway over this property and get to the quarry, it was necessary so the courts decided, to expropriate this narrow strip of about seven feet. Surely this property, once the public work was completed, became absolutely valueless to any one save the owner of the property. But you cannot expropriate the right of passage over the property ; it is necessary to expropriate the property itself. That is a second case. Then there is the third case I mentioned a moment ago, of a guy that was used in connection with the construction of one of the piers of a bridge. It was necessary to put up a guy in the vicinity of the pier. My recollection is that the piece of property upon which this guy was put was not required for more than five or six weeks. But in order to put up that guy it was necessary to expropriate the property itself for all time, and once expropriated, and once the guy was removed, the land was absolutely valueless for the purpose of the public work. Now, was it reasonable that the government should be obliged, under these circumstances, to take that property for the mere purpose of putting up a guy ? Was it necessary to take that property for all time ? Was it not fair to the individual, as well as to the public, that he should be paid for his property for the time during which it was in use, and after it reverted to him in the condition in which it was before, was it not right that he should take the property back again, when he had suffered no damage whatever except the right of user that was vested in the government for a limited period, as I have stated.


As I understand it, if this Bill becomes law it will in ordinary course apply equally to private railway companies as well as to the Crown. There is usually a provision that some of these clauses should be made applicable to a private company ; that is not an unusual provision. Does not the Bill make the provisions of that Act applicable to private railway companies ?





No, I think not.


My recollection is that there are expropriation clauses applicable to private companies.


I think the Railway Act contains a provision for expropriation.


Then the hon. gentleman means that this should be confined to cases where public works are going on ?


Yes.


As I understand it, this is a principle that is now being introduced for the first time into the legislation of any country. It is not found in the English legislation.


When the hon. gentleman says it is being introduced for the first time in any country, he is wrong, if he goes back to the Roman law.


I have not gone back to the Roman law. But I say, speaking subject to correction, that this is a unique piece of legislation. The hon. gentleman points out that it is confined to the government expropriation, it is not contemplated that this power should be given to private corporations. His argument is based on the idea that the Crown might well have this law, but it is not proposed to give the same privilege to private corporations. Now, the fact that no such provision has existed hitherto, does it not suggest that hitherto this has not been considered a reasonable right to vest in any body, whether in a government or a private , corporation ? The hon. gentleman sees the distinction between a railway company as such, and the government as such. The fact that there has been no such provision hitherto, and that there is no such provision in the English law, seems to me to indicate that it has not been considered fair and reasonable. In other words, if the government or any public body proposed to take my property, they should not take it for a day or two, there should not be a mere chaffering about a few pence, but the property should change owners, and the arrangement should be completed once for all. They should either take my property wholly, or leave it alone. That seems to be the principle, at any rate, on which we have gone hitherto. Without having given it much consideration, it seems to me a very extraordinary power. The hon. gentleman admits that it is not a power that should be given generally to public bodies. The one body that could best afford to pay for the whole thing seems to be the one that is most concerned. I think it is well worthy of consideration whether we should go that far.


The hon. gentleman will remember that this Bill was considered a year ago and passed by the House, but when it reached the Senate it was rejected, because it was found there that the Bill was applicable to a case that was then pending, the case of Stewart. Now, it is as we go along and acquire experience that we discover the difficulties that exist in our legislation, and it is the practical experience of these difficulties which makes it necessary now and then to amend our legislation. Perhaps the hon. gentleman was not present when I mentioned a moment ago several cases calling for this legislation. Take, for instance, a public work being constructed in the neighbourhood of a quarry, which is separated from the public work by a strip of land in the possession of a private individual. That strip of land is not needed in any manner, near or remote, for the purpose of a public work ; but in order to reach the quarry from which the public work is separated by this strip of land, it is necessary to construct a tramway. The tramway is constructed from the quarry to the public work crossing, over this strip of land. Probably this strip of land may not be required for more than a few months : in the case in question, I think it was required for a little over a week. Now. a man. to get to his quarry, is obliged to expropriate that propriety, to buy it and take it for all time, and when he has ceased to have any use for his tramway, the property is of no value to anybody except to the man from whom it has been taken, a strip of land seven feet wide.


Why does the hon. gentleman confine his Bill to that class of cases ?


I am not confining my Bill to any particular class of cases ; but there are hundreds of these cases. Now, I will put this case to the hon. member for Pictou (Sir Charles Hib-bert Tupper). Surely, under these circumstances, it is eminently unfair that the government should be obliged to pay for that property, after allowing to the person who owns that little strip of land, not only the value of his property, but the resulting damage which he may claim as having suffered because of his property being cut in two, for instance, as in the case in question. He says, one piece of my property is cut off from the other, and you have damaged my property by so much. After a time the property returns to him, but it is of no value to any one but himself. If the government sought to dispose of it, no one would buy it. The piece of land in question is about an acre and a quarter in length and a few feet wid