HUGHES-by Mr. Taylor -asked :


labniUrers (iu summer), $1.50 per day ;
7 7nols (-iu winter), $1 per day.
Wris l°ads (cut) at 60 cents, $424.80 ; 76 ;oan* /landing) at 15 cents, $11.40 ;	121
72 tanaing) at 12 cents- -?14-52 ! total,
U(1('l,5es- The continuation of the work is 0, r.,, eoilsideration.
Uetes.„, engineer reported that work was tnair, Sai'y to prevent decrease of depth in
ain entrance.
l,Ti
"'R navigation of lake superior and GEORGIAN BAY.
'tk SPjJoULiE asked :
enSage il tha intention of the government to havi°r	an ice-breaker to test the win-
«ay i T®at>ility of Lake Superior and Georgian
i 2- Will S0, wllen ?
o ak th any effort be made this spring to ®te. jj ® *°e in these harbours, and at Sault ll>°se	so an to prepare for navigating
aters at the earliest possible date ?
, tton r>
farin' 11 * PRBFONTAINE (Minister of .1.	Fisheries) :
sifleration ma44er is at present under convessii°' because the government has no 1 available.
C^Nstt«3
production by industries. \Vl. ^P^OULE asked :
t[atistics?1I1|,tlle census bulletin, containing the le c°Uutrmanufacturing industries of lj0lj Y>
ready for distribution ?
i!8l'i('UltinY,DNEiY FISHER (Minister of ;as been * ' bulletin on manufactures 3teuient lssued by the census office, but a V.Veu to ti 0f Production by industries was die ,1. Press on the 25th January, 1904. 1>
[DOT]6(1 in°^Pilati°ns and tables were com-r<, ter u December, 1903, and the King's 3'ly fo,. Promised to have the statistics e*t. 1 distribution by the 1st of July
%

-\ir
Trunk pacific-appointment of commission.
^ 1, Ils ^dOtJLE asked :
b-j!',0hilcec]llei c°nmiission which ihe government t#| J th6 eaIaS*' year was c0 be aPP°>nted to 2 **ailwavstbru ffirision of the Transcontinental** s0 been appointed ?
outhene„ compose it, and when will they C lf hot heir duties ?
hyas °f it aPPointed, who arc to be the mem-c*e ?	and when will the appointments be
, Ilf, p|
glister)11' WILFRID I,MIRIER (Prime k.?*>
an*,*.. The commissioners have not
bs.71* ann„, . commissioners have nor h<w J' at sotet1' They will he appointed pro-bejor°*® early date after the question quo!L.e House has been disposed of. -Cf>' thfl0n No- 1 am afraid I cannot curiosity of my lion, friend tothe
There does not seem to be as much urgency now as there was last year.


STRAIGHTENING LINE AT CURTIS CREEK.	.
1.	Were tenders received for straightening the railway at Curtis Creek, Prince Edward Island ?
2.	If so, who were the tenderers, and what was the amount of each tender ?
3.	On what date were tenders to be in, and were all tenders in on the appointed date ; and if not, who were the tenderers after, and what were the dates on which these tenders were received ?
4.	Has the contract been awarded ? If so, to whom, and what was the amount of the contract ?


EiMMERSON (Minister of Railways and Canals) :
1.	Yes.
2.	Jas. W. McDonald, Willard Kitchen, Robt. P. P. Fraser, and Thos. Campbell were the tenderers. The tenders are on schedule rates and the amount of contract depends on the amount of each class of work executed.
3.	The tenders were, received up to March 15, 1904. All the tenders were in on that date, and no tenders were received after that date.
4.	Yes, Mr. Willard Kitchen being the lowest tenderer according to schedule, was awarded the contract.


1.	What was the estimated cost of the first eleven miles of the Murray Harbour branch of the Prince Edward Island Railway from Southport east ?
2.	(a) Were tenders received for same ; (b) what were the names of tenderers, and the amount of each ; (c) what was the name of the tenderer whose tender was accepted, and the amount of same ?
3.	(a) Is this first eleven miles completed ; (b) if so, what was the cost of same ; (c) if not, why not, and what is the cost of same to date ?


EMMERSON (Minister of
Railways and Canals) :
1.	The estimated cost of the first 11 miles of Murray Harbour Branch of the Prince Edward Island Railway from Southport east
was $45,628.93.	.
o ial Yes. tenders were received, ihi Geo E Full. Willard Kitchen, John W McManus. J. B. McManus and Thos. Campbell were the tenderers. The tenders are on schedule rates and the amount of contract depends on the amount of each class of work executed.

(c). John W. McManus, being the lowest tenderer according to schedule, was awarded the contract, but on account of ill-health and inability to give the work his personal attention, and on that account only, he made application to the department to be relieved of his contract. His application was granted, and the contract was awarded to the next lowest tenderer according to schedule, viz. : -Mr. Williard Kitchen.
3. (a). No, it is not yet completed.
(b)	. Answered by question in subsection a.
(c)	. Track laying was commenced and carried on from Murray River and was only completed to Southport late in the season of 1903, therefore, work depending on track such as ballasting and widening dumps, &c., yet remains to be done. The account of cost of these 11 miles was not kept separate from the rest of the branch.


Mr. Speaker, befog are called I w°u,,.
1.	Has the government any data showing that immigrants to Canada have been swindled by ' confidence men ' and ' sharpers ' ?
2.	What precautions are taken by the government to ensure that immigrants en route to Canada, and passing through to their destination, are protected from such ' confidence men ' ?
3.	Are Canadian government officers in uniform upon all steamers and trains, to assist, instruct and direct immigrants?
4.	Are government detectives in civilian clothes upon the steamers and trains, to arrest those swindling, or attempting to swindle the immigrants ?
5.	Do government officials permit persons to pass among the immigrants en route, making contracts with them, taking deposits for the carrying out of the said contracts ; and in general diverting them from taking up homesteads, as originally intended ?


hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) to treat any question couched in proper terms by any hon. member of this House as a bona fide question. This question was couched in respectful terms and conformed in every way with the procedure of the House. My right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) says that the answer could be found in public documents. That is no answer as I have shown. He contends in the next place that the question is not a bona fide one. I say that is not a proper attitude for my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) to take because it is his duty to assume that my hon. friend beside me (Mr. Casgrain) was acting bona fide in asking this question, and in that view he was entitled to an answer. I therefore beg to move that the House do now adjourn.


Does my right friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) say tba rule is an abridgment of the former t*
practice ?


It former English practice.
the


On March the 17th I put the following question to the government:
How many members ol the House of Commons of Canada have been named to the position of lieutenant governor of any of the provinces of the Dominion since the 1st of August, 1896 ?
This question was followed by another, asking how many members of the House ef Commons had been appointed to judgeships and senatorships and other positions of emolument under the Crown. My hon. friend then said :
I would ask my hon. friend, so far as this question, and also questions 4, 5 and 6 are concerned, to move for a return.
When my right hon. friend asked me to move for a return, I thought it more convenient to go to the records myself and make a list I did this and then put the following question on April the 11th :
X. Have the following persons been appointed to positions, at the salaries named, since July, 1896, as follows Francis 3. Forbes, sub-col-leitor of customs, $120 ; Joseph Lavergne, judge, Superior Court, Quebec, $5,000 ; C. R. Devlin, emigration agent to Ireland, $2,000 ; Francois Langelier, judge, Superior Court, Quebec, $5,000; M. C. Cameron, lieutenant governor, $7,000 ; J. F. Lister, judge, Court of Appeals, Ontario, $5 000; P. A. Choquette, judge, Superior Court, Quebec, $4,000 ; C. I. Rinfret, district inspector of inland revenue, Quebec, $2,500 ; C. A. Beau-soleil, postmaster, Montreal, $4,000 ; M. E. Bernier, member of the board of railway commissioners, $8,000 ; A. G. Blair, chairman of the board of railway commissioners, $10,000 ; B. M. Britton, judge of the High Court of Judicature, Ontario, $5,000 ;. H. G. Carroll, judge of the Superior Court, Quebec, $3,500 ; Sir Louis Davies, judge, Supreme Court, Canada, $7,000 ; O. Desmarais, judge, Superior Court, Quebec, $4 000- T. B. Flint, Clerk of the House of Commons, $3,400 ; T. Fortin, judge of the Superior Court, Quebec, $4,000 ; D. C. Fraser, judge of the Supreme Court, Nova Scotia, $4,000; J. A. C. Madore, judge of the Superior Court, Quebec, $4,000 ; E. C. King, Senate ; B. R. Fiset, Senate ; John Yeo, Senate ; A. M. De-chene, Senate ; W. C. Edwards, Senate ; J. God-bout, Senate.; J. H. Legris, Senate ?
This list is not complete, and that is me of the reasons why I put the question. Df course, I had a perfect right, and it was probably my duty, to look through the mblic records and find out for myself what members of the House had been appointed to positions of emolument under the Crown, but I desired to obtain authentic information from the government on that point, and the fact that I made a mistake and gave an incomplete list n my question shows that in asking the government for the information. 1	'
joins what in the public interest I was entitled to do. 1 have just named 20 gentlm men who were appointed, but I find that


Will uW, fof friend (Mr. Casgrain) say who and who voted against that bill ?


I am not speaking that now.


Mr. Speaker, I have to thank my hon. friend from Montmorency (Mr. Casgrain) for the importance which he attributes to me in the councils of the liberal party. I am not aware that the individual views of a member of the great Liberal party of Canada, until adopted by fhat party, are to be considered as the views of the party as a whole. It is true that, at a certain period of my political life, I occupied a seat on the opposition side. For many years I had seen certain abuses growing in this House. I had seen members of parliament notoriously chosen to fill positions of emolument under the Crown when their period of usefulness in this chamber was at an end, men who were hostile to the government on many measures, and yet whose views were stifled by the promise of place.


Where is Blair ?


The hon. member for East Northumberland (Mr. Cochrane) asks me where Hon. Mr. Blair is. He is where I am perfectly sure my hon. friend from East Northumberland would extremely like to be. I say that for many years we had witnessed in this House the spectacle of half a dozen or, perhaps, a dozen members then supporting the government who had been chosen for appointment to office as soon as it suited the convenience of the government and the constituencies these gentlemen represented. If it had been the case of men appointed promptly from the ranks of supporters of the government, without tlieir appointment being promised or dangled before their eyes, then the independence of parliament, perhaps, would not have been assailed. But such was very far from being the case. And during the


Don't try to dra1' red herring across the trail.


Oh, oh.


Cremated.


I will refer my hon. friends to the hon. member for East Grey (Mr. Sproule) upon this subject. It is one more in his professional line than mine, but, so far as any of our uncompleted principles are concerned, we are here doing business at the old stand and prepared to give effect to them as soon as the circumstances make it wise to do so.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. Postmaster General (Sir William Mulock), on taking his seat, referred a certain question to the hon. member for East Grey and therefore I consider it in order to reply. In the first place the hon. gentleman says that the individual opinion of a single member of a party cannot be taken as the policy or principles of the party. He followed that up by admitting that although the motion was made by himself, he was not supported very strongly by his own friends in the House. He said that a motion might be made by an insignificant member of his party. Did he regard himself then as an insignificant member of his party ? Did he wish to make the country believe that he was an insignificant member of his party, and that he had enunciated a principle that was not accepted by his party or held to be a correct one ? As an argument to the contrary, I might mention that the same motion which the hon. member for North York then made and embalmed, as he said, in ' Hansard ' as an expression of the principles of his party was read and quoted and commented all through the country as one of the burning principles of his party that would be lived up to and not departed from when they came to power. Have they lived up to it ?


No.


Have they departed from ? The hon. Postmaster General said, very uly, that it is embalmed. Yes, it is created like many of their other principles, he hon. gentleman said that the motion as made when the party in power had not le confidence of the country. It was dur-ig the session of 1895 that the motion was iade During that session several votes ,ok place in this House, and while speak-,g from memory, I think I am correct in lying that the government of that day had ie confidence of the House to the extent of
commons
a majority of 53 or 54. They had not lost the confidence of the House or of the country. I do not think the hon. gentleman could have spoken with deliberation upon that point. The hon. gentleman said : We are not following the bad principles of" the Conservative party. What is the difference ? My hon. friend beside me (Mr. Casgrain) read out the names of a number of members of parliament who have been appointed to positions of emolument under the Crown directly from this House. What was the complaint of the hon. member for North York in 1895 ? that it was a bad and pernicious principle and that it should not be tolerated and he embodied the principle which he set forth in a resolution which was submitted to this House in the shape of a Bill.


What the hon. gentleman voted against.


The hon. Postmaster General says : We are not following the bad principle of our predecessors. Where is the difference between what the present government have done and what their predecessors did ? It is only a matter of degree. It is exactly the same thing. What was the original complaint ?-that members of parliament were being appointed by the government of the day to positions of emolument under the Crown. What is the complaint to-day '-that the same thing is being done. Where is the difference between the course of the previous government and that of the present government ?-none at all except, that, whereas the previous government appointed a number of members of parliament to offices of emolument, the present government have appointed nearly three times the number; therefore, it is only a question of degree and to that extent the offence of the present government is very much greater than that of their predecessors.
I think the hon. Postmaster General should be at least one in this House to mention that question, because, if there is anything embalmed in the records of ' Hansard ' that is discreditable to both him and his party, it is their failure to adhere to the principles which they have enunciated. The hon. Postmaster General made another statement to the effect that no member of this House, after he had received an intimation from the government that he was about to be appointed to a position, sat in this House or voted. What did he think of Mr. Langelier who sat in the House after having written a letter to the Montreal ' Witness ' declaring that he had been promised the office of Lieutenant Governor of Quebec by the right hon. Prime Minister, and that the promise was not carried out ' Was that not a violation of this principle ? That circumstance is in direct contradiction to the assertion of the lion. Postmaster General that there was no violation of the principle by any member of this House. I have only given one in-


You said so.


The Postmaster General said that I made that statement in a speech in this House.
Sir WILLIAM MULOCIv. Yes.


I would like the Postmaster General to show me his authority.
Sir WILLIAM MULOCIv I will get it
for you.


If I remember aright, I was very careful and very guarded in any remarks I made in reference to that question.


statement that I was opposed to government ownership of railways. What I said was, that government ownership was preferable to the scheme of the Prime Minister, and I still believe that the plan proposed by my hou. friend (Mr. R. L. Borden) is preferable to the plan proposed by llie Prime Minister. 1 stated that, but at the same time I did not commit myself as to government ownership as a general principle. I stated that in Germany government ownership was a success, and that in Belgium it was a success as far as it went.
I do not believe, that if government -railways were under the control of the Prime Minister and the men he has had as Minister of Railways, government ownership would be a benefit to this country ; but it is possible that conditions may arise which would make government ownership of railways an advantage. I have not made up my" mind on the question as to this country. I do not advocate one or the other.


Hear, hear.


The itself is when a motion to adjourn been made.	^


I asked nM hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) a	&\lago, if he argued that our practic jjg fered from the former English PraCtlforii)?r said that our rules did not alter the	cede
English practice. If he desires to from that position, well and good
aU-
not


Not a*


Mention one.


I could name them if I had them before me.


Name one.


I will look cier the appointments. I cannot carry them ah iu my mind.


How do you know what promises were made ?


It was notorious and they were appointed.


123$
self far away in a foreign land. He talks about that railway policy in scathing and withering terms. Let him remember that that policy was put before the electorate in the county of East Bruce, and the county of Lambton, with the result that in Lambton the majority was increased from 200 to 600 and in Bruce it was also considerably increased.


Was that policy put before the electors of Guysboro ?


I do not know whether it was or not, but it was put before the people of St. John, and it was put before the jieople of the province of Quebec in various constituencies, with the result that the majorities in the province of Quebec were cut down to the extent of about 4,000. My hon. friend the Postmaster General may rest assured that whenever he is willing to1 come and discuss that policy, to which he refers in such contemptuous terms, on any public platform, there is not one man on this side of the House who will not be ready to go and meet him. But I am inclined to think that when the opportunity offers, my-hon. friend will again seek refuge in a foreign clime instead of coming out and assisting gentlemen who, like the Deputy speaker, are ever ready to come forward and face their political opponents on the public platform. I would not have made any reference to this had not the Postmaster General, without any cause that I can see, seen lit to introduce into this debate-I suppose he had no other answer-improper leteienees to another debate of this House as to which we might have called him to order, but as to which we did not think it worth while to raise the point of order. I submit again that the matter which I have brought to your attention, Mr. Speaker-I trust in a respectful and courteous manner-is one on which possibly we may on some future occasion have from you a matured decision.


BRODEUR {Minister of Inland Revenue). I am very glad indeed that this question, which has been brought up also by my hon. friend from Montmorency (Mr. Oasgrain), is going to be considered bv this House. To what extent members of this House have the right to put questions to members of the government concerning public matters, has always been a disputed point. On the first day of this session, I think, the hon. member for Montmorency gave notice of a question asking how many members of this House had been appointed to offices of emolument under the Grown since 1886. I was sorry to see my hon. friend put such a question, and I suppose that if he had been here at the end of last session, lie would certainly not have put it. ,	.


I am not surprised that you are sorry I put the question.





The hon. gentlen^ should know that last session the same q)ie tion was put.


And not answered.


I beg the hon. gehj^ man's pardon. A motion was made for ^ production of a report, and a report brought down, because my hon. friend 1 referred to it.


No.


At the beginning 0*cf session the hon. member for Montmn. erS asked the government how many 11)13 of this House had been appointed.


I know that.	^|)(j


He received a rep^^e two days ago he came back with the question.


No, an entirely
di#ere0t
, il U, dll CUV*lv'*
question.	fl(j'


I think it will ^vee mitted that the question put two 01 days ago by my hon. friend froh* e morency was, in all respects, We s' $eS' the one he put at the beginning of sion.	0jjjt


I was simply nod-attention to the fact that when [DOT] friend from Montmorency renewed a 0,tt 0 tion the other day, he was absolute j order.	pjf


Why then 

 , lion, friend raise the point of orde [DOT] p


' BORDEN. That does not indicate great confidence, in your ruling, Mr Speaker.


House resumed adjourned debate on the proposed motion of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, [DOT] That Mr Speaker do now leave the Chair, for the House to go into committee to consider a certain resolution concerning the ratification of the agreement between His Majesty the King and me Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company dated the 8th day of March, 1904 ' ; and the proposed motion of Mr. Borden (Halifax) in amendment thereto.
Mr. Speaker, even if I had not intended to say anything on the question now before the House, I think the speeches made this afternoon by the hon. member for Montmorency (Mr. Casgrain), the hon. member for South Lanark (Mr. Haggart) and the hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. It. L. Borden) would impel any ordinary representative of the people in this country to at least draw attention to the position of the various leaders of the opposition upon what I consider the most important question that has, for many years, engaged the attention of this House. We have had this afternoon the delightful spectacle of the hon. member for South Lanark-one of the oldest members of this House, an ex-Ministei' of Railways and Canals, and. certainly one of the leaders, or the leader, from the great province of Ontario-we have this hon. gentleman standing up after his twenty-two years of experience in public life, and, when a project involving the national credit, the national honour, the national prosperity of Canada is before this House, making the candid admission that he does not know whether he is in favour of government ownership or not. And yet the hon. gentleman on two occasions has voted on that [DOT]question, and during this session has spolten both for and against it. Why, Sir, I remember, when trumpet-tongued and clarion-toned, the hon. member for South Lanark last year spoke against government ownership. I remember when the hon. member for \\ innipeg (Mr. Puttee) moved a resolution on the floor of this House in favour of government ownership, and as
Mr. SI'EAKER.




help out the Intercolonial Railway with through-freight. From Sudbury, the end of the Soo line, through to Fort William is 555 miles. The best evidence of the poverty of that section is that though it has been completed for nearly eighteen years, I defy lion, gentlemen opposite to point to 555 bona fide settlers along its line which are not now employed by the Canadian Pacific Railway or Hudson Bay Company or incidentally to these companies. That is the section of road which the hon. gentlemen wanted to unload on to the Canadian taxpayer. That is the kind of government ownership which the leader of the opposition wants us to take. And the hon. gentleman himself (Mr. R. L. Borden) was so conscious of the onesided character of the bargain he proposed, that he felt called upon to say that nobody in the Canadian Pacific Railway had ever, suggested it to him. Why did the hon. gentleman feel called upon to say that the Canadian Pacific Railway had not suggested that enterprise to him ? It was because he knew full well that with less money than the figures I have given this House, the two connecting lines could be built, one costing seven and a half million dollars and the other eight million dollars, and the company would not only have a surplus of $2,500,000 in cold cash in their pockets but would have unloaded this white elephant on to the taxpayers of the Dominion.
Then I find that the hon. member for West Toronto spoke about the ' Midsummer Night's Dream,' and at page 893 of ' Hansard ' exclaimed ' God help us.' Then at page 885 he exclaimed : ' I pray Heaven the Liberal party do not built it.' I can very readily understand the midsummer night's dream of the hon. gentleman.
I can readily understand Miss Canada ly ing prostrate, as he described her. I can readily understand her awakening to the proposition of the leader of the opposition, and her friends raising the cry, ' God help us,' as they heard it suggested that this political crime should be perpetrated upon the people. I can understand the attitude of the hon. leader of the opposition with his not overabundant knowledge of railway subjects; I can understand and appreciate the help given him by the hon. member for West Toronto, who would like to be Finance Minister in the Conservative government, if they come into power in the year 1905. I can understand him saying,
Heaven help us ; I hope they will not build it, in, order that we may palm the elephant off on the people of this country.' I dislike miking, in the absence of the hon. member for West Toronto, the references that, it seems to me, should be made to him. Apparently the hon. gentleman forgot himself. My mind goes back to a time shortly after the hou. gentleman became a member of this House. Mr. McMullen, now Senator McMullen, and Mr. Wood, afterwards Senator Wood, and now gone to his long home, were members


I want to close.


Ten minutes past six now.


Well, the hon. gentleman may go.


I call your attention Mr. Speaker, that it is six o'clock.


I hope that the hon. member for Montmorency (Mr. Casgrain) will not take that ground. I want to catch the train at seven o'clock, and I will be able to close in a few minutes. But if the hon. member for Montmorency insists, I shall sit down and remain.


I suppose that by leave of the House the hon. gentleman may be allowed to finish.


The hon. gentleman might be more polite about it.


I am not going to take a leaf out of the book of the hon. member when he addresses the House himself. I tell the member for Montmorency that if he charges me with impoliteness it is like Satan rebuking sin.


It is six o'clock.


Well, I will remain.
At 6.10 p.m., House took recess.
After Recess.
House resumed at eight o'clock.


Mr. Speaker, when the House rose at six o'clock I was just closing my remarks, which had been directed towards the elucidation of the same expressions concerning the Grand Trunk Pacifie directors, to whom the hon. member for West Toronto had been referring as fakirs. In order that there cannot be any misunderstanding in regard to this matter, I desire to refer exactly to what the hon. member for West Toronto said. I have, in the few remarks which I have made, referred strictly to the names mentioned in the agreement. My reason for doing so was because the hon. member for West Toronto had referred to the people who were parties to the agreement. At page 884 of the unrevised ' Hansard,' I quote from the speech delivered on April 6 by the hon. member for West Toronto :
The government last year closed this bargain with tile Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company, they were negotiating with and closed a bargain with a company that l.ad no backing, with a lot of fakirs who proposed to get the Grand Trunk Railway Company to endorse their scheme.
In order that the House may know exactly to whom he refers as being fakirs, I quote from chapter 71 of the statutes of Canada, 1903, page 463. This is the agreement and these are the people with whom the bargain was made and with whom the bargain was closed. He makes no distinction between those who conducted the negotiations


oile the Canadian Bank of Commerce, dai i tlle best au(l most respected finan-°1' on fk ons in the Dominion of Canada ti0ll 1 ,he continent of America, an institu-Uietl'vhose branches have extended to the foil. , phs of the west, whose branches are dt}g in New York'city and the other large ? °f the American republic. In London the p across the Atlantic, you will find tila^ anadian Bank of Commerce, and I saj Lank- 6 directors and shareholders of the in Commerce are quite as respectable Um J* standing in this country, and_ have ])r0ln.. their direction an institution quite as
and whose position is as well the i, as that of any institution with which been Member for West Toronto has ever W hMhtiiied. Towards men of that stand-"'oi'ken of that financial ability, who have be themselves up from poor men to t^hao .hancial kingS of the Dominion of tt'es't 'r' 't ill-becomes the hon. member for are ti,;oronto t0 use such language, if these Not e Men to whom he refers as fakirs. IH'esj.iM'ly ig Senator George A. Cox hierce 11 of the Canadian Bank of Com-Coni|l' hht also of the Canada Life Insurance "'hich* an institution in life insurance of He is ®.Ver.v man in Canada to-day is proud. SUranoR f? C01111«cted with the Western Ashot a !°mpany. In point of fact, there is Lota '"gle man in the Dominion of Canada, c'°ra n eild of it to the other, whose re-
Hr. - 8 " "	.	. .	.
r. a financier is higher than that of *Mate, at whom the hon. member for West l11 the ' ™ged with an after-dinner glow,
ibrow lifxuberance of llis spirit, sought to '''hole (i ) at by calling him a fakir. In this -sife "©bate there seems to have been a ' ,i parting with the leader of the oppo-, °l'onto°'Vu to the hon. member for West "©h a,,; to throw stones at reputable Is been t^hitlulge in a style of debate that li turn hitherto unknown in this House, hbfi this fUle ' Hansard ' of April 5, and l ' the statement made by the hon. leade* It he PPositi°n :
thf exteiT,?,1' use<! any language with regard to Qeoro-i' 011 of the Intercolonial Railway to orSian Bay-
6terre(j^M the Hon. A. G. Blair to whom he
hi'' "on 1,1 ,
tr* °Uliadi ,nave expressed himself absolutely ?re<l ctlon to what he said in a carefully ' Hr. n,®.ln°- In a memo, which he publish-I ^ la!r said this
!? you to note, Mr. Speaker. ' in a >*ht is "Mh he published.' That state-
\v lfl i
that
it
UeveJf^'on April the 5th.
That memo
f.	LHC GUI. JLAJCll.	O
?ii bight .Published until it was published hot I ,i tb.ibe Montreal 1 Star'-on April t 1 side ety any hon. member sitting on to	, the House to state where
lv it ;il [DOT]''"dished. Let us come up U'o, Let , Meet it fairly and honest-fa, haVe in 1. know what kind of politics the nnVi- s country ; let us know how i outical honour of men is sacred
in this House ; let us know what is the duty so far as that honour is concerned, of the leader of a great party. Mr. Speaker, that was an absolutely private memorandum from which the leader of the opposition quoted. It was marked ' confidential ' on the top; it was printed for the fellow ministers of a cabinet minister, and for their use only, and it was stolen by some civil servant, the political ally of the hon. gentleman opposite. And on the 5th day of April, the leader of the opposition, having gained possession of that privileged communication ; of that confidential memorandum, of that memorandum marked 1 confidential ' as between cabinet ministers, reads it in this House, and in order to cover up his tracks and in order to save himself from being charged with one of the grossest breaches of professional conduct and etiquette-not to say anything of political etiquette-that was ever ventured in any parliament wherein the English language was spoken ; he said it was published. The leader of the opposition knew very well that whether he found it or acquired it-and he did not find it; he got it and he got it wrongfully, and he knew when he he got it that he had no business with that memorandum, and be knew it was got by reason of being stolen by some person in the employ of this government and to -whom the kind hand of charity and forbearance has been extended by this government-the leader of the opposition knew that he might just as well find a private letter belonging to any man or any woman in the street, a letter marked ' private ' and ' confidential ' and bring it into this House and read it; and then in order to cover up his conduct, make the misstatement that the matter was published. I say, Mr. Speaker, if political morality in this country; if political honour, if political etiquette has got to that low ebb in which such things are not sacred ; and that this can he done in order to score a point against the Grand Trunk Pacific and to help his ally, the member for West Toronto (Mr. Osier) and the Canadian Pacific Railway to bleed further and for some years to come, the farmers of the Northwest Territories ; then it is cime the people of this country should know
it.
Then, Sir, I have another precious docu-nent in my hands. I have here a document 'faded ' The Grand Trunk Railway Com-lany of Canada. Minutes of proceedings it the ordinary general, halt yeariy meet-ng of shareholders, held at the Terminus Vote) Cannon Street, E.C., on Tuesday, March 8th. 3004, Sir Charles Rivers-Wilso'i >
C M G O.B., in the chair.' I listened <o he hon. member for West Toronto reading datements alleged to have been made by Mr Charles Rivers-Wilson at a meeting of J o Grand Trunk shareholders held in Lon-lo„ I thought it was more than passing Orange that we had not heard this before,
and 1 therefore set out to see what the minutes of that meeting were. I searched and searched the London ' Economist '	1
searched the ' Financial News ' and I searched ' Herapath's Railway Journal,' all printed and published in London. England. It struck me that a great enterprise involving the construction of over three thousand miles of railway in Canada, and with a great railway company behind it, having 40,000 shareholders in England, Ireland and Scotland, with about $200,000,000 of invested money in this country; it struck me that the groat London newspapers would have taken sufficient cognizance of the fact to report all the important references and all the important utterances which were made. But, Sir, I found in none of these papers any such stuff quoted as that which was printed to be quoted by the lion, member for West Toronto. I knew that the financial men of Edinburgh and Glasgow, and the ill ancial institutions of Scotland were luavily interested, but in none of the Glasgow or Edinburgh papers could I find any such statements reported. I wondered where it came from. And where do you suppose it came from ? It came from the hand of the lion, member for West Toronto ;Mr. Osier), who says he hired a stenographer, or that a stenographer was hired, to go into that meeting for the purpose of taking down the actual statements, word for word, as they were uttered. Now who do you think was interested in halving those words taken down ? Why it is the hon. member for Toronto (Mr. Osier) who was so interested. The hon. member for West Toronto (Mr. Osier) is so generous and so anxious that the people of this country should not be imposed on, that he had it printed at his own expense. And here it is; I hold it in my hand as a' monument of ihe generosity of the hon. member for West Toronto. Is there a man in Canada who believes any such report as that ? What was it got up for ? Is there a man who believes that these great financial journals would not have contained a record or that meeting which was so important to the financial men of England, and to the financial men of Scotland ? Why the whole thing is put up for the purpose of tiying to show that Sir Charles Rivers-Wilson either misrepresented the facts to his shareholders, or that this government is disagreeing with his views, and in oruer to bolster that up they pretended to have smuggled a shorthand reporter into the meeting, and this is the product of his labours. The hon. member for West Toronto, went to considerable expense ; he went to considerable trouble. I suppose be thinks lie did it in the interests of the bleeding and suffering humanity whom he did not wish to see the Grand Trunk Pacific imposed upon ; but out of whom he hoped for years to come to be able to get undirnin-ished dividends for the Canadian Pacific Mr. COWAN.
ce
he is the mouth-pi®1
the
and
tbib
ue«
Railway ; of which in this House, the director, cabinet minister.	bel-
I listened with interest to the hon. men for West York (Mr. Campbell) aha p pointed out another reason why Sent Yggd on the other side of this House are oPP Jj1(>
to this enterprise. He pointed out tha Canadian Pacific Railway were carrying,, a lower rate the merchandise front -^,e erican ports to the west than they, charging from Canadian ports. I ant W* the judgment of every man in Canada '' ,e I make the statement, that wherever llV is competition in transportation, eith ^ rail or water, or mule-pack train if y0® you find lower rates than you find oBe competition does not exist. There is 11 to-particle of bona fide railway compete1 y0n day in the Northwest or in Manitoba, have got there the Canadian Northern e the Canadian Pacific Railway, and they made their amalgamation to use each lines, and they have come and gone 0{ together. The result is, that the far®;eS of the west has to pay the combine ra il0tii freight and he will have to pay them the Grand Trunk Pacific gets into th® try. to relieve him from the inciibu® .c.jn which he is groaning. To-day, the A-no^ tbe railways are carrying the product a(iG" American manufacturer to the yc 'at s cities in the Northwest Territory < \s lower rate than the Canadian P? a<ji carrying the factory goods of the °,L,nat ** manufacturer to the same points.	'
the kind of thing that the Consery this House stand up and d Canadian manufacturer is at a
i'atl'efrue
defendetenu- Mgdisadya® nts the fye rtlF
to the extent of the difference in from the American factory towns fr°j: Northwest, as compared with the v„,tb'"'e!' r Canadian factory towns to the a and yet, gentlemen opposite are m 01,pos' of that. The hon. the leader of ^.jeii®, tion and his supporters pose as tn , th®-. of the Canadian manufacturer, ana ^ pol|C' stand up in this House and opP°® which will give him railway L'° .	or®®,,
that will reduce his freight rates, re$c that the product o* his factory ,JlB a1 Winnipeg. Brandon.vMoosejaw",	e r*1 B
the other points west at the « tWj of freight, or lower rates of ®er h® ; his rival American manufact gB)- [DOT] enjoys.. The leader of the opp°sl , s increase the duty. Well, it J®11 ,uty evident to every man that if the o0t, 1
creased to help the manufacture ^
western ranchman, and the w jce. sumer, must pay the increase m V o is the kind of policy that the a- .ntere~ opposition, assisted by the ( "
Toronto "	^
I come now to the last P*an.^„'oppa^fiS
'coK
~ t«
gentleman from perpetuate.
I come no,, w form of the hon. lender of the. and that is government owner
ship'
ver®Y found child ; that has not had birth Johi !i°ng uP°n that side of the House. Sir !{,,„* Macdonald never favoured it; Sir John Part °na^ tke distinguished leader of their Snid-V spoke against it ; Sir John Macdonald Uli|t no railroad could be run as economical] ?hd i
e°mpay Py a government as it could by a
There was a commission in 1892, isto,.' will read now what the Deputy Minliri,,,,. °f Railways and lit-	Schreiber. had to
r' Sehrdan who can
Canals, say
Mr. Col-about it.
not a ^re'*:)er is not our aI>l,oiiitiiierit. He is
Grp"' u*an who can be accused of being a ServoM^*san; I do not say that he is a Const oil e 0ne, but he is not a Grit partisan tvhiCK ev®nts. Here is question No. 3,228 .Was Put t0 bim and here is his
Wild ,etl you come to go through farm lands or trai]vaa|fs, do you have much trouble? We gen-®ut the V? very little trouble with farm lands, '"as t re is an instance of a piece of land that 8favej ,n for the Intercolonial Railway for a Jurietin « *n the wild woods near Gloucester thihh 11 .f°r which the government offered $5, I s°ih6l, Afterwards they increased the offer The o«7at- hoping thus to settle the matter. wner is now claiming $70,000 for the land.
ki^Un 1 may add, for the benefit of gentle-Serv, °PlJOsite, that the government, the Con-
Vathv .
fli,00O:
^'OUCOol 1 m
Sak>We of'
.overnment, paid the modest for that gravel in the hush near
Brunswick. That is a S°veVn 01 wbat you run up against with teaii^ent ownership. Sir John Macdonald ^hclin. ^* fbe leaders on the Conservative 'yer6 s bi the past realized it ; they eVen ., against government ownership ; agaii. leader of the opposition voted ister Ia«t year. The Conservative Min-he VoPr Railways (Mr. Haggart), although this Sp a.twic'e against it, and made a speech that	on both sides of the fence, says
mPs he is against it, but to-day he {,'°W. Now what does government The western man be-

«ves

and
Now mean ?
*hem- ls not fai' wrong, that with gov-'1 the 1 0Wnership he would get lower rates bcians ^,sy Process of squeezing the poli-faay Iji/ban he could obtain from a com-lhe u e- The annual deficits arising from ^et,	fates would have to he
oe°P'e y, by him alone, but largely by the -biebee 1 t7*e 0l(i settled parts of Ontario aud !n °thc',. Wk° are served by company lines ;
Words, the latter would not only
nay
e to
for
0f thej,. Pay c°mpany rates for the hauling id We
^ecl fr ?Wl1 Products, but to submit to he West tllc transportation of those from ►pbiPetHi. which to some extent enter into
with theirs-a state of affairs
i e onDn ij.bardly appreciate. The leader of J?6 co, . Sltion must see that the equities of for one of two things-either w. -^u	. 8 bi the country should be purtm linl PR'fated by the state, or existing llied 0 bke the Intercolonial should be er to company control. In no
cRaV title!
other way can even-handed justice prevail throughout Canada In the important matter
of rates.	, . .	.	,
There is a point, however, which the western settler is apt to overlook. Suppose we did extend the Intercolonial to Winnipeg, Edmonton or Port Simpson, what would it do for branch lines ? Does any one imagine that the government could build such lines paralleling or in direct opposition to those of the Canadian Pacific and Canadian Northern, which have been bonused by the people and in which a great amount of private capital has been invested without imperilling the public credit ? To put it more strongly, can any one suppose that any government, Liberal or Tory, could, do so without incurring the stern ^ opposition of those two companies and having to face it in the cabinet chamber, and above all. In the party caucus 1 And what, in all likelihood, would be the attitude of the members from the older provinces, who, it is well to remember, still control Parliament ? In the case of the proposed Grand Trunk Pacific, Ontario and Quebec set much store on the fact that, as a child of the Grand Trunk, it will have the advantage of xlirect connection with the network of Grand Trunk lines and branches in those provinces ; will be able, that is, to collect merchandise going west and distribute products coming east at minimum cost. Such an alliance is manifestly of just as much importance to the western settler. But if we had to depend on an extension of the Intercolonial, as the leader of the opposition suggests, it would either have to do without feeders in Ontario and Quebec or build them in opposition to existing lines, which would create the same difficulty as before.
But supposing the scheme of the hon. gentlemen opposite should be carried out, and the road should be extended as far west as Winnipeg or Edmonton, where are they going to get branch lines to it ? Do you suppose? Sir that when the lion, gentlemen come into power ill 2005,
Hear, hear.


I use the 2000 advisedly, but I will take off the five-suppose that in the vear of grace 2000, the hon. member foi West Toronto (Mr. Osier) should happen to he a member of the government, being stiff Canadian Pacific Railway director and member of its executive, bondholder and stockholder, and that there shouk? ,^;.'	?"
bined arrangement for inning powers be tween the Canadian Northern and Canadian
for West1 Toronto, tteflnancikl critic, should he Z Minister of Finance in this country, that government road have a Tn net time getting branch lines against the


of my constituents are identical in principle with the interests of the rest of Canada. To-day, owing to the high rates that ^ are charged by the Canadian Pacific, American fruits are carried from the other side of the Detroit river to the Northwest, to the exclusion of a better article grown by our own people, backed by Canadian capital-the product of our perfect Canadian climate and of skilful and intelligent Canadian labour.


eminent is not dealing honestly or fairly or openly with the people. Let me call attention to the clause 2 of this agreement. By clause 2 it is stated, notwithstanding anything contained in the twentieth and twenty-ninth paragraphs of the said contract, the company shall, when it shall have completed the construction of the said western division in accordance with the terms of the said contract as hereby amended, and shall have supplied rolling^ stock to the amount of .$15,000,000, if the eastern division, shall not then have been constructed and completed by the government, be entitled to the return of their deposit.
What I desire to call attention to, with regard to that clause in the contract, is simply this. Why were those words inserted :
If the eastern division shall not then have been constructed and completed by the government.
If it was the intention, as no doubt it always has been, that as soon as the Grand Trunk Pacific had completed the western division of the road and supplied the rolling stock as provided by the original agreement, the deposit made with the government should be returned, why was not this government satisfied to express this intention in. so many words ?
Why not leave the matter as it was expressed in so many words in section 13 of the agreement, as it appears in the statute, chapter 71 of the statutes of last year. Are not the insertion of these words clear notice to the people of Canada that this government does not intend to construct this road in eight years or, perhaps, at all ? At any rate, it leaves this government an opportunity of playing upon the words of this section: it leaves it open for them to say : Oh, we could not build this portion of the road for reasons that have since appeared. But they will not say so until it shall have answered the purpose of the government in deceiving the electors into believing that it will be built. But Liberal members will say : if you do not believe that it is the intention of the government to build this portion of the road, why make such a fuss about it ? The words can do no harm. My answer is that I make a fuss about this clause of the contract, because it is being used by the govern ment of this country to deceive the people into believing that the road will be constructed, though the government have no intention of carrying that out. This is being used-for a dishonest purpose, to secure unfairly the support of the electors for the government. As I read this clause, it is practically a guarantee to the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway that this government will not build, and, consequently, the Grand Trunk Pacific will not be required to operate or to furnish the rolling stock for this portion of the road. Now, let me refer the House to another


the Jatercolonial. That _
- orin centre of all opposition to the govprovince has been
the railway. The most violent critics of thost . ®rc°lonial in parliament, as well as its t°und *1 er opponents in the press, are to be 4ble o„?re' and this is because no consider-trlen,jivc.on °£ the people has any direct lew p y interest in the railway. Relatively It d0e_°I^e from that province travel over it. ha\-e uaot touch the province, and Ontarians an	rather brought to look upon it as
StitutioUn an(^ wasteful, if not corrupt, in-®eck f tled like a mill-stone around the tauge . the country, to be endured only bethel as c 'vas a part of the national compact, ^°Uia' a Piece of public property which they tions f S'adly see transferred to the corpora-This the relief of the Dominion exchequer, hut iee"ng does not arise from sectionalism, Ce*tuat r,at*ler a prejudice, fostered and ac-*heir	both political parties, each in
tioij in 7 having made a football of the ques-e|iuiinatg"1eii' Patty conflicts. All this would be
*S the inf {rora Ontario politics as completely tn trom tercoIonial Railway has been eliminat-t e subiP°litics ih the maritime provinces as ttusiop ;eeh °£ party controversy, if the ex" still jp 0 the Georgian Bay were effected, and a,J surely would this happy condition ki govo^ it were a part of the policy of IJttavra rninent to extend the railway from "Stl! '	"
4|Ja auy other suitable point on the ti!lch a ]*1 antic road, to