Report of the Northwest Mounted Police.- Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
Mr. Speaker, before the Orders of the Day are called, I would like to ask the right lion, the First Minister if there is any information before the government to confirm the report that comes from British Columbia that the Emperor of China has made overtures to the imperial government seeking to interfere with the anti-Chinese legislation of this parliament at its last session ?


There is no information of such a character in the hands of the government.


I would like to ask the Prime (Minister whether or not there is any objection to placing on the table of the House the instructions or

commissions issued to the members of the Joint High Commission. We understand that it is uncertain whether or not that commission will again assemble. There is no immediate probability at least of its being convoked. I do not recollect of the instructions or commissions ever having been placed before this House, and I assume that there is no objection now to placing them on the table, for the purpose of informing the House and the country as to the authority which the members of that commission had in conducting their negotiations with representatives of the government of the United States.


So far as my memory serves me, there are no other instructions than those contained in the commission, which I think was placed on the table of the House some years ago. At all events, there can be no objection to its being again placed on the table.


My right hon. friend may be correct. If so, it is not my fault that I have not seen the commission, because I made inquiry for it in the library, and was informed that there was no such document there. If it had been laid on the *table of the House, I assume that it would have been there.


I would to ask the government whether or not a yjr correspondence between the Hon. Mr- ^ges and the government respecting the e ^ which led to his resignation, has been I before the House. The corresponded jp, ic was placed before the House oj p Blair himself during the past sessm rd' contained in pages 0740-0747 of ' I;aLjneilt of last session. There has been no Star so far as I am aware, that the whole ;lIjd correspondence has been brought doW^olllo formally laid before the House. I ask the Prime Minister whether the.^ BOt, of it has been brought down, and,AtiS^ whether there is any objection to o down the remainder ?	^ 1


Motion agreed to, and Bill read time.
at :i<
Bill (No. 57) to incorpora,te the	IS1'1,11
Railway Bridge Company of 1	„
wick.-Mr. C. Marcil.	TmpeNal 3#
Bill (No. 58) respecting the I' *Iia<ja-and Investment Company of °	>
A. T. Thompson.	tl.eal TLi'
Bill (No. 59) respecting the	0
and Island Railway Company-	,
frion.	,	.	P1.
Bill (No. 60) respecting Valley Railway Company-
Bill
(No. 61) to incorporate the Thorold
and r	oxj to incorporate tne xn
0jan J-'ake Erie Railway Company.-Mr. Ger-
Q(No. 62) respecting the Welland and 11
8«n 6 kake Railway Company.-Mr. Costittian,
respecting me vvenanu anu
'na Island Bridge Company.-Mr. Ger-
8l*l!! (?o.
'lave
63) respecting the Edmonton and
Brini ®°- 64) respecting the Strait of Canso ge Company.-Mr. Wade.
SS. * LAKE CHAMPLAIN.'
r' E. D. SMITH-by Mr. Clarke-asked :
Mitjm answer to question of April 6th, the Charnar.°f Agriculture said: 'The ss. 'Lake v6nti]ajjin ' kad the ordinary system of cowl
vei
Ike government examined these cowl «,.i;tors, and found them in nroner order and
V°yagecient size' on this boat on each outward ' When perishable cargo was aboard ?
cu]t®k- SYDNEY FISHER (Minister of Agri-Harjjfw- One of the inspectors for the Detachof Agriculture has reported on from v-Jtward voyage of this steamship, both S6ason port of Montreal during the past St. j i °I navigation and from the port of ea i ' N.B., during the winter season, and ?>s fnii rePort the ventilation is described
decks : No. 1-2 in-takes, 2 out-V 4 ' No. 2-2 in-takes ; No. 3-2 in-takes ; fhives . 2 in-takes ; No. 5-2 in-takes, 2 out-Ori0' No. 6-2 out-takes.
, lloji' : No. 1-2 in-takes, 2 out-takes.
% p o .No- 1-2 in-takes, 2 out-takes : L' ~ in-takes ; No. 3-2 in-takes ; No. "o. r 'J^kes ; No. 5-2 in-takes, 2 out-takes ; i -the v 0l]t'takes.
i ihchi en.tilators in the 'tween decks were R inPi-,es in diameter, and those in the holds , <rv s:
11 iuL, inspector is instructed to mention of n3)ort the fact of a ventilator being ?ilthiur.*-61' 'I he so finds it when making his ot ''«on. The reports do not state that
and found them in proper order and
*411/
the 'tv AY
ventilators were out of order.
^LRNnox asked :
cit,the total cost of the Railway Cattle-
;mmissi°a*
(,\va * R. EMMERSON (Minister of Rail-atWi * 5JanaIs0- The total cost of the b., ai'o Commission was $6,828,68.
wing electric power to united
ltl. _	STATES.
61.	asked :
a*'^ application been made to the gov-in P issi'on t i£ so>
when and by whom, for ^ahada r° obtain electric power generated [DOT] fo convey it to the United States ?
2.	If such application has been made, what action has the government taken, or what decision has the government come to, in respect to the matter ?
No record can be found of any such application.


1.	What report, if any, has the government received relative to the survey and appropriation of a new entrance by rail into the town of Alberton, Prince county, Prince Edward Island, and the avoidance of the ' Y ' nuisance, under which the place has long suffered ?
2.	Before the new station is commenced at Alberton, will this nuisance be removed by selecting a proper line of entrance ?


1.	The department has received a report from the General Manager, which does not favour the proposed change.
2.	The matter is under consideration as to what shall be done.


1.	How many commissions in the imperial service of the British empire are allotted to officers from the Canadian militia annually ?
2.	Are these commissions over and above those given graduates of the Royal Military College, of Kingston ?
3.	What are the conditions under which the six commissions are supposed to be granted ?
i.	What examinations are to be passed ? If this information is too detailed for a question, will the government have it laid upon the Table of the House ?
5.	For the non-military examination, that is, for the literary examination, is a standing in one or the other of Canada's universities accepted in lieu thereof ? If so, what is the standing required ?
6.	How many Canadian militia officers have received such commissions annually since 1899, inclusive ?
7.	Are special commissions in the West African service, or other similar service, given to Canadian officers besides ?
8.	If so, what are conditions required for such service ?


1.	Six.
2.	Yes.
3.	An officer of the colonial military forces who is a candidate for a commission in the British army will be required-
(a)	. To be unmarried, and to be between the ages of 18 and 25 on the 1st January of the year in which he is allowed to present himself for the examination in military subjects.
(b)	. To have served as an officer in the local military force of the colony from which he is nominated, and to have attend-
.1359

ed two annual trainings, each training to be in a distinct year, or have seen active service in the field.
The application should be accompanied by-
(a)	. An extract from the register of the candidate's birth ; or, in default, a certi-eate of his baptism or other documentary evidence, accompanied by a declaration made by one of his parents or guardians before a magistrate, giving his exact age.
(b)	. A certificate of having served the required number of annual trainings (each training in a distinct year).
(c)	. A certificate from the governor that he is satisfied that the candidate is actually a colonist, that he is of good moral character, and, in all other respects, a fit and proper person to hold a commission in His Majesty's army.
(d)	. A certificate that the candidate has passed the prescribed literary examination, or that he has passed an equivalent examination.
4.	A literary examination ; an examination in military subjects ; a medical examination.
Further details as regards the different subjects of the literary and military examinations in which a candidate will be examined can be furnished on application to the department. Only one copy of regula-tions*available.
5.	Yes, provided the candidate has passed the examination specified below at any of the following universities :-
Oxford-The ' First Public Examination.' Cambridge-One of the parts of the ' General Examination,' or Part I. of any ' Tripos Examination.'
Dublin-The ' Final Examination of the Senior Freshman Year,' or the ' Final Examination of thb School of Engineering.' Durham-The ' First Year's Examinations.'
. London-The Intermediate Examinations in Arts, Law, Science or Medicine.
Scotch Universities-The ' Examination of Candidates for the Army.'
The Royal University, Ireland-' The Second University Examination in Arts, or the Second Professional Examination in Engineering.'
Victoria University, Manchester-The Intermediate Examination.
. Or if he has passed some other test which is accepted by the university as exempting him from the above examinations. A certificate that the examination is accepted by the authorities concerned must be produced.
An equivalent examination at the University of Malta, or one of the chartered colonial universities will likely be accepted as a sufficient ground for exemption.
A candidate is also exempted from the literary examination, except in geometrical drawing, if he can produce a certificate from a chartered university that he has-
(a)	. Taken his degree in Arts or Science; or
(b)	. Passed the examinations for the degree of B.A. or M.A. at one of the following


Mr. CASGRAIN-by Mr. Clarke-asked [DOT]
„ aCtO\,
j.. urn me depositary or tne	fot 1 t
for the purposes of provincial elections,,	t <>l
parish of Ste. Flore, in the electoral cu* t0 to® Three Rivers and St. Maurice, f°rw:	Jlf
Clerk of the Crown in Chancery, as „r„ c0pf
t U 771__ i	~	...	.	.... til tl u w <7 It*
![DOT] Did the depositary of the list of e* r 0e
4.1, _____ *	.	.	. i _ „+5onS. 1 j. o*
6 6
*. u, liib uown m unancery,	copJ .
the Franchise Act	of 1898,	section	10.	s*>_the changes or modifications made to , electoral list by a	judgment	rendered	jjoi_Rivers, on the 18th January, 1904, W 1 Judge Desmarais, erasing eighty-se*	,from that list ?	'„sitaff X2. On what date did the said deP°^r nio® the said list forward the said change Cb®w fleations to the Clerk of the Crown eery ?	aU*IJ51
t0
1. Is the intention of the f=0V,eI'i1Jure, duce railway rates to a nominal 6 aeieg tj,o mit of free passes, for agricult wi(j:n of over public railways, in accord	nVeOti
resolution passed at the annual c the Prince Edward Island farnte [DOT]


'What
'Blegat " *S t^le l°west existant rate paid by faref ,e? ^tending such conventions, and the Public [DOT] en formally engaged in promoting the traaie ,lnterests, and thus increasing railway
t'6ieS1l0l\I<5 not those gentlemen, giving their t0|llHtv i hrains to the advancement of the [DOT], he provided with free transportation ?
H- R. RMMERSON (Minister of thidp, Vs an<l Canals). I cannot very well to	whether this question relates
generally or merely to the gov-th6f]ent railway. I may say further that t>f !mtPuty minister informs me that no trace the a , Sl1cl1 resolution as that referred to in Uientquestion can be found in the departed [DOT] The second question relates to spe-(Ja'jtes on railways generally throughout l)artm' That information is not in the defree	The third question involves the
'Vaytr^nsportation on the government rail-btai °t all those who devote their time and
Oil:
to
the advancement of the country.
Coi),,„0"*nS stock might not be sufficient to '6y all of these.
0,rA.Nd
n,
trunk pacific railway.
°use
sm e resumed adjourned debate on the pro-?D«aW°tioil o£ Sir Wilfrid Laurier, ' That Mr. l° go in, 1,ow leave the Chair, for the House s°hition 0 c°mmittee to consider a certain re-JSfeej, e°ncerning the ratification of the 6 Gra between His Majesty the King and n	Trunk Pacific Railway Company,
a sea a 8th of March, 1904 ' ; and the pro-'tt,'6iUlmInen'iment of Mr. Borden (Halifax) in j. ment thereto.
}tr. '^ILLIAM J. ROCHE (Marquette). ^°Usef ,ker, the Bill which passed this tohtiper?r the construction of another trans-Mth	highway, which was heralded
gentlemen
®Pp08it C1 great, acclaim by hon. gi
e' as being the very acme of per-o	J a Bill that could scarcely be im
^'o\ n
?f vwuP°n, beneficial alike from the point
b	0f	_____j._____j	„___
h t°-(iri v°f B*e country and of the company, U0hspl o aeing subjected to criticism in this si,,™0nS its own friends. We have ipf 1Tloned to parliament, so we have B'hnk j?r?e(i by the president of the Grand aiIway- f°r the express purpose of 6lpg 8 that contract, th*e amendments all L,8 ft,Ul iculated to confer greater advanta-it>. hot greater benefits on that corporation, tp reats0llf °t them to further protect the of] °f Canada. When the opposition J ast session that it was the intention th liattieriferni.nent to force that Bill through ? lptrofl without consulting the country, hita^i ce<^ a series of resolutions which IMm ests- to turther safeguard Canadian of ch ^y.' , tn view of the vast expenditure Of ?ahadaS	incurred by the Dominion
tv *ts ie ,a'. the opposition in the performance tip Conf,,l5?te duties, endeavoured to make ho e bn a<?^ as Perfect as possible and to possible loophole that might sfl,' det).i,aavantage of by tlie company to htloj. , n't of the country. These rehowever
with, I think, but two
exceptions were rejected by the government and its followers on <the ground that they were not in the contract, that the company would not accept them and that parliament had either to accept or reject the contract as a whole. The hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Fitzpatrick) and the hon. Minister of the Interior (Mr. Sifton) in particular waxed indignant at the mere suggestion that this corporation might hot keep faith with the Canadian people. Could we imagine a body of men, said the Minister of the Interior, a body of reputable citizens standing so high in the financial world as these gentlemen who were seeking incorporation under this charter, to have so little regard for their standing and their integrity as to break faith with the parliament of Canada, and go back upon their solemn contract ? The idea in his opinion was preposterous and hut the phantom production of the imagination of the members of the opposition. But, Sir, notwithstanding this great faith on the part of the hon. Minister of the Interior (Mr. Sifton) scarcely had the ink dried on the contract, not a bit of work had been done in pursuance of it, before we saw these reputable gentlemen going back on their contract and putting up not the deposit in cash or government securities required by the contract, but a deposit of Grand Trunk Railway bonds and this only after the time limit had expired. Thus we find these gentlemen right at the outset breaking their solemn contract and breaking it, not for the reason assigned by the Prime Minister that there was a stringency in the money market, for Mr. Hays very definitely stated that they could have had plenty of money, but merely as a matter of convenience to the company. So we In the opposition find ourselves justified in the position we took last year when we wanted to tie these gentlemen down to black and white, taking nothing for granted, no matter how upright they might be. When we find how lightly they have treated their written contract entered into with all the solemnity spoken of by the hon. gentlemen opposite, we feel perfectly justified in the position we took. The right hon. the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) in dealing with this matter, this session profited by the criticisms administered to his speech of last year, avoided those mock heroics and that hysterical condition that played such havoc with his mental equilibrium last year. The mountains of information which he was supposed to lay before the House last year to furnish reasons for the construction of this line were found on careful perusal to contain very little practical information. It is true that this has been supplemented by the right hon. the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) lliis session by a quotation from a report made by a Jesuit missionary 200 years ago, wherein he had said that on a certain day in June, roses were in bloom and that they had no'night in that country. That was surely most modern Information on the
strength of which to build a railway, and when the right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) has to employ such an argument to bolster up his opinion he can hardly continue to call himself a practical man. It is passing strange, Mr. Speaker, to observe the treatment that has been accorded by the right hon. the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) to the various gentlemen who have held the portfolio of Railways and Canals in this government.
The gentleman who occupied that position from 1896 to 1903, Mr. Blair, the only practical man in Canada so far as railways are concerned, the gentleman who knew more about railways than all the other members of the cabinet put together, the gentleman to whom the Prime Minister gives a certificate of character to-day as being the best railway expert in the Dominion of Canada- his information was lightly treated, and he himself was so cavalierly treated, that he was not even invited in when the negotiations that led up to this contract were undertaken. It is true that that gentleman was not slow in expressing his opinion of this contract when it was up for consideration last session. He denounced it in no measured language claimed that it was a mere wilful waste of public money, utterly unjustifiable, without a single redeeming; feature. After hearing that expression of opinion, after hearing that strong condemnation of this railway scheme, the Prime Minister valued that opinion so highly that be immediately said, in effect : Mr. Blair, your head is level, you are just the man I have been looking for. I have looked over Canada from one end to the other to find the most competent authority on railways, to find the very best railway expert. After hearing your expression of opinion and valuing it as highly as I do, I ask you to come up higher, to accept one of the best and most important railway positions in the Dominion of Canada, carrying with it emoluments, no small matter in itself, of §10,000 per annum. It is true that if your view were carried into effect it would save the country many millions of dollars, but inasmuch as your hands would be tied so far as this particular scheme is concerned and inasmuch as your silence would be secured for the next ten years, I think this would be a splendid move, looked at from a party standpoint, and would get a dangerous opponent out of our way. Please overlook those unkind criticisms that your erst-while Liberal friends have made on your conduct, those gentlemen who, when you were Minister of Railways and Canals, were servile supporters of every questionable scheme that has been put up by this government since 1896, lauded you as being one of the best Ministers of Railways and Canals Canada was ever blessed with ; but who, no sooner had you turned your guns upon this railway scheme of mine, immediately began to speak of you in violent language, to impute the worst of motives to you, stating that
The government have no persons employed on the eastern division of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway and, of course, the other information is not in the possession of the department.
So here we have the distinct declaration on the part of the minister that they have had no survey parties out on this eastern extension. The hon. member for Winnipeg (Mr. Puttee), also, on the 28th March, asked the following questions :
1.	Is the government aware that survey parties are at work along the route of the proposed Transcontinental Railway between Winnipeg and Quebec ?
2.	Are these parties employed by the government or by the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company ?
3.	If by the railway company, is there any understanding that the government will adopt the surveys, and pay the expenses incurred in making them ?
To which the following reply was made by the Minister of Railways and Canals ;
1.	The department is aware that survey parties are in the field north of North Bay and Port Arthur surveying branch lines to connect with the proposed Transcontinental Railway between Winnipeg and Quebec.
2.	These parties are employed by the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company.
Here is an admission that the only survey parties sent out are survey parties sent out by the company to survey branch lines and having no connection whatever with the main line. Again, on the same date the hon. member for Toronto (Mr. Kemp) asked the following questions :
1.	How many survey parties, if any, have been engaged upon the eastern division of the Transcontinental Railway ?
2.	By whom were such survey parties employed ?
3.	Upon which sections have such parties been working ?
The reply of the hon. Minister of Railways and Canals was as follows :
1.	Not in a position to say how many surveying parties, if any, are engaged upon the trunk line of the eastern division of the Transcontinental Railway ?
2.	If any are employed, cannot say by whom.
3.	Not aware that any such parties are working on the trunk line on the said section.
Here, we find on three or four different occasions the hon. Minister of Railways and Canals absolutely denying all knowledge, in fact, stating that the government have no parties out on the eastern extension. So, we have lost a whole year without anything having been done notwithstanding that last year we were told that time was so very


How much government of Manitoba pay for the miles of railway that they secured irov* Northern Pacific Railway Company *


How much dl.tj,erh
Manitoba government pay to the r
hoh;
iu.aiui.uua government pay to -Pacific for that 350 miles of road t
, mV hu"f


They are delighted now all right


And the Minister
of Finance continued) to say :
But we are protecting the people against any such condition, because we are refusing the company the power to put a dollar's worth of that stock, on the market and sell it to any one. It is not negotiable, it cannot go in the stock market, it cannot be the subject of speculation; no innocent third party will be able to come and say : I paid in good faith 100 cents on the dollar for that stock and am entitled to get a dividend on what I paid. We have stipulated that the stock cannot be put on the market. It must remain in the hands of the Grand Trunk Railway during the term of this lease.
Can the Minister of Finance claim as much under the amended contract ? Why, the very danger that was there pointed out by the Minister of Finance last year is now a reality under this amended contract, and this stock can he speculated with ; and one of the avowed objects of the construction of this line, viz., the reduction of freight rates, will have been done away with, as the company will be morally obligated,


Now I never knew the lion, member for Alberta (Mr. Oliver) whatever else he may have posed as in this House, to pose as a wag, but surely he is doing- so in this case in view of the fact that every member of the cabinet except the lion.
' Minister of Railways (Mr. Emmerson) who last year declared himself in favour of government ownership, on this occasion declared against government ownership while hon. gentlemen on this side approved of it. The hon. member for Alberta (Mr. Oliver) said :
The feeling in parliament in its favour is confined to a few members on the Liberal side, to wait until belief in government ownership had grown sufficiently to ensure the building of a transcontinental railway as a government work, would mean leaving the western country without a competing outlet, either east or west, too long for the good of either west or east. If we cannot get what we want, the next best thing is to get what we can, on the best terms we can. That being the case, I support the present arrangement.
The hon. gentleman's statement there of the policy of the opposition is directly opposite the facts. The policy of the opposition is in favour of government ownership, the policy of the government is opposed to it, and where is thejhon. member for Alberta (Mr. Oliver). That hon. gentleman (Mr. Oliver) has stated that he cannot support the amendment of the hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden) because it means delay. If the hon. member had looked at the speech of the hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden) at page 824 of ' Hansard ' he would have seen this declaration.
I say that the government itself should build
this road, it should build it promptly, not within seven or eight years, hut within a very much shorter time ; at least so far as that portion of it outside of the mountain section is concerned, and I say that it should build the mountain section as speedily as possible.
Another important advantage which would be secured to this country by adopting that policy is : that it will put to one side any future application by any other transcontinental railway for aid for a line from Edmonton to the Pacific coast. We will have another application before many years ; we will have it made on the basis upon which this aid is given to this company.
The government, building the line from Edmonton to the coast can give running powers, controlled by this country, to any other transcontinental railway-and let me say in passing lest I should forget it-that when I advocate the building by the government of this line into the Northwest of Canada, I should desire (o express my conviction that the government should by means of that national line, admit the Grand Trunk Railway of Canada into the Northwest ; but it should admit it. under such restrictions as will not permit our traffic to be carried to a foreign seaport.
Does that look like delay 7 Does that not condemn the government's policy on account of Its delay and urge the immediate con-
isL1
of entering into a discussion of the
J- ROCHE. Of course, Mr. j bere is a time and place for every-i';,i|ti0s6 Aa,n not here at this time for the
eSSed fU .	

~	VA. XTXU*.VWWW, 


The hon gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Roche Marquette), in common with other hon. gentlemen opposite who have spoken in this debate, seems to be very much alarmed at the extent of the liability the government is undertaking in connection with this railway scheme. They have placed the amount at something like $150,000,000. Now I do not intend to discuss that question, because it has been very ably dealt with by other gentlemen who have preceded me in this debate. I consider, however, that their figures are very greatly exaggerated. I desire to point out that the liability this country is to incur in regard to this railway measure will only arise in the event of the Grand Trunk Pacific Company turning out to be a financial failure. If that company turns out to be successful like the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, it will not only pay working expenses and interest on the capital that will be invested, but it will also pay dividends to the shareholders who will invest their money in this scheme. If, I say, it turns out to be a scheme of that kind, then the liability of the country cannot arise at all. Now in order to ease the mind of the hon. gentleman who has preceded me, and of other hon. gentlemen who feel alarmed on this question, I wish to quote some authorities. I will quote from a source that they will not feel at liberty to question. The source I refer to is that of the leader of the opposition, in the speech he delivered on this question. I did not have the pleasure of hearing that speech, as I had not then the honour of a seat in this House. But I have given myself the pleasure of reading that speech, and I find that the leader of the opposition calls a number of witnesses to prove that the Grand Trunk Pacific Company has excellent financial prospects, and that it is likely to turn out to be a very successful venture, not only for the country but for the shareholders. These are the words the hon. leader of the opposition puts into the mouth of Sir Charles Rivers-Wilson :
Passing as It will do through the most fertile and promising belt of country in the whole of the Northwest Territories, there cannot he the slightest doubt that this portion of the road, built, as I have said, under such favourable and economical conditions, will immediately produce excellent results, and will itself more than justify the adoption of the scheme in its entirety.
Further on he quotes Sir Charles as saying :
As regards the prairie section, the govern ment, not unfairly, held that it would he selfsustaining from the day of its completion, and in this view we are willing to concur.
Then we have a quotation from Lord Welby :

With the rapid settlement of the country, which will fellow the establishment of the line within a very few years, it will be a very profitable line.
Then we have an opinion from Mr. Hays :
Here is the Grand Trunk, the parent company, standing with a large traffic ready to deliver it west bound. This traffic is now given to a competitor. It does not have to wait five, ten or fifteen years to build up a traffic ; it starts with a traffic right from the beginning, and that is of a most remunerative character. This enterprise which we are advocating to-day, ladies and gentlemen, combines points and advantages that no other transcontinental line in the United States or Canada can have.
Now, Sir, these gentlemen, from whom the leader of the opposition quoted, are railway experts, they are men of very large experience in the management of Canadian railways, they have made a special study of the question for the purpose of embarking their own capital in the venture ; and it is especially gratifying to hon. members on this side of the House to have this point made so clear on such high authority as that of the hon. leader of the opposition. I do not think that the hon. leader of the opposition could have intended to make this point so clear to the House. He reminds me of an old Bible story. A prophet who climbed the mountain side and stretched forth his hand to curse the children of Israel. But instead of cursing them, ' behold he blessed them altogether.' He did not want to bless them, he wanted to curse them, but somehow when it came to the point he couldn't do it. Now we on this side of the House are especially grateful to the leader of the opposition for having made this point so clear. It completely relieves our minds of all anxiety in regard to our liabilities under this contract, in regard to the payment of interest on the bonds, in regard to the mortgage on the rolling stock, in regard to the receiver, and all these other bogeys with which hon. gentlemen opposite have endeavoured to frighten us in this debate. This measure, Sir, whatever may be said about it by bon. gentlemen opposite, is an attempt to do two things : To open up for settlement a very large section of country, some 3,000 miles of new Canadian territory, and to divert the trade of the west into Canadian channels and by way of Canadian ports. Now we all agree that this scheme will accomplish the first of these objects. It is admitted to be one of the greatest colonization schemes that was ever proposed in Canada ; and I submit, without going to the trouble to prove it, that it will also accomplish the second object better than any other scheme that is now available to the people of Canada.
I confess to a feeling of disappointment at the attitude of the Conservative press and leading members of the Conservative party in this House with regard to this measure. There were moderate Canadians of


Railway, that it will build it up and make it a more profitable road than ever it was before. Hon. gentlemen opposite, must not think that the Intercolonial Railway consists of the section between Moncton and Quebec. That is only an insignificant part of the Intercolonial Railway. The government railways of Canada are 1,571 miles in length. Suppose we take off that part of the government railway which is in Prince Edward Island, 211 miles in length, which will not be affected so much by this ' culture. That leaves a mileage for the Intercolonial Railway of 1,360 miles. What part of that will come into competition with the railway that is proposed to be built ? The only part that can compete with the Intercolonial Railway is the section between Moncton and Quebec. The section of the Intercolonial Railway between Moncton and Quebec is 488 miles long. (You still have 872 miles of the Intercolonial Railway that will be immensely benefited by the construction of the new road, because it will receive an enormous amount of traffic from the new road. Every passenger that the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway will carry from the west will also be delivered over the Intercolonial Railway at Moncton Every pound of freight that it will carry from the west will also be delivered over to the Intercolonial at Moncton, and this will swell the receipts of the Intercolonial Railway upon its eastern section.
Railway experts say, that it is an accepted doctrine in railway operation, that it is the local traffic which pays best; and that if a ^way does not have local traffic it is difficult to make it a paying venture at all. rsow, Sir, we do not take away anv of the local traffic of the Intercolonial Railway by the project we propose. Any local traffic that exists on this 1,360 miles of railway would still remain. The local traffic that exists on this 488 miles between Moncton and Quebec will remain as it is at present. We do not take that away. And wliat do we take away ? The only two points where competition will arise at all are at Moncton and Quebec, but the traffic originating at Moncton and Quebec would be completed for by both lines as at present and the return derived from that traffic is a very insignificant part of the profits of the Intercolonial Railway. On the other hand the new tianscontinental railway will hand over to the Intercolonial Railway an immense amount of traffic that it does not now receive, so that any injury that could possibly be done to the 488 miles between Moncton and Quebec, will be more than compensated for by what the Intercolonial Railway will receive from the construction of the new line.
lion, gentlemen opposite seem to have the impression that because less is said this year than last year about the bonding privilege, that it is not considered important on this side of the House. That is a mis-


kaye fl^'000,000 worth of woollen products to y, , n imported into this country, owing to tlipi0.rer!ng of tbe tariff on these goods,
-	OPtT'lTnnnf n tirl dnn4nim4{n^>
Of
iv00]i detriment and destruction __ .... there w5?dustl'y of tbis country. However Can be another occasion on which we Tile ,°Uss that matter.
fecrre,j °n' Sentieman (Mr. Sinclair) has re-«ge. r ^the bugaboo of the bonding privi-Varq tbought that that was dead. We !'ot a w!°?d d.eal abollt it last session, but *'aa °£u this session. Last session we Voiles ! ^irst Minister making an impas-*)dvilee-i>eecl1 011 tbe clanger of the bonding Pe°ple , beinS abrogated, but when the they ,,pSa^ the question in its proper light, hee'n d,, zed what a ridiculous bogey had ret on bet°re them, and lion, gentle-26 thi?°?ite apparently have come to real-ahy fu ' f°r they carefully refrain from
i 1 it ri r a'insion to the subject and have tenur~-
'V f01,Q^°P out of sight. T c?Ptior, b«ysborough (Mr. -Sin.
* 1, FTr\ Ln *	

l__ ji j
who
he lion, mem,

Sinclair) is an exi Uce lie i 6 bas ventured to revive it, and i g I'efe,, "as done so>
let me give it a pass-a%aaE.lence- 1 sbaI] simply quote from the thspose 6 °t an eminent American, s of it in these words :
J- Cana, na-s bound the transportation system tiaterWava Witb that of the United States. The ^hent j«y extending into the heart of the con-nari diDconimon to both countries. The south-W Provi tbe boundary allows a portion of k. h thP nce o£ Ontario to project far south, a eeh Miio,e-sub' tba*- £he most direct line beth °Ss n*t ?n and northern New York runs jvji the ntari0- Further north it is found north,1008*- direct communication between til^ay Western states and New England is pjutory feault Ste. Marie and across Canadian
|0;lUon Tbe Canadian territory occupies a lake ° „advantage with regard to combina-, lying n<* rail lines- In the portion of Can-lhaul'SGdS T^st of Montreal the conditions are *>>« the northern trend of the boundaries tV0111® d Canadian railway system dependent Sri, 1'0rthpfrfe °n the United States territory. °t pstvick fStern P°rtion of Maine divides New bhitea Irom Quebec by an intervening neck ^llfi "tates territory.
t})?'*08*-, direct line between Montreal tv, sWt ?.r,time province ports is of course
h.V thrft, IJe of the Canadian Pacific Rail-Vs	Maine. When this question
in, ** do1 diseussion in the United States,
Vd6 u° tvQ «„.i p	
We find ? Tiie contention was
f]	fl
tal Carinsi Grand Trunk Railway and tTo aHv n-w1 Pacific Railway occupied a tV® tlm "Il1Cei'ent position. In a great detV ^hieri ,raud Trunk Railway is part of V ^tter [DOT] n transportation system, while ''In In foS a lnucb more independent sys-tjj** tlie etat entirely a Canadian system
. % r '^hine. This writer says :
NNi^lal Interests of the eastern states t both wi*-b the retention of the bonding % t Mid th as regards the domestic transit 6:ilstonPpe foroien transit trade. Through '	°£ the Grand Trunk, Massachusetts and Boston, which would otherwise have been helpless, were insured the benefit of natural geographical advantages of the position.
I am quoting from the report of the Massachusetts Board of Railway Commissioners, from which I shall make one other quotation :
The Grand Trunk has had a great deal to do
with making Boston a competiting point	
Before Canadian lines were established it was practically impossible for shippers of Boston to obtain through rates from western points.
I might go on and give many quotations from leading authorities in the United States, such as the Portland Board of Trade, the Committee of Transportation Interests, the Chicago Board of Trade and several responsible bodies in Canada and the western states, all to the effect that the United States could not afford to interfere in any way with the bonding privileges as they now exist between the two countries. For instance, the Portland Board of Trade says :
The interest of Maine in the maintenance of the bonding system is equally great. When the system was threatened in 1888 the Portland Board of Trade addressed their remonstrance to Congress.
Regarding Detroit, the Board of Trade declares :
The interest of Detroit in the maintenance of the system is similar. The abrogation of the bonding system would impose upon the citizens of Michigan a burden destructive of their material interests.
That is from evidence taken before the Committee on Transportation. Let me also quote from the statement of, Mr. G. F. Stone, secretary of the Chicago Board of Trade :	.
It would also be. disastrous to the interests of the railroad systems of Michigan to interfere with the bonding system. The Canadian roads have protected Chicago's interests. The competition has caused the American roads to discontinue the unjust arbitraries charged by them on shipments to Now England points.
The ' Journal of Political Economy ' has this to say on the subject:
The bonding system rests, not upon sentiment or one-sided favour but upon common interest. It is absolutely necessary to both nations.
I shall not detain the House longer by reference to this bugaboo of the abrogation of the bonding privileges.
My lion, friend said the policy of the opposition would have the effect of connecting the Grand Trunk Pacific at North Bay with the Grand Trunk Railway system as it now stands, and would divert the traffic of the west to the Grand Trunk Railway terminal at Portland. I cannot understand how the lion, gentleman could make any such statement. If he had said that the effect of the amended agreement would be to can-
nect tlie Grand Trunk Pacific at North Bay with the Grand Trunk Railway, and in that way divert the trade of this country to the American port of Portland, he would have said what was absolutely true. But * in making the other statement, he has committed himself to something absolutely improbable. I cannot imagine for a moment how he could construe the policy of the opposition as one which would in any way divert Canadian traffic to Portland. It seems to me that lion, gentleman is not taking that interest in the welfare of his native province which he should. Let me refer him to the Canadian Year-book of 1902, in which he will find that a large quantity of our exports and imports went through American channels and that our ports of St. John and Halifax were being deprived of that traffic to which they are entitled, and which we desire them to have. If he will look at page 294 of the Year-hook of 1902, he will find that there was imported into Canada from the motherland and sister colonies, through United States ports, goods to' the value of $13,415,052, and from foreign countries $8,898,699, making a total of $22,313,751. He will find also that there was exported to the motherland and sister colonies, through United States ports, $44,860,785 worth of goods, and to foreign countries $3,332,065, making a total of $48,192,850, the grand total being $70,506,601, representing 17 per cent of the whole export and import business of Canada which passed through United States ports.
Now that is a state of affairs which we on the opposition side of the House would like to see corrected. We would like to see that 17 per cent going through Canadian ports. We have in the lower provinces, Halifax and St, John, both grand ocean ports, and we have also our ports of Montreal and Quebec. I contend that the policy of the opposition of extending the Intercolonial Railway from Montreal to Parry Sound will, in a large measure, if not altogether, bring these products to the ports of the lower provinces during the winter months, and to Montreal and Quebec in summer.
We had a speech the other day from the bon. member for South Essex (Mr. Cowan).
I do not wish to follow his example and say anything unkind of any member on the opposite side of the House, but the hon. member devoted a great deal of his time to that part of the policy of the hon. the leader of the opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden) which deals with the extension of the Intercolonial to Parry Sound and- then the acquiring of running rights over a portion of the Canadian Pacific Railway to the west. He opposed that on the ground that the Canadian Pacific Railway wanted to sell that portion of their road to the government at a large price and then to build a line connecting with their Soo road. The argument was rather a weak one be-Mr. PRINGLE.
o i'6
cause if the Canadian Pacific Railway now operating that section of their i' would it not be more in their interes ^ other roads were also using it, so ttiat g{ stead of having to pay the whole cost ,t maintenance they would pay only a V j of it ? But the hon. gentleman (Mr. LOv wants to do what ? To build another of railway; through that very c0,nttS And how does he describe the c°nfmt north of Lake Superior? He says ^ there is not a dollar's worth of local ^ that the company will ever draw North Bay to Port William. He say® ' {
One eloquent writer described this sec£j°dare the country as the one over which a ot° not take flight without carrying a Ku v ^ because there is not enough in it to tee in his passage.	.	^
And yet the hon. gentleman wa® ® 0i build another road through that sectinfi'id country. The Prime Minister (Sir M* 0( Laurier) has told us that this seemly
1 te°'
cujlu. us iiicli mis
the country is an uninhabited and a (
habitable land. That is the very e? tpat tion of the opposition. We say that i cill
	 *" "%£
har.
have
e%PeD^iie>>
portion of the country there is n.° js traffic, that it "s uninhabited that it ^tithe language of the Prime Minister " j0ur ly habitable land. Why then '* or five railways built at the .	„„,
this country through that section^oUjd they are entirely unnecessary [DOT]	0pp°'
not the scheme of the leader of v,ettel; sition (Mr. R. L. Borden) be far tuaj that running rates be secured throu section ot the country and that tn®
Trunk Railway, the Intercolonial tlie Canadian Northern and the v*
Pacific Railway all use that section and bear an equal portion of 'e of its maintenance ? It seems to that scheme is a very much better more in the interests of this country tU ; been said I do not wish H a word detrimental to our coum^' tpL speaking the other day to a gentle g to had been through that district i gupel that the country north of '®.fttuer
was *otA*?
A great deal has northern' country,
is absolutely no good. I tonished to hear that and I ing this as my own opinion there may be here and there
good country. _ _______
He said : Well, it is largely "''oSg, l"0f you will find 12 to 15 inches ot cQllp\e you will find a layer of clay 1	. ,V)
Inches thick and- then ice.	;n [DOT]*' "
I said : You don't find ice to - e
d0 y°u ?	* „ there
He said : You will find ice re t year round, and it has been	gp
time immemorial.	T iool'e<Ley
I thought that peculiar and S'Mpy, the reference in the report °n ltario, Nnr and Exploration of Northern . ,ve Ass printed by order of the Legis

bly
°ui- w 0lltai'io-Liberal file:

Tenee :
In this report issued by friends in Ontario, I found this
tr°ta fic<;	I

In general, the land back
the j ltle rivers is low-lying and marshy, and tratio lpervi°us nature of the soil prevents fil-Wh(„hu and promotes the growth of moss, with °t tjj, much of the land is covered. The effect DoratjS is to absorb moisture and retard eva-thr0y "n and also to preserve the winter ice *n the summer season.
tvw's.gentleman was evidently telling me stay, absolutely correct, that the ice an/; Ibei'e both winter and summer. I you n°£ an agriculturist and I cannot tell lautl Whether that would be good farming istg t°1' not' but those who are agricultur-Us6] te/ me that it would be absolutely Ilie /S' Yet that is the country in which
lid
8on.
uons f' *'entlemen are going to spend mil-Sir u-1'.the purpose of colonization, for, bej'n i is idle in this day to talk of this road
~ mic 111 Llllts Utiy L(J LcLllV U1 Lllln lUcltl
built through that country for the w°se of	~	'
>
the seaports of the east.
^est"to carrying the products of the
the ,'lurinS this debate an admission from 9o Du°n- the Minister of the Interior that Ml) „ eent of the products of the wgst ibei, 80 out from that country in the sum-I'OQtoi^htbs and will go by the water cow' But if we had not this admission gi'aj,. °h sense would teach us that when Qw eau be taken from Port Arthur to >tb(l e at from 3 to 3J cents per bushel itollt,rnn°t be hauled from Port Arthur to tviii Ieal at 15 cents a bushel the grain best 'f0 cJown the water route. But the to Se "'itication of what will happen is W "hi* way the grain is going now. thro'I tlle season of 1902, there passed sho\Vjj, . the Soo canal 76,730,695 bushels, I'Sing that almost all the grain which v8t tho ni tbe west to the east came down [DOT]he that"'-a^er route- One railway man told hossn.f,. *t is a physical and absolute im-
*et;
oitteff witb water route, uc	a uevi
oai.s, train from Port Arthur with fih(l a' holding say 27,000 bushels of wheat, M0,hiuo. * started it I have seen a vessel ? clock' lnto Poi't Arthur harbour at eight lulled aa(t leaving again at 12.30 o'clock v/ti'rv Av'th 140,000 bushels of grain, for 7«try s,0Uncl, and that vessel would be at t Whit°Und before my train would be haU] e Over. I asked him what it cost / or / train say to Carleton Placed, over of „Ven divisions ? He said that the f0l. °a* was .1>240, the cost of the crew hai,|. ea<1'h division, and the total cost
to haul grain by rail in com-He said: I have
fO forCOal was ?240, the cost of the crew aL'3aUH„eacb division, and the total cost 1 f that grain was three times the 'h'bhr tcbai'ged for hauling it from Port wejefor T^uebec by the water route
rt. titUg t * °ay n. is luie anu a mere waste 0 discuss the question of the pro-I'boa,.., ,be west being carried to the 8nq «< the all-rail route. But, Sir, Ttlls, and it has been proved, that
say it is idle and a mere waste
where you can combine the rail and water route then there is an advantage. We find that grain to-day is taken to Parry Sound and from Parry Sound on the Canada Atlantic Railway down to Montreal, at a comparatively low rate, but still not quite as low as that by the water route.
Now, the hon. gentleman for Guys-borough (Mr. Sinclair) referred to statements made by Sir Charles Rivers-Wilson W show that this enterprise would be a profitable enterprise. Those statements I have looked at, and they certainly do show that it would he a profitable enterprise . But profitable to whom ? Not profitable for the people of Canada, blit profitable for the Grand Trunk Railway Company. Let me refer to one on two things said by the president of the Grand Trunk Railway Company :
It is calculated that the present uninhabited area of the province of Manitoba and of the territories of Assiniboia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Athabasca, amounts to nearly 300 millions of acres, the greater portion of which is excellent farming land, and that the unoccupied portion of British Columbia amounts to some 200 millions acres, much of which is also suitable for farming and grazing. There is no time to be lost if we are to avail ourselves of the great opportunities presented. Prosperity 