I beg to lay on the table correspondence respecting the Alaskan boundary.


The papers relating to the extension of Colonel Gregory's term of command have not, I think, been brought down. The Minister of Militia stated that they would be here shortly.
SUPPLY-THE 12th OF JULY.


FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.





Mr. Speaker, before toat matter is taken up, I take the liberty of drawing the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that next Tuesday will be the 12th of July, which is a day honoured by a great many people of the Dominion of Canada, and a day on which a great many members of the House would like to get away to different parts of the country. T would, therefore, ask the Prime Minister if he would be good enough to take it into his consideration, and let the House have a holiday on the 12th of July ?


I have no doubt that my hon. friend feels divided between his duties outside and his duties inside ; but there is no precedent in that respect that I know of.


The right hon. leader of the government can easily create a precedent. That is no trouble to him.


Motion agreed to, and House went into Committee of Supply.
Intercolonial Railway, to strengthen bridges, $385,000.
I was asked to give a statement as to the bridges that were to be strengthened after the appropriation of $385,000 is exhausted. This is exclusive of the Oxford and New Glasgow and Cape Breton railways. The bridges and estimates are : East River, $75,000 : Shubenacadie, $24,000 ; Stewiacke, $16,000 ; Elmsdale, $25,000 ; Enfield. $14,500 ; Hall's Creek, $3,000 ; Hammond River, $32,000; Bic, $14,500; Isle Verte, $25,000; St. Henri, $46,000; Har ris' mill stream, $4,000. There are also a number of small bridges on which it is estimated that we shall require plate girders to the amount of $11,500, and rolled beams to the amount of $18,000. The whole, after making an allowance for estimated credits, will amount to $280,000.


There was a great deal more information promised by the hon. gentleman on some of these items.


Not on this item.


iSome of the information required is set forth on page 6123 and following pages of the unrevised ' Hansard.'


I propose to give that information in connection with each item.
To exchange drawbars of freight cars on Intercolonial Railway, $45,000.


I was asked to furnish some information respecting the protection to Grand Narrows Bridge. I find that I was a little in error in giving the prices of timber. For two inch creosote sheathing the lowest tender, that of Wyckoff Creosote Co. of Stamford. Conn., at $45 per thousand feet board measure, was accepted. For ballast
6265	JULY 8, 1904	6266
poles, A. Mackenzie, of River John, was tlie successful tenderer at one and three-quarter cents per lineal foot. Hemlock logs, ten inches, was given to D. McLean, Orangedale. at six cents per lineal foot for a portion and another portion was let to R. McGregor & Sons, of New Glasgow, at seven and a half cents. Hemlock logs, twelve inches, was given to R. McGregor &. Sons of New Glasgow at nine and three-quarter cents per lineal foot. Square timber was given the same firm at $10.50 per thousand feet board measure. I was asked by my hon. friend from South Lanark (Mr. Haggart) for the name of the party who got the contract for car couplers. It was given to Geo. McAvity, of St. John, and the Monarch Coupler Co., of Detroit. The price to McAvity is $17.50 delivered in Montreal, and to the Monarch Coupler Co. $17 delivered in Detroit. What page of ' Hansard ' did my hon. friend refer to a few moments ago ?


6121 and the following. On 6121 there is a reference to a bridge. The hon. member for Hamilton said he wanted some information, and perhaps that is what the hon. minister has just given. The minister said then :
X will give a list oi forty bridges for which the Dominion Bridge Company has a contract. I can give the names of the bridges hut not the exact amount required for each bridge. I could probably furnish that later.


I have given that just now. On page 6124 I find that the hon. member for Hamilton asked me how many new freight cars have been furnished with the brake equipment, and also how many, cars out of service have been rebuilt and equipped. In reply I would say that 207 new freight cars were purchased, equipped with Master Car Builders drawbars, and 383 have been rebuilt and equipped.


In both cases have they been equipped with the drawbar and the air brakes ?


There were 207 now freight cars purchased with air brake equipment, and 388 cars have been rebuilt and equipped with air brakes.


I understand the minister to say that both the cars which have been purchased new and those that have been built in the shops have been equipped with the air brakes and the special draw bars.


Yes, that is my information.
To strengthen bridges, Intercolonial Railway, 3385,000.


The hon. gentleman did not give us the other day the amount he was appropriating for each bridge. He mentioned the names of the bridges he proposed
to strengthen, but did not say what amount he would spend on each.


I gave the names of the bridges : Chisholm's Bridge, $629.64; Riversdale, $3,169.42 ; Bible Hill, $723.49 ; McManus, Mill, $1,505.84 ; North River, $1,416.52 ; South Coeaigne, $723.81 ; Buctouche, River, $685.34; South Coal Branch, $3,084.54; Red Pine, $465.82; Little Elm Tree, $1,201.26; Fournier's. $616.31 ; Martin's Mill Race, $706.78 ; Charles River, South crossing, $2,971.42 ; Charles River, North crossing, $4,427.34 ; Gordon, $1,229.01; St. Alexis. $722.69; Tobogote, $690.99 ; West Tobogote, $488.11 ; Cedar Hall, $713.76 ; St. Moise, $461.74 ; St. Moise Tank, $1,068.71 ; Ste. Flavie, No. 1, $474.67; Ste. Flavie, No. 2, $469.96 ; St. Luce No. 1, $588.66 ; St. Luce, No. 2, $459.26 ; St. Luce, No. 3, $672.13; St. Anaclet, $440.01; Bic, $467.14 ; St. Fabien, No. 1, $369.01 ; St. Fab-ien, No. 2, $376.89 ; Trois Pistoles, $234.15 ; Isle Verte, $356.14 ; Halifax street crossing, $8,725.96 :	Beaver River, $905.73 ; Canal
Bridge, $804.29 ; McDermld's. $272.14 ; Hil-don Station, $375.29 ; Lydia Brook, $429.27 ; Torryburn, $1,589.35 ; Brookville, $2,800.12.


I wish to state to the minister my reason for asking for these details. For two or three sessions I have complained of the manner in which the railway estimates are brought down. We find large items such as this $385,000 in a bulk appropriation covering a large number of works. There is no other department of the public service that treats the House in this way. If the minister will turn to pages 50 and 51 of the estimates he will find the appropriations of the Public Works Department. In these there are ten items of between $500 and $900 each. This form of estimate enables the Auditor General to carry on his work properly. But he cannot properly audit such an item as this of $350,000 covering thirty or forty works. The Auditor General lias before him only an appropriation of $385,000 for strengthening bridges, and, so long as the department keep within the amount, they may expend the whole sum on only half the bridges and leave the other half to come up again next year, when another similar appropriation may be asked for. I am quite sure the officers of the railway understand that that is' not the proper way to bring in appropriations. It is not the way the bridge department of a railway submit estimates to the general manager. In fact, as we have seen, the general manager of this railway submits to the minister, very properly, the details showing exactly, even down to a single cent, as the hon. gentleman has read, just what he proposes to do on each particular work. The very information the minister needed to enable him to deal with this subject is needed by the Auditor General as the work goes on to check the purposes to which the money is applied. I am glad to have in ' Hansard ' the list of items the minister has given. But such a

list should be in the estimates. It would be muc-b less expensive, for it would save the time of the House, and it would enable us to get the information more satisfactorily. We should be saved a great many questions which now must be asked. If the sum was divided into items as it should be, many of those items could be passed without any consideration to detail. I would suggest to the minister, therefore, that next year he should give the estimates in such detail that we may not be obliged to take the time of the House in making these inquiries.


The course pursued this year is the same as that pursued for many years past-so I am informed by the general manager. But I will take a note of what my hon. friend (Mr. Barker) says of course, the change will mean very voluminous estimates where so many particulars are to be given. That, I think, would be the only objection. I think there is a great deal of force in what my hon. friend says.


The hon. gentleman will see that last year we had votes of three and three quarter millions in a bare half page of the estimates. As I said before, there is not another department that gives so few items as the Department of Railways and Canals.


It seems to have been the custom.


But that, perhaps, is the very best reason why it should not be done.
I have called attention to the matter more than once, and I am glad that the hon. gentleman now says that he will give attention to it next year. No attention has been paid to the matter hitherto.


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Emmerson) is not correct in saying that the same system is pursued this year as last year. For, last year the hon. member for Hamilton urged upon the hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) who then had charge of the railway estimates, what he has urged to-day and the Minister of Finance absolutely refused to give us certain information which was then asked for and which has been given this year. In that respect the Minister of Railways is to be congratulated upon having adopted a part of a system that was advocated by the hon. member for Hamilton (Mr. Barker) last year. Last year the hon. member for Hamilton insisted that when a certain sum was asked to pay for sidings along the line, a bulk sum of $100,000 or so, the committee should be told the particular places where this expenditure was proposed, with the amounts in each case. The Minister of Finance absolutely refused to give the amount of expenditure in each case, but he did in the end give the names of the places where the expenditure was proposed. He said it was not proper to give the amount. This year on the other hand Mr. BARKER.
we have the Minister of Railways giving us not only the proposed expenditure for sidings and increased accommodation along the line, but he is giving us in each case, at the request of the committee, the amount proposed to be expended in each case. Now,
I think the minister, having started out so well, ought to consider, in case this administration should have another opportunity of presenting the estimates next year, which we hardly think they will have-the minister should consider the advisability of placing upon the estimates each sum and the place where it is proposed to expend it, along with the necessary particulars. That would greatly expedite the work of the committee.


I find that I did not give the information I should have given with respect to the other amounts, that together make this total $385,000. For instance, tjiere is fthe conveyance or the transfer of these bridges, that is estimated to cost $8,000. To erect and double up certain bridges, $46,000. I can give the names of the bridges that it is proposed to double up. New Glasgow, Canal, Christie's brook, Beaver river, North Coc-aigne, North Coal brook, Richibucto river, Nelson's, Dickie's, Benjamin river, Otterbrooke, Indian brook, One-half mile west of Sayabec, two miles west of Sayabec, one-half mile west of St. Anaclet, one-half mile west of Trois Pistoles, twenty-five or twenty-six bridges at these places.


Can the hon. gentleman give the cogt as he is reading off the names ?


There is one and a-half mile'west of Trois Pistoles, three bridges at Benjamin river, three at Ricliibuetou river, three at North Coal Branch, two at Beaver river, two at canal, three at Indian brook ; these require to be doubled up, that is, to have two spans. The doubling up is estimated to cost $46,000. Then at Sackville we require $66,000 to replace a bridge. That is in Westmoreland county, New Brunswick. Then there is the Sackville bridge, $66,000 ; Laplanche, $11,000 ; Sutherland river, $25,000 ; Salmon river, $19,400. Then Nicolet river, bridge No. 1, $110,000 ; and bridge No. 2, $85,000. The whole of these items will total more than the $3S5,000, but a portion was paid out of last year's appropriation, and $385,000 will be sufficient to complete the work.


The hon. gentleman sees that under cover of this item he has sums of $85,000 and $110,000 for instance. He must see that it is not treating the committee properly to lump all these together. Surely the committee is entitled to discuss separately an appropriation of $100,000 for any work. Then I would ask the hon. gentleman what he means by the carriage of the material. Is that included in the charges for carriage upon the Intercolonial?


Yes, these bridges are built at points beyond the Intercolonial, and this is for freight. The contracts are made for delivery of the work, and this is for the freight.


Is it only for freight off the Intercolonial, or do you include any freight on the Intercolonial ?


Freights delivered at the bridge on the Intercolonial, and a portion of the freight would therefore be payable to the Intercolonial itself^


So he is doing business for the country on revenue account, and charging for hauling the material upon this railway.


That is proper, it is capital expenditure.


I observe the New Glasgow bridge is mentioned as being doubled up. My impression is that that bridge was doubled in some way a few years ago. Is it proposed to repeat the operation, or what is meant by doubling up ?


Doubling up is putting two girders together. The work that was done a few years ago was simply to strerfethen it a little.


It is doubling up and strengthening. Instead of having the strength of one girder y.ou have the united strength of two girders.


Will there be new work, or are the spans taken from some other points?


That means taking up some of these. This is new work.


The minister has given us a statement of the total amount to be spent on bridges. He has also stated that he could Dot give us the specific amount for each bridge. May I ask how he makes up the sum total ? Are we to understand that the [DOT]engineer in charge of that work gives a general estimate of the total amount to be expended on the different bridges, or does he not give the department a specific amount or an estimate of the amounts required on each bridge ? If he does not, how is it possible to make up the sum total without just simply guessing at it ?


I have given to the committee the information in respect to the individual bridges, but there is an item of $46,000 for doubling up certain small bridges. I have given the names


The hon. gentleman misunderstands my question.


I have given the names of these twenty-five bridges that it is proposed to double up and I have stated that we have not the specific items in respect to each one of the number. But, the engineers have made an estimate as to the total cost of them and their estimate is $46,000. That is included in the $385,000.


Would the engineers estimate not be for each separate bridge rather than for the total amount ?


The amount is not given for each separate bridge.


It makes it rather difficult for the committee to understand where this amount is to be expended and it gives a great deal of liberty to the minister in the expenditure of it. Would it not be better, when the engineer inspects a bridge and finds that a certain improvement has to be made upon it, that he should report to the department that it will cost a certain specific amount? It would be better that he should report the amount required for each specific bridge and then we could tell if the money was expended for the purpose for which it had been voted.


The twenty-five bridges which I have named are to be doubled up and that $46,000 can only be applied to these twenty-five.


Could it not be expended on five instead of twenty-five?


No. This is for paying for the whole wTork. We say that we are going to do that work. We must necessarily do it, and we say that $46,000 is all that we require for that purpose.


How are we to hold down the minister to the expenditure which he tells us he is going to make ? He says that it will take $46,000 to do the work. Now the hon. minister could expend that $46,000 on half the number of bridges proposed tp be strengthened and he could still be within the vote. My, hon. friend shakes his head; I cannot understand it in any other way. If the hon. gentleman will say that he is asking for $3,000 to be expended on a specific bridge when he brings in his report showing how the money has been expended we can tell whether the money has been expended for the purpose for which it was voted.


I do not see it in that light. If the engineer reported to me that twenty-five bridges which he named required to be doubled up and that it was going to cost $46,000. and if he was only able with the $46,000 to dispose of half of them, it would strike me very forcibly that he should be condemned and I think he would place the minister and the department in a
ItEVISED EDITION
<5271

very false position. We state that we propose to apply that $46,000 to the doubling up of all these bridges. If we were to come back next year and say that we used the $46,000 and that only half a dozen or fifteen of that number were dealt with and there still remained ten more it would be a matter which might be very severely criticised.


I think it would too.


In one case the opposition and the country would have to content themselves with criticism and in the other case they would have the prevention. Prevention is a good deal better than criticism with this government. In the one case they would not be able to spend the money improperly, because the Auditor General would say, you cannot do this because you announced when you submitted your estimate to parliament that you were going to expend so much on each bridge, and that is the statute. The government might, in the other cases, if they chose strengthen one or two of the bridges, say that they were not going to do any of the rest and still be within the item. Then, the hon. minister says that we may criticise them. What good would that do the people of this country after the money had been spent in an improper way ? Suppose the hon. minister gets the item through upon the understanding that he is going to make this expenditure on twenty bridges and he only spends the money on two bridges and does not spend anything on the eighteen remaining ones, and suppose the Auditor General under the item has not the power of preventing the expenditure, you will have to be satisfied with simply finding fault. The country has had some experience in that regard with this government. The people are rather tired of finding fault with the government for not doing what they say they will do. It is better to have the purpose of the vote stated in the statute so that the Auditor General will be able to say, if the money is diverted to any other purpose, that this is not a proper expenditure and that the money must lie expended under the terms of the vote. The hon. minister says that this amount is required for the strengthening of so many bridges. Let us take the hon. minister at his word and at the same time put it in the statute. In my opininon, the criticisim of my hon. friend from Peel (Mr. Blain) is quite right.


The hon. Minister of Railways and Canals is asking to do something that no minister has previously asked. Last year we had the same nature of discussion up and the item under discussion which evoked a reference to this matter was an item of $63,500 for additional sidings along the line of the Intercolonial Railway. What the hon. minister (Mr. Fielding) then claim-


.
ed was that it was right enough to have these bulk items where no large expenditure was proposed in reference to any one item. He said that if the total expenditure on any one item was a matter of $2,000 or $3,000 or $4,000 each, the government need not bring each specific item and need not tie themselves to the same extent as if it were a large expenditure, the declaration that the hon. minister made being to the effect that if he proposed a number of these expenditures it gave the same safeguard which would ordinasily attach to a specific item, with a specific sum of money attached to it. It is impossible for the committee or this House afterwards to trace the expenditures of the administration if this system is pursued. Here we have exceedingly large amounts proposed to be spent upon a group of bridges with no particular amount attached to any one of them. The hon. minister of Finance pointed out at that time that the expenditure on sidings as contemplated under the item was $63,500 in all, being made up of small sums of money and that it would be unreasonable to tie the government down to a specific expenditure in reference to each of them. He said :
The engineer's estimates for sidings vary from $2,000 up to_$3,000, $4,000 or $5,000 ; there is one estimate of $10,000 for a siding at Camp-bellton ; but with that exception all the sums are comparatively small, none of them more than about $6,000.
Then he gives a list of the places at which these expenditures are to be made and he says further in illustration of what he means :
The vote for the double track which my hon. friend refers to can only be applied to that purpose. I can give the names of the places where we contemplate building sidings ; but I do not think it would be wise to confine us to a particular amount for a particular siding. Suppose, for instance, that one siding is estimated to cost $2,000 and another $3,000, and suppose it is found that they cost about $2,500 each ; I do not think it would be wrong to apply the $5,000 for the two sidings in that way.
And so it is that last year the Minister of Finance, having claimed the right to simply give us the names of the different places at which the expenditure was to be made, aggregating in all $63,500, a sum of comparative insignificance as compared with the $385,000 (proposed to be expended in this way this year, pointed out that the only latitude he required was in the case of small expenditures running from $2,000 to $6,000, but now the minister insists on having this large discretion and says that we can criticise the expenditure next year.
I submit that is not a fair method of dealing with the matter.


Do I understand that this $385,000 will complete the works for which it is voted or is this expenditure on account of new works ?


That will complete the wqrk. That is the estimated cost.


Are any of these bridge items renewals, replacing worn-out bridges by new bridges simply ?


None whatever.


Are you proposing to replace any old bridges with new ones at the expense of capital this year ?


No, that is not proposed.	[DOT]


You are not replacing one bridge at the cost of revenue ?


No, there are none in contemplation now.


Did you last year ?


The engineer says not.


Not one last year, not one in the current year. Everything is done at the expense of capital.


Does my hon. friend ask whether some of those charged against capital account have been renewed ?


You are charging now $385,000 to capital. I asked you what you are doing as to the bridges that have become worn out in the ordinary course of their lives and have to be replaced without regard to strengthening. Are you renewing any one bridge or did you renew one last year ?


Wherever that is done, it is done out of revenue not out of capital expenditure.


Were there any ?


The engineer says he cannot recall that there were.


Supposing the minister did not increase the strength of one of these bridges, but had to renew the bridge. What branch would bear the cost, revenue or capital ?


I am not prepared to answer that question. I think that the repairs to bridges, where a bridge is worn out, would probably be a revenue item.


Are not these new bridges replacing Old or partly worn out bridges ?


No, these bridges would all be suitable for the traffic of the Intercolonial Railway had we not increased the size of the engines.	,


Does the hon. minister mean to assert that all his bridges are brand new bridges, and that he is not making money for revenue by charging the whole of this to- capital ? Are not some of these bridges, if not wholly, at least partly 200i
worn out ? Why should revenue get the benefit of a new bridge erected at the cost of capital ?


I presume they are all somewhat worn, but I do not think any of them are worn out.


Has the hon. gentleman charged anything to revenue, in these cases against the liabilities which it ought to bear ?


No.


Does the hon. gentleman not think he ought to do so. How can he show a truthful statement of his net revenue if 'he does not charge maintenance with its fair share of the cost of replacing every bridge whether it is only in the fifth year of its life or in its fiftieth year.


I question the position taken by my hon. friend.


I am glad to hear the hon. gentleman's explanation.


I certainly would not be willing to go to the extent my hon. friend does.


I can only tell my hon. friend it is always done. Any corporate company would take care that the maintenance account was charged with a fair proportion of the cost of replacing a bridge so that capital would not be unnecessarily burdened. The hon. gentleman is never going to charge anything to maintenance as long as he can get the country to provide sufficient capital for him.


I have often wondered how we can get a clear and distinct idea of how much this railway is making which we cannot do now owing to the way in which the books are kept. Of course you can have a surplus, or a deficit, according to the way you keep the books. It appears to me that if a railway company like the Grand Trunk or the Canadian Pacific Railway, that was making their road pay and that did not have the people of Canada at its back were doing work of this kind, it would not charge all this to capital account.


We might of course do as the Canadian Pacific Railway do, issue
debenture bonds, come to parliament and get power to do that.


Do they do that ?


Yes, they came last year.


It is no use of the hon. minister saying they do certain things unless they do them. I quite understand that the Grand Trunk when they want to double track their line would issue bonds, but if I understand rightly, on the Intercolonial thev build bridges out of capital over the same

rivers or ravines thaljt bridges are now built over. It appears to me that when revenue account bas benefited by the use of these bridges in the past, it should bear the cost of their renewal.


The minister said the large expenditure was on the extension of sidings and the strengthening of bridges in order to accommodate heavier and longer trains. How much has been expended up to date and how much more is estimated to be required to put the road into the requisite condition '!


We have asked for votes to carry out all that is cofttemplated at present. Whether there shall arise in the future conditions which will necessitate future expenditures we at present do not know. The sidings for which we are providing it is thought will be sufficient for some time to come. It may be that there will be such a growth of business in connection with the construction of the new transcontinental line as to warrant the Intercolonial being placed in a very much better condition even than it is. We expect to get a large traffic over the Intercolonial in connection with the construction of that line.


The minister must have had an estimate of the amount required for the purpose of improving the gradients, strengthening the bridges and lengthening the sidings, in order to accomplish the object in view.


I have given that in respect to the bridges.


Then, I understand that all that is required to accomplish that is being voted this year ?


Yes, exclusive of the Oxford and New Glasgow and Cape Breton railways. I stated that after the appropriation of $385,000 was exhausted, the amount necessary to strengthen the bridges was estimated at $280,000.


I know, notwithstanding the statement made by the Minister of Finance last year that the amount voted then would virtually finish the work. But what I want to get at is this. The minister must have had an estimate from the department as to the total amount required for repairs, easing of gradients, extensions of sidings, strengthening of bridges, and all other work necessary to the object in view. What is the total amount, exclusive of the New Glasgow and Cape Breton roads ?


I understand that we shall not require under present conditions to strengthen the bridges on the Oxford and New Glasgow and Cape Breton sections. We have not gone into that, and have no estimate of the cost, because at present Mr: COCHRANE.
the larger engines are not required there. There has been no estimate made as to the improvement of the curves and gradients of the road, but I have given the information with respect to the bridges, and all other information, I am sure, that would enable my hon. friend to form his own judgment.


Then I am to understand that for the gradients and curvatures and strengthening of the bridges, except on the New Glasgow and Cape Breton sections -concerning which he has no estimate at present as he is not using heavy engines on those sections and there is no necessity for an estimate-we have the whole amount required to be voted this year on capital account, which he requires for strengthening the bridges. That of course does not include the $280,000.


I do not want to be misunderstood. There has been no total estimate of the amount required, but there are two or three items under consideration now and the finality will be reached with respect to them very shortly. These items have to do with lengthening some curves that may be necessary on the main line of the Intercolonial, especially on the Drummond County portion.


Would the minister tell us where they are ? Surely he can get from his engineers an estimate of the probable cost. I do not want a close estimate.


Until the department has determined what shall be done, I could not very well bring it now to the notice of the committee. At St. Cyril and Carmel and St. Leonard Junction, there are three very unfortunate curves.


On what road is that ?


On the Drummond end of the Intercolonial.


Why, we were told that was a perfect road when we purchased it.


Is the bridge at Folleigh river to be strengthened, and to what extent ? The people believe it to be dangerous.


It was doubled up about two years ago.


What do you mean by doubling up ?


Putting in double girders. That would be two girders on each side.


Last evening while I happened to be in room 16 for a few moments, I find that in my absence the hon. member for East Grey (Mr. Sproule) made reference to a certain member as having had an agent removed from office because he had refused to interfere with the progress of the trains. On being asked to give the name, he de-

dined to do so on the ground that he had no desire to do the gentleman in question, who was a good respectable member of this House, an injury, and he went on to say :
I will tell the minister the name-privately, and it I do him any injury by this statement,
X am man enough to stand up in the House and say it is not true'.
I beg to thank the hon. gentleman for those words. I took the first opportunity of asking him to whom he referred, and on ascertaining that he referred to myself, I gave the rumour then, as I do now, my most unqualified denial. There has been no agent in the county of Cumberland removed or interfered with by me because he refused to interfere with the progress of the trains, and I cannot understand how the rumour could have arisen. There have been only two agents in that county removed, and they were removed for cause, after a most thorough investigation, and that was away back in 1896. -Since then I cannot remember of any agent toeing removed. I am certain that none has toeen at my request or because he refused to interfere with the progress of the trains.


What are the names of those who were removed ?


Jos. McKeown, of Oxford Junction, and Jos. Clarke, of Pugwash.


The member for East Grey never referred to any such rumour at all.


I meant to say the member for East Elgin (Mr. Ingram). This is only another case of how a man may use one word for another and say 4 foreigner ' instead of 4 stranger.'


I am glad the hon. gentleman has made this statement for he it is to whom the rumour referred. I said last night that I would be very glad if he denied it, and as he has done so I am glad to hear his denial. I have nothing to withdraw because I simply stated a rumour, and now that that rumour has been contradicted, I am very much pleased to learn that the charge was not true.


It is absolutely untrue and I beg to thank the hon. gentleman for withdrawing the statement.


How much will it take to complete the strengthening of the bridges which it is contemplated to strengthen or double up ?
, Mr. EMMERSON. I have repeated that about ten times, but do not object to repeating it again. $188,000 is the estimate for this year. I have given the names of the bridges and the amounts required for each. This is of course exclusive of the Cape Breton line and the New Oxford and New Glasgow short line.


There is just the difficulty. When this question of strengthening bridges was up a year ago, the item was $165,000, as will be seen on reference to page 8269 of 4 Hansard.' The hon. member for South Lanark asked for the details and the hon. Minister of Finance replied :
I understand the hon. gentleman wished to have a statement in detail as to the bridges to be strengthened. Of this sum $77,000 is a revote standing over from last- year.
Then Mr. Haggart asked :
What is the total amount expended up to date and the probable amount required to finish this work of strengthening ?
Now, there is a perfectly honest question asked by my hon. friend from Lanark and to that question the Finance Minister replies :
My deputy informs me that he thinks this will finish the work of strengthening these bridges.
There was a straight statement from the Minister of Finance, who was acting Minister of Railways. And now my hon. friend (Mr. Emmerson) comes forward and says a still larger amount will be required. And the committee are asking, year after year, when the hon. gentleman names a certain number of bridges to be improved, that he shall set opposite each name the amount he intends to spend, so that we may know where the money goes. I would be glad if the minister would make a definite statement of how much it will cost to complete the strengthening and doubling up of these bridges. I further wish to draw his attention to the fact that the Minister of Finance differs from him as to what doubling up bridges is. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Emmerson) says it it is putting two girders together. But the Minister of Finance says :
Doubling up, of course, means the ta'king of two bridges and putting them together.
It is not for me to say which of these is the proper definition. However, I cannot understand how it is possible for the hon. minister to bring down a statement of the total amount required to strengthen a number of bridges unless the department has given him specifically the amount required for each bridge. I cannot understand how, without these details, the.hon. gentleman can make up a sum total.


It seems to me that my hon. friend (Mr. Blain) has this same complaint with regard to every item-that he cannot understand. Now, it seems to me this item was quite clear.


Well, if the minister will explain I will make a desperate effort to understand it.


If I can find my hon. friend (Mr. Blain) actuated by a desire to

understand I shall be well satisfied. There is a statement in ' Hansard ' of last year, made by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) as acting Minister of Railways, referring to certain bridges, concerning which he says that the deputy informs him that he thinks the amount then a^ked for will finish the work of strengthening these bridges ;- not all the bridges on the Intercolonial but only those that then required strengthening. If it was supposed that the hon. gentleman referred to all the bridges, there must certainly have been some misunderstanding, as shown by the fact that $385,000 is asked for the same purpose this year.


The Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) speaks in another place of this completing the work of strengthening.


Not for the work in the future, and not for all the bridges on the Intercolonial, but only for a certain number. There was a list of bridges to be improved then, just as there is a list to be improved now. However, it is hardly worth while for us to have these post mortem examinations of what was understood in the committee last year. I have made a statement as to the bridges for which expenditures are required now, and the question is whether that statement is satisfactory.


Surely the hon. minister, m speaking of post mortem examinations, does not mean to suggest that we are not to look back and see what promises were made last year. The committee's investigation and the statepients of the minister become merely idle if we are not to look back and see how the statements of last year have been lived up to. The hon. minister has taken a very wide departure

-Air. EAIMERSON. Will the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lennox) allow me to explain ? What I said was that there must have been a misunderstanding if it was supposed that the minister last year in referring to an item of $87,000 said that'this would complete all the bridges on the Intercolonial He could not have had that in mind, because $38o,000 is asked for this year.


If the hon. minister (Air. Emmerson) will look further on in the debate he will see that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Fielding) spoke of all the bridges.


That is, all the bridges m the list.


All that required repair.


Alay I have the attention of the hon. Minister of Railways and Canals while I read a part of the debate of last year ?


The list 1 have read only refers to the bridges which it is expected to deal with during the present
season and the money has not been expended yet.





Is there any estimate as to the probable cost ?


Not in the case of each separate bridge. The estimate is general.


That is a total amount required for strengthening these 'bridges of over $600,000.


$451,000 up to the end of January.


And $165,000.
If there is a misunderstanding-I am sure there is not on this side of the House-the responsibility rests either with the hon. gentleman (Air. Emmerson) or his predecessor. The hon. gentleman says he has been making this matter quite plain, but I regret to say it does not seem very plain to me. I would like it very much 'if he would make a statement of the amount spent in strengthening bridges, and also what it will cost to compete the work of strengthening the bridges on the Intercolonial.


I have given that.


Then, what is the amount ?


There is $385,000 this year for the bridges I have named, and the amount required hereafter for strengthening the bridges I have named about $280,000.


We understand that this will double up or strengthen every bridge that it is necessary to double up or strengthen on the Intercolonial ?


This $280,000 together with the $385,000 voted this year. I have given the names of the bridges, and have stated that these are all that require to be strengthened according to the judgment of the engineers of the department.


For how long ?


That will mean that every bridge on the Intercolonial requiring to be strengthened will be strengthened. How7 long they will last, when strengthened,
I cannot say. When this work is done, we shall have improved all the bridges except on the Cape Breton Railway and on the line between Oxford and New Glasgow.


The hon. gentleman's statement, then is that $665,000 will meet this proposed expenditure. Will he state to us how he has arrived at that in view of the fact that he has made the statement that he has not set down the specific amount required for each bridge ?
Air. EMiAIERSON. I read off the expenditure for each bridge included in the $385,000. with the expenditure on 25 small bridges where the girders are to be doubled up, totalling $46,000. My hon. friend remembers my making that statement, and therefore, without giving the detailed items with respect to these 25 bridges the engineers give a total of $46,000, and these 25

bridges can be doubled up for that sum of money.


Would the minister give us the total estimate of his engineer for strengthening this work, from beginning to end.





The minister should realize how necessary it is to have accurate information. A while ago I was particular to inquire from the Minister of Finance, not only in reference to this, but the total amount required for strengthening the bridges altogether, according to his engineer's estimate. Here is the statement he made to me in last year's ' Hansard,' at page 8279 :


I would like to know the total amount expended for the strength ening of bridges and putting in new bridges on account of these new locomotives. Th total amounts expended on the Restigouche and the Miramichi bridges are two independent items. Add the two together, and the amount expended on the other, and I think it must be over $1,000,000.


We have not the figures to the close of the fiscal year. Heaving out the bridges at Miramichi and at Restigouche, the amount is $461,680.


That is what the hon. gentleman said before. Then there is the vote of $165,000 to be added to that, and the hon. gentleman says that will complete the repairs on those bridges.


I stated that this appropriation for the year will probably finish the work, but the general manager says it will take another year. There will be something further to be done.


You do not know what the amount is ?
The MINISTER OF FINANCE I have not the estimates at hand.


For the total repairs of the bridges ?	.


For strengthening the bridges.


I have always understood that the department makes an estimate of the rrohable cost of strengthening bridges on the Intercolonial Railway. Will the hon. gentleman tell us what is the estimate cost of strengthening these bridges ?


There was an estimate made by the general manager, and the recollection of my deputy is that it was about a million and a quarter dollars.
He was only $500,000 astray.


Surely there must be some mistake. That includes the bridges at Restigouche and Miramichi.


The estimate is substantially correct-over a million dollars, including the large bridges as well as the process of doubling up. It *would he subject to some deception if bridges were sold off the road, but that has not yet
been done, most of them being used in doubling up.
So you see that last year we had this estimate as a million and a quarter, and to-day it amounts to $1,700,000. While I am on my feet-to what account are these bridges credited ?


I notice that on page 8279 of ' Hansard ' the Finance Minister in giving the total of about a million dollars excluded the Restigouche and the Miramichi bridges. Later on, exclusive of these bridges, the amount appears to have been stated at a million and a quarter dollars. Now either these bridges were excluded, or the minister meant to say a million and three quarters as a total estimate. One can well understand how an error of that kind would occur, because the estimate given by the hon. member for South Lanark (Mr. Haggart) shows that he had in his mind over a million dollars exclusive of the Restigouche and the Miramichi bridges. There is no objection taken to the statement of a million dollars by the Minister of Finance, that sum being exclusive of the Miramichi and Restigouche. Then if you add those, the total would be upwards of a million and three quarters. The error must have occurred in some way like that, because these figures I am sure would not have been deliberately stated erroneously, it would be folly for a minister to make such a statement. The facts are all there.


It does seem to be folly. But if the minister will look further on in the discussion he will find that the minister fully understood the facts. How was it then that the minister stated last year that the total expenditure would be only about $600,000 ? Three years ago it was $600,000. last year it was $1,250,000, and now' it *amounts to $1,750,000. That is the kind of information we get from the Department of the' Minister of Railways. Something is wrong. The minister should have accurate information in reference to the cost of these improvements, and it is impossible, with such mistakes and blunders as have been made from year to year by the minister, to ascertain the cost of these w'orks. The engineering department that would furnish information that certain repairs required for the purpose of bringing up the standard of this road in the form of strengthening the bridges would only cost $600,000, then comes to the minister next year and says that it will cost $1,250,000 and then this year informs the minister that $1,750,000 will be required, ought not to be kept a day in the employ of any institution, government or anything else.


Evidently the reference to the $650,000 is to the Restigouche and Miramichi bridges. My hon. friend (Mr. Haggart), at page 8276 of ' Hansard,' gives the whole case away. He says :

The expenditure for the purpose of strengthening and renewing the bridges on the Intercolonial Railway within the last few years has been over $1,000,000, besides an expenditure for repairs on the different bridges of nearly $700,000.
Now, there is $1,700,000, and he must have got his information from my hon. friend the Minister of Finance. That $1,700,000 conforms to the statement made hy the general manager last year, that the total expenditure is $1,750,000. Surely we are malt ing a mountain out of a molehill in endeavouring to show there is some discrepancy in the statement. When this committee is considering these questions, and when interjections are being made by hon. members, the reporters cannot always get the exact figures, and no minister is able to go over the report and correct his proof. The figure as it appears must go on record as it is stated, or as it is understood to be stated, and it is very possible for hon. members to misunderstand. Somebody will say a million and three-quarters across the floor and it will be understood as a million and a quarter. These things will occur, but that there was no misunderstanding in this case is clearly proved by the fact that my hon friend from South Lanark, at page 8276 ot ' Hansard,' last year referred to $1,700,000 as being expended and required to be expended for repairs on the Intercolonial Railway.


Does the hon. minister not know the distinction between his statement and the statement I made ? I was speaking of the $1,000,000 which was required for strengthening and renewing bridges.


It is the same thing.


Besides that there was expended for repairs $700,000. That $700,000 does not come into consideration at all. They are two distinct and separate, items. We were dealing with the question of the strengthening and renewal of bridges on the Intercolonial Railway. The question of repairs does not come into it at all.


I wish to draw the hon. minister's attention to the statement made bv his predecessor {Mr. Blair). At page 3809 of ' Hansard,' 1902, appears the following .
Strengthening bridges, $175,000.


Will the minister explain what this Is for ?


The extreme pressure under which the bridge companies were working last year made it impossible for them to supply what we - required within the fiscal year, and so $75,000 of this has to be revoted. We started out with the idea that by spending $100,000 a year, we would in five or six years sufficiently strengthen our bridges to bear the heavy locomotives.
What would the hon. minister think from that ?





Is this taking the place of old work ?


No. The bridges that were built on the Intercolonial Railway were nearly all built after one pattern, and if they were not called upon to carry heavier trains than prior to 1898, they would last for many years to come. We have 'been obliged to increase their carrying capacity, and what we do is to take one span out and add it to the existing span of another bridge, then replacing ithe one which we have removed by a new span.


Is the work -progressing from Montreal to Halifax or from Halifax to Montreal ?
Then passing on :


Is there an estimate of what the total cost of this work will be ?


We have only expended $225,000 out of the $600,000 which it was originally estimated we would require.


Exactly. That was what was stated.
Mr. BiLA'IN. That seems to be plain. That shows the lack of information afforded by the hon. gentleman and his predecessor to the committee from year to year. I think that if the hon. gentleman would state the number of bridges on the Intercolonial Railway, and if his engineer would bring in a report showing that so much money would be required to repair and strengthen each of these bridges and that the total sum would be a certain amo