1.	Is the government, or any of the ministers, aware of the following paragraph that appears every day in ' Le Canada,' of Montreal, under the heading : ' The Opinion of Monseigneur LS-gal.' ' We are satisfied with the system of education that we have, and we hope that it will he left to us ' ?
2.	Are these words an extract from any document of which the government or any of the ministers has a knowledge ?
3.	If .so, has the government or the minister who knows of that document any objection to communicate to the House the entire document in question ?





The ministers, like all others who read ' Le Canada,' have seen the sentence which is quoted in the question. The words so quoted are not an extract from any document of which the government or any of the ministers have a knowledge. I may say to my hon. friend that Monseigneur Legal has not written to the government on this question so far as I know.


1.	Has the government received a copy of the report made by Mr. H. Rider Haggard to the imperial government respecting the working of the Salvation Army colonies ill the United States ?
2.	If so, will the government leave a copy of said report on the table of the House at an early date ?
3.	If not, has the government any reports by its own officers of the operation of these colonies, and will they be presented to parliament ?


The government has not received a copy of Mr. H. Rider Haggard's report, and has no reports of its own officers respecting the workings of the Salvation Army colonies in the United States.


1.	Has the government, or any official thereof, had a conference with Mr. Neill, an English Poor Law Guardian, with -eference to the migration to Canada of selected children from English workhouses ?
2.	What is the nature of fhe proposal, if any, that Mr. Neill made ?
3.	What answer was given by the government or its officials ?


Mr. Neill is in this country gathering information as to the progress of children emigrated from Great Britain by boards of guardians, and has not made any proposal to the government or its officials.


['Friday, May 19, 1905.']
FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved tliat the House go into Committee of Supply.


(Translation.) Mr. Speaker, before this motion is put, I wish to draw the attention of the House and the government to a matter of some moment. The legislature of the state of New York has just adopted an Act prohibiting the importation into that state of fish caught in Missisquoi bay and the Richelieu river.
6189 MAY 18, 1905 6190	
According to United States newspapers that Act was passed in retaliation against the Dominion government, the latter having thought proper to allow fishing in Pike-river-viz., in that part of Lake Champlain which belongs to us-against the will of the United States government. That Act is such as to cause serious loss to fishermen in the district which I represent, and wherein the fishing industry is quite large. That trade has been established for quite a while, and our fish are sold largely on the New York markets. The matter is of interest, not only to fishermen in my constituency, but to the country at large. The United States government has adopted this vexatious law against the province of Quebec because the Canadian government would not comply with its request. I shall not undertake to say, Mr. Speaker, what our government should do under the circumstances. It seems as if negotiations would not be of much avail ; hut there is surely some remedy at hand. The suggestion 'of people in my district is that tolls should be exacted as formerly on the Cham-biy canal. Traffic over that canal is carried on in United States bottoms.. According to the Trade and Commerce returns, river boats in that part of the country are almost wholly controlled by people from the United States. The tonnage of exports in 1904 was as follows ;-united States boats, 82,000 tons ; Canadian boats, 10,000 tons. The tolls on the Chambly canal used entirely by United States boats, amounted to $24,000 yearly during the period tolls were levied on this canal. The exports of fish by the St. Johns farmers and fishermen average $23,736 year-iv. Should we decide to exact tolls as we did formerly on the Chambly canal, we would thereby reach the shipping Interests of the state of New York and be compensated for the loss resulting from that prohibitory law, the outcome of which will be to ruin that trade. Besides, that canal being used mainly toy United States boats, it seems only reasonable that we should resume exacting the tolls which were levied formerly. In order, Sir, to give you an idea of the loss inflicted on us by the prohibition of this trade, I may be permitted to read to the House an extract from a letter written by Air. Pierce, agent of the American Express Company, who refuses to reopen the agencies of that company in the St. Johns district, on the ground that the trade with the United States will not in the future be of sufficient importance to warrant the carrying on of the business. I quote his own words : I beg to say that, after looking into this matter very carefully, I do not see how we can consistently reopen the offices at Clarenceville Henriville and Sabrevois as there is not sufficient business to warrant the expense. The new law which has recently been passed in New York State prohibiting the importation of fisli from the province of Quebec makes the prospec less favourable than it otherwise would he, as this fish business would constitute the larger 1974	portion of the revenue which we might hope to obtain providing we reopened the offices. I trust that tbe government will at once take up this matter. It is a mere act of retaliation against us, an act which has no justification In itself, and which will surely be regarded in that light, not only by the people of the district I represent, but by the government as well. Hon. RAYMOND PREFONTAINE (Minister of Marine and Fisheries). (Translation.) This is not a new question. It has come up in this House and before the people several times within the last few years. The Department of Marine and Fisheries has done all in its power to bring about a friendly settlement with our neighbours. However, we have not succeeded in concluding a satisfactory agreement. We had, a few years ago, in 1901 or 1902, I believe, made arrangements whereby Canadian fishermen were debarred from using nets in Misslaquoi bay. On the other hand, it was understood that United States fiisharmen would be prevented from fishing on the remainder of Lake Champlain. It has often been the case, as shown by our past experience, that while we are expected to carry out our xiart of the agreement, United States people do not carry out their own pledges. Although Canadians were prohibited from fishing in their own waters, no watch was kept on the other side of the line, and United States fishermen were using nets almost openly and at will. While we conformed to the law in Canadian waters, they did not conform to it within their territory. Subsequently, perceiving that fish were diminishing In numbers In the waters of Uake Champlain, United States authorities took up the matter once more and requested the Department of Marine and Fisheries to re-enact the ordinance passed in this connection In 1900, as the misdeeds I have just referred to had induced us to repeal it as regards fishing in the Bay of Missisquoi. These misunderstandings have given rise to a good deal of discussion and have induced our neighbours to renew their efforts towards bringing about an understanding < with us on that point. We answered that this was not the only question awaiting settlement; that there were many others. For instance, there is the question of the Pacific coast fisheries, which is of much greater moment than this, and concerning which we are seeking to bring about an agreement with the authorities of the state of Washington, with a view to putting a stop to the destruction of salmon in Puget Sound and in the Fraser river. And we informed the United States authorities that if they would agree with us to appoint a joint commission for the purpose of considering all these controverted questions, all these difficulties which spring up in Canadian and frontier waters we would willingly cooperate with them in taking the necessary

steps for the protection of the fisheries belonging to both countries. Of course, we are all well aware that in the neighbouring republic fisheries are left under the control of the respective states. There are seven of these interested in fishing. The President of the United States is in favour of appointing such a commission, but negotiations have fallen through.
I agree with my hon. friend from St. Johns and Iberville that the question is one of exceeding interest for his constituents; but, for the time being, I do not think it possible to remedy matters, except by reopening negotiations between the two countries" However, I have not lost all hope of attaining that object, seeing that the main issue, that concerning the fisheries of the Pacific coast, is one of interest, not only to the state of Washington, but, in a large measure, to the United States trade as a whole. As regards any other step which might be taken, the question is rather a difficult one just now ; but the Department of Marine and Fisheries has not given up the idea of resorting once more to negotiations.
My hon. friend suggested the re-enactment of tolls on the Chambly canal. I am not sufficiently well posted on the question to give an opinion off-hand ; but I am under the impression that such a step would not be productive of good results. I think that by means of diplomacy an understanding may be brought about with our neighbours, which will result in the passing of regulations satisfactory to both people.
Mr. B'. D. MONK (Jacques Cartier). (Translation.) Mr. Speaker, as these difficulties have been in existence for some time past, I think the House is entitled to know whether there has been an interchange of correspondence between the Dominion government and the United States authorities on the subject, and of what character have been the negotiations carried on between such authorities and Canada. There must have been an interchange of correspondence, there must be records and memos on file in the department, and I think the hon. minister would be meeting the wishes of the House by having this correspondence brought down.


(Translation.) I
may inform my hon. friend that when the supplementary estimates for fisheries are laid before the House, I shall be in a position to give all the information he wishes for, and to bring down papers which will shed new light on thet question.


(Translation.) I also am of opinion that we would obtain more through diplomacy than by taking the means suggested by the hon. member for St. Johns, although the House should be grateful to him for the information he supplied as to the effect of such a measure. Our trade with the United States is extensive ; we are all Mr. PREFONTAINE.
interested in it; and its profits are shared in, not only by the constituents of the hon. gentleman, but by those of other counties as well in the vicinity of Montreal. I am not sure that by exacting tolls on the trade carried on with our neighbours, as suggested by the hon. gentleman from St. Johns, we would be bettering the condition of things. More would be obtained through negotiations, provided they are followed up as they should be. The government may prove their watchfulness by laying before the House the correspondence, which will show what negotiations have been carried on with a view to settling the difficulty. It is contended that United States authorities were not the first to fail carrying out the agreement. The papers which I wish to have brought down would put things in their true light.
The following newspaper clipping, containing an item sent from Albany to the Montreal ' Star,' has been handed to me :
Albany, April 3.-Confiscation of all fish caught in Missisquoi- bay, Lake Champlain, if shipped into this state, is planned in the Bill introduced Friday by Assemblyman Knapp of Clinton county. This is proposed in retaliation against Canada, that government refusing to prohibit the use of nets in Missisquoi bay. The Bill was advanced to third reading, and introduced to-day in the Senate.
Ninety-five per cent of perch, pike and bass of Lake Champlain are hatched in Missisquoi bay and at this season fish are running in large numbers. Until recently Canada issued licenses to fifteen men in Canada, who were able to take out fish valued at $30,000 a year.
According to the above item, dated, it is true, April 3rd, it does not seem to be such a foregone conclusion that we are not to blame in the matter, or that our government has not been neglectful of its duty. Under the circumstances, it seems doubly necessary that we should have access to the correspondence carried on, and that we should know where we are at concerning this disastrous state of things, for it is a disastrous state of things for parties concerned.


0. BOYOE (West Algoma). Mr. Speaker, I desire to draw the attention of the House, and particularly of the Postmaster General, to certain irregularities which have occurred in connection with the post office at Thessalon-irregularities of so gross a nature that if the facts which I have to present to the House remain uncontradicted, as I believe they will be, the House will be seized of one of the most notorious transactions that have ever characterized this government or any other government. I refer to the subject of questions which were asked in the House yesterday and the replies of the hon. Postmaster General thereto. The hon. Postmaster General was asked who was the postmaster at Thessalon, and he stated that the post-

master at Thessalon to-day is one J. B-Dobey. Then he was asked as to why the former postmaster whom J. B. Dobey succeeded had vacated the office, and the kon. gentleman stated that he chose to resign. When asked if that were all, the hon. gentleman said-I did not hear him say it. but read it for the first time in 'Hansard' this morning-that there was a reason for the resignation of the gentleman who was succeeded by J. B. Dobey. When I inform the House that the former postmaster at Tliessalon and the gentleman who was appointed by the hon. Postmaster -General on the 16th of February of this year to succeed him are one and the same person, it will be seen that the matter is so extraordinary that it demands some explanation from the government. The hon. Postmaster General, in his answers to the questions of yesterday, stated that this postmaster resigned on the 21st of May, 1904, and was reappointed on the 16tli of February, 1905. Now, I have some information to offer to the House on the history of this extraordinary resignation. I propose to state the facts for the consideration of the House, and if the hon. Postmaster General can controvert or explain away the extraordinary facts which I am about to disclose, I am sure that the House and the country will be very greatly relieved. I understand that on the 11th of April, 1904, an investigation was ordered by the postal department into the Tliessalon post office. At that time the same gentleman who now occupies the position of postmaster was in charge of that office. The inspector reported to the department in April of last year that there was a shortage in that office of $505.44, that that shortage had been unexplained, and that the postmaster had promised to make it good. In arriving at that shortage the postmaster had been credited with a remittance of $500, alleged to have been made by him to the postal department. If that remittance was a sham, if the statement that he had remitted $500 to the department was false and fraudulent, then the shortage as discovered by the inspector should have been $1,005.45. On the following day, the 12th of April, the department here telegraphed to the inspector that it was impossible to arrive at the balance of that office until the February accounts had been received. The Deputy Postmaster General about the 2nd of May wrote a letter to the inspector in which he referred to the alleged remittance of $500 which the postmaster had stated that he had made by registered letter, giving the number of the letter. The Deputy Postmaster General also makes the following statement to the inspector for his information in the inspection of that office; that the department is not satisfied that that remittance (referring to the remittance of $500) was ever despatched by the postmaster, because if he (the postmaster) misstated the date of mailing each of the cash accounts, it may be inferred that he would also mis-state the facts in connection with the remittance in question. The deputy also asks the inspector to visit the office again, and says that if the inspection proves that the remittance was not forwarded, he will take the money order books and place a reliable person in charge. He adds that there is scarcely any reason to doubt that the postmaster, for some rea-' son unknown, has been making false statements for four or five months with 'regard to the returns to the department. The inspector visits the office, and on or about the 10th of May, 1904, I believe, he made a report to the postal department, with which doubtless the hon. Postmaster General is familiar. In order to draw the attention of the House to that report, I will just state a few heads of the subjects which were covered by it. He reports, I understand, that he visited the post office at Thessalon on the 7th day of May and made a careful audit, that before leaving Ottawa he had examined the letter book of the railway mail service in the department, and that there he had checked over the letter bills, with the entries in the registered letter book ; and he found that the statements made by the postmaster in regard to the disposition of the accounts on the 8th and 11th of April were not correct, and were not substantiated by the letter books. He further states that the credit taken by the postmaster on the 5th of April, for $500 sent by registered letter No. 200, was not correct; that no such number appeared on a bill of that date ; and that credit had been taken for a further remittance of $608 on the 30th of April, 1904, under registered letter No. 580, but there was no receipt for it. In that report he adds : ' I am satisfied it has not been sent.' He further says that the postmaster or his assistant has been falsifying the returns. He says he examined the assistant In the post office, from whom he obtained the following information, which is of an extraordinary character, in view of what followed. He says that the assistant stated that he had handed the postmaster, at his request, out of the post office till in the Thessalon post office the following sums : about the 10th of May, $450, which was to enable the postmaster to buy a house adjoining his own residence which he considered a bargain; $172 a short time before the date of the report, with which to buy pulp wood, as, forsooth, he was speculating in timber ; $200 a few days before the report; and he thinks $300 further ; in all about $1,100 out of the post office funds. The inspector in that report further says that he questioned the postmaster, and asked, as would be reasonable and proper, for an explanation ; and this is the explanation that he got. The postmaster admitted that he had, received sums of money

from his assistant, but said that he supposed all the time that they were from what had been placed to his credit by salary warrants. The inspector criticises that	statement, and says ' This
statement I do not believe, but I am satisfied that there was an understanding between the postmaster and the assistant.' The inspector had said he was led to believe that the postmaster was well off, but he was now satisfied that he was in financial difficulties. As a matter of fact the postmaster at that time was, and now is as I understand-although I am subject to correction in this-an undischarged bankrupt. He says :
I have been much deceived with the postmaster and his assistant. I told him that he would be dismissed. The postmaster said that he would prefer to resign.
And the report closed with a recommendation by the inspector that the postmaster be forthwith dismissed. That is the report of the inspector, as 1 allege it against the hon. the Postmaster General and his department. He may ibe able to explain it.
The postmaster said he would prefer to resign.
Contrast that statement with what we got yesterday from the Postmaster General when he said that he chose to resign and there was a reason. On receiDt of that report it appears that the Postmaster General was seized with a fit of most virtuous and righteous indignation because across that report he appears to have written his magnificent fiat that this postmaster be forthwith dismissed. 'That was on May 19, 1901, according to the report. Then in order to implement that and to make the dismissal effective the hon. gentleman, I believe, wired the member then representing that riding for a recommendation for a postmaster at Thessalon, intimating to the hon. member that the circumstances before him did not warrant any delay, and that he must dismiss the postmaster unless a resignation were filed. At that time I understand-the Postmaster General may set me right if I am wrong-the hon. gentleman had signed the fiat, for the dismissal, that the dismissal had taken effect, and that ,so far as the department was concerned, this gentleman, the postmaster at Thessalon, was a dismissed official and was no longer in the employ of the department.
The next circumstance that arises is a telegram on May 19th following, referring to the office and stating that the postmaster at Thessalon is still in charge of the office and that he signs the returns, and on May 20, there having been, as I understand, some correspondence in the meantime with regard to the employment of somebody else in the post office temporarily, the secretary of the postal department telegraphed the in-


namely, the principle of provincial rights, which he championed so loudly in 1896. For political reasons and having regard to political exigencies of the situation, he changed his mind with regard to the enormity of offences committed by the postmaster at Thessalon, and he retracted his dismissal. He made up his mind that the gravity of that offence had been wiped out by the subsequent political activity of that gentleman. Sir, I look forward with some anxiety, certainly with eagerness, to the explanation of the hon. gentleman with regard to those facts. I would like to ask him what steps were taken by the Postmaster General towards visiting the consequences of those offences upon the postmaster, or his surety. Were the sureties of the postmaster ever changed ? Was a new post office bond ever entered into.? Was the postmaster ever prosecuted ? Was any inquiry ever instituted further than that involved in the report of the inspectors ?
Now, Sir, there is appropriated out of the funds of this country thousands of dollars every year for the maintenance of an efficient staff of post office inspectors, whose duty it is to ascertain just such facts as these, and to report. They are presumed to be competent men, and are judged to be competent by the hon. gentleman who has acted upon a report in this instance. Then, Sir, of what value to this country is that corps of inspectors of the Post Office Department when all their reports, all their inquiries, and the result that was ascertained, are set at naught, as in this case, where the crimes that were reported by the inspectors to have been committed have been condoned by reason of political exigencies ? Let me summarize again. The offences of which this postmaster was guilty resolve themselves under three heads :	First, the misappropriation, the misuse, the conversion, or any other name the Postmaster General, as a lawyer, likes to put to the facts, and he knows the proper term to apply-of the sum of at least $1,100, and possibly $1,G00 ; second, the report of the inspectors that the postmaster has falsified returns for four or five months ; third, that the postmaster has been guilty of falsely pretending to send money in two registered letters, one with $500 and the other with $608, when there were no such letters on the letter bill. These facts require explanation. I ask the hon. Postmaster General to give a frank explanation to this House and to the country and to explain why, as Postmaster General, as holding the dignified pffice of a minister of the Crown, he could, without any investigation, without any explanation at all. condone offences so grave and foist upon the public the services of a man who was reported against by his own department for having committed such grave offences.


Mr. Speaker, I think that fair-minded men will agree with me when
I say that when a question is raised which goes to injure the character of a hitherto respectable citizen of the country it ought to be approached in a fair, impartial and non-partisan spirit, not for the purpose of trying to distort, or misrepresent facts, or create false impressions, but simply in a judicial and fair way to try to ascertain the proper view to take of a public transaction. In this narticular case it is beyond controversy that there were irregularities at the Thessalon postoffice, but that doubt arose because of the question : ' Who is responsible for them ? In the particular case of the Thessalon post office that doubt arose because of the fact that the postmaster chose to delegate the management of the office to a person in whom he had every right to place the fullest confidence. The postmaster, as is often the case throughout Canada, was not giving his detailed and exclusive attention to the office although he may have signed reports made out for him by those whom he employed. In the particular case in question the postmaster appears to have been trustful and to have throughout his tenure of office, in the last few years at least, relied on the fidelity of his employees. When my hon. friend (Mr. Boyce) put a notice of motion on the order paper my attention was called to it by my hon. friend from East Algoma (Mr. Dyment) in whose constituency this post office is situated, and as it did not appear, as I viewed the case and as I view it to-day, to be one calling for any public criticism and as it was probable that no good would come out of it but simply that we might succeed in breaking the hearts of some people


Hear, hear.


The hearts of whom ?


At all events the hearts of people are entitled to consideration. In any event, before the matter was brought to the attention of the government, it would be reasonable that whatever information was possessed on the subject should be given to the hon. member (Mr. Boyce) that he might decide on his course. I had not the slightest doubt in my mind that any impartial man on seeing the information that I acted upon, would take the course I took. Therefore I at once invited the hon. gentleman to come to my department, and I instructed the officers "to place before him whatever information there was within the reach of the department, anything that had any bearing on the question. I had not the slightest doubt that aa impartial consideration of that information would have been accented as a satisfactory reason for the course pursued. It seems to have been different. Some people might perhaps think that when a member is admitted to the files of the department in that way some-

thing is owing from him. In this particular case, on the information that I had in the month of May, 1904, I came to the conclusion that the postmaster should be dismissed. I gave him an opportunity to send in his resignation and, as my hon. friend says, a resignation was received. It is of no special consequence, I suppose, if a man is put out of office whether we allow him to resign or whether we dismiss him. Perhaps there may be cases where dismissal should take place promptly. However, he was ordered to be displaced from a position of responsibility and power in connection with the management of the office in the month of May, 1904. Subsequently information came to me which caused me to question the justice of my decision, and I am of the opinion that no lawyer in this House, if he stripped himself of bias, or that no judge on the bench would sustain my decision of May, 1904. As I say the postmaster-left the management of his office to others, and I was in hopes it would not be necessary to have given publicity to these charges against people when you cannot pin down the responsibility to any one person. In this particular case I say it is not possible for any person to say without a reasonable doubt that the postmaster was the pne to blame. On the contrary, I think a reasonable conclusion would be that there was another person to blame for whatever took place. The postmaster had been in office for a quarter of a century. He was appointed, I think, in 1S80. He had an unblemished character. These circumstances were brought to my attention and other circumstances, all of which I am perfectly willing should be placed in the hands of my hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden).


Would my hon. friend (Sir William Mulock) allow me one question ? iSo long as the matter has developed as far as it has and the Postmaster General is giving publicity to the case, does he not think that he ought to be frank with the House and tell the House what these reasons were ? I think we ought to have all the information now that the matter has gone as far as it has.


My information is that the postmaster was not the guilty one.


Who was ?


I do not think I should say who is guilty.
Mr. BARR, is my hon. friend attempting to throw suspicion on the assistant who is known to be


Known to be what ? I did not hear the conclusion of my hon. friend's sentence.


Mr. BARR, i ask the hon. gentleman if he is not attempting to throw suspicion on the assistant who is known not to be guilty and every person knows up there that he is not guilty.


Would the hon. gentleman say on what information he makes the statement that the assistant is known not to be the guilty one ?


That is what we want to know.


The hon. gentleman says that every one knows the assistant is not the guilty person. I ask him upon what evidence he makes that statement ?


We would like to know who is the guilty one ?	m


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Barr) has nothing on which to base that statement, and yet I have information upon which to base my conviction ; and my conviction and my firm opinion is that no person in the discharge of judicial duties could find the .postmaster guilty morally of the offence of having for a certain length of time made use of post office funds. Though it would not, in my judgment, in one sense, mitigate the offence, I may observe that there has been no loss sustained and that the misappropriation was promptly made good. The member who introduced this matter made a statement about sureties ; I do not know upon what evidence he made that statement. I would say that Mr. Dobey, when formerly postmaster, was insured in a guarantee company for $800, and the hon. gentleman says the security was not renewed when he was reappointed.


I did not make that statement. I asked the Postmaster General whether there w.as a new bond or not.


It is immaterial whether the hon. gentleman made that statement or not, because in one sense it was suggested by him, and, as his remarks will show, he challenged me to prove that there had been any new security obtained. The postmaster on being reappointed was insured according to our assessment system, which is the method of insuring postmasters almost generally throughout Canada to-day. We have a security from him- to the extent of $1,200 ; a security set on foot since his reappointment. The hon. gentleman says that I knew the postmaster had geen guilty of illegal practices. I say I know nothing of the kind. I admit that the postmaster is blameable for having put itoo much confidence in others, but I would like to know who has not, in the course of his life, been obliged to regret being over-trustful of people whom he thought he was perfectly warranted in trusting ? That is the head and front of the offence of the postmaster-hav-
MAY is, 1905
mg been trustful and having not exercised that full supervision over the work of his office which he ought .to have exercised. But that is a different sort of shortcoming from that with which he is charged here by the hon. gentleman, and if I were to dismiss him for that particular offence the result would be .that I would ruin him in the minds of the people of Canada.


Will the Postmaster General state that this postmaster did not personally sign the account and return claiming credit for $500 and $680, which he never remitted ?


X do not know what he may or may not have personally signed, but any person who has been in the office of Postmaster General knows perfeet-ly well that among the thousands of postmasters throughout Canada there are those who are constantly signing their weekly returns without being absolutely aware of the facts upon which they are built up. Their clerks, their staff, make up these returns for them, and the particular case in question is one of that kind. I suppose this posmasiter signed these returns trusting to their correctness, relying upon the statement made to him by his. assistant or by whoever else may have had charge of the office at the time.


Do )I understand the Postmaster General to say (that this postmaster receives $1,000 a year salary and does not give his personal attention to the business of the office ? X think that is the statement of the Postmaster General, and I would like to be sure about it.


I did not say anything about the salary, and the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lalor) may be about right as to salary. I say that up to the time of his dismissal it appears that his trouble had arisen because of his not having, up to that time, given the duties of the office his personal attention. It was not to my knowledge. Doubtless he now gives the office his nersona'l attention, but his initial trouble arose from his not having supervised and been actually aware of the whole of the details of the office, and, in fact, not taking the actual management of it as he ought to have done. It is an office of sufficient importance to warrant the full and undivided attention of the postmaster._ The hon. gentleman who introduced this question stated that after the dismissal of the postmaster he had been paid his salary up to the 31st of August last. Will the hon. gentleman inform me whether the postmaster was paid any money for services performed after his dismissal '!


My statement was that it appeared that the postmaster had been paid his salary up to the 31st of August, 1904. I asked the Postmaster General, if that were
not correct, to contradict it. That fact is as I am informed and as I understand.


I am not able to say up to what date he was or was not paid, because I do not carry the affairs of the accountant's office in my head. I am quite satisfied on this point : that no money was paid to him for any services rendered by him after he was dismissed from his office. I will get the information on that point.


Is it not on record in the Postmaster General's department that this man was paid up to the 31st of August, 1904, that is, that he was kept in the employment of the government as postmaster of Thessa-lon and paid a salary up to that date, many months after his dismissal ?


Well, the hon. gentleman has made that statement


I am asking the Postmaster General if that is not the case.


The hon. gentleman made that statement, and he knows more of the files in connection with this matter than I do. I have not looked into that point to see whether or not the money the hon. gentleman says was paid to him in August was for services rendered up to August, or whether it may not have been moneys that were owing ito him up to the time of his dismissal. It is my opinion that when that point is looked into it will be found that there was paid no money for any services after the time of his dismissal. He would be entitled to nothing unless it would be for the rent of the premises.


I do not pretend to know more about the hon. gentleman's department than he does, but I want to tell him that if he will take the trouble to look at the papers-and he has had twenty-four hours' notice of this motion-he will find that the accountant sent him a memorandum, which is among the papers, stating that the man was paid up to the 31st of August, 1904. I do not know more than that.


You say that *the accountant sent a imemorandujn, to whom ?


To the Postmaster General, and it is in the files.


Oh, well, that is all nonsense ; the accountant never sent me a memorandum about the pay of any gentleman in the service of the government.


Before the hon. gentleman calls it nonsense, might I ask him to look at the files and he will see.


I have not the records of the office here, but it is impossible
62C7

to suppose that the accountant sent me a memorandum telling me up to what date he had paid the postmaster.


I may tell the hon. gentleman that there is such a memorandum among the papers if he takes the trouble to look at it. There is a memorandum stating that this man was paid up to the 31st of August, 1904, and that the office was transferred on the 3rd of September, 1904.


I am not saying whether or not there was a memorandum-


But the hon. gentleman said it was nonsense.
Sir WILLIAM MULOCIv. What I said was nonsense-'and I should not have used such an undignified word-what I say is this : The hon. gentleman stated that the accountant sent to the Postmaster General a memorandum to the effect that this officer had been paid his salary up to the 31-st of August. What I say is that the accountant would have no possible reason -for sending to me a memorandum on any such subject, and I am satisfied -that lie never sent me any such memorandum. If the papers were before me at that time, there would he no occasion for his sending me a memorandum.


Do I understand that the hon. Postmaster General denies what I state ?	*
Sir WILLIAM MULOCIv. I state that the accountant never sent to me the memorandum the hon. gentleman speaks of.
5Ir- b<-!YCE. That is not the question, Mr. Speaker. I ask the hon. Postmaster General whether he denies my statement that there is among the papers referring to this matter in his department a memorandum to the effect that this postmaster was paid up to the 31st of. August, 1904, and that the office was transferred on the 3rd of September, 1904 ?
. MTLLIAM MULOCIv. H am not making any statement as to that, for I do not know 'what paper may or may not be on file.


Then why does the hon. Postmaster General deny things the existence of which he does not know ?
Sir WILLIAM MULOCIv. The point I deny is that the accountant sent me a memorandum.


The hon. gentleman says he does not know.
Sir WILLIAM MULOCIv. I know what is sent to me. I do not know what is put on file in the 10,000 post offices in Canada, and I say that on that point the accountant would have no reason to send me a memorandum. I am not speaking from memory. I am speaking from the -practice Sir WILLIAM MULOOK.
of the department, where we have to work by rules. The accountant would not send me a memorandum of that kind, and when the hon. gentleman said that the accountant had sent me a memorandum to the effect that this man had been paid his salary up to the 31st of August, and sought to hold me responsible for his having been paid after his dismissal, I point out that the real point of that statement was, not that there had beep a memorandum, but that I had been notified by the accountant of that payment. 'On that point the hon. gentleman is in error ; there is no foundation for the statement.


Will the hon. gentleman allow- me one question ? Did he reappoint Dobey to the post office at Thessalon without looking over the papers on file in his department ?
Sir WILL! AM MULOCK. I do not recall everything that occurred on the reappointment. 1 recall the hon. member for East Algoma (Mr. -Dyment) coming to me after the commencement of this session. The fact is that! wffien an order is^ issued to send to the person who has the patronage of a riding for a recommendation to fill an office, the matter disappears from my attention until it is brought up again by some circumstance. Months may elapse, and long periods do frequently elapse, wdien positions are vacant, but it does not follow that the transaction is present in my mind until final action is taken. In this particular case, if anything w-as brought to my attention I dealt with' it, the file w-ould then be put away, and that would be the end of the transaction. I do recall the member for East Algoma coming to me during this; session and giving to me his strongest opinion as to the innocence of the postmaster of any guilt ; and on that occasion I made it my business to review the circumstances, and go through all the available information. That was the information which I desired the hon. gentleman to study as a professional man and a person familiar with weighing evidence; aud I was in hopes that as a lawyer he would have seen the case as il did-that -I 'wTas not warranted in dismissing the postmaster on the charge of having committed a crime, and by that act disgracing him in the eyes of the public when there was a very grave doubt, or more than a doubt as I think, as to his guilt. As I have said, I had no reason to doubt his innocence when the whole case came befor me, and I would have been doing less than my duty if I had not reinstated him under these circumstances. I wms not aware until this moment of his having taken part in politics. I have never seen the gentleman, I have never spoken to him, I have never had any communication with him except in the ordinary course, and I think no one could have acted in a

more conscientious way than I did in dealing with this case.


Might I ask the hon. Postmaster General a question ? The case came before him originally upon the report of the post office inspector, which sets out the guilt of this man in the clearest possible terms, if its effect has been correctly stated by the hon. gentleman who brought the matter to the attention of the House. The hon. Postmaster General speaks of the case having come before him more fully. Upon what did it come before him more fully ? There was the report of the post office inspector : was there any further ''nvestigation ? 1 think that is a very important matter for us to know.


Mr. Speaker, I have no opinion as to the officials of this post office. I have no reason whatever to shield one of them more than another ; I have no reason to shield any one of them. I have only one duty to perform, and I am only performing that one duty ; but in the discharge of my duty as Postmaster General, I want to spare the feelings of people if I can do so, and if no public good is to be served from disregarding their feelings ; and I will say this to the hon. leader of the opposition, who is a lawyer of standing, and who would, I am sure, take a nonpartisan view of this matter. If he were to go through the file-and he is most welcome to it-I am perfectly sure that he would not have made the speech which has been made to-day. I would be pleased if he would do that, and he will see that this is not a question so one-sided as it has been represented. I ask my hon. friend if he would be willing to do that ? The reason I do not wish to bring the file down is obvious to the hon. leader of the opposition.
Mr. POSTER, Might I ask the minister what is the method of paying the salary of the postmaster at Thessalon ?


A percentage, do you mean ?


No. I mean, does he get it quarterly, and by whom is it payable, and to whom goes the receipt from him ?


I judge from the statement of the hon. member for West Algoma that he is paid by what are called salary warrants.


Issued where ?


I think the salary warrants all come from the accountant. I am not aware of the working details ; but I understood that what are called salary warrants are issued by the accountant at regular intervals, under which the postmaster is in some way entitled to be paid, that payment coming out of the revenue for the time being instead of having to be
voted by parlament like the ordinary expenditure. I think that is the way.


Is that monthly or quarterly ? I think it is monthly.


Quarterly.


Whence does the money issue for the payment of this quarterly or monthly salary, from the office here ?


That I cannot say ; it is an old practice that has been in force I suppose ever since there has been a post office, I do not know whether it is a warrant entitling him to retain that amount or whether it is in the nature of a cheque transferring to him that money. Perhaps the hon. member for South Lanark (Mr. Haggart), who has been Postmaster General, can say.


I am not sure of it. You can see the point easily, if it is [DOT] a monthly payment and he took $450 he must have known of his guilt.


There is 3, very reasonable explanation of it, and that is why I think it is so unfair, with all respect, so unfair to the parties interested to make use of this occasion in this House to debate in an ex parte way a matter that ought to be dealt with judicially and in no other way. I say there is an explanation-it may not be the true one-given by one of the officers in the office.


Is that explanation on the file ?


My hon. friend has seen everything on the file, he is in possession of everything and perhaps it would occur to him-it does to me- that when I, as I did in this case, invite him to look into, the whole case and withheld nothing from him, not even the private correspondence,, the letters from anybody-I gave instructions to my secretary to place all the material at his disposal and there was no desire to conceal anything-I wanted to satisfy the hon. gentleman as to the fairness of my course and he knows what is on the file and what is not; and I would agree, return ing to the question, to ask the leader of the opposition if he would care to look through that file himself, and if after looking through that file he says he thinks there would have been any service to the public by my bringing a return to this House of every document there except communications that are marked ' private and confidential ' and what I could not produce without the consent of the writers, I would be most pleased to give the reports and everything to the House and they may judge for themselves.


If the hon. gentleman is making an appeal to me in this regard I would say that I would be very glad to discharge any public duty which devolves

upon me, but it does not seem in a matter of this kind to which so much publicity has been given, that hon. gentlemen on either side of the House would be satisfied with my report as to matters on which there might be very grave differences of opinion. I was asking the Postmaster General a very simple question, that is whether or not his fuller consideration was based upon any report of any officer of hi^ departmetn. For example, whether this inspector or any other inspector of the department had made any subsequent report withdrawing or modifying in any material respect the report which was originally made. I ask that question because I gathered from the language of the Postmaster General in the first instance, that there must have been something of that kind, and I thought possibly he was omitting through inadvertence.


When I made my decision to dismiss this officer I only had the one opinion of an officer. I was not aware at that time of his having given a different and conflicting opinion, but I subsequently found that it would be quite unsafe for me to act upon the opinion of that officer in regard to this particular case as to where this guilt lay and 1 would not act upon it; I felt I was taking a very grave risk in purporting to find a man guilty of an offence on the advice of an officer who had expressed different opinions regarding the case, and therefore. I could not place confidence in the soundness of the judgment of the officer to whom the hon. member for West Algoma has referred. Therefore, when in February last the hon. member from East Algoma (Mr. Dy-meut) called upon me and requested me to reinstate this officer I went through the papers and decided that that was the only reasonable course open under the circumstances. But since my hon. friend says he does not care to assume any responsibility except of a public character I shall go this far :	if it should appear that some person
very close to the postmaster occupying a very delicate relationship to him should have made known to the department where the guilt lay, and that it did not rest with the postmaster, that satisfied me where it did rest as this did, what should I have done ? So far as this postmaster is concerned, I was satisfied that the evidence did not prove him guilty. There may be a doubt as to who is guilty, but I am satisfied the postmaster was not proved guilty, and under those circumstances I was not going to ruin that man. ruin him in the eyes of the public, a man who stands as high in the community as any person who has been for twenty years a public servant, and with this exception has been faithful and reliable, has- not been charged with being short in his money or guilty of any breaches of trust. I do not thinli, under the circumstances. I was doing more Mr. R. L. BORDEN.
than my