Hon. CHARLES FITZPATRICK (Minister of Justice) moved for leave to introduce a Bill (No. 156) to amend the Northwest Territories Representation Act. He said : I promised to introduce a Bill at the request of the hon. member for Calgary (Mr. M. S. McCarthy) to (amend the Representation Act. It is based practically upon the lines of the Bill introduced last year by Mr. Cas-grain, then member for Montmorency. In this Bill I have added a provision to cover a difficulty that the member for Calgary pointed out with respect to the question of the residence of a voter in the polling subdivision in which he is supposed to vote.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Crown in Chancery to make out a new writ of election for the said electoral district.


Yesterday the question was asked as to when the vacancy in the Public Works Department would be filled, and I think the minister who was in charge asked that that question be repeated to-day.


I see by the statement just made by His Honour the Speaker, that the seat of North Oxford is uow vacant; and the portfolio of Public Woi'ks is also vacant. I am not in a position to make any statement to-day, but I shall have pleasure in doing so at an early day.


Before the Orders of the Day are proceeded with, I would like to ca'll the attention of my right hon. friend to a matter of some urgency, and that is the request that was made a few days ago by the veterans of 1866 and 1870 for a grant of land from the government in recognition of their services. As my right hon. friend is aware, and the matter has been brought to my notice, the provincial legislature of Quebec is going to prorogue very shortly, and many of those interested in the petition which was presented a few days ago to the government are anxious to ofotain some kind of answer from this government before that prorogation takes place, because upon that answer will largely depend the steps they intend to take with the government of Quebec. My right hon. friend will remember that when these gentlemen, who are deserving of the highest consideration, went before the Quebec government they were told by the provincial Prime Minister that their request would more properly be addressed to the federal government. Consequently, they are waiting with some anxiety for the answer of the government here in order that, before prorogation, they may, if necessary, bring the matter once more to the notice of the provincial government, and that the provincial government may, if necessary, obtain legislation for the purpose of satisfying the petitioners. 1 have received several letters in reference to this matter, and have been requested to call the attention of the government to the request of these claimants, and to ask for as prompt an answer as possible.


I think it is obvious to any one, and my hon. friend (Mr. Monk) will agree with me, that if the veterans of 1S66 and 1870 have a claim against anybody, it is the Dominion government, although I do not say that the veterans, from .their point of view, have not done well to address themselves to the provincial government. Mr. Mr. SPEAKER.
Gouin, the provincial premier, I do not think went further in his answer than to say that they should first of all address themselves to the Dominion government. This they have done, and the matter is now under consideration. But I must say, and my hon. friend will not be surprised, that up to this moment the government has had no time to take that matter in hand and give it the attention which it will require before we can come to a conclusion. The matter is under consideration, and without making any pledge, I will say that I will give an answer during the present session. When the answer will be given, I am sorry to say that I can give no indication to-day to my bon. friend, but certainly it will be given during the present session.


I may add that this matter has been mentioned to me by some gentlemen* residing in the province of Ontario who were on military service in 1866 and, possibly, in 1870 ; and I would like to make on their behalf the same claim for federal aid that has been made by the hon. member for Jacques Cartier (Mr. Monk) for the veterans of the province of Quebec.


I brought a matter to the attention of the Minister of the Interior six or seven days ago, one in regard to which it should not have taken him a very long time to furnish the information. It is a matter which is a little urgent and pressing, and I would like to call the attention of the First Minister to it. The new Minister of the Interior is not as punctual in getting in here at three o'clock as some of the older ministers, for instance, my hon. friend the Minister of Customs, and that is the only period when we can well refer to the matter without delaying proceedings. If the First Minister will mention it to him, I will bring the matter up to-morrow.


I have no objection. If the Minister of the Interior does not come in before the House rises to-day the hon. gentleman will have his answer, because it is ready.


House again in committee on Bill (No. 69) to establish and provide for the government of the province of Alberta.-(Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
On section 22,
Nothing in this Act shall in any way prejudice or affect the rights of properties of the Hudson Bay Company acquired, held or existing under and by virtue of the conditions of the deed under which that company surrendered Rupert's Land to the Crown.

Hon. CHARLES FITZPATRICK (Minister of Justice) moved that the following he substituted in lieu of section 22 :
Nothing in this Act shall in any way prejudice or affect the rights or properties of the Hudson Bay Company as contained in the conditions under which that company surrendered Rupert's Land to the Crown, and all rights, privileges and properties conferred on the Canadian government by the said conditions, shall, in so far as they relate to matters within the legislative authority of the province, belong to and be vested in the government of the said province.
I asked the hon. Minister of Justice last night why it was necessary to protect these rights. To my mind, if they have rights, they are protected by the original agreement and why should we go out of our way to protect these rights in this clause and especially in the clause succeeding ?


My hon. friend (Mr. Maclean) is aware that when the imperial government acquired this property from the Hudson Bay Company they acquired it subject to certain conditions which are mentioned in the title. The property was vested in the Queen in the right of the imperial parliament, and was handed over to the Dominion government subject to the same conditions as those under which the property passed from the company. The only condition of the original surrender which this section is intended to cover is the condition repeated in section 11 of the Order in Council under which the property was banded over to the Dominion and which reads as follows :
The company is to be at liberty to carry on its trade without hindrance in its corporate capacity, and no exceptional tax is to be placed on the company's land, trade or servants, nor any import duties on goods introduced by them previous to the surrender of 1870.
That last question of the import duties has ceased to be of any effect. It was merely applicable to goods imported into the country previous to the surrender of 1870.


Are not these rights protected by the original agreement without any restatement in this Act ?


That may be my hon. friend's view. I do not think it is the correct view and it was not the view taken at the time that Manitoba was admitted into the Dominion as a province. This provision is adopted from the Manitoba Act.
Section as amended, agreed to.
On section 23, .
The powers hereby granted to the said province shall be exercised subject to the provisions of section 16 of the contract set forth in the schedule to chapter 1 of the statutes
of 1881, being an Act respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.


I urge the same objection in this case with even more force. Why should we go out of our way to protect the exemption the Canadian Pacific Railway has in its original contract V This may also have been in the Manitoba Act.


No, it is not there.


Whatever rights the Canadian Pacific Railway has under the contract made with the Dominion government are set out in an Act of parliament and there is no reason why we should reenact this legislation. It is almost emphasizing its claim. This claim, in a way, lias been in the courts and the matter has caused a great deal of dissatisfaction to the people in the west. This may be reinforcing the claim and we may be abandoning something that is of interest to the public by re-enacting this clause. Whatever rights the Canadian Pacific Railway has are set out in black and white in a solemn contract which has been made an Act of parliament and they ought to rest there and not be brought into this Act. On the contrary it ought to be the duty of the government to ascertain exactly what the rights of the Canadian Pacific Railway are in regard to these exemptions,, and If they are burdensome, as they appear to be burdensome to the people of the Northwest Territories, it should negotiate with the Canadian Pacific Railway for the surrender of any rights which it may have as to exemptions. We all know, because we have heard from the west year after year, about the grievance that exists there in regard to these exemptions. There is the Canadian Pacific Railway, the wealthiest corporation in this country. It.is paying large dividends on its stock. It is making handsome profits every year. It is the richest corporation we have in Canada. The company has great possessions in the shape of land's in the west on which it pays no taxes. The poor settler in the west is paying his taxes while the Canadian Pacific Railway pays no taxes. Grant that the Canadian Pacific Railway has a right ; if that right could be commuted and if these lauds could be immediately made subject to taxation an effort should be made to abolish this exemption. In the province of Ontario we know what tax exemptions are. They are an enormous burden on the people who have to pay taxes. In the city of Toronto there are millions and millions of dollars worth of property of the most valuable kind which is increasing in value every day and which is yet untaxed. It is relieved from taxation by reason of exemptions granted years and years ago. We have had some of these exemptions removed. We have given a great deal of attention to the question of exemption from taxation in the province of Ontario.

Gradually we are removing these exemptions. More and more we are asking the people who are exempt to pay their 'taxes. Take, for instance, the situation here in Ottawa ; the citizens of Ottawa find it a great grievance to have so much Dominion property exempted from taxation and the government, recognizing that condition of affairs, is making liberal concessions to the people of Ottawa in the way of the improvement of the city and in other ways. In this way the Dominion is contributing to municipal taxation. We were told in the House the other day that Wellington street in front of these grounds is to be paved at the expense of the Dominion authorities. I say much more ought the poor settler of the west to have this grievance removed whereby he is to-day paying the municipal taxation of the Canadian Pacific Railway, one of the richest corporations in the country, and whose land which was at one time valued at $1 an acre is to-day worth $5 an acre upwards. If that is the case some effort should be made in the interest of the settlers of the west to remove this exemption and above all things we should not by this Bill re-enact the rights of the Canadian Pacific Railway whatever they are. Leave their rights to look after themselves. The Canadian Pacific Railway can look after them in the courts. I do not think it is in the public interest that this clause should be introduced into the Bill and I would ask the government not only to withdraw this clause but to take into its serious consideration the necessity of negotiating with the Canadian Pacific Railway for the commutation of its rights in this respect, so that the lands of the Canadian Pacific Railway in the west shall pay their proper share of the municipal taxation.
(Sir WIDFRUD LAURIER. Mr. Chairman, the argument of my hon. friend (Mr. W. F. Maclean) is not at all directed against this clause. He has ended his argument as he commenced it, by stating that the government should enter into negotiations with the Canadian Pacific Railway in order to obtain from them a commutation of their rights, improvidently granted to them, I admit, but which were granted at the time that they were organized into a company for this national undertaking. I do not dispute there may be something in that. Some day or other I have no doubt this line of action may have to be taken into consideration and acted upon. I am conscious for my part that as the country advances this burden will become intolerable to the people of the new provinces, and even to the Dominion government itself, because it is not only the provinces which have been restrained, the Dominion government has been restrained also. But if that be so, if you are to negotiate with the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, that is an admission that they have acquired a right, that they have a vested right by legislation.





We do not admit anything in the law.


Does my hon. friend pretend that when we have passed a law-and I agree with my hon. friend that It was not proper legislation-but there it is and under it the Canadian Pacific Railway have obtained certain rights to which they are entitled. What is the contention of my hon. friend? Does he pretend that we should withdraw this clause and give to the new provinces the power to legislate and to tax the Canadian Pacific Railway ? Let me call the attention of my hon. friend once more to the clause of the statute in that respect:
The Canadian Pacific Railway and all stations, and station grounds, workshops, buildings, yards and other property, rolling stock and appurtenances required and used tor the construction and working thereof, and the capital stock of the company, shall be for ever free from taxation by the Dominion, or by any province hereafter to be established, or by any municipal corporation therein.
Well, Sir, it is evident to me that the Dominion government not only undertook for themselves never to tax the stock and property of the Canadian Pacific Railway, but they undertook also to see and to make themselves answerable to the company that the same exclusion shall be imposed on any province which may hereafter be created, and we could not excise this clause not only without breaking faith with the Canadian Pacific Railway but without making ourselves liable for any loss they might incur by being subjected to taxation.


I want to bring the matter before the right hon. gentleman in another way. Here is a copy of a petition which has been presented to this House :
Whereas in the division of the Northwest Territories into two provinces, arrangements are made for a perpetual exemption from taxation of the property of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
And whereas, such legislation is contrary to public policy and sound legislation, and inasmuch as such legislation binds the freedom of people yet unborn and forever limits the scope of legislation in matters which are by right the sole business of the people who now live or will live in the said provinces.
And whereas such legislation cannot he morally passed by men who are elected for a maximum of hve years and are then trustees for the people.
And whereas, this unjust privilege has already been enjoyed by the company for nearly a whole generation, and inasmuch as one generation cannot morally dictate the terms upon which another generation may live, and use the earth, any such privilege granted them in the past must be continually renewed in order to keep it alive.
It therefore follows that this legislation is a fresh exemption and is practically an injustice.
We therefore pray that this exemption clause be struck out and the provinces he allowed to

tax the property of this and all other corporations just as are the other provinces.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
That may be a rather far-fetched resolution but it points to a grievance. Hon. gentlemen say the King's government must be carried on. So it must, but the King's government must also dea I with the grievances, to give better and improved laws te the people, and now that this grievance does exist 1 say it is the duty of the government to remedy it. They may be bound by the clause in the original charter just read, they may be bound to put this clause in the Bill but they are also bound in some way to secure commutation of this right that the Canadian Pacific Railway have acquired. The Canadian Pacific Railway had other rights in the original charter; they had the right to prevent the running of lines to the American boundary ; they had also certain rights 'which they surrendered in the negotiations in connection with the building of the Crow's Nest Pass Railway, but the grievances in connection with the law which prohibit the building of lines and the grievances which existed in regard to the freight rates which were commuted at the time of the building of the Crow's Nest Pass Railway were not equal to the grievances which exist now in regard to this exemption from municipal taxation. We are asking settlers to come to Canada, to take up lands, to go to the great wheat fields of the Northwest, to settle there, establish themselves on farms and bring up their families and in order to give the poor man a fair show-and every man is entitled to a fair show-I say that some steps should be taken by this parliament to commute these rights of the Canadian Pacific Railway' in regard to exemption, and while the hon. gentleman may say that lie is obeying the law he may state what is true, but he has a duty to discharge to the people of the west and I am surprised that the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Oliver) does not spefik for the people of the west in this matter, and that all the members from the west are not aiding in it. I hope he will join with me because in other days he did join with me on tile floor of this House in pointing out how widespread and serious this grievance was to the -poor settlers in the west. I am not proposing any confiscation here to-day, but I am asking the members from the west to join with me in pressing upon the government to secure in some way commutation of this right to exemption now enjoyed by the -Canadian Pacific Railway which we acknowledge to-day by this clause. I say it is not progressive legislation. We are actually committing, as I believe, a wrong. We may be respecting a right of the Canadian Pacific Railway, but we are permitting a wrong against the settlers of the west. The Canadian Pacific
Railway is well able to pay this taxation. It is a rich company, it is increasing its service every year, it is expanding anc}, as one of its directors said the other day, there is no other railway company in the world whose credit is so good and which can borrow money so cheaply as the Canadian Pacific Railway. If that is the case why should the richest corporation in Canada, the company in receipt' of the largest revenue -and which has the greatest prospects in the world, have this exemption which the poor man has not ? It may have been improvident legislation when it was made originally, but it is worse than improvident to allow it to continue if there is some way of securing its removal, and I believe there is a way for securing its removal ; that is by negotiation with the Canadian Pacific Railway just as Sir John Macdonald cancelled the right to prevent lines running to the American boundary and the right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Tanner) cancelled their rights in regard to certain freight rates, when he made his arrangement with them for the building of the Crow's Nest Pass Railway. Now let him come forward and let him negotiate and in some way remove this grievance, a most substantial grievance as it has proved to be to the settlers of the west. In the province of Manitoba the Canadian Pacific Railway pays municipal taxes on their lands, but they do not in the west, and yet for some of their lands in the west they are getting $10 and $20 an acre, and as soon as the lands are sold they are of course liable to municipal taxes. But as long as the Canadian Pacific Railway hold them they pay no taxes on them, and I say to the right hon. gentleman and to the members from the west that I hope they will join with me in urging upon the government to do something to remove this grievance and not to re-enact it as they propose to do by this clause in the Bill.


My hon. friend has changed his front and very properly so. The ground he took at first was that we should have clause 23 of this Bill excised altogether ; now he says that it would not be possible to do so without being guilty of a breach of faith with the Canadian Pacific Railway. He quite understands that that would be altogether reprehensible ; we cannot do that. We have to abide by agreements whether they are good or bad. My hon. friend says we are committing a great wrong to the settlers of the Northwest Territories. We are committing no wrong towards the settlers but a great wrong was committed towards them twenty years ago when this Bill was passed against the protest of the party to which I belong. We pointed out then the very thing which is pointed out by my hon. friend, the great mistake, the very great mistake of passing such legislation.

Our protest was unheeded, the contract became law, and if it is law it must remain law until another law can be substituted for it, but not in the manner suggested by my hon. friend (Mr. W. F. Maclean). I must say to my hon. friend that there are two classes of exemptions in this Bill. There is exemption in respect to the property of the Canadian Pacific Railway and there is also' exemption of their lands. The exemption on their lands is in process of extinguishment ; that exemption is to last only twenty years, and it is in process of extinguishment now. We have had a judicial decision on that and in the course of twenty years that exemption will become extinct.
But the exemptions of the stations and the station grounds, the workshops, buildings, lolling stock, capital stock, road-bed, Ac., are there, and there for ever. My hon. friend says this is a grievance which ought to be remedied. There is only one of two ways in which it can be remedied that is, by the government negotiating and agreeing to pay a certain sum to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, or by this parliament passing a law to expropriate the exemption. X do not say that we may not have to come to that. I dare say that it is possible and more than possible that we may have to come to that eventually. But that question has nothing at all to do with the present legislation ; it stands quite apart from this legislation. "We have been petitioned by the legislature of the Northwest Territories to grant them provincial autonomy ; we are in process of doing so ; but they must take it such as it is, with all the exemptions created by law. So long as we comply with their request, we can only give them what it is in our power to give them.


I expressed my opinion on this question pretty fully the other day. My contention is that the Dominion government had no power to enter into an arrangement with the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, by which it bound itself, when a province was to be created out of the territory, to see that the company's property was exempt from taxation.


Is that agreement null and void ?


That agreement, so far as it refers to a province, is null and void. That is my contention. As to the moral obligation, that is another thing. Although tlie government may not be legally bound by the agreement with the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, they may be morally bound, which is quite another thing. This parliament has no power to limit the constitutional rights of a province in regard to legislation by inserting any such clause. It may be good as a notice that there is such an agreement ; but the province, when it cnooses to legislate on the subject, can legislate itself out of any imposition of that Sir WILFRID LAURIER.
kind. You have not full power to create a province under the Act of 1871. You are bound by the provisions of the British North America Act. By no Bill of ours can we limit the power of the province. The hon. Minister of Justice steers pretty clear of that question. He is in a quandary between the powers he has claimed under the Act of 1871, and the limitations and proscriptions of the Act of 1867. He brings them into force in the Autonomy Bill by a statement that all the powers granted to the province by the British North America Act shall be given to this particular province, except those which are expressly excluded by the Act. My contention is that the bargain that was made between the Dominion government and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company by which the government bound themselves when a province was being constituted out of the Territories to limit the powers of the province, was ultra vires of the Dominion parliament.


I would like my hon. friend from South York (Mr. W. F. Maclean) to ponder over the argument we have just heard from the hon. member for South I.anark (Mr. Haggart). If I understood aright the argument of the hOD. member for South York, it was that we shall enter into negotiations with the Canadian Pacific Railway Company to compensate it for the exemption given to them in 1881.


If necessary.


Well, if we negotiate with them, they will say it is necessary. My hon. friend has no great faith in corporations-I do not think he has much faith in the Canadian Pacific Railway Company-and he knows that they will ask for all they can get. So if we go to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company to negotiate for relief from the exemption which was given them in 1881 from taxation by this Dominion and by the provinces also, the Canadian Pacific Railway Company will answer us at once : We have a double exemption, the exemption from taxation by the Dominion and we value that at so much, say $1,000,000 or $2,000,000 ; we also have exemption from taxation by the province, and we value that at say $2,000,000 more. But my hon. friend from South Lanark says the company have no exemption from taxation so far as the province is concerned, and therefore if we negotiate with the company, we would pay them for what they have not. We had better wait, then, until it is decided judicially whether the contention of the hon. member for Lanark is right or not. Until such time as the courts decide, if they so decide, that the provisions so far as the province is concerned are null and void, we shall have so much less to pay to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company than we would to-day if we entered into negotiations with them. So my hon. friend

will agree that we have acted wisely in inserting this clause in the Bill. If the contention of my hon. friend from Lanark is right, I have no doubt what will he the action of the new legislature of Alberta. My hon. friend says that this clause by which we continue the exemption of the Canadian Pacific Railway property from taxation is absolutely7 null and void, that it is not worth the paper on which it is written. If that be so, the legislature of the province of Alberta will next session pass an Act to tax the property of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company7, and then the question will have to be determined by the courts. If the courts decide that the statute passed in 1881 was ultra vires of this parliament and that we could not impose any such exemption of taxation on the new province, then, when we come to negotiate with the Canadian Pacific Railway7 Company, we shall have to negotiate with regard to taxation only so far as the Dominion is concerned. and not at all so far as the province is concerned. Is that not full justification of our policy and is not my hon. friend satisfied that in this, as in many other' instances, he has been speaking before going into the subject and is altogether too quick in jumping at conclusions ?


Is it not evident now that I spoke most timely and that good has come out of the discussion, because the, First Minister has expressed himself as largely governed by the opinion of the hon. member for Lanark (Mr. Haggart), and that hon. gentleman is of the opinion that the claim of the Canadian Pacific Railway is not worth anything ? But the First Minister is putting into this 'Bill a clause that is ultra vires, if the contention of the hon. member for Lanark is well founded. In the old days the right hon. gentleman denounced the Canadian Pacific Railway contract as a most improvident bargain and he appealed to the people : Put me in power and 1 will remedy your grievance. He sang two songs then but he is only singing one now. He is only singing the song of the improvident bargain now, but I would ask him to sing the other one and remedy the grievance. According to the British North America, Act each province has the right to impose direct taxation within the province in order to the raising of a revenue for provincial purposes. The province of Ontario is to-day exercising that right with regard to the railways in that province, and the legislatures of these new provinces will be able to tax the Canadian Pacific Railway notwithstanding these exemptions. That is a right which this parliament cannot take away from the province. Within the exclusive powers of provincial legislature there is also by subsection 1 of clause 92 :
The amendment from time to time, notwithstanding anything in this Act, of the constitution of the province, except as regards the office of Lieutenant Governor.
That being the ease and the jurisdiction of municipalities being a matter within provincial control, no act of ours, no contract or statute, can affect that jurisdiction ; and if the right hon. gentleman persists with this legislation, the best the two provinces can do. as soon as they are organized, will be to pass such legislation as will compel the Canadian Pacific Railway to pay taxes. And if the new provinces cannot reach the Canadian Pacific Railway by means of municipal taxation, they can reach that company under the clause giving the provinces the right to impose direct taxation.


Everything said by my hon. friend is a vindication of the government. The construction of the hon. member for Lanark may be right hut there are others who think he is wrong. It is a question on which I offer no opinion.
It is one of those mysterious questions of law which had best be left to the judges to decide. But in the meantime there are two sides to it. There are some who pretend that the Act of 1881 is good and valid, and there are others who, like my hon. friend from Lanark, take the opposite view. If it is right and valid, we have to comply with it; but if it is null and void, so much the better.


As a taxpayer in the proposed province of Saskatchewan, I would be delighted if the hon. member for Lanark and the hon. member for South York were right in their contention that this legislation will he found to he ultra vires and that the provinces will have the power, regardless of this legislation and the Canadian Pacific Railway contract, to tax the Canadian Pacific Railway. But the facts, as we have them so far, are against that contention. We all know that our courts are governed to a considerable extent by precedent and unfortunately we have a precedent against us in this very matter. A portion of the Northwest Territories was added to the province of Manitoba in 1881 and a similar provision to this was put in the Bill adding that area to Manitoba. Litigation ensued and a few weeks ago a decision was handed down by the Supreme Court of Canada, which is entirely against the contention of my hon. friends. A municipality in the added portion of Manitoba levied taxes upon the Canadian Pacific Railway. The Canadian Pacific Railway protested and a suit was carried) through the courts in Manitoba. The judgment in Manitoba was in favour of the company and has been upheld by the Supreme Court of Canada. The hon. member for South Yrork Is perfectly right however in his contention that this is a very serious matter for the * new provinces. On the second reading of the Bill. I explained that it was the detail which gave the greatest amount of difficulty. As the matter stood in January last, the "situation has become changed in some degree by the Supreme Court judgment



-given in the meantime-it was my very pronounced opinion that it would have been advisable that this subject of autonomy should be left pending until the tax matter was in a more determined stage. Practically three months have been spent by this House in discussing what is called a limitation on the autonomy granted the new provinces ; and with all deference to my hou. friends opposite, the matter they have held this House talking about all this time does not compare in importance with the limitation of autonomy contained in this section 23 of the Bill. If we left the people of the Territories absolutely free with regard to education, they would retain the system they have there at present. Ninety-nine out of every hundred are entirely satisfied with the present system of separate schools. But this tax limitation does make a difference and a very material difference. This is a real and substantial limitation which is placed on their autonomy.


By the late government.


By the late government. It must be one of the hon. member for South York's handsprings which the Conservative government turned for this corporation.


When did I say that ?


Not very long ago.


Of what government ?


Of every legislature in this country. The hon. gentleman lectures members from the Northwest Territories about principles and compromises. I would suggest that he should abstain from compromising his common sense so frequently as he does in this House. He gave as a reason why independent legislatures should be created and endowed with resources, that all legislatures were corrupt and turning handsprings at the bidding of corporations. I am inclined to agree with him that section 23 is unnecessary. That section says :
The powers hereby granted to the said provinces shall be exercised subject to the provisions of section 16 of the contract set forth in the schedule to chapter 1 of the statute of 1881, being an Act respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.
If that clause were not in the Bill at all, the relations between the provincial government and the Canadian Pacific Railway would still be fixed by the statute of this parliament embodying the Canadian Pacific Railway contract. I may say that I am * very pleased indeed to hear the words of the right hon. Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) indicating that it is the intention of this government, and that it will be the duty of this parliament, as soon as possible, to cancel the rights possessed by the Canadian Pacific Railway Company in this con- ' Mr. SCOTT.
nection by means of either the ordinary powers of expropriation or


Did the leader of the government (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) make that statement this afternoon ?


I understood him to make that statement this afternoon. Certainly he made that statement on the 21st of February in introducing these measures, and I understood him to repeat this afternoon his intimation that it would be the duty of parliament to revoke in some way these rights which the corporation holds under the contract. If there is any necessity for putting section 23 in the Bills, there is an equal reason for putting something additional in the Bills to give some tangible intimation to the people of these provinces and the people of Canada that that is the intention of parliament. I wish to suggest to the government the addition of a few words. I would move that the section be amended by adding the following words :
Provided that the foregoing shall not prejudice the right of the parliament of Canada, by expropriation or otherwise to obtain the relinquishment by said company of the company's rights under section 16 of the contract aforesaid.
I am not a lawyer. I have myself drafted these words and if the government and the House assent to the principle of my suggestion it may be found necessary to recast what I have suggested.


I have not had an opportunity to consider this amendment, and therefore am not able to advise about it. But, at first sight, I would suggest that it is unnecessary. Just now, we are giving effect to a contract entered into with the Canadian Pacific Railway; and it seems to me that if we did not enact the clause we should toe guilty of a violation of every canon of decency and good faith. The right of this company to exemption of taxation in the Northwest and in that part of Manitoba which formed part of the Northwest Territories in 18S1 is 'based on section 10 of the contract between the syndicate, now represented by the company, and the Crown, represented by the government of that day. The contract is dated 21st October, 1880, and forms part of the statute 44 Victoria, Chapter 1. This section 10 to which we are practically giving effect to-day is as follows :
The Canadian Pacific Railway and all stations and station grounds, work shops, buildings, yards and other property, rolling stock and appurtenances required and used for the construction and working thereof, and the capital stock of the company, shall be for ever free from taxation by the Dominion, or by any province hereafter to be established, or by any municipal corporation therein ; and lands of the company, in the Northwest Territories, until they are either sold or occupied, shall also

be free from sueh taxation for 20 years after i tile grant thereof from the Crown.	i
This provision, of course, was ratified j aed approved of by parliament by means , of the statute to which I have just referred. No property of the company within [DOT], the limits I have described has been subject to taxation from the time the railway was constructed up to the present. That -contract, in my opinion, created a solemn obligation on the part of the Crown, ratified by parliament ; and I submit that nothing can be done, justly, by this parliament to impair that solemn obligation.


I thought there was another statute which expressly provided-


I am just coming to that. I would like the committee to take note of the fact that the section I have quoted provides expressly for the case we are now dealing with, that is to say, the formation of the Northwest Territories into a province. Now, this exemption is to extend to any province thereafter-that is after the section has been passed-to be established. The Act to which the leader of the opposition has referred. I presume, is 44 Victoria, Chapter 14, which provides for the extension of the boundaries of the province of Manitoba. Subsection (b) of section 2 of that Act provides as follows :
(b) The said increased limit and the territory thereby added to the province of Manitoba shall be subject to all sueh provisions as may have been or shall hereafter be enacted, respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway and the lands to be granted in aid thereof.
So that this parliament has given legislative sanction to the obligation we assumed under the original contract. My hon. friend from West Assiniboia (Mr. Scott) suggested that this matter was up for consideration incidentally in the Supreme Court in connection with a number of cases of municipalities, two in the Northwest Territories and one in Manitoba. These cases were to test the validity of by-laws taxing for school purposes the Canadian Pacific Railway Company's lands. In that case the argument was put forward that if Manitoba chose to commit a breach of this agreement by taxing these lands, there was no power to prevent this. Thus there was a direct test of the validity of this enactment. The point was dealt with by Mr. Justice Nesbitt who said in delivering judgment :
la the case of the tax levied in the Northwest Territories, to give effect to the contention of the appellants would, in reality, be to hold that the contract did not exempt the land while in the Northwest Territories, but to make it subject to taxation and to be exempt only when the contingency of provincial autonomy occurred, if It ever did occur within twenty years from the issue of the patents. Such a construction is so opposed to good sense and good faith and so foreign to the object of the contract that 1934
apparently it never occurred to any one until after the opening of the argument of the case before the court in Manitoba. In my view the company's lands to be earned by building the railway were exempted for twenty years from the issue of the patent, from any Dominion taxation, or from provincial or muncipal taxation, by any bodies subsequently obtaining provincial or municipal authorities in respect of such lands.
There is the opinion of a distinguished judge of the Supreme Court on this very point. And, in the face of the statute and of this construction put upon the statute, I conceive that it would be an absolute impossibility for us to do otherwise than to give effect to the provision of the contract I have referred to. As to the question whether we shall negotiate with the company to obtain a release from them of the rights under the agreement, that is a matter of policy and one that I have nothing to do with now. What I have to do with is to give effect to a solemn parliamentary contract.


Of course, in the case to which my hon. friend the Minister of Justice (Mr. Fitzpatrick) has made an allusion, Mr. Justice Nesbitt in the portion of the judgment dealing with the exemption in the province of Manitoba based his judgment to some extent at least on the ground that Manitoba had not attempted to repeal the provision.


That is not the point I referred to at all, I referred to the Northwest Territories.


Do I understand the hon. gentleman to say that his opinion is that the province would have rights of expropriation ?


They would have the right of expropriation, that would necessarily follow of course if the assumption which I made in dealing with the question were a correct assumption. I said that I was not quite sure whether this would operate as a constitutional limitation, in which case the provincial legislature would have no power to deal with the matter at ab that is, if we have the power to restrict the legislature in that regard-or whe-tuer it was intended as simplv a notice to the legislature that the Crown had entered into a contract which ought to be observed by the new legislature. If I did not make myself clear, let me repeat for a moment what I said in order that I may do so. This ' parliament has the power to deal with the subject matter of section 16 of the O.P.R. contract so far as it relates to Dominion : taxation, and we would not be willing to 1 deal with it otherwise then upon terms -absolutely fair to the Canadian Pacific 1 Mr. R. L. BORDEN.
Railway, that is. we ought not to expropriate without compensation. If the legislative power were confided to the new province it would stand exactly in the same position. The Crown is represented in the province and the Crown is represented in the Dominion. The Crown made a contract, the Dominion parliament can deal with it so far as the Dominion is concerned, and the legislature of the province can deal with it so far as the province is concerned, if such power is j conferred by this parliament in establish-j ing the new province. Well, what is the position we are in to-day in that regard? I am as strongly in favour as any man can he of absolutely observing contracts. If we handed over the subject matter of clause 16, so far as provincial and municipal taxation is concerned, to the new province, I would regard it as absolutely essential that the province, in attempting to-dea-1 with that matter, should deal with it upon the just and fair terms which would be incumbent upon this parliament if we were dealing with it. For example, if the Prime Minister should adopt the suggestion of my hon. friend from West Assiniboia and should attempt to relieve the people of the Northwest, and indeed relieve the Dominion as a whole from this exemption, parliament could only do it upon perfectly fair terms.
In that connection let me say that possibly some of us in this country are not fully alive to what may be done in the way of taxation by the new provinces. In considering that question a little as it presents itself to-day in Manitoba, I find that the province of Manitoba has passed a statute, which is to be found in the consolidated statutes of Manitoba, 1902, volume 2, chapter 166, and which in effect provides that every railway company shall pay to the province such part of its gross earnings, not exceeding three per cent, as the lieutenant governor in Council shall determine. Under-that statute the province of Manitoba has levied taxation upon the gross earnings of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and during the year 1904 they collected from the Canadian Pacific Railway, under the terms of that statute, no less a sum than $56,450. So that although the lands and buildings and other properties of the railway are exempt from taxation, it would appear-
I do not know that the question has been tested in the courts-but it would appear that notwithstanding this provision in the contract of 1881, the new provinces may, in the exercise of the same rights as those exercised by Manitoba, tax the gross earnings of the company, although they cannot tax its lands and property. Therefore the grievance in the Northwest Territories might not be found so great as has been suggested. I myself, two years ago, in the session of 1903. when the members from the Northwest were pressing strongly upon the attention of parliament the discontent

and dissatisfaction which had been created in the Northwest by this tax Exemption, suggested to the Prime Minister that if that discontent and dissatisfaction prevailed to so great an extent as had been represented, and if it were likely to obstruct the flow of immigration into those Territories, it would be a reasonable thing lor the government to consider forthwith the project of entering into negotiations with the Canadian Pacific Railway Company for the purpose of doing away with this exemption, and I was prepared to support a reasonable measure for the purpose of removing this exemption at the expense of the people* of Canada as a whole, because I thought it would be in the Interest of the people as a whole to do so rather than to have immigration obstructed and the development of the Northwest arrested. So -far as this provision is concerned, I would like to have the view of my hon. friend the Minister of Justice-either to-day or at some convenient time, if lie does not feel disposed to answer to-day, because, being of the same profession as the Minister of Justice, I realize that it is much easier sometimes to ask a question than to answer it offhand-whether he would regard this as a constitutional limitation upon the powers of the new province, or whether it might not be its true effect that the Crown, having made a contract, is bound to carry it out- in good faith in so far as the Dominion as a whole is concerned; and thus while we retain the legislative power in the Dominion, so far as exemption from Dominion taxation is concerned, we are really handing over the legislative power to the new province to be exercised by it in so far as section 16 of the contract concerns provincial taxation by municipalities within the province.
To sum up once more : the Crown has made a contract and parliament o.ught to observe that contract. The advisers of the Crown must insist always that parlia

ment shall observe that contract. They would be perfectly justified in resigning if parliament did not see fit to do so and any subsequent advisers of the Crown ought to pursue the same course. But. after all, under the terms of section 23, will not that remain, as far as the Dominion is concerned, a matter for consideration by the Dominion parliament in connection with anv action of the Dominion executive and will it not, in so far as the province or the municipalities are concerned, remain a matter for legislative action within the province by the legislature of the province acting in connection with the provincial executive ? It is a questiou which I have not as fully considered as I would like to have done, but it struck me in listening to the arguments which have been made upon the question and in listening to the explanation of the hon. Minister of Justice that possibly after all that might be the true
result, and 1 do not think the result is one which may be regarded as very prejudicial to the interests of the Canadian Pacific Railway. I do not think that any statute which should be passed by the legislature of the province, except on fair terms in respect to the contract entered into by the Crown manv years ago, is one which should be approved by the Dominion executive in whom, of course, rests the final decision by wav of disallowance.


As I said on a previous occasion in connection with this debate, this is one of the two clauses-of this Bill for which I am personally responsible. I would like to say that this particular clause was drafted for the purpose of imposing a constitutional limitation on the legislature of the new pro