Hon. SYDNEY FISHER (Minister of Agriculture) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 148) respecting the incorporation of Live Stock Record Associations.
Will the hon. gentleman explain ?


It will perhaps be proper for me to give a little explanation of the objects of this Bill. Hon. gentlemen who have been for some time in the House will remember that about five or six years ago -I think in 1899-an Act was passed to authorize the incorporation of Dominion record associations. That Act was for the purpose of authorizing associations of a Dominion character for the purpose of keeping the records of thoroughbred live stock, under which the authority was given for the formation of associations, each association to be for the purpose of a particular breed or class of animals. Under the Act associations were empowered to adopt con-breed or class of animals. Under the Act, a number of associations were incorporated. Recently a request has come from the live stock men of Canada, expressed particularly in the winter of 1904, to nationalize the records of thoroughbred stock in Canada. That request was formulated and presented to me as Minister of Agriculture at the meeting of live stock men which took place last winter, and which was called the national live stock gathering. They wished two things ; In the first place, to have the official stamp of the department affixed to all pedigrees which were to be Issued by the record associations incorporated under this Act, and they wished, in the next place, to have this work of keeping these live stock

records placed under the supervision of the Department of Agriculture here at Ottawa and removed here for the convenience of people all over the country. I would premise toy saying that this work has been more or less local in its character up to now. In the great province of Ontario, which is the great centre of thoroughbred live stock in the Dominion, live stock asso ciations were called, as a rule, Dominion associations, although they were formed under provincial Acts of Ontario. They practically did the work very largely for the Dominion, but still there were other associations and organizations in other provinces formed for the same purpose-in the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick and in the province of Quebec, and I think there was also one association started in-the Northwest Territories. There was, however, a very strong movement on the part of the people of Manitoba and the Northwest Territories for the formation of more associations of this kind, and it is largely due to this movement that the request came for the nationalization of the records. The object of this nationalization is to simplify the records. If we were to have in Canada a registration for, we will say, pure bred Ayrshire cattle in Toronto, another in Nova Scotia or New Brunswick, and another in Manitoba or British Columbia, it would be obvious that there would be a great deal of confusion, and it would work to the detriment of the breed. Anybody purchasing a thoroughbred animal would hardly know in what record to look for its pedigree, and he would hardly know whether the certificates given by each and every one of these associations had the same and equal value. Therefore, it was found by the live stock men that the point had been reached when it would be extremely important that these records should be made national in their character and should be under the same supervision and control.
When this matter was presented to me I felt that there were two points to be very carefully considered. The first was that the live stock men themselves who had been managing this work, in the province of Ontario especially, extremely well, should continue to manage the work, that there should be no interference with the business of the association on the part of any government officials or on the part of the department, but that the work must be carried on by the men who were interested in it and who had succeeded in the past in doing it very well. The only question was as to the representation of people all over the country in that work, instead of it being local in its character. Then came the question of affixing an official stamp to the certificate, and I felt it was rather a delicate point to take up. If there were an official stamp affixed to the certificate of pedigree, it could only be of any value when it was affixed after consideration and investigation to see that the pedigree was correct.
161*


The minister will not pretend to say that the records we have up to the present time are of no value ?


On -the contrary I say that they are of great value and have been very perfect in their character, but my hon. friend (Mr. Sproule) was speaking to the leader of the opposition and was not listening to what I said. I did not say that the record must be of value, but that the affixing of the stamp to be valuable must be done after supervision and inspection to see that it was correct. I said therefore, that for this purpose it would be necessary -that the proper officials of the department must have a certain supervision and right of inspection of the records or otherwise the affixing of the stamp would be purely perfunctory and would carry with it no value. I find that under the present law, chapter 33 statutes of 1900, there is no authority given to the department or to the minister to affix any such stamp, and for that purpose this amendment is suggested :
The following section is added to the said Act :
At the request of any association incorporated under this Act authorized at the annual meeting or at a meeting called for the purpose, the Minister of Agriculture may, through an officer of his department thereunto authorized by him, approve under the hand of the said officer and the seal of the said department or such other seal as may be adopted for that purpose, the certificates of registration issued by such association.
It is only at the request of the association concerned that the Minister of Agriculture will affix this seal. This safeguards the association ; safeguards the interests of the live stock men and secures that there should be no interference on the part of the department except at the request of the association concerned. The work of nationalizing the records has been carried on. The different record associations at present existing and incorporated under this Act have passed resolutions requesting that they should be given house room in the department here; that their records should be transferred to Ottawa and maintained here, and that the department should affix this seal to their records. For this purpose there must be a certain amount of co-operation and combined work on the part of the different associations. Each association will still absolutely control its own particular business, but when there are some ten or fifteen or twenty different associations all working under one organization there will be some work which is common to all. and which they can better do as a united organization than by each working separately and disjointedly. In the present Act there does not seem to be any authority for these associations to work in conjunction with other associations for a common object. I therefore desire, for the purpose of the new

conditions under which they will work to give them authority to join together and in combination to do certain parts of their work. Section 5 of the present Act provides that the constitution, by-laws, and rules of the association shall provide for the registry of pedigree pure bred live stock, the election of officers, the expulsion of members, the holding of annual, general or special meetings and the location of head offices and branch offices if any. In addition I propose that section 5 of the Act is amended by adding :
And may provide for the exercise in conjunction with any other association or associations incorporated under this Act of any of its powers or functions through a common officer or officers to be appointed by such association.
This simply provides that in addition to things which they ' shall ' provide for, they ' may ' also provide for arranging this joint action. These are the two amendments which will be necessary to carry into practical effect the nationalizing of the records which has been asked for lit- the live stock associations and which has been consummated as far as it can be without this law, by a series of agreements which have been made between the various live stock associations and the Minister of Agriculture.


That contemplates that all the live stock associations will be brought to Ottawa.


That is the intention, and that is the agreement.


How would you do in the case of the Shropshire Sheep Association whose headquarters are in Indiana?


I am only dealing with associations which are incorporated under this Act. If the Shropshire men do not form a Dominion association I can do nothing with them.


Could not that all have been accomplished in a simpler way by having a Dominion register here, and having the various associations send their books here for registration ?


The live stock men do not want that. They want to continue to manage and control their own record.


They would control their own record, but after the registration is complete, they would send their books here. They would make their own records and then if you like transmit a duplicate copy here, so that there would be one register here for the various associations instead of each association keeping up its separate register and staff of officers.


They have agreed to that, and are going to do that here.





For instance, the headquarters of the Dominion Shorthorn Breeders' Association is at the parliament buildings in Toronto under Mr. Wade. Would you move Mr. Wade's staff here, or would there be a register here with Mr. W'ade continuing to do the work there and sending here either that work or a duplicate of it ?


The work is to be done here.


And his staff will be moved here ?


Yes, there will he a staff here. The work is to be done here for two reasons. In the first place, with this work being done in connection with my department, it would not be practicable to have it done elsewhere.	[DOT]
Mr. 'SPROULE. Why ?


Because the record has to be examined before the certificate of the department is attached to it. The officer of the department who will attach the seal of the department to the certificates must tiave access to the books ; otherwise he cannot tell whether the certificate is correct or not.


What is to hinder him in having access to the books ? He has a copy of ail the records. He may not be the party who looks into the records. I take it that that would be done by the association, and the registration would be made iu accordance with the provisions of their law.


What is the object of
having two sets of books and papers, one at Toronto and one here, when the association has agreed to come here and has transferred its books here, as all the other associations have ? But there is this further to be said. The association at Toronto was a provincial association. It called itself The Dominion Shorthorn Breeders' Association, but it was under a provincial charter. The people in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, the Northwest Territories and British Columbia want to have this work done at the capital of the country under the auspices of the Dominion Department of Agriculture-to a very limited extent, I grant, but still to a certain extent. The question was thoroughly thrashed out and discussed, and the associations themselves, without the slightest request on my part, took the initiative in the matter. The live stock men came to me last year and asked me to carry this out. All that I have done, and ail that the officers of my department have done, has been to facilitate their work and their organization and give them assistance-in the way of advice.


Then, if I understand the hon. minister correctly, it is that under

a Dominion Act certain associations have been organized, which will have their head office here and a Dominion record kept. If the Dominion Shorthorn Breeders' Association is under a provincial charter, how io you work that in ?


It has now become incorporated under this Act. It used to be under the provincial charter of the province of Ontario, but it has made its application to come under this charter and to become really Dominion in character. It was, I confess, practically Dominion before.


It was Dominion, because it accepted registration from any part of the Dominion.


I know that. They could accept registration from the United States or England or anywhere else, and they called themselves Dominion, but at the same time their charter was a purely provincial charter, and outside of the province of Ontario they had no legal existence. But coming under this charter they have a legal existence all over the Dominion. But there is another very important point in this Act. When one association is formed of a Dominion character, no other can be formed. There must be only one national Dominion association. There was the Shorthorn Association under the Ontario Act, and there were also shorthorns registered in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Quebec under associations in those provinces-not specially confined to shorthorns, but registering any other class of cattle that it was desired to register in their records. Under this Act, however, there can be only one Dominion association recording pedigrees for the Dominion, and that is one of the chief reasons why the different breeders' associations have wished to come under this Act. The danger was that there would be half a dozen associations. There were actually already four different sets of records in Canada, and there was a danger that there would be two or three more established, in Manitoba, the Northwest Territories and British Columbia ; and it was to avoid that multiplication of records that this Act was passed originally, and that this movement for the nationalization of records has taken place. It was done in the interest of the live stock men. They themselves have asked for it and have brought it about, and I am proposing a law which is necessary to facilitate and carry out their wishes and intentions.


If there are two or three associations in existence at the present time, of which the standards may not be all the same, I take it that this Dominion association will assimilate these standards, and there must be a cutting off or weeding out of the present records somewhere.


There will be. The Nova Scotians have already signed an agreement coming under this Act and handing over their records to the department here. The New Brunswick government have done the same. I fully anticipate that within the next few weeks the records for the province of Quebec will be dealt with in the same way. The leading live stock men of the province have expressed their desire to do so, and the only question is the settlement of the negotiations. The same has been done with regard to the Northwest. In that way the local records will disappear, and there will be but one Dominion record for each class of stock. There are two or three very important reasons why this is necessary in the interest of the live stock men. Perhaps the most pressing is that at the present time, through the efforts of the live stock commissioner of my department, the railroads have given special facilities and rates on thoroughbred stock. Such stock can be sent all over Canada to-day at lower rates than any other stock, where it is intended to be used for breeding purposes. The railroads, in a public-spirited way, recognizing the importance of the improvement of the live stock of the country, have given these special rates for the carriage of live stock. They have asked us what pedigrees they must recognize, and when they were asked to recognize three or four different certificates, they protested. They said : we cannot go to the trouble of examining three or four different certificates ; we must have a certificate which is recognized as a national one, and we want it to be endorsed by the Department of Agriculture at Ottawa. That is one of the arguments.


Is there an understanding that there will be a reciprocal exchange of registration or acceptance of certificates as between the Dominion association and outside associations, for instance, in the United States.
Mr. FISHER, That is a matter I was coming to. On various occasions the live stock men of Canada have discussed with the United States authorities and the live stock men in the United States the question of the entry free of duty of Canadian thoroughbred animals into that country. The United States customs laws have a provision authorizing thoroughbred animals to be admitted free of duty when introduced for breeding purposes, but they have certain rules and regulations which up to the present, have shut out Canadian thoroughbred animals. It is hoped that when we establish here a national record for thoroughbreds, with the stamp of the Department of Agriculture, we may induce the American authorities to accept such certificate. We shall certainly make the attempt, but our success does not depend on ourselves alone, and therefore I can say nothing absolutely.

As a matter of fact one of the reasons given for the refusal of the United States to recognize Canadian certificates is that in Canada there are various certificates, and the American authorities could not undertake to examine into the different associations which issue them. The natural answer was : If you will recognize Canadian national certificates, we will make our certificates national. That is one of the reasons why this movement has. attained such force.


Has the hon. gentleman communicated with the United States government regarding this matter of certificates and regarding also the admission of Canadian thoroughbreds free of duty ?


The first point is with regard to the recognition of our certificates to entitle an animal to exhibition as a thoroughbred. I think that that would follow the recognition of our certificates by the customs authorities. I may say however that the United States exhibition authorities have recognized our certificates. At the St. Louis exhibition last year, animals that were registered in the herd books were accepted as thoroughbreds and allowed to compete. We could not however get free entry of those animals for sale. That is a question of customs over which the exhibition authorities have no control. They referred the matter to the customs authorities, and these authorities applied their ordinary rule which does not recognize Canadian certificates of registration. The consequence was that any animal exhibited at St. Louis had to pay the customs duty before it could be sold.


Am I to understand that the hon. minister made no representations to the authorities at Washington at all ?


We made representations to the exhibition authorities and they told us that we would have to deal with the custom authorities, but we had been already dealing with the customs authorities many years and knew exactly what they would say. They always told us they could make no change in their rules so that there was no object in appealing to them again.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first time.


House resumed adjourned debate on the proposed motion of Sir Wilfrid Laurier for the second reading of Bill (No. 69) to establish and provide for the government of the province of Alberta, and the amendment of Mr. R. L. Borden thereto.
As a new member, I feel that I should apologize for taking up the time of the House after the lengthy discussion we have had on this Mr. FISHER.
Bill. The question however is so important, more especially as the Bill before us is not only one of the very first measures that has to be considered by myself as well as other new members, but extends our confederation by the admission of new provinces, great in area and rich in future possibilities, that I think I may fairly claim the indulgence of the House while I take up its attention for a short time. I listened last night with pleasure to the speech from another young member of the House (Mr. Lalor), and while I congratulate him on the excellent address he made as his maiden effort. I was very much astonished at some of his remarks. Indeed I thought that he skated around the question very carefully ; and I noticed in the past few days an inclination among members opposite to sail all around the subject and not face it as it should be faced. I would refer, in the first place, to the speech of the hon. member for Calgary (Mr. McCarthy) in which he challenged the government to open up a constituency in the west and appeal to the people to elect its Minister of the Interior. You will notice in that speech that he almost tells us that if the government had courage enough to place this matter before the country he would have very little objection to the Bill afterwards ; that is, if any member from the west was appointed Minister of the Interior and was elected by his constituents. I am sorry he is not in his place to-day. and I am sorry to say that that good looking young man has not been in his place since the 25th day of this month. He seems to have already commenced to think that it is time to go back on what he has said.


Did I understand the hon. gentleman to say that the hon. member for Calgary had not been in his place ?


I only said that I had not seen him and I have not seen him here in the House. The hon. member for South. York (Mr. W. If. Maclean.) has made several speeches, one particularly, challenging tiie government to appoint a Minister of the Interior and to go to the country, to open any constituency in the west and elect a minister there. We find that since the 2oth of this month that courageous gentleman's chair has also been vacant. I call attention to the fact that even the shepherd of the flock, the member for Leeds (Mr. Taylor) has made some statements in this House that I think are worth calling the attention of the House to. He said :
I wish to make a proposition to the Minister of Justice which I shall ask the Minister of Finance to convey to him as he is not in his place. I suggest to the Minister of Justice that if the statements of the Minister of Finance and the ex-Minister of the Interior are true, he should let the lawyers on both sides of the House get together and frame an amendment in accordance with the statements of these two gentlemen, an amendment which shall contain

nothing more, but which shall be put in plain language so that the man on the street may know what It means. Then, so far as I am concerned, there will be no opposition because it is a national school as both of these hon. gentlemen say, a national school with only one half hour's religious teaching between 3.30 and 4 o'clock in the afternoon. And I am sure the people of the Northwest or of Ontario, or of any other section of the Dominion will raise no objection to that.


Read further.


Then we come to the speech of my hon. ^friend from Haldimand (Mr. Lalor) last night. He was very particular ou four different occasions to state and he wound up his Speech by stating :
When I vote in favour of the amendment of my hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden), I am not voting against separate schools, and I want that distinctly understood.
1 would say to these gentlemen that after we have spent something like six weeks on this question we would ask them to at once drop the discussion and fall in with us and make the passage of the Bill unanimous. If they want to vote for separate schools they can have all the opportunity they wish. The hon. member for Haldimand (Mr. Lalor) also said in his speech that the leader of the government was a coward, that one of the greatest acts of cowardice that had ever been perpetrated niton this country was the aji-appointment of the present Minister of the Interior because he had had a large majority in the last election. I never knew that it was a crime to have a large majority in this country ; I never knew'that a man had to sit on the back benches all his life because he had a large majority, and I believe that no fairer and no wiser act could have been done under the circumstances than the premier's action in appointing as Minister of the Interior the Hon. Mr. Oliver. The hon. member also stated that he does not believe there is a more clever man in this Dominion than Premier Haultain. I believe he is correct, I presume lie is. But I notice in an interview with the Toronto ' News ' that Premier Haul-tain when interviewed at Winnipeg spol>e on this subject. The interview appears under the heading ' No Significance in Mr. Oliver's Election.' Mr. Haultain believed there was lio significance, but the hon. member for Haldimand believes there was a great deal of significance. In Mr. Haultain's interview he was asked if there was any probability of the Northwest legislature being called together to pass a resolution oil the question. Mr. Haultain replied in the negative. I believe Mr. Haultain is a clever man, but I say that when the hon. member for South York (Mr. W. F. Maclean) was challenging the Postmaster General to throw up his seat and run an election he might have gone one further and challenged Premier Haultain to call his council together and see what they
would say on the question. I believe Premier Haultain knows to-day that he dare not call his council together, I believe that if he called that council together he would be defeated in an attempt to pass any resolution or any measure that would he in any way against the Bill that we have now before us.
I believe that there is no greater coward, that no man lias shown himself the coward so much as Mr. Haultain. Mr. Haultain has written a letter to the premier, a letter which I have in my hand, and in it you can easily see that if it were possible that he could make any political capital out, of calling his legislature together, he would do so and have a resolution passed opposing this measure. He has uot been able to do so, he has been afraid to attempt to clo so. 'Therefore I fall back upon what I said in the first place that it was rather amusing when we listened to the remarks of the speakers last night how they all skated around the question, how they were trying to get some was' to crawl out the back door, stating in their arguments if you can call them arguments, as the member for Haldimand said : ' I am not voting against separate schools ; I want that distinctly understood.'


Are you voting for separate schools ?


Now you leave me alone, I will attend to that before I get through. At the very outset I wish to take strong objection to some statements made by that member in his speech. He said :
I want to tell them there is no mutiny on this side.
It did not look like it.
The leader of the Conservative party told us both in caucus and out

I suppose that means there would have been a mutiny if the leader had not told them so.
The leader of the Qonservative party told us both in caucus and out to vote as our consciences dictated to us o?I this Bill, and that is the way we are voting on the measure.
Evidently, the leader of the opposition had reached a point where he had to tell his followers that there would have been an end to his authority. We have the evidence of half a dozen hon. members on the opposition side to prove that that is the case. And, gentlemen,. I wish to go one step further and tell my hon. friend from Haldimand that he is entirely wrong when he makes this statement :
The hon. member .says their consciences will not allow 'them to follow him. I would like to see the consciences of some members on the other side of the House who are compelled to follow the Prime Minister whether they want to or not, the men who are whipped into line, the men who have had the whip lashed over their backs, and have been brought to the centre with a round turn and made to support the

Prime Minister notwithstanding the fact that they know when they are doing so that the people who sent them to this parliament are opposed to this pleasure.
Now, I do not wish to make any joke of this, hut to speak earnestly about it. And I say truthfully-and I challenge contradiction-that in no case, in caucus or out of caucus, in this House or out of this House, has one member of the government or one member of this House on the government side, even asked me what X intended to do on this question. Now, gentlemen, I say. that openly


I rise to a point of order. The hon. gentleman (Mr. T. Martin) thinks he is before a country audience. He should address the Chair.


Mr. Speaker, if I am out of order, I apologize and am ready at once to conform to the rule of the House, But if the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Taylor), the whip of the Conservative party, had called his freshman to order last night, I think he would have done well. It is astonishing that he, an old member of this House could sit and listen for an hour and a half to such nonsense, to such stuff, and yet, lose his head before I have been speaking fifteen minutes. It seems to me that if leniency should be shown in this House, new members should have the benefit of it. I was quite willing that all leniency should be shown to my hon, friend from Haldi-roand (Mr. Lalor) even though, he did allow himself such latitude. Had he been before a country audience and made such a speech as he made last night, he would have been told a dozen times that he was very fresh,


There is a pair of us.


We are both from the country, and I am not ashamed of the country. Now, I wish to be thoroughly understood, and I wish these words of mine to go to the country, when I say that on no occasion hate I-and I believe the same is true of-fevery hon. member on the government side of the House-been requested, even so much as requested, to vote for the Bill now in consideration.


Or any other Bill.


Yes, or any other Bill. I was very sorry also that the young member for Haldimand (Mr. Lalor) should attack so recklessly and with so little conscience that grand man the right hon. leader of this House (Sir Wilfrid Laurier). The hon. member used language with reference to the Prime Minister that no young member of this House is entitled to use. The Prime Minister of this country has a record, and by that record he is to be judged! He has behind him a record of twenty-three years of public service, a lifetime in itself. He has a record of. never failing tolerance. He has a record of clean Mr. T. MARTIN.
and able administration, such a record as we have seldom had among the public men of Canada. Can any man charge the Prime Minister of this Dominion with having misused in any way a penny of the public funds ? Can any man charge the Prime Minister with intolerance or with any, disregard of the rights or feelings of any section of the people ? I say that it is unbecoming of any young member of this House, of any man of little experience either political or parliamentary, to use such language with reference to the right hon. leader of this House as was used*by the hon. member for Haldimand.
I was much pleased to hear the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Blain) the other day quote the utterances of a Presbyterian minister and declare, as he did, that any one would accept the statement of the gentleman whose name he gave and whose words he quoted.
I belong to that church myself, and I am proud of the church and of the men it has produced. Therefore, I desire to follow the hon. member for Peel and give the opinions of some members of that denomination, to show that the school system of the Northwest as it now stands is satisfactory to the people of these new provinces and that therefore, we are right in voting for this Bill. This quoting of the opinion of members of one church may seem a little sectional, but I am sure that hon. members will bear with me when they hear the names of those whose words I - desire to give. First I would refer to the late Rev." Dr. , Robertson, and I am sure, when I mention his name, those hon. members who belong to the Presbyterian church-and I am glad to say there are a large number in this House who uelong to it-and all the adherents of that church throughout the country, will receive almost as final evidence any utterance of Dr. Robertson with regard to the Northwest. Dr. Robertson became a superintendent of missions of the Presbyterian church in 1882 and continued in that work until his death in 1902. And I believe that I state only the simple truth when I say that in the twenty years of his service no man ever did more for the Northwest, or said more for the Northwest, than this great man whose name I have given. Those of us who have had the honour and pleasure of receiving him at our own firesides know that his whole conversation was of the Northwest. And those of us who have attended the courts of the church to which he belonged, know that his great theme in the courts of our church was the building up of the Northwest and the extending of religious ordinances to the people of that great country. Dr. Robertson was a broad man. Dr. Robertson was a man who could see past his own church. I have heard him say time and again that he was glad to see other churches in the Northwest, he wanted other churches to prosper, but one of bis greatest

troubles in tbe Northwest was that there was an overlapping of chui'ches. He felt that in many cases that overlapping was not doing the good it ought to do. I mention these facts to remind hon. gentlemen who did not know Dr. Robertson, but who had perhaps heard of him, that he was a broad-minded man, a man who could take a broad view of all questions. From the year 1882 to 1902, I have followed every one of Dr. Robertson's reports presented to our church. I have followed these reports for twenty years, I have carefully looked into them, I have been myself a delegate to the assemblies of the Presbyterian church and I know that Dr. Robertson's reports were full of information and dealt in the most comprehensive manner with the Northwest Territories. When I mention the fact that in all these reports I failed to find one single word in twenty years against these schools in the Northwest It should have great weight with Protestants all over this country. If there was anything wrong with these schools in 1882, would not a broad-minded man like Dr. Robertson, whose life work was in the Northwest, have mentioned it in his first report? Would he not have mentioned it in his second report, or would he not. in the twenty reports that he presented to the general assembly, have had something to say regarding that question ? T have a great many of these reports /here. He gives first a general sketch of the character and resources of the country and then he goes into the question as. it appeared at that time, of the economic and social development of the Northwest and his firm belief at that time was that the west was to be one of the most important parts of our land; it was to be one of the parts of our land that would contain more people than even the grand province of Ontario. He believed the day was coming when millions would live in peace and luxury in that country. In giving his opinion on all these things he was always pressing for men and money to help on the work of the church and I am glad to say, now that that great man is gone, that he was broad minded enough to find no fault with any other church in all the reports he made to our church.


May I ask the hon. gentleman (Mr. T. Martin) a question? Did Dr. Robertson at any time report against the provinces themselves dealing with the school question?


No, he did not.


Is the hon. gentleman (Mr. T. Martin) aware that the Presbytery in his own county passed a resolution in condemnation of this Bill?


In my own county ?


Part of your own county.


Are you sure that is the case?


I am informed so by gentlemen here.


Who are they? I would like to have those gentlemen rise and make that statement. -


I had a resolution sent to me and I have a resolution here from the Presbytery of Saugeen and it stated that the resolution was to be sent to me and also to my hon. friend from North Wellington (Mr. Martin).


It so happens that I do not live in the same Presbytery as my hon. friend from East Huron (Mr. Chls-holm). I know that in some Presbyteries resolutions have been passed, but the fact that he may have received the resolution to which the hon. gentleman refers does not prove that I did. We were told by the hon. member for Haldivnand (Mr. Lalor) that there was no one-


I suppose the hon. gentleman (Mr. T. Martin) will not deny that the Presbytery of Owen Sound, representing some 2,500 families


Order, order.


I do not know it.
Some lion. MEMBERS. Order, order.


I am in order.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a point of order.


I am in order. Two can play that game.


Order.


Order. With the consent of the Speaker the hon. gentleman has the right to ask him a question.


The hon. member (Mr. T. Martin) is living in an adjoining county to my own. As a matter of courtesy I propose to ask him a question which I think I have a perfect right to do. I wished to ask him if he was aware of the fact that the Presbytery of Owen Sound, representing 2,500 families, had passed a strong resolution in opposition to the school clause of this Bill.


Write us a letter about it.


I was not aware of it. I have no doubt it is true. I have noticed in the papers that several Presbyteries have done so, but I do not live in the Presbytery of Owen Sound. I live in the Presbytery of Saugeen. It was stated by the hon. member for Haldimand last night that the people of the Northwest Territories were very much opposed to the school clause in the Bill. I have a letter here, dated April

28, from a gentleman in Regina and I liave also another letter dated April 18, from another gentleman living in the Northwest Territories. I think it might be well to give quotations from these letters just to put that bon. gentleman right in this respect. One of these letters states :
As far as the people out here are concerned,' there is very general satisfaction with the Bill in all particulars, and I presume we ought to be the ones who are most directly interested and know best about it.
The other letter says :
All here are satisfied with the school clause in the Autonomy Bill, even Conservatives are finding very little fault.
These letters are from gentlemen who have been living in the Northwest for twenty-two years, two prominent men in the Territories. I would also read a further extract for the benefit of the bon. member for East Grey (Mr. Sproule) in regard to a matter upon which he seemed to be a little misty last night. I refer to the question of school books. The writer of this letter says :
We sell the same books to both schools.
This is a long letter and I need not read it all through as it would only be taking up the time of the House. But, he incidentally mentions in this letter that they sell to both parties the same school books. I trust that that will set at rest the mind of the hon. member for East Grey, and that he will be able to keep his seat now until I get through. I was very glad also to hear from the bon. member for Haldi-mand (Mr. Lalor). He stated-I think I have his words here exactly-that there was no more independent paper in Canada than the ' Witness,' that it was a very independent paper. I have the 'Witness' here.


I did not make that statement. I never mentioned the ' Witness.'


The Montreal * Witness ' ?


I never mentioned it at all.


What paper did you mention ?


The ' Farmers' Sun.'
Ail hon. MEMBER. Oh.


' Hansard ' shows it. Read ' Hansard.'


I think I heard every word that was said. I think he mentioned the ' Witness ' also. However, I will take that back. I do not want to use the hon. gentleman's words in a way that should not be done, but I will read an extract from the ' Witness.' I know that the people of western Ontario believe that the, Mr. T. MARTIN.
1 AVitness ' is as reliable a paper from a Protestant standpoint as we have in Canada." It is an old established paper and it seems to have run in a very independent course for many years. This paper is dated April 25th. A clergyman writing to the paper on the school question says this :
To the editor of the * Witness ' :
Sir,-As a reader of the ' Witness ' from boyhood I am very much surprised at your attitude on the Autonomy Bill. You seem to think that too much stress is being laid on provincialism by us in Ontario.
AA'ell, I am afraid there has been, and I think that some of the members of the opposition in this House, when they look over their speeches a couple of years hence will come to the conclusion that they have gone too far in that direction. The letter continues :
Yet who were they who refused to enter into legislative union at confederation, and insisted on a federal union ? Who were the ones who at that time demanded provincial rights in certain matters, of which education was one ? The Roman Catholics of Quebec were the opponents then of a legislative union. They were then advocates of provincialism, but what they claimed for themselves at that time they now are unwilling to grant the people of the west.
No, Mr. Editor, the people of Ontario are true to the principles of confederation. It is the people of Quebec who have gone back oh their principles. To my mind there has been no more audacious and treacherous act in our history than the attempt to fasten separate schools upon the west. Sir Wilfrid Laurier, as a faithful child of the Roman Catholic church, has determined before he retires from public life to do all he can for his church.
We do not want a second Quebec in this Dominion. One ' solid Quebec ' is sufficient.
For this reason I am extremely sorry to find that the ' Witness ' is not on the side of the freedom and liberties of the people on this occasion.
The editor of the ' AVitness replies to that letter in an article headed ' Is it treachery,' and he says:
That it was the Roman Catholics who Opposed a legislative union when the provincec of British North America came together, and insisted not only on a provincial autonomy for Quebec, but demanded that the interests of education should be under provincial jurisdiction ; so that it is they, and not the people of Ontario, who have gone back on the principles of confederation ; ~what they then claimed for themselves they are now unwilling to grant to the people of the west. Is this quite fair to them ? They certainly did demand to control their own educational system through the provincial government, but they did not claim to control the education of the minority. The minority was to control its own educational system and has ahvays done so. The majority would probably have acted rightly by the minority, even if they had been free to act otherwise, but at confederation the minority 'demanded that their educational freedom should be guaranteed by the national compact, and so it was. Now when new provinces are being created the Roman Catholics ask for the minorities ,here, what

the minority here enjoys, namely, control by constitutional right of its own education. No doubt the two systems are different in character. The one is sectarian and seetionalizing and estranging ; the other is unseetarian and uniting. The latter is without question, in our mind, the best ; but our neighbours conscientiously take a distinctly opposite view. Each part of the community would prefer that its own system should be universal, but we can scarcely imagine how the minority of this province would feel or act if the system of the majority was forced upon it. The Protestants of Quebec would say that their religious liberty was invaded and would probably rise in revolt against such despotism. Determined to have their own conscientious convictions respected, they cannot but respect the convictions of their neighbours, however much they may deplore them.
Wihat our correspondent asks is, that the majority in the new provinces should have the determination of all school questions absolutely in their hands. Our belief is that they would use such a power in a way as liberal to the minority as the Autonomy Act proposes. In fact what is proposed is to extend the system which has been brought into shape under local legislation.
I would like the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Taylor) to take note of that because he seems to be doubtful on that question.
I am sure that if bis mind is clear on that point, he will do as he promised in his speech and vote for the Bill. He iS now not only getting the views of members on this sidS of the House, hut he can take his authority from the editor of the Montreal [DOT] Witness.'
But we cannot blame the minority for wanting to have the minority right constitutionally guaranteed, as that of the Protestants is in Quebec, nor can we think that for proposing to give them this security, a premier who is seeking only to be true and fair to all should be spoken of as -guilty of the most audacious and treacherous act in our history.
That statement ought to 'be of some value to the hon. member for Haldimand (Mr. La-lor) and I will read it again.
Nor can we think that for proposing to give them this security a premier who is seeking only to be true and fair to all should be spoken of as guilty of the ;uost audacious and treacherous act in our history.
I do earnestly hope that when we see the very best amongst the newspapers of our country taking up the question in this way, the members of the opposition in this House will become more tolerant; they will show more respect for the minority in this country, and that they will not try to inflame the public mind into outbursts of passion between Roman Catholics and Protestants. I have been one of those who lived amongst Catholics all my life; I have Catholic neighbours on all sides of me ; by .jumping over the fence I can get into the field of a Catholic, and I can say this, and there are members of the opposition here who know it is true ; we have lived together like friends, we have lived together like
brethren, and I ask : cannot we be allowed to continue to live in that way? Cannot the minority he allowed to have religious teaching in their schools as they have In Ontario, without anybody being the worse for it ? -I have lived in my township for 48 years and X cannot see where any Protestant has lost one iota because there are two separate schools in that township. I appeal to the members of the opposition in ibis House to come down to fair-play. I appeal to them to leave this intolerance aside and to frown upon the injustice perpetrated in this paper before me which contains the most scandalous cartoons which ever appeared in print. Let the incidents of the past couple of months he blotted out for ever, and let us as members of this legislature show that we at least are possessed of a good deal of common sense and that we have the spirit of fair-play and of wisdom about us. I^et us not endorse the unjust warfare that the Toronto ' News ' has indulged in for some time past with Its tremendous headings : ' A free west, a common school, provincial rights, religious equality.' The idea conveyed by these headings is a false one. Who can deny that there is a free west, and who can deny that there are not common schools in the west ? Where is the evidence that provincial rights are infringed upon ? Are we infringing upon provincial rights before they have a province ? We must create a province before they can have provincial rights, and I guarantee the members of this House that so far as I am concerned, that after the provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan are created on the first day of July next, if there is any attempt to take away then-rights, I shall be the first to jump up and defend provincial rights. But how can we defend provincial rights until they are provinces ? The 1 Witness ' continues to say :
We should like to ask our correspondent to put to himself one question. Let him imagine, if he can, that the present prospect was that of a large Roman Catholic majority in one of these provinces, and of a large Mormon majo-ity in the other, and then ask himself if, under such an outlook, he would be-quite as sure as he is that the constitution guaranteed- those majorities the right to legislate with regard to education just as -they might like, and would be he quite as sure as he is that they ought to have that unlimited -power. If he finds his mind revolt against giving absolute powfer to the provinces in such a case, he will be able to see the attitude of mind of those who are demanding that some limit he placed oil pdssible majority despotism,. Practically the system of schools which prevails in the -provinces, and which it is proposed to perpetuate, seems to us an excellent one.
X think these words are particularly applicable to the members of the opposition. They never have seemed to realize that fact, and if they will not take the word of the Prime Minister for it. if they will not take the word of any member of the government,

surely they will take the word of a newspaper like the Montreal ' Witness ' which as an independent paper has stood up for Protestantism ever since it was first published. Surely we can give these gentlemen the credit of being fairly good men ; and surely we can claim that we are not straining our conscience when we have the pleasure of voting for the Bill now before the House. This paper goes on to say :
Schools are necessarily carried oh and managed by the local majority. What is guaranteed is, first, that religious teaching shall not invade the hours of general study ; and, second, that if any religiou