House in Committee of Supply.
['I think it does fully answer the purpose, and that the amendment is an important one.']
We are not ready to go on with the estimates for a few moments, and in the meantime we will take some Bills.
Progress reported.


Consideration of amendments made by the Senate to Bill (No. 7) respecting the inspection and sale of seeds.-Mr. Fisher.
These amendments are merely verbal. The first one is that before ' ergot of rye ' the words are inserted ' and from the sclerotia known as ' ; the second amendment is to leave out the word 'screenings ' and insert the words 'not absolute]v clean.'
Amendments read the first and second times, and agreed to.


House in committee on Bill (No. 132) to amend the Government Railways Act.- Mr. Emmerson.
What Bill is this ?





This is the amendment to the Railway Act which provides running rights for the Intercolonial Railway over the Grand Trunk Railway from Montreal to Coteau, and over the Canada Atlantic Railway from Coteau junction to Parry Sound.
When this Bill w'as up for consideration before, it w'as suggested that possibly a claim might be made against the government for the right that we are now taking to run over the Canada Atlantic, without reference to the fact whether wre used that right or not. It wras suggested that that point ought to be made absolutely clear. I therefore move to reconsider Section 5, and to amend it by adding the following proviso :
Provided that no compensation shall be payable for such running powers unless and until the same are actually exercised, and then only for such exercise.


I would suggest the words ' so far as they may be excused ' instead of the words ' for such exercise.'


Amendment agreed to, and Bill reported as amended.
Mr. FITZPATRICK moved the third reading of the Bill.
I think the Amendment which has been moved by the Minister of Justice answers the objections which were raised on this side of the House.


That was the intention.


I think it does fully answer the purpose, and that the amendment is an important one.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the third time and passed.
Mr. FIELDING moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.
['I do not think there ought to be any difficulty whatever about postponing.']
The Minister of Justice mentioned the other evening on the motion to adjourn that he proposed to make some statement with regard to the Kent-ville rifle range. I do not think that lias yet been made.


I thought I ought to wait for the hon. member for Victoria and Haliburton (Mr. Sam. Hughes) and the Minister of Militia to be present, because I want to refer to the matter from the point of view of the Department of Justice.


Perhaps the Minister of Justice would have no objection to sending me a copy of his statement if it is prepared.


Not at all.


Motion agreed to, and House w-ent into Committee of Supply.

Ottawa city-bridges over the Rideau river, the slides and the Rideau canal and approaches thereto-ordinary repairs, $7,000.
['Not at all.']
This vote is to provide for the usual necessary repairs to the bridges of the city of Ottawa and the approaches thereto, the maintenance of which was assumed by the government under authority of an Order in Council passed in 1885. This is the usual sum.


What are the bridges?


The union bridge between Ottawa and Hull, the bridge over the timber slides at the Chaudiere, the Maria street bridge, Sapper's bridge, the Dufferin bridge and approaches thereto, and the maintenance of Wellington street between Bank and the Dufferin bridge.	,


What is the nature of the repairs?


The ordinary maintenance of these bridges.


How much was spent last year ?


$7,101.37, divided as follows : Chaudiere bridges, $2,553.53 ; St. Patrick streeet, $60.48; Wellington street, Dufferin and Sapper's bridges, $4,783.43 ; hardware, stone, lumber and cement, $253.93


One would suppose that after the bridges were put in thoroughly first-class condition, so large an amount would not be necessary yearly for repairs. I am speaking, of course, without any special knowledge of the subject, but merely from the impression I would have with respect to such a matter.


I am informed by the officers of the department that this is generally the sum that has to be expended every year on these works.
Ottawa city-Dufferin and Sapper's bridges over the Rideau canal, Hull slides and Union bridge and roadway approaches, repairs, additions, &c., $11,000.


This vote is asked to make provision for continuing the works of alteration and addition to Dufferin and Sapper's bridges, the roadway, approaches, and sidewalks, the estimate being submitted by the chief engineer. The amount expended last year was $7,000.
Bryson bridge-reconstruction of bridge and approaches, $15,000.


This is towards the work of reconstruction and repairs of bridge over the North Channel of the Ottawa. The work will be done on condition that the Quebec government and the municipalities interested will maintain the bridge at their sole expense.


Is that agreement expressed in some document or is it a mere understanding ?
Mi'. BRODEUR. The work will not be let unless the municipalities and the provincial government undertake to maintain it.


It would be desirable to have that agreement expressed formally in a document or communication, so that there will he no question hereafter as to the obligation.


That is the intention. Nothing will be done unless that agreement is made.


Is the government responsible for the repairs of all these bridges should any accident occur ?


No, that is not the policy of the department.


But it might be the policy of the courts.


I am informed that the question has been before the courts and that the position taken by the department was sustained.


The government is liable by statute for the negligence of its employees on a public work. The question would he whether this is a public work in the meaning of the statute. That statute has not been repealed, so far as I am aware.


It was decided three years ago in the case of McHugh and the Queen.


Does that depart from any previous line or decision ?


No.


What bridge in the vicinity of Ottawa is known as the Aberdeen bridge ?


It is the bridge under the control of the Improvement Commission and not under the government. I think it is the bridge which goes to Rideau Hall. There are three of these bridges, and one of them is called the Aberdeen bridge.


I understood that this bridge is not properly lighted and is a menace to the travelling public. As a contributor to the Ottawa Improvement Commission, could not the government bring some pressure upon that commission to cause the bridge to he properly lighted. Perhaps I was mistaken in speaking of the Aberdeen bridge. The bridge I mean is the Alexandra bridge.


That is a Canadian Pacific Railway bridge. It was built by a private corporation which was operating the Ottawa, Gatineau and Pontiac Railway and the Pacific Junction Railway. Afterwards those two roads and the bridge itself

were transferred to the Canadian Pacific Railway.


The bridge I refer to is the bridge from Nepean Point, which was constructed by a private corporation, but to the cost of which the parliament of Canada contributed very considerably, and I think also the city of Ottawa. Could the government not urge the people in charge to make that bridge perfectly safe by having it properly lighted ?	.


This is a matter which does not pertain to the government at all, because it is entirely under the control of the Canadian Pacific Railway, subject to the regulations of the Railway Commission.


But it is not purely a railway bridge. It has carriage drives and walks for pedestrians, so that the railway practically does not make use' of the entire bridge. It is for the protection of pedestrians and others, who have occasion to cross during the night, that I appeal for better lighting ; and as the government has put a very large sum into that bridge, it should have some control, if not over the railway portion of the bridge at least over the portion which accommodates the general public. The government is sufficiently interested to ask those in charge to have it properly lighted and made suitable for the purposes for which the government intended it when it granted a large sum of money in aid of its construction.


The bridge is not at all under the control of the government. The government voted the usual subsidy for its construction, but the accommodation for pedestrians and vehicles was one of the conditions exacted by the city of Ottawa, and it would' be for the city of Ottawa to see that the pedestrian and carriage ways are properly lighted. I have no objection, however, to present to the Canadian Pacific Railway authorities the criticism of my hon. friend.
Battle river bridge at Battleford-new concrete substructure and protection of approaches with close piling, $13,000.


This is to provide for the reconstruction of the new southern abutment. The work is under contract. The amount of the contract for placing the bridge in serviceable condition is 838,426, and we add 10 per cent, or say $4,574 for superintendence and contingencies, making a total of $43,000.


Is this an old bridge that you are re-modelling, or are you erecting a new concrete substructure ?


This is to replace the old, decayed timber with concrete.


Is it the repair of an old bridge, or the demolition of a bridge and the construction of a new one ?





The demolition of the existing substructure and replacing it with a concrete substructure.


The contract has been let ?


Yes, to John Foley, of Ottawa, after tenders publicly called for.


Is it intended that this bridge shall be maintained by the Dominion, or will it pass into the control of one of the new provinces ?


It is intended that the new province in which it is situated shall maintain the bridge.


I often hear it stated, in the course of ministerial explanations in supply, that a certain work is under contract for a certain amount and 10 per cent is added, apparently for supervision. What does that mean ?


When a work is decided upon, an estimate is made of the cost, an allowance of 10 per cent being made for superintendence and contingencies. Then tenders are called for. In this particular case the tenders had been called for and a contract has been made, and the 10 per cent for superintendence and contingencies is calculated on the contract price. But this 10 per cent does not form part of the contract ;-it is work to be done by the department in seeing to it that the work of the contractor is properly carried on. This is not paid for by the contractor but by the department.


So, when a contract is for $40,000, that means that the public must pay $44,000 ?


Yes.


Do contingencies and superintendence really cost 10 per cent ?


Not always, but that is added in order that there may be enough to carry on the work.


In public buildings constructed by the Department of Public Works is the same allowance made ?


Yes.


I understand that private individuals get this work done for 5 per cent, including preparation of the plans and supervision of the work.


In these public works the item of contingencies and superintendence usually costs less than 10 per cent, but my hon. friend (Mr. Uriah Wilson) will see that it is better to estimate 10 per cent than to be obliged to come back to parliament for a vote of a few dollars to make up for a short estimate.


But I do not see why this item should cost double in the case of a public work than what is costs in the

case of a work done for private parties. And I should think that large public works should cost a smaller percentage for superintendence and contingencies than a smaller works do. I should think it would be better for the department to estimate nearer the actual cost and not ask parliament for more money than is necessary. I know of one building for which the architect asked only 5 per cent for drawing plans and looking after the work. And in another case the charge was only 2| per cent.


X cannot dispute the facts within my hon. friend's (Mr. Uriah Wilson's) knowledge. But I will call his attention to the fact that the fees ordinarily charged by architects in the supervision of works is 7* per cent.


For drawing the plans ?


For drawing the plans, making specifications and supervising the work. But this does not include travelling expenses for such a work as this, and 21 per cent does not seem to be excessive to provide for that, especially when the work is at some distance from the home of the resident engineer.


My information is that 5 per cent is the ordinary charge made by architects for this work of making plans and supervising work, and I should think that for a great public work, the percentage should be even less. I can understand that something would depend upon where the work is to be done, as it would be more difficult to oversee works at a distance. But, as I understand it, the Public Works Department have on every job of this kind a clerk of works, an officer who seems to be an ornamental addition to the staff. A public building was constructed in a riding near my own, and the clerk of works got $1,500 for overseeing, and there was an architect besides. This, it seems to me, is a sheer waste of money and ought not to be continued.


I had not supposed that the ordinary fee of an architect was so large as the minister states. I have not had very much experience, but I was under the impression that the fee for supervision, including the preparation of plans, was not more than 5 per cent.


I am informed that it is 71 per cent, for drawing the plans, making the specifications and supervising the work-that is the ordinary tariff.


Has it always been so high ?


The deputy minister informs me that Mr. Ewart, the chief architect has always told him that it was 71 per cent- that is, 21 per cent for supervision and 5 per cent for drawing the plans and making specifications.


I have had something to do with works within a few years and have never known more than 5 per cent to be charged by an architect for preparing plans and specifications, and supervision; and it is very frequently done at 4 per cent, though I admit that 5 per cent is the usual charge.
I know that in general specifications it is quite usual to allow 10 per cent for architect's work and contingencies, that is, to cover any possible errors and oversight; but I never knew that more than 5 per cent was taken from an architect's fees.


Has the board of works not an architect in the department who is capable of undertaking this work ?


There are officers in the department here, but they are not supposed to go and attend to the execution of the work itself. In the case under consideration, for instance, it would be impossible to send a man from here to Battle-ford to supervise the work.


I understand that the architect's fees on the public library being erected in Ottawa are 5 per cent for plans and superintendence, 21 per cent for the preparation of the plans, and 21 per cent for superintendence. I am so informed,
I have no personal knowledge. If that is so, it is certainly not in accordance with what is understood to be the practice of the department, and it might be worth while for the minister to make some inquiries and find out whether or not there is some misapprehension.


There is no doubt that 5 per cent is charged in some cases. Doctors charge some people higher than they do others, and the same with lawyers. But I was speaking of the tariff of fees charged by architects, which I am informed, is 71 per cent. But I will call the minister's attention to that.


Is it the custom of the department to have a clerk of works, and a local architect besides to supervise the erection of public buildings ?


There is a resident engineer who is supposed to look after the execution of a work; besides, there is a local inspector who is there every day. The resident engineer has a certain district under his supervision in which he has to look over the construction of all public works. But we have to employ the services of a local inspector in each place.


In this case, I presume, it is the local official of the department who has a certain district, to look after. But is it not the custom to have a local architect as well ? I have a case in my mind where there was a local architect and a clerk of works, and I fail to see the need of a clerk of works there at all. The local architect is paid to look after it, and

lie should suffice if he gives proper attention to his duties. I am afraid that the government take advantage of these occasions to give local friends a job.


According to my information, the department finds it necessary to have a resident engineer to direet the work generally. He has under his charge all the works in his district, possibly ten or twenty. Besides, he has occasionally to draw plans and make reports to the department. Moreover, we require to have on the ground a man to supervise the work from day to day.


No, we have no local architect in each place.


Who is the resident engineer at Battleford ?


Mr. Paul Paradis, who lives at Calgary, 300 or 400 miles away. He has charge of all the public works in the Northwest Territories, including colonization roads.


How much do you pay this supervisor of works ?


From .$2.50 a day to ?3, according to the local prices.


What qualifications has he ?


He should be a competent man for the class of work he has to supervise.


Does the minister always succeed in getting men who know something about the business ?


It sometimes happens that we do not obtain the most competent men.


Then do you have some one else to supervise the local officer, to see whether he does his work well ?


The resident engineer. He goes and visits all these works" occasionally, once a month or twice a month.


Is there not a danger that he may become too friendly with the contractor ?


I suppose the law gov-, eras those cases.
Shellmouth bridge over Assiniboine river,


This is to provide for the erection of a new bridge at Shellmouth in the province of Manitoba. No work has been done yet. the plans are being prepared. Mr. U. WILSON.


This is an ordinary bridge over the river ?


Yes. There is an old wooden bridge built in 18S7, which is now in a dilapidated condition and bevond repair.	-


Should not that be' done by the local government ?


It is an interprovincial bridge between the province of Manitoba and the Northwest Territories.
Dominion traffic bridges throughout Canada, including approaches, $5,000.


I would like to know what these bridges are referred to in this item, whether in the Northwest Territories or elsewhere.


The bridges under the control of the government in Ontario and Quebec are:	Des Joachims bridge, Ottawa river ; Moisie Post Road, north shore St. Lawrence; Ottawa, Maria street (Laurier) bridge ; Chaudifire bridges ; Sappers' and Dufferin bridges ; Portage du Port bridge, Ottawa river ; York bridge, Grand river. And in the Northwest Territories :	Battleford bridge. Battle river 4
Edmonton bridge, Saskatchewan river ; Calgary bridge, Bow river ; Lethbridge, Belly river; Maeleod bridge, Old Man's river.


What bridge have you on the Grand river ?


At York.


Why do you build across the Grand river ?


I understand that the river was dammed at Dunnville by the Department of Railways and - Canals. This bridge has been considered as being part of that work.


What is the nature of the repairs on the Belly river bridge ?


The department has no information that any repairs will be needed this year. I was simply giving the names of the bridges to which these sums can be applied in case of necessity.


The three bridges referred to are all practically new steel bridges.


They require some painting, and I think it is important that these steel bridges should be painted occasionally. This is to provide for any works that are needed.


I am still in the dark as to the principles governing the action of the government in this matter- what streams shall be built over by the government. I asked the policy of the government in reference to this the other night, and the best answer that I got was their

predecessors used to do it. I think there ought to be some deiinite policy as to what rivers you should build over and for what reasons. It certainly is not because they are navigable rivers, because I know navigable rivers over which the municipalities have to maintain the bridges. I cannot understand why in certain localities you build bridges and in others you do not.


These are interprovincial bridges and bridges in the Northwest Territories.
Mr. 1TRIAH WILSON. I refer to ones that are not interprovincial.


In some cases these rivers are under the control of the Dominion government.


Are not all navigable streams under the control of the Dominion government ?


The municipalities have a certain control over rivers which are entirely in one province, but when we come to build them over interprovincial rivers the rule is different.


I suppose if there has been any system in the past it is that the Dominion government build interprovincial bridges, and besides that has constructed bridges in the Northwest Territories, because there is not a sufficient sum placed at the disposal of the territorial government for that purpose. These bridges were built by tiie Dominion government because that portion of the country was in a territorial condition. There will be a modification of that no doubt now that the new provinces are established. My friend (Mr. Uriah Wilson) desires to know whether, apart from these two principles upon which the government has been proceeding, any other bridges have been constructed partly or wholly by the government ; and if so, on what principle the government has acted in assisting in the building of any bridges that do not fall within the two categories to which I have referred.
'Mr. BRODEUR. There are no other bridges except the ones I have mentioned in the Territories or those who are interprovincial. Besides these there might be some other bridges which are necessitated by works of the Dominion government, as the bridges over canals. These bridges have to be kept up by the Dominion government, because they have been necessitated by the work of the government.


I remember one instance that came within my own observation where the government had altered the course of a stream by works connected v7ith the Rideau canal, making necessary a very much larger and more expensive bridge than would have been required if the stream had been left in its old position.
Apart from that, is there any other principle ?


No.
*Colonization roads-Manitoba and the Northwest Territories, $25,000.


This vote is proposed to be used towards opening or improving colonization roads for the purpose of enabling settlers to take lands which they otherwise could not-reach. A road is to be opened up and improved from a point near Sprague, on the southern boundary line of Manitoba, a few miles north on the line followed by incoming immigrants ; one between Lake Manitoba and Lake Winnipeg ; one from a point on the Prince Albert branch of the Canadian Northern Railway, west of Er-vood ; and one is to be constructed from the bead of Lesser Slave lake to the Peace river. The latter is the most expensive. The total estimated cost of these works will be 325,000.


Why is not the usual practice carried out of handing the money over to the territorial government and allowing them to spend it ? That is what the minister agreed to do last year, if I am not mistaken.


The chief engineer does not remember such a promise being made. Take the case of Athabaska ; I do not think the territorial government has jurisdiction over Athabaska. I think it is entirely under the control of the federal government.


Is it the intention of the government to continue building colonization roads in these Territories after they become provinces ?


Not after they 'are erected into provinces. Then they will have to padle their own canoe.


Last year the objection w as that if the goyernment has any money7 to expend in an improvement of this kind, they should'hand the money over to the Northwest Territories government as they do with other money's, and that was understood at that time.


One of the bridges referred to in this estimate was built in the last two years by the Northwest government. The money is supplied from here to the Northwest government. That applies also to the bridge at Lethbridge, which, I suppose, comes under the same heading.


I do not know7 whether tiiat would be advisable with respect to all of these, although, of course, there would be a change as soon -as these provinces are erected. I do not know whether it w7ould be advisable when the parliament votes money for a special work that this money should be spent by a body not under the



control of this government. In my opinion, it would be very much better for this parliament to control the expenditure of Its own money, especially when a particular work is mentioned in the vote, as in this case. In my opinion, it would be against the principle of responsible government should we hand this money over to be expended by a government over which this parliament has no control.


I do not think there is any question of responsible government about it. Suppose you increased the provincial subsidy by $20,000 and let the province deal with its own roads, there would be no violation of any principle of responsible government. The minister says that when the new provinces have been established there will be no further grant for colonization roads, but if that be so, why is it that you apply part of this grant to the province of Manitoba ? The difficulty is that the government by retaining control of the lands which ought to be the subject of provincial legislation, is led into expenditure of this kind. The building of colonization or other roads is a purely local work which ought to be carried on by the provincial government. If assistance is to be given it will be better to make a grant to the province for that purpose, because it seems beyond question that the provincial authorities would be in a better position to judge of the best mode in which to expend this money than would be the department at Ottawa. Is the minister still of opinion that aid to colonization roads in the Northwest Territories will cease after the new provinces are established, or will it be continued as in the case of Manitoba ?
'Mr. BRODEUR. The information in the notes before me shows that in the province of Manitoba two sums of $5,000 each were expended, and this expenditure was for preparing roads to enable immigrants to enter the country. It wrould seem that this expenditure was on account of promoting immigration, rather than for the purpose of building colonization roads in the general sense of the word.


When we discussed this vote last year, my recollection is that the Minister of the Interior promised this side of the House, that so far as the province of Manitoba was concerned, any part of this money which was expended within the piro-vince would be handed over to the provincial government. It is the duty of the local government to provide roads and bridges within the province, and the Manitoba government would be in a far better position to see that even $5,000 was properly expended on roads than would this government at Ottawa, 1,500 miles away. Even if the expenditure is to assist immigrants to get into certain sections of the province, the provincial government is at least just [DOT] Mr. BRODEUR.
as interested in that matter as this parliament could be. If we are going to construct colonization roads in Manitoba let the local government do the work and regulate the expenditure, and let the same thing be done in the case of the new provinces. I believe the minister would be perfectly justified in handing this money over to the province, especially as he has said that this vote is not to be continued after the new provinces are created.


My own personal opinion is that it would not be advisable to give to a province the control of this expenditure. i


On their own roads.


On our own roads. This money was expended for the special purpose of enabling us to sell Dominion lands, and why should we hand it over to the local governments over which this parliament has no control ? For my part I do not agree in the view that we should hand money over to those who are not responsible to the Dominion parliament or to the people of the country. The provinces may be perfectly reliable, but they are not responsible to this parliament for the expenditures.


Judging by the sarcastic smile which crosses the minister's face, he is not very strongly impressed with his own argument. Is there any reason to believe that the Manitoba government would make any more unwise expenditure of this money than they do of the large subsidy which wm hand over to them or of any other moneys which they get for the purposes of government ? Surely wm can trust them with the expenditure of this small sum of money to improve their own roads. On what authority does this government go on to the highways of Manitoba and construct roads ? That is a duty assigned to the provincial government, and I question if we have any constitutional right to expend money on the highways of Manitoba.
I am perfectly willing that the grant should be made, but it should be expended through the proper channel. The construction of colonization roads has been a standing grievance for a long time in the province of Ontario, and we all know there what it meant. It has been used for a great many years for election purposes, and I have no hesitation in saying that this grant of $5,000 is to be used along the same line. That was brought out in the debate last year. My impression is that there is more politics than construction of public roads in the whole grant, and that is a good reason why the work should be put into the hands of an honest government. I think the minister should divest himself of all suspicion of wrong-doing by agreeing to hand it over to the provincial government, whose duty


it is to see that these roads are constructed and maintained; but, as we want to see that immigrants are provided with roads to go into these different sections, we might supplement the work of the provincial government with a grant of $5,000. Then we shall not have one set of men constructing one portion of a road and another set another portion. Who is going to maintain these roads after they are constructed? In years to come the Dominion government may stop this grant, and then what is to become of this road which was constructed and is practically owned by the Dominion government ? Let the work be done by the provincial government, or by the municipal authorities under the control of the provincial government, who are interested, every man down to the pathmaster on the highway, in seeing that a dollar's worth of value is obtained for every dollar of expenditure. Men fifteen hundred miles away have not the same interest. I think ail the arguments are in favour of handing the money over to the province of Manitoba, and letting the local authorities spend it.
The proportion of the grant for Manitoba is about $5,000 ?


Yes.


That is a very meagre sum.


One of these roads is to facilitate the travelling of settlers from Minnesota into Canada where it is now hard to travel. The road between Lake Winnipeg and Lake Manitoba is to enable settlers to get into that country. These are the only two sums required for Manitoba. I suppose the Manitoba government are looking after the roads in the province, but it is necessary to expend $5,000 for these two roads to carry out the immigration policy of the government.


I do not think the minister gave the true reason why this grant should be made. It is very clear that it should be made, if made at all, because we own the land. That shows the folly of continuing to hold the lands instead of handling them over to the provinces. We have to bring in immigration, and in order to do so, we have to make roads. If this is the policy of the government, we ought to control the roads everywhere. I think the proper course would have been to give the lands to the provinces and let them take care of them. I think the people of those provinces are as able to take care of the immigrants as we are. It looks as if you were spending a great deal too much money belonging to the Dominion of Canada, in view of the fact that the older provinces have not so much interest in keeping the lands and building the roads as in giving the lands to the provincial authorities to use them as they see fit.
241J


Whose constituencies are on both sides of the roads which are being built ?


I could not tell.


I would like to draw the attention of the minister to the fact that we have in the Northwest what is known as a bridge gang, consisting of an engineer and a gang of men who go all over the country repairing bridges. I think we would get very much better value for our money if we handed it over to the Northwest government to spend and to see that the bridges were properly repaired. That is the way to have the work done well and cheaply, as these men are on the ground. I would like the minister to take that into consideration.


What amount has been expended in Manitoba up to date for colonization roads by this government ?


The deputy thiuks we have spent about $25,000.


This is an entirely new departure in the spending of money. Never ' until last year was this idea carried out.


No, I think it has always been the policy of the government to look after that work.


I have a statement here of the Minister of the Interior that it was a nqw departure altogether.


The deputy informs me that three or four years ago, $20,000 or $25,000 was spent at Athabasca Landing, on the Peace river.


The hon. member for Halton (Mr. Henderson) asked the government whether they intended to keep in repair these roads which they .are building. Would they not be compelled to keep them in repair ?


I suppose the provincial or municipal authorities would look after that, as they do in the older provinces.


This road in Manitoba from the boundary line connects, I suppose, with the Canadian Northern or the Canadian Pacific ?


My hon. friend knows the locality better than 1 do. I could not say exactly with what roads it connects but I believe it must connect with some other road.


Under the English law, which is in force in Manitoba, a public body constructing a public work is responsible for its maintenance, and no other evidence is required except evidence as to construction. It would be well to have a more definite idea as to how matters are going to work out in that regard. We have a statute in this country which imposes lia-

bility upon the government for the negli-geuce of its employees upon public works. You are constructing these roads as public works, and by that very fact you are imposing upon yourselves the duty of maintenance and the responsibility for maintenance, in the absence of some arrangement by which the provincial government or the municipality will take over that duty. That particular consideration is worthy of attention by the government before they spend very much money in this way. You may be undertaking a greater responsibility than you have any idea of at present. I did not gather from the minister any answer to the question which I put him a moment ago and which was this. He said it was not proposed to continue the construction of colonization roads in the Territories because we are now organizing them into provinces, and that obligation will devolve upon the provinces. But we have not followed that policy in .Manitoba. Is the hon. minister able to state what the future policy of the government will be in that regard ? Do you propose to construct colonization roads in the Territories or leave that matter to the new provincial government? In the latter case, yon should carry out a similar policy in Manitoba.


I understand that the policy of the department will be not to build any more colonization roads in the Northwest Territories which are to he erected into provinces. As to the maintenance, I suppose the contention of the hon. gentleman regarding our liability is correct. But it must be remembered that those roads are being built in sections of country which have no population to-day. But in the ordinary course of events they will become populated and form municipal organizations, and then, if there be any doubt as to the liability of the government, the government will have the option of either closing the roads or handing them over to' the municipal authorities.


The principle to which 1 allude is one that applies to public bodies, but whether it would have the same application to the Crown is another question, because sometimes different principles prevail with regard to the Crown.


The deputy informs me that the government has never been condemned to pay.


As the government have expended $25,000 in the last year or two in the province of Manitoba on colonization roads, would not the province of Ontario be justified in asking them to do as much for that province?


We are not the owners of lands in the province of Ontario but we are in Manitoba, and consequently in the latter province it may be necessary that we Mr. R L. BORDEN.
should open some colonization road in order to sell our lands. Suppose the provincial government were not in a position to make those improvements, and it was necessary they should be made in order to sell onr lands, would it not be good policy for us to make them?


That hardly seems consistent with what the hon. minister has just said, namely, that he proposes to discontinue building colonization roads in the Territories.


It might happen in some cases that we would have to do it. This is a very small item so far as Manitoba is concerned.


If the principle upon which you are proceeding is that because you own the land you must provide roads, it will be difficult to carry out the policy mentioned a moment ago, namely, that yon will cease building these roads when the new provinces are established. You will still own the land, and if any necessity to build roads exists now, that necessity will continue.


It may exist in some particular cases. Suppose we had an application for the opening up of a section of the country and the provincial government refused to build these roads, would it not be good policy for this government to do that work in order to sell its lands?


Then we are to assume that the local government of the Territories have refused to spend money on their roads?


No, but the same thing may happen there as happens every day in the other provinces. In the province of Quebec, sometimes settlers ask for colonization roads and their request is refused for one x-eason or another, and no doubt the same thing happens in Ontario. Suppose that settlers told us they were willing to settle on certain government lands provided we built them a road, would it not be good policy to grant their request?


In that case all you need do is put an item in the estimates to be expended in a certain way and let the local government spend it in that way. That however would not suit this government because it wants to control the expenditure for reasons of its own.


I think it is good policy that we should control our own expenditure.


If the hon. gentleman were the owner of lands and the lands adjoining belonged to some body else, sni'eiy if he were offered money to improve the lands alongside his own, it would be in his own interest to spend the money on that object and thus incx-ease the value of his


own property. What would apply to an Individual would equally apply to a local government.


I would not be in favour of voting mouey to be spent by a local government. I think we had better keep the control of our own expenditure. Even if the local government were the best in the world, we have always recognized the principle that we should keep control of our own expenditure and not hand over the money to be expended by any other body. Some' allusion has been made to the fact that we are giving subsidies to the provinces. But if we do, it is because we are bound to do so by the Confederation Act. Over these moneys we have no control. But there is no reason why, if certain works become necessary in our own interest, we should not expend the money on them ourselves.


I do not see the force of the hon. gentleman's reasoning. This is an expenditure which is likely to be improperly used. The government is reserving the right to expend the money itself on colonization roads, and it may send the money in two or three different constituencies, under the patronage of gentlemen who are more interested in carrying elections than in improving their roads.


If you discuss the question from that point of view, very well, but I am discussing it from the point of view of principle.


We had that principle in Ontario, and the settlers in new districts suffered because of the improper method in such expenditure by the local government. There may be the same thing here.


All the greater reason why expenditure on colonization roads should be controlled by this government and this parliament.


Then, the hon. gentleman had better withdraw the subsidy he is giving to the local legislature in the Northwest Territories.


That is a question of contract.


It is a question of degree in the hon. gentleman's mind. He thinks it is improper to entrust the government of the Northwest with an expenditure of $25,000, but that it is all right to entrust them with an expenditure of $1,000,000.


I can assure the minister that the experience in the new districts in Ontario, as shown by the public accounts, was that, where the provincial government expended money on colonization roads, it fre- I quently happened that more money was I spent in paying the salary of the inspector *
of a bridge than was spent upon construc-tiqn of the bridge itself.


I do not deny that money might be expended in a wholly useless way. But that makes all the stronger the argument in favour of our keeping control of our own expenditure. Why should we vote money for a provincial government to expend? Doing that, we-have no control over the expenditure. This money should be spent under the supervision of our own officers. If anything is done wrong, these officers can be blamed and the government held responsible.


The difficulty in Ontario was that votes such as this were often spent for political purposes. Here the government proposes to spend money at points fifteen hundred miles away from the point of supervision. But, if you leave it in the hands of the local government it would be properly expended for the benefit of the public.


Possibly I was astray in my reference to the statement of the minister last year as to the Manitoba government being permitted to expend the Manitoba portion of this money. I find, on looking up the debate, that so determinedly opposed was the minister of the Interior of that time (Mr. Sifton) to allowing the province of Manitoba to expend this money that he struck the item out of the estimates. If his government could not expend the money in their own way for their own purposes, then he would not agree to its being spent at all. It seemed that this vote to construct roads was quite an unnecessary vote. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Sifton) practically admitted last year that it was unnecessary for road construction by asking to have it struck out and the item reduced from $25,000 to $20,000. Rather than allow the people of Manitoba to expend this sum of $5,000 in the improvement of their roads the hon. member for Brandon, then Minister of the Interior, in a trantrum, in a pet, moved that it should be struck out. I am not afraid that the minister (Mr. Brodeur) now in charge of these estimates will make such a suggestion. No doubt the minister will get the vote, but we think that he ought to concede to the people of Manitoba, who are more deeply interested than we are in the opening of that province, the right to expend this small sum. On going hastily over the debates of last year, I find that very strong arguments were advanced in favour of handing over this appropriation to Mani-itoba. And the Minister of the Interior of that'time felt so keenly that he could not meet the argument, that rather than allow the committee to have its own way, he succeeded in having a motion carried to reduce the item and refuse anything for expenditure in Manitoba. That is a dog-in-the-manger way to proceed.
*


I think the money was voted last year-so it would appear from the estimates.


The motion made was that the item be reduced from $25,000 to $20,000 and that ' Manitoba and ' he struck out-leaving the vote $20,000 applicable exclusively to the Northwest Territories.


Then, there is a mistake in the estimates.


The result in the committee was as I have given it, as the hon. gentleman will see if he will refer to page 0048 of ' Hansard ' of last year.


Was not that amendment introduced on the ground that certain objections were taken to the vote based on the contention that Manitoba did not require new roads and the minister (Mr. Sifton), rather than vote unnecessary money threw out that portion relating to Manitoba ?


No, the reason was that it was strongly urged in the committee that the Manitoba government should be allowed to expend the money.


I represent a constituency in Manitoba where the people look forward to expenditure on roads as an aid to immigration. There is a large district in the northern part of Manitoba that requires public roads, and I think it is necessary to expend a certain amount of money in opening up such a country, to be settled afterwards by the immigration department. This applies to Manitoba as to the Northwest Territories. I would like to see an appropriation for the construction of colonization roads in Manitoba.


I have gone very rapidly over the debate to which I referred, and it seems quite clear that the vote was struck out practically because it was contended in the committee that the money should be expended for the improvement of roads by the province of Manitoba. The minister (Mr. Sifton) seemed desirous that it shall be spent not so much for making roads as for election purposes. He said that the Manitoba government must not have the expenditure of this money.


I don't blame him knowing that government as I do.


I have no doubt the hon. gentleman (Mr. Burrows) agrees with the ex-Minister of the Interior (Mr. Sifton), and that if he could not have the money spent for election purposes he would not have it spent at all. I have no doubt that is the view of the hon. gentleman, as a follower of the ex-Minister of the Interior, but the strong contention of the opposition was that, under the Dominion government the money would not be properly expended. Mr. HENDERSON.


Will the hon. gentleman (Mr. Henderson) tell me of a single case of a vote by this parliament of money to be expended by any province for immigration purposes ?


Can the hon. gentleman (Mr. Burrows) state that his government has not voted money for the improvement of roads in New Brunswick ?


For immigration purposes, I say.


I am not speaking of immigration, but of the improvement of roads. I believe we have on the records of this parliament a vote such as I speak of. I believe we have on the records of this parliament a vote of that kind. I have heard a reference made to it, so there would be a precedent for anything the government might do now, and a very good precedent. This matter was very fully discussed last year, from all standpoints.
Mi-. BURROWS. On what page of ' Hansard ' ?


The hon. gentleman will find the debate commencing on page 9042 of last year's ' Hansard.' The whole tenor of the debate was the right of the province of Manitoba to expend this grant, the various reasons why it should be done by the province rather than by this government ; and the pressure executed by the opposition was apparently so strong that the minister was unable to resist it, and refused to allow the item to pass at all, and had it struck out of the estimates. I do not want the matter to end that way this year. I would rather see it go through and let the Dominion government expend it rather than not have it expended at all, because I think the settlers there need the expenditures. But I do think it is hardly treating the province right, when they have road money given to them, to say tha't they shall not expend it on their own highways.


The hon. gentleman ought to be aware of the fact that when the Dominion government takes an appropriation to be expended in the immigration department, it is not the local government who has the handling of that money. I do not see by what argument the hon. gentleman can support a contrary theory. Why should not all the other provinces of the Dominion have an immigration department as well as Manitoba ? This money comes out of the immigration vote, as I understand.


Not at all, it is coming out of the item for roads and bridges.


I understand it is in the interest of immigrants. I may say that I live in a d'Strict in Manitoba that requires colonization roads more than in any other district, a northern district, a large portion of which is not yet opened up, and a portion

in which I would expect this money to be expended if anywhere ; yet I have no hesitation in saying that I would not vote for an appropriation to be handed over to the local government for that purpose.


No doubt the hon. gentleman would ra