FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved for leave to introduce a Rill (No. 159) respecting a certain issue of Dominion notes. He said : This is a Bill to legalize and confirm the proceedings which were taken, and were fully explained in the Budget Speech, in connection with advances for moving western grain. The matter was fully stated in the Budget Speech. This Bill only legalizes and confirms the arrangement so made.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Mr. FIELDING moved leave to introduce a Bill (No. 160) to amend the Bank Act. He said : This Bill I may say, is also for the purpose of carrying out an arrangement which was explained in the Budget Speech. It is proposed that the banks, during a certain period of the year, may issue additional circulation limited to fifteen per cent of their combined paid up capital and rest or reserve. The only new feature in the Bill is that special provision is made as respects the Bank of British North America, because there is a special provision for that in the Bank Act, differing somewhat in a matter of detail from the other banks, and corresponding provisions are inserted in this Bill.
I would ask the minister if there is any correspondence on which the introduction of this Bill is based, and if there is, will he be kind enough to bring it down before he goes on ?


There is no correspondence. The Bill is the result of consideration in the department and of discussion with distinguished bankers ; but there is no correspondence on the subject.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
BEAUPARLANT (St. Hya-cinthe) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 161) to amend the Criminal Code. He said :
(Translation). Mr. Speaker, I beg to submit the following amendment to the Criminal Code, chap. 146, revised statutes, 1906, section 322.


liberty, and that, in the midst of a society as fully organized as possible to protect what deserves to be protected.
We must not allow this beneficent state of things which is the result of long and ardous work, political and legislative, to be marred by arbitrary acts and abuses of authority creeping by stealth in our legislative and judiciary proceedings.
The tendency of powers is always to grow stronger, even to exceed the necessary limits for their efficacy which should be their sole justification. Experience shows, and it is in the human nature, that if a cast is allowed to take privileges, it will take more than its share. But a people, taking care of its legitimate liberties, must, through its representatives, not allow that this should be lost sight of, that is to say, that the judiciary or other institutions, paid and well paid by the people, do exist only for the needs of the people and not for the satisfaction of what might be called everywhere else individual caprices, a thing which is opposed to all public interest.
The House has undoubtedly noticed that the doctrine sanctioned by the precedents I have quoted, applies as well to the verbal comments of a legislative assembly, on the hustings and even in the ordinary conversation, as to the comments of newspapers, so that In presence of this jurisprudence, which no late legislation has yet changed, I contend that a judge may, proprio motu, order the arrestation of a mayor or alderman or a member of a board of trade, or a warden of a county and principally of a newspaper publisher or any other .citizen, by whom he would justly or wrongly claim to have been insulted outside of court, and put him into jail by his authority.
I assert here that, previously to the late incidents which have occurred at Quebec and Halifax, 99 per 100 of the population of Canada did not realize that our laws still contained enactments authorizing such things. If my interpretation of this jurisprudence is right, and I would be glad to hear that I am mistaken. I hope that my proposal of applying a remedy will be favourably considered by a Liberal government.
I am not afraid of the answer which will be made, that is to say, that the courts being the guardians of the individual rights should have all the possible latitude, or other arguments of the same kind. First, besides the extraordinary powers, which I say they do not possess, the courts have all the necessary liberty of attaining their legitimate end, and we must not forget that an absolue and arbitrary power is always claimed to have the greatest solicitude for public liberties in order to more surely substitute itself to the laws, to constitutional and democratic authority, to
Mr. BEAUPAKLANT
which the people who loves at the same time order and liberty, will Only bow.
It is more by the article itself than by the label that it is possible to judge of its real value. The authority which imprisons cannot at the first sight, be looked upon as protecting liberty, and it is only after we have been able to test the ordinary elements and guarantees of justice that we can come to this conclusion, I therefore ask that the party who comments a judicial decision should not be in a worse position than the one who criticizes any action of the government or parliament. Arbitrary power has no more right to be in the midst than at the head of society. The autocracy of a person who, by his talents or through circumstances, becomes a constituted authority, is not any more tolerable than the hereditary autocracy.
The head of a constitutional government administers practically the country under the most direct and vigilant control of the press, and I do not see why the magistrate would not perform, under the same conditions, the judiciary functions which are assigned to him.
There were judges before any printing establishments ever existed. I know that the press is younger than the bench and older than parliaments, but nevertheless we see parliaments controlling now, if not in reality, at least in theory, the courts of which they have come to be the creators and masters. For these matters as for others, the supremacy must be decided more by the nature of their functions than by their age, and the press which has opened the ways to democratic governments now the creators and masters of the courts, should be at least on equal footing with the courts.
I therefore ask for the journalist, who may have his wrongs and may make errors -and I know something about it, but we have all the necessary laws to repress that [DOT]-for the journalist, I repeat, who fulfils an undisputable, useful and courageous mission, the same privilege that is given in this very old law, to an accused party, of being tried by a jury of his fellowmen.'
When an unknown individual, who has however equal rights with other citizens, an immigrant or a vagrant isaecused of a crime, the law orders, and it is a just and prudent law, to try him only with a jury of twelve citizens unprejudiced and having no interest or relation whatever with him. 'Then why should we leave the right of rendering judgment to a man who has been, or claims to have been insulted by another, a journalist, for instance, who is obliged by clauses 2924 and the following ones of the Quebec statutes and of corresponding legislation in other provinces to give his address to the courts and in some way keep them acquainted with his busi-

ness and profession ? I say it is an anomaly which, after the incidents that have occurred in Quebec and Halifax, will not fail to call the attention of the democratic governor whom we have at the head of the country, and whose desire is not only to have in his programme the words ' justice and liberty ' which sound well to the ears of the people, but something that will represent really the treatment of the people.
The liberty of the press is the exact thermometer of the liberty of the nation. It is by the book, by the pamphlet, by printed matter, and finally by the press that the absolutism of the past has been destroyed, and that constitutional and democratic governments have been established in this modern society, and it is also by the press that they will be maintained there. It is not only a question of gratefulness and justice towards the press, but a question of safeguard for these popular institutions which modern nations do not seem to depart from. A former Minister of Public Works, (Mr. Tarte), who had a great knowledge of our Canadian constitution, and has applied it at times in a happy manner, never feared to say that the press was just as solid an institution as the bench.
By his broad views, by his examples of tolerance and equal justice to all, the government of the day seemed to have inspired the same sentiments to our magistrates, who, up to the last conflicts at Quebec and Halifax, have shown themselves more tolerant than arbitrary, but it seems as though it were not to be always so. Those of our colleagues who have kept the memory of the incidents of 1892, and they are numerous, will do me the justice of saying that X am right.
The prime minister of a province had just been dismissed by an authority-not the authority of the people-but an authority acting in connection with a libellous campaign, the parallel of which has never been met with in this country. Those who have maintained against him their undaunted hostility, have persisted in denying to him the credit that he had deserved; but the public opinion, having returned to a sober sense of the circumstances, has emphatically admitted his great administrative capacity, his intense care for substantial and moral progress of the people, his great patriotic motives, his disinterestedness, his high citizenship, and his unrivalled generosity. Nothing was proved against him. He suffered the punishment of the vanquished, and bore the rancors of the winning party. The leader who seems to have survived this coup d'etat, only to remain a living example of frailty of poiities, had destroyed a public man; the ministers he had chosen, and who, shortly after, incurred the same fate, undertook to ruin this man in his private life, he was dragged before the courts and accused of malfesance in office. A judge in whose impartiality the public opinion, in its state
of temporarily excitement, did not even place full confidence, was called to preside at the trial, and nobody could expect but a complete dishonour for the fallen statesman.
His opponents held the majority in the Senate, where the movement had originated. They also were the majority in the House of Commons, in the legislative council, in the legislative assembly, amongst the magistrates, and also amongst the public officials who, through sympathy or tactics, had joined the accusers, and this man who previously was endowed with an unlimited power, found himself surrounded by a mere handful of individual sympathizers, unable to put himself in touch with the people otherwise than by the medium of the public press.
In spite of the doubtful protection afforded by the existing legislation, the press manfully fulfilled its duty. The aforesaid judge rose from the bench; another one against whose public feeling was not aroused to the same extent, took up his place, and, notwithstanding the existing agitation, a unanimous verdict of acquittal was rendered. It behooves the liberal party to restore in behalf of the accused, whatsoever may be his social standing, or his political condition, the liberty of the press, as a guarantee of justice, in public as well as in private matters.
If good treatment received can repay for some slight injure, I have nothing, so far as the press or the courts are concerned, to thank or to grudge for.
The press has sometimes acted too generously towards me; sometimes also too unjustly. I have good friends among the newspaper men, and also more enemies than on the bench. Outside of the judicial decisions, which are not now under discussion, I have faced kind judges, and also some others not acting with an equal kindness. Those who would not be disposed to agree with me on this point, will readily admit that in this contest my personal interest would rather prompt me to side with the bench, which can reach me as a politician and as a lawyer, than with the press whose influence is purely political.
From my seat here I could easily and safely denounce the miserable individual who in a certain newspaper, acting as the mere tool of another individual well known for long to be my personal enemy. That stand I refuse to take.
I will also give the judges the credit that they have a very difficult task to perform, and also, that as a whole, they are generally men of talent, learning and good will, but I am not speaking at present for my own concern. I am a Liberal, I have been elected as a Liberal. I believe the said legislation to be based on Liberal and public motives. Such were the grounds upon which I introduced this Bill, which. I am afraid, will not reach an issue during

the present session, on account of the advanced stage already attained in our work, but, I confidently believe it to be my duty, to call the attention of Parliament and government, on the state of affairs arising from the recent incidents in Ottawa and in Quebec, for the citizens of the province of Quebec and of Canada as a whole. Mr. Speaker, I beg to move the first reading of this Bill.
Mr. AEMAND	LAVE RONE	(Montmagny.) (Translation). Mr. Speaker, it is not customary to discuss a Bill on its first reading, but, as the hon. member for St. Hyacinthe (Mr. Beauparlant) has just stated it, the session is now so far advanced that it is not probable that such question could be threshed before the end of our work. Such being the case, I consider it my duty to say a few words now.
I was very happy to hear my hon. friend discuss that question of relations between the press and the bench. I imagined for a time that I was listening to the attenuated echo of the voices from the old Liberals of St. Hyacinthe. unheard for so long a time.
The Bill introduced by the hon. member appears to me, to effectively inscribe in our code the old custom granting the unlucky pleader twenty-four hours to curse his judge. This Bill seems to me to be admittedly inspired by recent events. It leads to prevent a judge from calling before the court a journalist having taken upon himself to criticize the court incidents, or the decisions of the judge.
In principle, i agree with him, but, a special clause of the criminal code, and of the revised statutes, allows the newspapers to impartially report the proceedings before the courts, to give what is called a fair comment. Such newspaper articles of comment are privileged, and the writers and publishers of the same are not amenable, and the judge cannot assign them before the court.
But, if the Bill goes further, and permits during the trial to comment on what is passing on, I disagree. The existing law tends to protect not only the judge, but also the accused. For instance, not very long ago, a newspaper man had been dragged before the jury, and on this occasion, we have seen a certain press through fiery writings, try to raise public opinion during the trial, so as to influence the jury before rendering its verdict. At the time of the famous suit Prevost-Asselin, we have seen le " Soleil " inflaming the public opinion against the accused. Asselin.
If the Bill introduced to-day tends to permit the publication in a newspaper of such articles, apt to injure the defence of the accused, and to stir up the public opinion against him, I cannot support it.
As the hon. member for St. Hyacinthe has said, this Bill was suggested by recent events. Have we not seen, among other Mr. BEAUPARLANT.
newspapers, the ' Soleil,' which is to-day complaining of Judge Lemieux-because it is assigned for contempt of court-comment disparagingly on the speech of this same judge, which, judicially acting, had pressed the bar of Quebec to insist on the nomination of a prothonotary to the seat vacant for the last twelve months ? If it is right to have the public respected, it is equally right to defend the bench against such attacks.
Moreover, I believe that it should be allowed to comment the judgments rendered, provided public opinion is interested in the same and the writer is a disinterested person.	But my opinion is
that in such cases, the writer should shoulder the responsibility of his opinion. For my part, I have commented in the newspaper some judgments, for instance in the case of Judge Ci-raon, whom I have accused of having condemned a newspaper man, without having heard the evidence of the defence. In so doing, I know the whole import of my act, and I was ready then, as I am to-day, to assume the whole responsibility' incurred. According to my mind, the Bill introduced by the member for St. Hyacinthe, should be amended in such a way as to prevent a newspaper man to make any comments during the course of a trial, on the outcome of the case, before the same is adjudged. I consider that we should maintain in our laws, the right granted to the judge, to call before the court, any newspaper man violating this provision. But, after the trial, he should not be called before the court, except according to the ordinary course of law. On general principle, I agree with the present Bill, and I hope that some day it will become law.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Mr. Speaker, I renew the motion which I made yesterday and I renew it with the amendment suggested by my hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden). The amendment is quite proper as it introduces and refers to the committee the letters themselves of Major Hodgins and not extracts only of those letters. Therefore I move :
That the memorandum of the chairman of the Transcontinental Railway Commissioners to the Prime Minister, of date the 23rd April, and laid on the table of this House on the 21th instant, and the papers accompanying the same together with the letter of Major Hodgins to the public press, therein referred to, be referred to a special committee of five members, with instructions to investigate the matters and charges therein mentioned, and that the said committee be rom posed of Messrs. Carvel, Macdonald (Pic-tou), Geoffrion, Barker and Lennox, and that

the committee have power to send for persons, papers and records and to examine persons on oath or affirmation and to report from time to time.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day being called:
Mr. Speaker, might I inquire of the right hon. Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) when it is expected that the proposed inquiry before Mr. Justice Cassels will be commenced, whether it will be proceeded with without delay, or is some adjournment contemplated and is the inquiry to be conducted as a public inquiry, or is it to be an inquiry in camera?


I am informed that it is going to begin on Friday.


Is it to be continued ?


Whether it is going to be in public or not I do not know.


Is it to be continued?


I do not know. I know it is going to begin on Friday. I heard that it was going to sit on Friday and Saturday. That is all the information I have.


Who suggested that lawyers should be appointed to carry on the investigation? Did the suggestion come from Judge Cassels or anybody else?


In an interview which I had with the judge he thought it would be desirable that some lawyers should be employed for the purpose of assisting him in the investigation.


Will the minister inform the House as to the ground upon which , the two lawyers who have been selected have been selected?


If there are any special grounds?


Yes.


No, not that I know of. They are men of repute and that is the only reason why they have been selected.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to rise to a question of privilege. I notice that the other day I was credited with a remark concerning a comparison between Doukho-bors and some religious order in Ottawa. It is bad enough for me to be responsible for all I really do say, but on that occasion I happened to be some hundreds of miles
or more away when the remarks were uttered and I do not desire to be associated with them.


Mr. Speaker, some ten or twelve days ago, at Wolse-ley barracks in the city of London, a foul murder was committed. Private Moir shot down a colour-sergeant without cause or reason in cold blood.


This is not the proper time to enter upon a discussion. The motion to go into Supply will be reached shortly and then the hon. gentleman may bring the matter up.


I only want to ask if the government had heard of it. However,
I will bring it up later.


['The motion for Supply will be renewed, and in Committee of Supply we will continue the estimates of the hon. Minister of Public Works.']
FIELDING moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.


After committing the murder Private Moir obtained two revolvers and a rifle and a large quantity of ammunition and he disappeared from the barracks and has not been heard of since. The police of London have done their best to discover and apprehend the man, but he has got away into the country and the county constables are somewhat indifferent about attempting to arrest a man who is heavily armed in the manner in which this man is, aud I do not think that they have given the matter the attention that they should have. I think that if some moderate reward were offered for the capture of this man he would very likely be obtained. The gentleman whom he murdered was not a member of his corps at all. He was a colour-sergeant named Lloyd belonging to the 20th battalion of Stratford and he was only there taking a course of instruction in order to pass an examination which would qualify him to occupy a position in his regiment-a young man of twenty-two years. It is a very serious case and I think that something should be done by the government in the way of offering a moderate reward for his capture.


What kind of a rifle has he to defend himself with?.


That I do not know.


Before you leave the chair, Mr. Speaker, I would like to refer briefly to a matter which I mentioned a moment ago-the inquiry to be conducted by Mr. Justice Cassels and the manner In which that inquiry is to be carried out. We all realize that the inquiry is a very restricted one inasmuch as it relates to a portion of the administration and to only one of the departments involved in the

report of the Civil Service Commission. It touches only a single paragraph of the report of the commissioners in respect to that department. I have already pointed out to the House that it would have seemed a natural thing to have endeavoured, in the first place, to obtain from the commissioners who had made that report the information which is sought by the inquiry before Air. Justice Cassels. The commissioners who have made a somewhat exhaustive inquiry, although they say it is incomplete even in the case of the Department of Alarine and Fisheries, would seem to be the best men from whom an explanation of the language contained in the paragraph referred to might be sought. As far as the House is aware the government have not sought from these commissioners any explanation of their language, nor have the government invoked the aid of these commissioners for the purpose of obtaining the information which naturally they might be expected to supply. The government have not admitted at ail the expediency of sending back the report to the same commissioners for the purpose of reporting at greater length upon a subject to which the hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Air. Brodeur) called attention on the day the report was presented. The government have not even seen fit to propose an inquiry under the first part of the statutes relating to public Inquiries. They have proposed a very limited inquiry into the second part of the statute which relates to such subjects. Since the inquiry has been ordered it is proposed that iMr. G. H. Watson, of Toronto, and Air. Perron, of Alontreal, two members of the bar of their respective provinces, shall be assigned for the purpose of assisting Air. Justice Cassels in the very limited inquirv which he is to carry out. I asked the'government whether or not the commissioners, whose report is, to a certain extent at least, under review^ in these proceedings, were to have any status before that commission, whether they were to be represented by counsel or whether their aid was to be invoked in the matter. Up to the present time no information has been vouchsafed in reply to that question. My hon. friend from Fast Hastings (Mr. Northrnp) inquired of the government whether or not the people of Canada wore to be represented by counsel. The right hon. Prime Alin-ister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier), in reply to that question, stated that the matter would be taken into consideration. Up to the present time we have no reply from the government on that point.
It seems quite clear from this reply of the Prime Alinister that lie very properly regards the gentlemen who have been appointed as not representing the people of Canada, and the situation seems to be very much like this : The Department of Alarine and Fisheries is on trial in respect to ' Mr R. L. BORDEN
its administration of public affairs within the jurisdiction of that department ; the government on well known constitutional principles is also on trial because its fate is to a greater or lesser extent involved in the result of the investigation, and two gentlemen both of whom are very prominent Liberals have been appointed to assist Air. Justice Cassels in that investigation. Now, if I remember rightly, in 1891 when an investigation was carried on in respect of the Department of Public Works the government of Canada employed Air. B. B. Osier, who was affiliated with the Liberal party and not with the Conservative party, as one of the counsel to investigate that matter and to probe it to the bottom.


And Air. Geoffrion.


My hon. friend (Air. Bergeron) reminds me of what I was not aware that Air. Geoffrion, of Alontreal, who was also prominently associated with the Liberal party and who afterwards became a member of this government, was also appointed a counsel on that occasion. There is another somewhat remarkable circumstance in connection with this matter and it is this : We have had from the Alinister of Alarine and Fisheries on more than one occasion, the suggestion, or the excuse or the apology put forward that certain matters which had received criticism in connection with the administration of his department wrere matters for which he was not individually or personally responsible according to his view, because they had been initiated or consummated as the case may be under the administration of his immediate predecessor. And it appears that one of the gentlemen who has been appointed as counsel in this connection to assist Air. Justice Cassels was for many years a partner in the practice of the law with the immediate predecessor of the Alinister of Alarine and Fisheries. One can hardly appreciate or understand the reasons which have impelled the government to make selections of that character. One would suppose that if the aid of the first commissioners, Messrs. Courtney, Fyshe and Bazin was invoked they at least would have been called upon to make a statement before Air. Justice Cassels, and that counsel w'ould have been supplied to be nominated by these commissioners to whom they could have iven the information and whom they could have instructed as to the matters which they had reported on. One would suppose further, that if that very reasonable course were not adopted the government would at least have endeavoured to appoint men who had not been very actively associated with the Liberal party, who were not very closely in touch with the organization of the Liberal party ; in'short they would not have selected two men, one of whom Air. Watson was I understand not very long ago chairman of the Liberal organization for the

province of Ontario, and the other of whom, Mr. Perron was during the lifetime of the predecessor of the present Minister of Marine and Fisheries the partner of that gentleman in the practice of the law. Under these circumstances it is no more than right to bring the matter to the attention of the government and ask whether or not these commissioners are to be represented by counsel, whether or not the people of Canada are to be represented by cotinsel; and why it is that so extraordinary a choice of gentlemen to assist Mr. Justice Cassels has been made.


I may say at once that so far as the government is concerned nothing will be done to prevent this investigation being as thorough and as extended as possible. As head of that department I have every interest to see that the investigation shall be as complete as it can be. In the very brief interview I had with Judge Cassels the other day I told him that my aim was that officers of the department who had been derelict in their duty should not be spared, and that the cloud on those officers who were not guilty should be removed as speedily as possible. I may say-perhaps my hon. friend will not believe me-but the fact is that I am thoroughly in earnest about this investigation. I want to see the investigation made in such a way that no blame shall be attached to the government or to myself as head of the department as to its precedure. I want to see this investigation conducted in such a way that the people of Canada may be satisfied that the intention of the government and of the department is to make the investigation absolutely right in all respects. I repeat it -I am perhaps more in earnest than he is in wishing that this investigation shall be as thorough as possible. Now, the hon. gentleman finds fault that the investigation is to be held under the second part of chapter 104, but I think there was no discretion for us in the matter. The first part of the statute deals with investigations as to certain public affairs generally, such as the investigation held by the Civil Service Commission, but when we came to a departmental inquiry the statute says it is to be made under the second part of that statute. Whether the investigation is held under the first part or under the second part it can be conducted in absolutely the same way ; it can be as thorough in one case as in the other. It appears to be plain that when the investigation is into a matter of general public interest it comes under the first part of the statute and when it is a departmental investigation it is brought under the second part.


That would imply there is no public interest in this investigation.


Oh, no. The statute determines the class of investigation that shall
be held under each part. An inquiry affecting our commerce, or our transportation, or as to combines, would be under the first part of the statute, but a departmental investigation is to be made under the second part of the statute, and after all it really does not make very much difference.


I understand the minister to say that if it related to a matter which concerned the public it should be made under the first part of the statute, and if it were a matter that only concerned the department it was to be made under the second part of the statute. Therefore it occurred to me that if it were made under the second part it implied that the public had no interest in it.


There is no doubt the public is; interested, but I am not the author of tlie law, and the statute makes this distinction, and under the advice of the Minister of Justice this is the part of the statute under which the investigation should be held. The investigation will however be held just in the same way no matter which it comes under; witnesses will be examined under oath and the procedure will be the same. My hon. friend says no effort has been made to try to ascertain the opinion of the commission. Well, I suppose that would be a matter for the commissioners themselves to dispose of. It is not for us to suggest to the judge the way in which he should proceed. I want to leave him absolutely free to act as he Ikes in this investigation. I would not wish to make any suggestion to him which might be interpreted as restricting him in the exercise of his powers. I repeat that we want this investigation to be thorough ; and if I were to make any suggestion to the judge as to the way in which he should conduct the investigation, I might be reproached by the House with interfering with something that I should not interfere with. The commission gives to the judge the right to investigate this matter, and he is absolutely free, so far as the government or the department are concerned, to act in the way he likes ; and that is the position I will take all through this investigation. My hon. friend says that in several instances I have tried to shield myself behind my predecessor. I can assure my hon. friend that there is no intention of that kind on my part. I have never so far done anything, and never will do anything, to shield myself from any responsibility which attaches to me as Minister of Marine and Fisheries. I am manly enough to act as a man should act in such circumstances, and the responsibility I incur for the acts of my predecessor, I will never try to shield myself from that responsibility by going behind a corpse or a coffin. There are perhaps men in this House or outside of it who cannot understand a man taking that position. It has been stated that one of the

persons selected as a counsel in this investigation has been for some time a partner of my predecessor in office. It is true, before itfr. Prefontaine was a minister, when he was first elected mayor of Montreal, he dissolved partnership with Mr. Perron, and that fact was publicly announced. Do I understand that my hon. friend wants now to attack the character of Mr. Prefontaine? I think it was the hon. member for Grenville (Mr. J. D. Reid) who said a short time ago that Mr. Prefontaine was an honest man and that there was nothing against him. Do I understand that the hon. member for Grenville is now standiug by his words ?


I said that if you or any other man on that side of the House was afraid to stand up and defend him, I was prepared to do it. But every one on that side was afraid to do it.


I understand that my hon. friend from Grenville said that there was nothing against Mr. Prefontaine ? If that is the case, why does the hon. leader of the opposition say that we want to prevent the truth coming out so far as Mr. Prefontaine is concerned ? No ; there is nothing that the government want to conceal in this matter. We want the truth and the whole truth to come out, and perhaps we shall find some truth that will surprise somebody.


Mr. Speaker, if we were looking for a party success I believe we should refrain from criticising the position taken by the government, because to my mind they have put themselves in the worst possible position. What are the facts? The government appointed a commission composed of three men in whom they must have had confidence-honest, honourable men. The chairman of that commission was in the Finance Department for over thirty years, enjoying the respect and esteem of both sides of this House ; Mr. Fyshe, of Montreal, well known in commercial circles, and Mr. Bazin, of Quebec. That commission went to work and made a report. That report was entirely against the present administration. With regard to two departments which they investigated, the Marine and Fisheries and the Militia, their report could not have been more severe. They declared that they had not time to investigate the other departments, but from what they heard, if they had had time to investigate them, they would probably have had the same report to make with regard to them all. That is the report. What does the government do ? The government, to place themselves in a good position before the public, should have acted on that report. The man on the street, who is not prejudiced, would have expected the government to act on that report immediately. The man on the street would have expect-Mr. BRODEUR.
ed the government to say to the commission :	We want you to continue and go
through all the departments ; we want to show the public that we are in earnest, and that if there is anything wrong in any of the departments, we want to put an end to it. But the government of Canada did not do that. They seemed to be disappointed with the report of the commission ; they seemed to think the commission should not have made a report of that kind, and they appointed another commission to investigate the first commission ; that is what it means. It means that the government are under the impression that a new commission will attenuate the report of the first commission. My hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries has said so. He says, we want the employees who are guilty punished and the employees who are not guilty vindicated. That could all be done by the report of the present commission. We do not want another commission for that purpose.


There are no names given in the report of the present commission.


My hon. friend knows very well what it means, however. I am sure he knows.


What does it mean ?


I am not appointed as a new commission to make a report. Personally I think the government could not be in a worse position than they are. I think this new commission is entirely useless. We are told that Judge Oassels is an honourable man. I believe that, but what I am surprised at, and I do not see any reason for it, is the idea of appointing lawyers. My hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries says that it was at the suggestion of the judge that these lawyers were appointed. Of course, I take for granted that what he says is true ; but I am astonished that Judge Cassels should have asked for anything of the kind. And who are the lawyers appointed ? My hon. leader has said that when an investigation took place into the Department of Public Works under a Conservative administration, lawyers were appointed at the demand of the Liberal party, then in opposition, to go through the books and other documents in the Public Works offices at that time. The Conservative administration, though having a very large majority, granted that demand. And who were the lawyers appointed ? The government might have appointed some Conservative lawyers ; but instead of that, they appointed two Liberal lawyers at the suggestion of the then opposition. How different that is from the present case. I am told that one of the gentlemen appointed to-day. Mr. Watson, is or lias been at the head of the Liberal or-

ganization in the province of Ontario. He may again be president, a strong party man, a strong friend of the present administration. The other one, Mr. Perron, is as strong a partisan as could be found in the whole Dominion of Canada; he has been engaged in nearly every contested election trial that has taken place in Montreal, he is looked upon as the staunchest friend of hon. gentlemen opposite. All his life since he became a lawyer he has been a partner of Mr. Pr6-fontaine. My hon. friend said that Mr. Prefontaine had resigned from that firm. We all know what that means ; Mr. Pr6-fontaiue was a member of the firm until he died. His name did not appear, but he was a member of the firm of Archer, Perron & Taschereau. And Mr. Perron is called in as a lawyer in this investigation. I would not say a word against his personality, but we all know how far a man can go for party purposes, and I would say, if it was not so serious, what a farce it would be to have a report from Mr. Cassels assisted by Mr. Perron and Mr. Watson against the report of a commission appointed by this government less than a year ago. The government could not be in a worse position. Tile appointment of Mr. Perron may satisfy the Liberals of Montreal, staunch Liberals who expect something from the government -because those are the only ones to-day who stand by them-but the independent elector, the man who is looking for an honest report, will certainly blame the administration and will have no confidence in the report that Judge Cassels will make. This is another way of spending money, this is another part of the combine. Judge Cassels, I understand, will not be paid any extra fee, he is paid as judge of the -Exchequer Court about $8,000 a year. But how will tli* two lawyers be paid? I believe they will be paid $100 a day each. I do not believe that Mr. Perron would work for less than $100 a day, and he would be very foolish to do so, because if he asks that amount he will get it. How long will the inquiry last? I repeat that the man on the street, the public, will be disgusted with the lavish way in which this government is spending the public money. I am sorry for the good of Canada that the commission which made the first report has not been called upon to go through every department in Ottawa. The government should be interested in having such an investigation. When I look at the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance I have no doubt they are interested in seeing whether proper investigation is made into every department at Ottawa. We will not have such an investigation, as that branch of the inquiry is finished; this will be an investigation of the investigation. It will be something done to try and whitewash what has been said in condemnation of the two departments in which the investigation has been going on.


The hon. gentleman sees that the commissioners in their report say there is a lack of conscience on the part of some officers of the department. At the same time no names are mentioned, no persons are singled out. Does he think I should continue to administer the department with the same staff without taking the proper steps to investigate and find out who are the guilty parties?


I want to say that my hon. friend could have done all that if he wanted to, without having a new commission.


How would you do it?


I am not going to tell my hon. friend and the House. I will tell my hon. friend privately, it could be done in two hours. When the commission makes a report that in his department money is lavished, that it is the most extravagant department at Ottawa, that it is squandering money, that it has no conscience, that there is only one aim, to spend money, that no discount is obtained as in ordinary trade, it is clear as day to me. The money is not used for religious purposes, it has gone somewhere. Why the hon. member does not need to appoint another commission; in two hours he could find a remedy and could save the money of the country.


I think the hon. gentleman who has just spoken, and the leader of the opposition also, have an entirely erroneous impression of the nature of the inquiry on which Judge Cassels is about to enter. They have assumed that the inquiry of Mr. Justice Cassels is a review of the work of the commission whose report has already been presented to the House. Nothing could be more erroneous than that conception of Judge Cassels' duty.


What is it then?


Judge Cassels' duty is to inquire into certain matters as to which the commission seemed to have failed to prosecute their investigation to the end. The commissioners' report may be deemed to be divided into two parts. One part of it relates to the ordinary questions of the civil service, such as the conditions of admission, examinations, promotions, salaries, &e., questions of a broad and important class. In addition to that there is another branch and that probably is the branch which has received the most attention and consideration by the public, that is the accusation made in somewhat general terms, of not mismanagement, but much worse. It is practically stated in the report of two of the commissioners, Messrs. Fyshe and Bazin, that there has been corruption in the Department of Marine and Fisheries. The word is not used but my hon. friend says he knows what the report means.


So do you.


No, I will be frank and say I do not know what it means. I know in a general way, but I certainly think, with all deference to the gentlemen composing the commission, for whom I hare the greatest respect, that on that particular point it is a fair criticism to say that the commission has said either too much or too little. If they wished to go into that branch of the question-and I do not say they should not have done so-as to whether or not the officials in the service were corrupt, then they were bound in justice to themselves, to the House, and the individuals concerned, to go further, and say in some detail who was corrupt and wherein the corruption lay. 'mat is the only criticism I offer on the report of the commission As to its general recommendations, I do not call them in question. We will have to deal with them later. My hon. friend says: Why not deal with them? Whether or not we will deal with them has to be considered. If we fail to deal with them at all, we shall be no worse than hon. gentlemen opposite who had a similar report in 1892, kept it for four years and did nothing.


It was not complete.


The report was most complete, and if my hon. friend does not want to take the trouble to read it, he may have seen in the Ottawa Conservative paper in the last week, three or four letters from a civil service official, calling attention to the fact that years ago, in 1892, four yems before the Conservative government left office, a report was made by a civil service commission dealing with practically the same classes of questions as are referred to in this report, the question of the political influence exercised in relation to patronage, the inequality of salaries, the purchase of supplies-all these questions were reported on by that commission, which included one of the gentlemen who sat on the recent commission. The hon. gentlemen opposite remained in power for four years from the date of that report without attempting any remedy whatever. So, if it should be the policy of this government, and I hope it will not, to pay no attention whatever to the report of the commission, if we should be simply content to receive it, pigeon-hoie it and forget it, we would be on even terms with my hon. friends opposite, because that was precisely their course with regard to the report of the commission of 1892 as will be explained later on if necessary.


The report of the commission of 1892 and the report of the last commission are not at all alike.


Let me mention some respects in which they are alike. They are aliice in the allegation that political patronage enters largely into appointments.
Mr FIELDING


Yes. That is not a crime.


That is not a crime, but the commissioners said that was a great evil. They said that in 1892 and it is said -by the present commissioners. But while in 1892, that evil, so far as it is an evil, was pictured by that commission in their report just as it is pictured to-day, the Conservative government of that day pigeon-holed the report and took no notice of it.


And the same thing may happen in this case, so far as that point is concerned.


If it should happen, then my hon. friend (Mr. Bergeron) will be in a position to assail us ; but the time has not come yet.	,


I say it is not a crime.
It is something that takes time and is very hard to do. . But when the commission said that stealing goes on. that robbery goes on, that corruption exists, it is a very different thing.	[DOT]


But I want to come to some other things in the commission of 1892. That commission reported on the question of supplies. We had a debate here, not many days ago, on that question. Whatever evils there may be in regard to the patronage element in the purchase of supplies existed in 1892 ; it was reported on in 1892 ; it was fully exposed to the Conservative government of that day,-and they took no notice of it. In that respect, the report of 1892 and the report of the present day are substantially alike. My hon. friend says there is corruption, there is dishonesty-


' Lack of conscience.'


Yes, ' lack of conscience'. Now, my hon. friend says he knows what that means. I wish to be candid and to say that, as respects any officer of the Marine-and Fisheries Department, I do not know what it means. I know what it means generally ; I know what thieving, robbery means. But surely my hon. friend would not have this government, on the strength of that report-which, on that branch of the subject, I say is incomplete-lie would not have the Minister of Marine and Fisheries dismiss men now in the service on the ground of dishonesty. Would he have these men, some of them employed for many years in the public service, branded with the charge of dishonesty and dismissed ? Surely he would not. He may suggest that now, but if he had that sense of responsibility which men in public office ought to have, he would say that such a course would be utterly unfair and unjust.


Would the hon. gentleman (Mr. Fielding) allow me ? That is

what is going to happen it what the Minister of Marine and Fisheries says is carried out. He says that he wants a commission to find out and punish the men


But the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bergeron) says he knows who these men are.	-


It is clear, for instance, that they are not the officers of the Department of Finance. They are employees of this department which has been reported upon.


But the hon. gentleman will see that ' employees of the Marine and Fisheries Department' is a broad and general expression. The misfortune is that the commission,-unintentionally ; they are not lawyers, but good business men-have generalized in such a way as to leave the whole department under a ffloud as respects dishonesty.


Will the minister (Mr. Fielding) allow me a question ? Why did not the government refer this back to the commissioners to find out who these men are ?


The commission, in the first place, had unlimited power. They had the right to report as they have done, of cour