A few weeks ago the House ordered the appointment of a committee to investigate certain conditions under which the government grant to the Quebec Bridge Company had been made. All the papers connected with the bridge having now been printed, the time has ceme when the committee may be appointed. I therefore move :
That the select committee ordered by this House for the purpose of investigating the conditions and guarantees under which this government paid moneys to the Quebec Bridge Company and endorsed or guaranteed the bonds of the said company, and what measures were adopted by the government to ensure the preparation of suitable plans of construction and the proper execution of the same, and what security the government at present possesses for the sums already received by and guarantees given to the company, be composed of Messrs. Maclean (Lunenburg), Talbot, Galliher, Chisholm (Antigonish), Monk, Barker and Walsh (Huntingdon).


Motion agreed to.
What amount of bonds have been guaranteed and issued to date in respect to the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway, how many of these

have been sold or otherwise disposed of, and what amount has been netted by the company th'erefor ?


1.	What was the purchase priee or first cost of the government steamer or ice-breaker ' Montcalm '?
2.	What amount has been expended on said steamer for repairs since purchased or built, up to first of May, 1908, year by year?
3.	What amount has been expended for furnishings, viz.:	furniture, carpeting, floor
cloth, bedding, crockery, silverware, cutlery,
&c. ?
4.	What has been the total expenditure in connection with said steamer including salaries of crew, clothing, provisions, &c.?
5.	What revenue has been received for work done by said steamer since acquired?-


1.	Contract price of steamer, $265,233.32.
2.	1904-5	$ 12,693 941905-	6	
47,545	181906-	7	
38,355	611907-	8	
20,782	49$119,377 223.	1904-5	1905-6	
955 601906-7	
815 Hi1907-8	
1.174 31$6,853 194.	1904-5	1905-6	.... 135,638 191906-7	1907-8	.... 91,921 SO*657,725 415.	This is not a	revenue producin
steamer. It is used for ice-breaking purposes and for carrying supplies for lighthouse maintenance and construction work.


What amount has been paid in rebate of duty to the Massey-Harris Company during the last three fiscal years, specifying each year separately?


On goods manufactured for export :-
1905- 6	$ 83,153 59
1906-	7	(9 months)	
90,554	161907-	8	
142.410	56
On goods manufactured for home consumption
1905-	0	 Nil.
1906-	7 (9 months).... Nil.
1907-	S	$34,480	32


Mr. WORTHINGTON-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	On what date was the contract entered into between the government and the Ross Rifle Company for the supply of bayonets?
2.	When was the order in council passed respecting the same?
3.	If tenders were called for, on what dates and in what manner was this done?
4.	What are the terms of the contract regarding delivery and payments?
1.	May 4, 1908.
2.	May 4, 1908.
3.	Tenders were called for by letters, dated January 18, 1908, addressed to-
The Ross Rifle Company, Quebec.
The Ottawa Car Company, Ltd., Ottawa.
4.	The contractor undertakes to deliver 52,000 bayonets and scabbards within three years after the delivery to the contractor of an approved standard pattern, specifications and drawings. Deliveries to be made in even monthly quantities, as nearly as may be, and to begin within one month of the completion by the contractor of the necessary machinery, fixtures and gauges ; notice of such completion to be immediately given to the Minister of Militia and Defence.
Payments to be made upon delivery; provided that in any year during the continuance of the contract, if the contractor is not in default in respect of deliveries, he shall be entitled, in advance of delivery, to payment of moneys actually expended upon all bayonets and scabbards or parts thereof to be delivered in that year; such payments in no case to exceed 75 per cent of the price of such bayonets and scabbards. These advances to be made upon the contractor's certificate of the amount so spent, attested by the signature of government chartered accountant, who shall first satisfy himself of the fact of such expenditure.


1.	Is the government in arrears for allowances to any militia regiments? If so, to what regiments, to what amounts, and for what periods?

2.	What is the reason some regiments have not received allowances?
3.	Is the government aware that officers of some regiments, including one Ottawa regiment, have been obliged to borrow money to meet requirements that should have been met by such arrears in allowances?
4.	If so, will the government repay such officers the interest paid by them on such loans ?


Mr. Speaker, I would call your attention to the third part of this question which it seems to me is not in order, as it contains a matter of argument. If this question is put in proper form the answer is ready, but I would ask your ruling. The words to which I object are ' that should have been met by such arrears in allowances.'
Mr. SPEAKER, I would rule that that was not in order. The question will stand for amendment.
Question allowed to stand.


WALSH-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	Has the Beauharnois canal been transferred to the Robert Company, or is it still under the control of the Department of Railways and Canals?
2.	Is Mr. Deschene, of Valleyfield, in the employ of the government? If so, what are his duties?


1.	The Beauharnois canal is under lease to Messrs. William C. McIntyre and Edmund C. Robert, dated_10th of December, 1907.
2.	No ; Mr. Deschesne is not now in the employ of the government.


1.	What amount of goods has been purchased by the government for the purpose of the Anglo-French exhibition in London?
2.	What is the total sum due or paid for such goods to date?
3.	What is the amount of goods purchased from Messrs. Bryson, Graham & Company of this city?
4.	Are the goods so acquired to be exhibited, marked at their cost pried?


1.	Total purchase of exhibits, $5,611.49.
2.	Paid, $953.56.
3.	$2,283.37.
4.	No.


What is the total amount spent to date by the government in connection with the Anglo-French exhibition?





May 14, 1908, $91,525.46.


1.	Has a contract for the construction of the new ice-breaking steamer for the winter navigation of the Northumberland straits been let yet ? If so, what shipbuilding firm has obtained the contract?
2.	What will the ship cost, and when will she be ready for the service?


1.	Were tenders called for the privilege of a news agency on the Prince Edward Island
Railway for present contract? If so, what are the names of tenderers, and the amount of each tender?
2.	Who holds the present contract, and at what figure per annum?
3.	When were tenders last called for this
service ?
4.	Did any party or parties, other than the present holder, put in tenders for this service since 1904? If so, what are the names of the tenderers, and the amount of each tender?


1 and 4. Tenders were called for by newspaper advertisement in June, 1906, for the privilege of selling newspapers, periodicals, &c., on the Prince Edward Island Railway, for a term of three years, to date from September, 1906. Three tenders were received from the following, viz : Herbert T. Prowse, Charlottetown, P.E.I., $501 per annum ; R. B. Norton, Charlottetown, P.E.I., $540 per annum ; Sidney Grey, Charlottetown, P.E.I., $400 per annum? Mr. Grey was afterwards offered the privilege of news agency, at $550, which was accepted, by him.
2.	Sidney Grey, at $550 per annum.
3.	1906.


1.	Who has the contract for building the Lennox island ferry wharf, and what is the contract price? ,
2.	What money has been paid on account of said work and is the work proceeding?
3.	Has the specification been found unsuitable for the structure at this point, and is it the intention of the government to alter same by using stone and brush instead of piles ?


I beg leave to apply to the House under Rule 37, for leave to discuss a certain question.


The kon. member applies for leave to move the adjournment of the House in order to discuss the following matter of urgent importance :
The present condition of the Marine and Fisheries Department, especially under the slow operation of the commission last appointed to examine certain matters therein.
Shall the hon. member have leave ?
And leave being granted.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to call the attention of the House for a short time, as requested in the notice, to the position of the Marine and Fisheries Department as it at present appears. In order to do that it will be necessary very briefly to sum up the preceding circumstances which led up to the appointment of the last commission. The first commission for a number of months pursued its inquiry, mostly with reference to the Civil Service situation, conditions and requirements, and devoted a portion of its time to the investigation of the practical working of one portion of the Marine and Fisheries Department, and then, as the House knows, laid its report before the government ; that report was brought down to this House about the middle of March. The report of that commission was somewhat startling to the House and to the country. In brief it showed a state of things in the department which, to say the least, did not contribute to efficiency or tend to establish public confidence in the department, and seemed to call for vigorous and instant action in order to have the faults which had been shown and the bad conditions which had been described in the report remedied as quickly as possible. It is not necessary to recall the express words of that report and the many pointed allusions which were made to certain specific matters. That commission did not busy itself in the same way with any other department of the government, and in fine it came to the conclusion that the Department of Marine and Fisheries seemed to be without direct guidance, was in fact without a head and lacked a conscience. When that report came before this House it at once received the attention of the House and the government, and it was seen to be so important that full and instant action was necessary. The matter could not be left as it was left by the report of the first commission. The Minister of Marine and Fisheries and I think the leader of the government and others were particularly struck with the idea that under the report of the first commission the officers of the Department of Marine and Fisheries were left more or less under a cloud of suspicion of wrongdoing, and it made itself apparent to the government that it was an improper thing that the officers of one of the great departments of this government should be left in that position. It was destructive of faith and confidence in the department, it hung over the officers of the department and militated against their freedom and efficiency of work ; it was, in fine, a statement of circumstances and inferences which made it absolutely imperative that such steps as were proper should be taken immediately to investigate those matters and to remedy where remedy was necessary, to condemn and reform where condemnation was necessary. The government did not accede to the view of hon. members on this side of the House that it was proper that the se-.cond commission should be allowed to complete in all the departments of the government what the first commission had only in part completed in a small portion of the Department of Marine and Fisheries.
It therefore appointed a second commission with limited power and limited scope, and limited as well in the methods by which it should be conducted. Whilst the other was a public inquiry and in the public interest, this was to be a departmental inquiry simply into what were considered the charges or insinuations or inferences against the officers of the department. On this side of the House we contended for a broad commission against which the door of no department should be shut and which would have unlimited power to carry on the investigations which had been left uncompleted by the first commission. Judge Cassels was appointed as the second commission, and there were given him two lawyers to, I suppose, watch the interests of the government. These two lawyers were, as has been stated in the House, supporters and partisans of the government. They received their instructions from the Minister of Justice and are practically under the direction of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Marine himself. It seems to be absolutely impossible, and I think it was not otherwise contended, that Judge Cassels should be put to the almost superhuman task of going through the whole records of the department in all its extensions, and therefore these lawyers were appointed into whose hands were entrusted file bringing of such matters before the commissioner as they might think proper and requisite for carrying out the purpose of the commission which was entrusted to him. It was known by the government



anti well. But in what situation are they to do their duty now ? Anonymous writings and whisperings to the commissioner or to the lawyers, saying that papers are being destroyed, that such and such person is trying to do away with evidence ; one man brought up before these lawyers and questioned as to what suspicion he has of A. B., or J. 0., or of some one else, men prompted and pressed, with all the force and ingenuity of these lawyers, to play the spy and the informer upon their companions in office.
There is the disorganization resulting from suspicion, no man feels like trusting his fellow, no one knows what is being carried on in order to save one and injure another, and all the time two partisan defenders of the government and the department are running through the records and the guilty persons in that department, if there are any, have opportunities for doing away with incriminating documents and evidence. And worse than all, during that whole time, this headless and conscienceless department, as it is characterized by the first commission, is spending the money of the country. What more has happened? An investigation has been made into the conduct of an officer down the St. Lawrence. What has been proved? That he has been guilty of padding pay sheets, and that there has been a conspiracy to defraud the government, and that the government have actually been defrauded. If in that single case fraud has been brought to the surface, in how many cases may it not be found that similar frauds have been committed, and so people will say until the commission has finished its report. For all we know, the whole of the river service-an immense and important service- is permeated and saturated by just such abuses and frauds. What is needed is a thorough and a speedy investigation, so that every honest man might have the chance to have the cloud lifted from him and every guilty man be punished. Today the minister does not know but that there are in that department persons in positions of great trust who will be found guilty when this commission has finished its work. Yet these persons cannot be touched. They remain there. The point I make presses the more strongly the absolute necessity for an immediate investigation and the avoidance of the delays which are inevitable if the present commission continues the work. But delay is what the government seem to desire. Events quickly pass into oblivion and the reports of the first commission are being smothered by the lapse of time. Judge Cassels goes on his circuit and then takes his vacation, nobody is particularly at work, the old machine hums on iu the best way it can, and the people become interested in the next thing that turns up and forget this. And all the time the solicitors, the partisan defenders of the government, have Mr. FOSTER.
their wages going on, and 'I suppose are doing their investigation. And in the meanwhile the efficiency of the department is impaired and deteriorated and its officers are under a cloud.
We do not know all that has been brought out by the present commission so far, but some things have been brought out which do not tend to make public confidence greater. What has been brought out ? A carbide company is formed, it sells to the government, sells without competition, and in that carbide company you find a cabinet minister interested, we find that stock in it was given him by the promoter, and we find that same minister at the head of the Marine and Fisheries Department. That does not help us at all to have more confidence iu that department than we had at the start.


The hon. gentleman has said that we get our supply of carbide from a company without any competition. I may inform him that the carbide which is supplied to the department was obtained after public tender.


Does my hon. friend mean that to explain the whole case? Let him go to Mr. Willson's evidence. What does Mr. Willson say? There are three carbide companies in this country. One is at St. Catharines and that is the company consisting of Mr. Willson and the late Mr. Sutherland, up to the time of his decease, and Mr. Little, who has succeeded to Mr. Sutherland's interest. Then there is the company in Ottawa. Who formed that company? Mr. Sutherland. Who sold the stock to the Bronsons? Mr. Sutherland. Who got 10,000 shares of the stock for that and other considerations, as Mr. Willson has sworn? Mr. Sutherland. Who has Mr. Sutherland's stock at present ? Mr. Sutherland's legatee. Then there is the company at Shawinigan, and there is nothing to show that that is an independent company. Then there is another company with a more liberal contract, the International Fog Signal Company, which makes little things that cost $300 and sells them to the department for $4,000, as shown by the testimony of the chief engineer. Does my hon. friend say there is any competition among these companies?


There is very strong competition among them. In fact they are quarrelling. I know that of my own knowledge.


We can quite understand Mr. Willson quarrelling with Mr. Willson. We can quite understand Mr. Little quarrelling with Mr. Little. But we all know that the same men control these companies and have the same interest in them. And in any event, up to a very late period no tenders were called for and there was no competition. It is only within a very late

period that tenders have been asked and there has been any semblance of competition. These things have come out, and they have not added to the confidence of the community in that department. It is too much the habit for this government, either through its members or its closest friends, to be interested in companies which are doing business with the government. I propose to exploit another company just as soon as I can get at it before* this House, and I think I can show that a prominent member of the cabinet at present has taken a special business interest in it. There is, I have said, that state of things brought out so far which leads people to wonder what would a thorough investigation show. This is not a healthy condition of things, but it is a condition* which has been brought on by the government itself. This new and wasteful policy of the acetylene gas buoys and fog signals, these contracts, this division of the department so as to get a favourable report for the purposes of the minister-all this was brought about by Mr. Prefontaine himself. He was the man who, against the report of the chief engineer-a man of worth and through honesty-undertook this wasteful system of expenditure, to say nothing more about it, and laughed at the scruples of his chief engineer. Who was it that appointed the commissioner of lights, a young man-I say nothing against his ability-without experience in the department to any extent, put into a most responsible position in which he carried on things pretty much as he pleased. Who appointed Mr. Fraser? He was appointed by Mr. Pr6fontaine himself and for the very purpose of instituting this acetylene fog signal and gas buoy expenditure which, while good in many particulars, as the first engineer says, was pressed beyond the needs of the country and the requisites of proper economy. The whole plea to-day is that in some way the government is bound, if it can, and it can, to press the matter to speedier conclusions than it is being pressed to-day. That is the whole point of my plea, in the interests of the department, in the interests of the country, and in common justice to the employees of the department, which is historical, and which has been manned in the past by efficient men, and which to-day has within its bounds as honest, painstaking and competent officials as there are in any of the departments of this government. I move that the House do now adjourn.
Right hon. Sir WILFRID LAURIER (Prime Minister). Before I proceed to discuss the motion which my hon. friend has made, and the point which he has taken under it, I think it is my duty to take at once some exception to the manner in which he has discussed the motion. For myself I do not object to it, because I 2G9i
think it involves a point which is worth while clearing up at once. But the objection I take is that my hon. friend was slightly out of order in discussing what takes place before the commission until the commission has reported. I think that the rule which applies to committees of this House should apply for the very same reason to commissions appointed under the authority of the government and of parliament.


Will the hon. gentleman quote the rule ?


No, I do not quote the rule, because I do not intend to discuss the question to-day, and I did not interrupt my hon. friend. But I think the hon. gentleman was wrong for this reason, that until the matter is ascertained and concluded, the hon. gentleman draws wrong conclusions. One of the reasons which show the force of the rule is this : My hon. friend discussed the composition of the carbide company, and he concluded that all these companies were in the hands of the same parties. What grounds had he to make such an assertion ?


Sworn' evidence.


There is no sworn evidence to that effect, the hon. gentleman will not find any sworn evidence that the companies which are to-day organized in Canada to manufacture carbide are in the hands of the same men and under the same directorate. I say the evidence corroborates the statement made a moment ago by the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, that the company which operates at Shawenegan is altogether separate from the other company.


That may be, I did not particularly allude to that.


But if that may be, why did he venture to make the insinuation ? Did he not a moment ago say that he had reason to believe that all the companies were in the hands of the same parties ? Now he says that he did not do so, that he did not make the assertion. But he did make an insinuation, which is worse than an assertion. The hon. gentleman will have ample opportunity of discussing that later on the point of order. I do not take it to-day.


I would ask the right hon. gentleman whether there are not some of the same men in the three companies, because I was told that there were.


Speaking subject to correction I have reason to believe that the Shawenegan company is altogether separate from the other companies.


Mr. Willson owns the patents.


Here is a commission that has not yet reported, and already assertions are made and conclusions are drawn. We will have an opportunity of taking up the subject later on. I do not go into it at this moment because, as I say, I am not prepared to discuss the point of order. But it seems to me that if there is any sense in the point of order that we are not allowed here to discuss an investigation by committees of this House, a parity of reasoning would apply to investigations by commissions. Now I come to the point of my hon. friend's motion. He says that because Judge Cassels owes his first duty, as he states himself, to his own court, this investigation has to be put off, and must be put off for some time. Sir, that is a point well taken ; the investigation by Judge Cassels has to be put off because Judge Cassels very properly insists that his first duty is to his court. My answer is this, that if Judge Cassels has not been permitted to proceed with the investigation because his first duty is to his own court, the fault is not with this government, but the fault is with my hon. friend and those who sit around him. Perhaps my statement will cause some wonder among hon. gentlemen opposite, and I see that there are some doubting Thomases on the other side. Let me give the evidence. We have had some correspondence with Judge Cassels on this point, and he pointed out to us at the very outset that he could not undertake to carry on this investigation unless he was provided with assistance to carry on the work of his court. On the 6th of April Judge Cassels addressed to me the following letter :
Ottawa, April G, 1908.
Dear Sir Wilfrid,-Your kind letter of April 3 instant was duly received. As mentioned to Mr. Aylesworth, the fact of my not having been consulted prior to my name being mentioned did not in the slightest degree cause me to think that I had been in any way slighted or treated discourteously. Possibly I should feel that some members of the press understood me better than I understand myself, but the fact, however, is as I have stated.
You ask me to give you my views of what provision should be made for the despatch of business in the Exchequer Court.
First. I think statutory provision should be conferred upon me to perform as judge the duties desired by parliament, and that provision should also be made for the disposal of the business before the court.
Second. As to the business of the court, my views are as follows : I would not make any suggestions had you not asked me to do so. During the last three weeks I have had occasion to acquire a fairly accurate notion of the work to be performed. The work of the Exchequer Court is increasing rapidly. At present no summons or order can be made unless signed by me, no cheque can be issued unless countersigned by me. The circuit engagements are necessarilv numerous.


I have this morning arranged a circuit commencing in May for the trial of actions in Toronto, Quebec, Charlottetown, St. John and Sydney. In September I must go to Winnipeg, and as far west as Victoria in order to try cases that may be ready for trial. It is obvious that while I am absent all procedure of an interlocutory nature must stand over, much to the annoyance and delay of suitors. I understand that the Minister of Justice proposes an amendment to the statute which will confer upon the registrar of the court authority to deal with chamber applications. This Act, if it becomes law, will help matters. A large number of cases to be tried are actions arising out of the expropriation of land by the government. The registrar of the court, Mr. Audette, has been registrar ever since the reorganization of the court in 1887. In the past few years he has, as referee, been performing judicial duties of a very important character, notably, in the matter of the winding up of the Quebec Southern Railway, and of the Baie des Chaleurs Railway; and it is only necessary to read his voluminous reports to appreciate his work. His work has, I think, been appreciated by the profession.
From his long experienoe in the court, Mr. Audette has acquired a very thorough knowledge of both law and practice. In cases of expropriation of land and numerous other forms of action against the Crown, especially in the province of Quebec, he is probably better qualified than I am, to sit in judgment. It would seem to me the best solution of the whole situation, having regard to the present business of the court and its increasing business, would be to appoint Mr. Audette deputy judge with all the powers I possess, If thought advisable, there could be an appeal in the usual way from his judgment to myself if the suitors so desired instead of going direct to the Supreme Court.
I would not make the suggestions contained in this letter had I not been asked to do so by yourself, but having given the subject a good deal of anxious consideration, and having a great desire to maintain the reputation of the court which under the presidency of the late judge it has obtained, I venture to put my views before you without, however, desiring to do more than make suggestions.
Believe me, dear Sir Wilfrid, Yours faithfully,


Now, Sir, In this letter, Judge Cassels, in answer to an inquiry from me as to the legislation we should enact in order to facilitate the business of the Court of Exchequer as well as the duties he is to discharge as commissioner investigating the Marine Department, made the suggestion that Mr. Audette should be given certain powers, and these powers given him, that is all he asked for. Now, if my hon. friend will look at the Order Paper, Item 12, he will find that that order is Bill (No. 116), which proposes to give even wider powers than is asked for in this letter of Judge Cassels.
When was that Bill introduced ?


It was introduced even before Judge Cassels sent me his letter.


And will the right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) tell me also, when, since its introduction it has been pressed ?


I will come to that presently. But let me call the attention of my hon. friend, and of those behind him, anil of the House and country, to what is in that Bill. Section 1 provides as follows :
In case of the illness of the judge of the court or if the judge has leave of absence, the Governor in Council may specially appoint any person having the qualifications hereinbefore mentioned to discharge the duties of the judge during his illness or leave of absence, and the person so appointed shall, during the period aforesaid, have all the powers incident to the office of the judge of the court.
2.	If the judge of the court-
(a)	is interested in any cause or matter, or is disqualified by kinship to any party, or
(b)	has been professionally engaged in any cause or matter as counsel or solicitor for any party previously to his appointment to the office of judge, and considers himself thereby incapacitated from sitting or adjudicating therein, the Governor in Council may, upon the written application of the judge, setting out such impediment, appoint any other person having the qualifications hereinbefore mentioned to act as a judge pro hac vice in relation to any such cause or matter.
3.	Every such temporary judge, or judge pro hac vice, shall be sworn to the faithful performance of the duties of his office.
Now, in this clause there is provision made to appoint an assistant judge at the request of the judge in certain contingencies. I am not prepared to say that the contingency here provided for has arisen, but it is easy to make it applicable to the present contingency. Now, by section 2 of this Bill, the Exchequer Court Act is amended as follows :
2. Section 87 of the said Act is amended by adding thereto the following paragraph:-
(f) for empowering the registrar to do any such thing and transact any such business as is specified in such rules or orders, and to exercise any such authority and jurisdiction in respect thereof as is now or may be hereafter done, transacted or exercised by the judge of the Exchequer Court sitting in chambers in virtue of any statute or custom or by the practice of the court.
-the very thing that is asked for by Judge Cassels in the letter I have read.


If I may be allowed it seems to me to deal only with matters in chambers.
Sir WILFRID LAURIER, I say this is the very matter asked by Judge Cassels, though, possibly, the request of the judge may have gone beyond this. But in this respect the Bill can easily be amended as soon as we take it up. Now. my hon. friend asks me:	When has this Bill been taken up in
the House? I ask my hon. friend:	What
business has been done in the House since then ? The very first thing we have to do in this House is to provide the appropriations in order to carry on the business of the country-to pay the civil service, to pay for the carrying of the mails, to pay the Mounted Police, to provide for the most elementary matters of civil government. We have been trying to get these appropriations through the House. We have moved the House into committee day after day. And day after day we have been met with deliberate obstruction, not avowed at first, but repeated and maintained. We did not know what was the matter, until some of the more candid amongst hon. gentlemen on the other side told us : You will get no estimates until you bring down your legislation : bring down your Election B'U and we will give you Supply. We brought down the Election Bill, and then we are told : You shall not have any Supplies ; we will stop them altogether. If hon. gentlemen on the other side will give us facilities to do business, the very first thing we will do will be to take up and pass this Bill.


Whenever the right hon. Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) has not a very good answer, he affects to fly into a passion. He is not in nearly so much of a rage to-day as he would have us believe, and he thoroughly understands that he has not a leg to stand upon in his argument with my hon. friend (Mr. Foster). In the first place, he relies upon a measure introduced into this House by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ayles-worth) on the 9th of March, four weeks exactly before this letter was written by Mr. Justice Cassels, to persuade the House and the country that the reason why he has not complied with Judge Cassels' request is that the opposition has not brought on and passed that Bill. I am bound to say the right hon. gentleman is establishing an extraordinary reversal of the functions of government. I have been in parliament twelve or thirteen sessions, and this is the first time I have learned that the opposition has the right to call government orders and to decide in what precedence government measures shall be ta.^en up. If the right hon. gentleman will confide that duty to us, we will bring on the Exchequer Court Bill the first thing after this debate closes. If he had consulted us, or had made us aware that we possessed this authority, we might have brought on this Bill long ago. But it would have been of no use to do so, for this Bill does not, as it stands, make provision for that which Judge Cassels requires, and the right hon. gentleman knows it and conceded it in his speech. The Bill makes provision for the appointment of a deputy judge in case of the illness of the judge of the Exchequer Court or in case he has leave of absence,

and the right hon. gentleman admits that is the purpose for which it was intended. Why, then, does he talk about the Bill, why does he put forward a Bill which does not provide for the difficulty that has arisen? Or, if he intended to utilize this Bill, why has not he, since the letter of Mr. Justice Cassels was written, submitted to the House the amendments necessary to make it provide for the difficulties referred to by. Judge Cassels, and then ask the House, as a matter of urgency, to pass the Bill at once ? That is all he needed to do. When he desired a Bill put through with regard to immigration and stated that it was an urgent matter, it was put throught the same day and sent to the Senate. If he had called up this Bill and asked that amendments be made-and, by the way, I would; ask if the amendments have yet been drafted ?-I venture to say it would have gone through in half an hour. Have the amendments been drafted, and if so, when were they drafted ? The right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) does not reply. Well, if the amendments have not yet been drafted, is it not delicious to hear the right hon gentleman suggesting that the opposition. gentleman suggesting that the opposi-gress? In the first place, the argument of the right hon. gentleman is that the opposition are responsible for not bringing on this Bill, and then, in the next place, that they are responsible for not passing through the House amendments which the government have not yet drafted. In that way and in that way only is the opposition responsible for the difficulty which has been created.
. So far as the second clause of the Bill is concerned, a very hasty reading of it indicates to me that the jurisdiction proposed by this Bill to be conferred on the registrar of the Exchequer Court is jurisdiction to transact certain business in chambers and is not that jurisdiction which Mr. Justice Cassels proposed in his letter of the 6th of April.
Apart from all this delightful attempt by the right hon. gentleman to put forward an excuse which he at least knows does not exist, let us look at the situation. The situation may be summarized in three or four sentences. The government themselves have realized the necessity of this investigation by Mr. Justice Cassels or some one else, because on the very day on which the report of the Civil Service Commission was laid on the table of this House, the Minister of Marine arose ond made the announcement of the proposed action of the government. Mr. Justice Cassels was consulted and placed his position frankly before the government, declaring that he regarded his judicial duties as his first concern, that he must give his attention, in the first place, to them. He went further, he suggested the amendments (which have not yet been drafted) which would enable the Mr. E. L. BORDEN.
government to deal with the situation as it has not yet been dealt with. So that, apart from the appointment of Mr. Justice Cassels to fulfil duties which the time at his command does not enable him to adequately to discharge, the government have done nothing and the situation is as the hon. member for North Toronto (Mr. Foster) has described it. An investigation is proposed to clear the Department of Marine and Fisheries of certain charges made against it, and to make such an investigation as may be necessary to discover any officers of that department who are worthv of punishment. That investigation is being delayed by reason of the very circumstances pointed out by Mr. Justice Cassels six weeks ago; those circumstances exist to-day and they exist by reason of the inaction of the government. The obvious injury to the public service, the neglect of public interests, cannot be too strongly emphasized and I sincerely trust that steps will be taken by the government immediately to enable that investigation to be carried on promptly and effectually in order that right may be done, those who are innocent may be cleared and those who are guilty, if there be any guilty, may be properly punished.
Motion (Mr. Foster) to adjourn, negatived.


Mr. Speaker, before the orders of the day are called I would like at the request of the hon. member for Provencher (Mr. Cyr), who is sick and unable to be present, to raise a question of privilege on his behalf arising out of remarks made in this House yesterday by the hon. member for North Toronto (Mr. Foster) and affecting Mr. Cyr's standing in this House. I have here a letter received by me this afternoon from Mr. Cyr which, with the consent of the House, I would like to read.


It must be a question of privilege affecting the hon. member ; if Mr. Cyr is claiming the right it is must affect him.


The letter is as follows :


Order.


I rise to a point of order. In what position am I.? The hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. S. J. Jackson) does not make the allegation that I stated something which I knew to be untrue, but he reads a letter from a gentleman-


A member of this House.


- a member of this House, but he is not present, and he declares in that letter that I stated what I

knew was untrue. Who is to make the renunciation, the member for Selkirk or the absent member? I state myself that I made no statement which I knew to be untrue, that is Incorrect, and the member, being a member, who has read the letter and the member, being a member, who has written the letter have both of them to take it back and I shall have to ask the member for Selkirk to take it back twice, once for himself and once for Mr. Oyr.


As to the point of order raised by the hon. member for North Toronto (Mr. Foster) I might say that if there is anything in the letter which is contrary to the rules of the House I do, on behalf of Mr. Cyr, take it back.


Have you a power of attorney from Mr. Cyr?


I think so.


I should like to see it.


I shall read the balance of the letter.


As far as the letter contains a statement which the hon. member for North Toronto (Mr. Foster) says is untrue, that portion of the letter should be eliminated.


It is a little harder later on.
Ottawa, May 14, 1908.
S. J. Jackson, Esq., M.P., Ottawa.
My Dear Mr. Jackson,-I noticed in the Ottawa ' Morning Citizen ' of to-day that the Hon. Mr. Foster did yesterday make a statement in the House to the effect that I was elected in Proveneher at the last general election through fraudulent means employed by one Duggan, who acted there as returning officer for the constituency of Selkirk. The hon. gentleman could not show in a plainer way his ignorance of the facts. I am sorry that on account of ill-health I am unable to be in the House and give the hon. gentleman the castigation which he so well deserves. At last the hordes of Tories who have been hounding my returning officer, Mr. Ayotte, for three years have not yet been able to find a single evidence against him of corruption in any way, and in face of the fact that the election petition against. my return was dismissed by the court, Mr. Foster has the effrontery to make in the House a statement which he knows to be untrue


Order, order.


JACKSON, (reading) :
-and which brands him as a falsifier-


Order.


That statement must be withdrawn.


Take it back.
-and one who has no respect for truth.


I am not taking it back.


Order.


The statement must be unreservedly withdrawn.


As far as I have power I withdraw it.
And for the reputation of his colleagues in the House I would ask you as a favour, if you feel justified in doing it, to rise in the House on a question of privilege-


I wish your ruling as to whether an hon. member of this House can bring a letter from another who is Outside the House making a charge against another member of the House, but which does not affect himself. If I understand correctly an hon. member, as a question of privilege, can only bring up something that affects himself, not that affects some other person who is not here. I wish your ruling.


I asked the permission of the House to read the letter and was given it; that matter is settled, and I was just beginning


The House did not know what the letter was.


A question of privilege, of course, is something affecting the standing of a member as a member of the House, and I am not at all clear that one member may not take up a question of privilege dealing with another member. Just at the moment, my own idea would be that that could be done, but in so far as the letter goes beyond what a member would himself be allowed to state in this House, it will be checked by me as it proceeds.


I wish to raise another point of order. It is not proper for a member of this House to bring a letter from another person, whether a member or not, which contains expressions that he knows to be absolutely against the order and decorum of this House and proceed to read them, and as he is called to order in respect to one expression withdraw it and say there is worse coming later on and proceed, time after time, to insult the order and decorum of this House by improper and injurious expressions respecting another member. I have a great deal of doubt whether a question of privilege can be delegated from one member to another, but putting that aside for the moment, it seems to me the other point is plain if decorum is to be observed in this House.


I would say regarding Mr. Speaker's decision that the hon. member for North Toronto should qualify

the expression that he made use of yesterday-


Order.


If the hon. gentleman (Mr. Jackson) speaks to the point of order he is within his right, but he cannot discuss some other matter until that is disposed of.


I would ask you. Mr. Speaker, as a favour-


Order.


I am inclined to think that if the statement of the hon. member be correct, that this letter later on contains stronger expressions than those he has already read to the House, it would be hardly appropriate or proper for him to proceed with the reading of it.


Hear. hear.


To my mind there is nothing stronger than I have already read.


Order.


The hon. member has stated to the House that this letter contains stronger expressions than those he has read. The whole question seems to me to be open to some doubt as to whether an hon. member can delegate a question of privilege to another member, and that being the case it would be preferable that the hon. gentleman should not proceed.


In the balance of the letter I will not read anything that is improper.


Under all the circumstances I think the whole letter had better be ruled out.


Hear, hear.


Of course all this illegal and improper stuff will not appear on ' Hansard '


Certainly it will.


I may say that Mr Cyr denies in toto the statement made by the hon. member for North Toronto yesterday in this House.


Order.


He only goes on to show the ignorance of the hon. member for North Toronto-	'


Order. Take it back.	.
Mr. FOSTER, I demand a retraction of that. No member has a right to say anything derogatory of any member of the House, and I want an implicit retraction of that.


If that is the rule of the House and it is carried out it would Mr. S. J. JACKSON.
keep the hon. member for North Toronto! from speaking


Order. Take it back.
. Mr. SPEAKER. Order. It is quite impossible to deal with a question of order if there is constant interruption while the point is being discussed. At all events, when questions of privilege are being discussed, hon. members on both sides should see that they are treated with great seriousness, because on them depends the decorum of the House. I think the hon. gentleman (Mr. Jackson) should withdraw the statement that has been objected to by the hon. member for North Toronto.


The word ignorant is not unparliamentary.


My hon friend is now sliding out of the question by a very unworthy method, it seems to me.


Order.


Would the hon. member for North Toronto repeat the statement which he takes exception to ?


I will. I will repeat it as far as my recollection goes. What he did say in reality was to accuse me of ignorance with reference to a matter-


Ignorance of the facts.


Oh, well. That is disrespectful to me as a member of this House, and I think the hon. member ought to make an absolute retraction and do it in a manly way, that is as manly as he can.


Order.


I have nothing to retract as far as the ignorance of the hon. gentleman is concerned.


Order. Take it back.


I would ask hon. gentlemen to keep order. If some hon. members consider this as a matter of levity the chair considers it to be quite the reverse.


Hear, hear.


Any matter affecting the privilege of the House or decorum in debate is a serious matter and it is not one which should be treated w7ith levity.


Hear, hear.


The chair is of opinion that any direct accusation made by one member against another of being ignorant is one of those insulting expressions which should not be used. On the other hand, if the expression only goes to the extent of saying that an hon. member is ignorant of the facts concerning a certain matter, that might be a parliamentary expression.


Hear, hear.


Before the orders of the day are called, I wish to rise to a question of privilege. As this question of privilege is a special thing I wish to appeal to your good judgment, Mr. Speaker, to say that it is really a question of privilege. The question of privilege is brought forth by insulting remarks made by Mr. Hunter, who is deputy Minister of Public Works against the French Canadians in his department, and as one belonging to that nationality I am personally insulted.


The hon. member will see that is not a question of privilege. A question of privilege against which affects only hon. members of the House in something connected with their membership of the House.


He insults me as a member of this House.


It is quite impossible to say that the matter to which the hon. gentleman refers, not being personal to himself or affecting his position as a member of this House, is a question of privilege.


AYLESWORTH (Minister of Justice) moved that the House go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution :-
Resolved, That it is expedient to make provision for payment of annual salaries to judges to he appointed to the Court of Appeal in the province of British Columbia, as follows:-
The Chief Justice of the Court of Appeal,

Three Justices of Appeal, each, $7,000.


Why does the Prime Minister not go on with the Exchequer Court Bill ?


We shall.


Are we to have no explanation of this resolution ?


The object of this resolution is simnly to found on it a Bill for the provision of salaries in furtherance of the legislation of the provincial legislature passed at the session which concluded about a year ago. An Act was then passed by the British Columbia legislature to establish a court of appeal for the province : the court to consist of a chief justice with three justices of appeal. The Act contains provision that it is not to come into force until proclamation be issued by the lieutenant-governor in council, and so far as I am aware no such proclamation has as yet been issued. But there have been official com-1
munications between the Attorney General of the province and the Department of Justice 