Mr. ARMAND LAVERGNE demande :
1.	Est-il vrai que le minister© des Postes doit £mettre a l'oceasion du troisieir.e centenaire de Quebec une nouvelle serie de tim-bres-poste ?
2.	Dans l'affirmative, le minister© se pro-pose-t-il de reconnaitre et l'esprit de la Confederation et celui de la celebration en emet-tant et imprimant ces timbres dans les deux langues offieielles du pays?
1.	Yes.
2.	Under consideration.


1.	Has the government leased the fishing privileges of Lesser Slave lake? If so, by whom were such privileges first obtained, to whom have they been assigned, and by whom are they at present exercised?
2.	On what date, for how long, and at what annual rental was such lease granted?
3.	Have any protests been received from residents of the neighbouring localities? If so, when, from whom, and what is the substance of the complaint?
i.	Has the government been asked to cancel such lease? If so, when and by whom?
5.	Has the government endeavoured to secure a voluntary diminution or abandonment of the privilege exercised under the lease by the holders thereof? If so, when and with what result?
6.	Did the lessees mention or suggest any sum in return for which they would forego their privileges? If so, what was the amount indicated?
7.	Do the same parties still operate without abatement to the full extent of the privileges contained in the lease ?


1.	The government has leased fishing privileges in Lesser Slave lake ; but not the exclusive fishing privileges there.
The lease was graned to John Kenneth McKenzie, president of the Imperial Fish Company, of Selkirk, Manitoba, and was assigned by him to the Athabaska Fish Company Limited and is still exercised by that company.
2.	May 14, 1904, for a term of nine years, at a rental of $10 per year, one of the conditions being that the lessee or the company shall expend $300 per annum during the three years from the 1st May, 1904, in the exploration of the territory leased, and during the remaing period of the lease at least $1,500 per year in the exploration, development, equipment and improvement of the property leased.
3.	No such protests have been received.
4.	No.
5.	No.
0.	No.
7. The conditions of lease remain unchanged.


Mr. BERGERON-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	Was any money voted at the last session of this House for the improvement of the post office at Farnham, Quebec?
2.	If so, has the money been spent? If not, why not?
3.	Has a report been made by the post office inspector on the improvements to such post office ?
1.	Yes, $5,500.
2.	No. It was not found practicable to carry out improvements suggested.
3.	Yes.


Mr. BERGERON-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	What works, if any, have been made on the grounds occupied by the post office at Riviere du Loup, during the years 1906 and 1907?
2.	How much has been spent for such improvements, by whom were they made, and what was the salary paid the inspector or the foreman?
1,	In October, 1906, a contract was let which included new plumbing work, carpenter work, plastering and painting in the building and also the following works on the grounds : drain from cellar to street, new plank sidewalks, pipe rail fence, sodding and tree planting and ditch at rear.
2.	(a) $1,765.75 ; (b) A. Fortier ; (e) The work was looked after by the caretaker and inspected by an officer from headquarters.


Mr. BERGERON-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	What is the salary of Jules Gauvreau as postmaster of Riviere du Loup?
2.	Does he still occupy the position? If not, who succeeded him, and what is his salary?
3.	If Mr. Gauvreau has resigned, what is the cause of his resignation, does he still occupy any position in the post office, and is he paid as such?
1,	2 and 3. Mr. Jules Gauvreau is no longer postmaster of Riviere du Loup (en bas). He tendered his resignation voluntarily and was succeeded by Mrs. Alice G. Mailloux. The salary and commissions of
the office amount to :-
Salary	$1,205	00Commission on box rents	
76	00Summer season allowance	
40	00Night allowance	
50	00Forward allowance	
160	00
Mr. BRODEUR,
Commission on money order, savings bank and postal note business for the year ended June 30,
1907	 97 29
Total	$1,628 29


Mr. BERGERON-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	What is the position which Evariste Talbot occupies on the Intercolonial Railway, and what is his salary?
2.	Has he made any report to the Department of Railways and Canals or any other since a year?
1.	Evariste Talbot occupies the position of freight tracer on the Intercolonial Railway, his salary being $85 per month.
2.	His duties do not call for any report to the Department of Railways and Canals, but he is constantly employed making reports to the freight claims agent on lost and damaged freight.


Mr. BERGERON-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	How much money was spent on the wharf at Notre Dame du Portage, in the county of Temiscouata, during the years 1906 and 1907?
2.	What was the quantity of wood or lumber used, what was the price paid for such wood, and who furnished it?
1.	In 1906	$4,982 62
In 1907	 2.013 36
2.	In 1906, from G. A. Binet, spruce timber : 6,280 lineal feet, 11 by 11 and 12 by 12, at 20 cents ; 577 lineal feet, 10 by 10, at 16 cents ; 8,861 lineal feet, round, at 15 cents ; 779 lineal feet, sundry, at 9* cents ; 12,360 feet plank, at $15 ; sundry lumber, $12.90.
In 1907, from J. S. Michaud, spruce : 260 lineal feet, 7 inches, at 5 cents.
From G'. A. Binet, spruce : 891 lineal feet, round, at 15 cents ; 296 lineal feet, 12 by 12, at 20 cents ; 26 lineal feet, 6 by 6, at 10 cents ; 6 feet plank, 20 cents.


Mr. LAKE-by Uriah Wilson-asked :
1.	Have the Acts of the legislature of the province of Saskatchewan, adopted in 1907, been duly transmitted to the Dominion government? If so, on what date were said Acts
received ?
2.	Has the Department of Justice reported upon said Acts ? If so, on what date was said report made ?
3.	Have any of the said Acts been disallowed ?
4.	When does the delay for disallowance expire ?

5.	Is it tlie intention of the government to disallow- any of said provincial Acts?
1.	The Act establishing the Supreme Court of the province and the Act establishing district courts were received on 13th March. 1907. The other statutes on 22nd April, 1907.
2.	Yes, on the 11th October, 1907.
3.	No.
4.	At the expiration of one year after receipt of the copy of the provincial statute by the Secretary of State.
5.	No occasion has appeared for any reconsideration of the question.
HOMESTEAD ENTRY'-RODERICK: McLEOD.
Mr. LAKE-by Mr. Uriah Wilson-asked :
1.	When did Roderick McLeod enter for the northeast quarter-section 18, 46a, 25, west second meridian?
2.	Has he fulfilled all his duties?
3.	Was leave of absence granted to him on any occasion ? If so, between what periods, and at whose recommendation ?


1.	Roderick A. McLeod entered for the N.E. 4, of section 18, township 46a, range 25, west of the second meridian, on the 11th of June, 1904.
2.	He has not fulfilled all his duties. He executed a declaration of abandonment, and on the 26th of March, 1907, the agent was instructed to carry out cancellation and to permit his mother, if eligible, the privilege of re-entry, in view of the fact that she had been in residence since the 15th of June, 1906. having a log house worth $200, 60 head of cattle, with stabling worth $100 and 5 acres of breaking. Mrs. Jessie McLeod secured re-entry on the 19th of April, 1907.
3.	On the 8th of May, 1906, Mr. McLeod's entry was protested until the 1st of August following, by the commissioner's direction.


HUGHES-by Mr. Sproule- asked :
1.	Who is the present collector of customs at Prince Rupert?
2.	When was he appointed, and whom did he succeed?
3.	Why was B. R. McDonald, the late collector. superseded by the present incumbent?
4.	Has the present incumbent large interests in mercantile concerns in Prince Rupert r
5.	Does he own or partly own a cannery and sawmill or either, in that part of British Columbia?
6.	What position is assigned to B. R. Me Donald, the late collector?


1.	George W. Morrow.
2.	He is the first permanent collector of the port, appointed February 15, 1908.
3.	B. R. McDonald was transferred temporarily to Prince Rupert, as acting collector, from Rossland, where he was collector.
4.	The government is not aware that Mr. Morrow has large interests in mercantile concerns in Prince Rupert.
5.	The government is not aware that he owns or partly 'owns a cannery and sawmill or either in that part of British Columbia.
6.	B. R. McDonald's rank was formerly changed from collector of customs at Rossland, British Columbia, to that of a customs officer at Prince Rupert, by order in council of 4th April, 1908. He is the second officer at the port of Prince Rupert.


1.	What was the total expenditure of the Geological Survey Department in 1896, and each of the folowing years up to the present time ?
2.	When was the mining branch of the Geological Department opened, and what amount has been expended each year in the mines branch ?


TEMPLEMAN (Minister of
Mines) :
1. .
Year	Total
1896-	97	$116,983	311897-	98	
106,904	121898-	99	
113,510	011899-	1900	
112,824	471900-	1901	
113,377	641901-	1902	
117,586	441902-	1903	
129,553	091903-	1904	
127,384	611904-	1905	
170,082	971905-	1906	
168,376	641906-	1907	(9	months)..	. .	145,582	151907-	1908	to	March	31______ 204,280	432.	There is no mining branch of the Geological survey ; but the Mines branch of the Department of Mines was opened 3rd May, 1907. and the expenditure has been : 1907-08 to March 31	
34,255 00


1.	What furniture, stoves, supplies, cattle, hogs, horses and other effects were attached to the immigration hall at East Selkirk?
2.	Has any or all of these effects been disposed of ? If so, how, by public or private
g^Jg P
3.	Who disposed of them, and what were the receipts from sale?
4.	What has become of the hall, or is it still owned by the government


A report is being obtained from the commissioner of immigration at Winnipeg in this relation. It will be brought down as soon as received. The information however - is voluminous and I would ask that it be brought down in the form of a return.


Stands as a notice of motion for a return.


1.	Is the government aware that the lessees of the waters north of lake Winnipeg, including Playgreen lake, have not made the expenditure called for under such lease?
2.	Is it the intention of the government to cancel the lease?


1- No, the reports show that a greater expenditure has been incurred than was called for by the lease. Playgreen lake is not under lease from the Department of Marine and Fisheries.
2. So far as reports have been received the conditions of the lease are being carried out; but the department is procuring further information on the subject.
STEAMER ' LADY OF THE LAKE/


1.	How many of the crew of the government steamer * Lady of the Lake ' are under pay during the winter, who are they, and what positions do they hold on said boat?
2.	What salaries do they get during summer season, what do they get during winter, and what are their duties?


1.	Three : Alex. Vance, master; ffm, Simpson, mate; Robert Rennie, engineer.
2.	Summer salaries; master, $100 per month; mate, $65 per month; engineer, $85 per month.
Winter salaries; master, $50 per month; mate, $32.50 per month; engineer, $42.50 per month.
Duties in summer comprise all the work they are called upon to perform in their respective positions.
In winter such officers are held under half pay subject to the call of the department for duty at any moment.


hat was the total number of boxes of cheese, butter, eggs, bacon, apples in boxes and barrels, respectively, shipped in cold storage, the number in cooled air chambers, and the number shipped in ordinary storage in twelve months previous to March L 1908?





1.	Are all mail routes let by tender? If not. why not?
2.	Were tenders called for the carrying of mail on the route between Brewster post office, in South Huron, and Park Hill, in North Middlesex?
3.	If tenders were called for on above route, what was the date of last tender, and when will said tender expire?
4.	What was the date of the previous tender, and to whom were the tenders sent?
5.	What was the amount of each contract, the names of each tenderer, and the amount in each case?


1.	Tenders are invited for all services costing more than $200 per annum. The

Postmaster General has power under the provisions of the Postal Act to enter into contracts for amounts less than $200 without calling for tenders. When the price was reasonable and it was in the public interest to do so this has sometimes been done, but even in these cases tenders are called for unless it is shown to the department that the price at which it is offered to perform the service is reasonable and reason exists in the public interests why the contract should be arranged without delay. Expiring contracts, the prices of which have been determined by public tender, are also open to renewal if as a result of the inspector's report the Postmaster General is satisfied that the amounts at which the services are being performed are reasonable and as low as would likely be secured if tenders were called for, and that the services of the contractors have been satisfactory.
2.	Yes, tenders were invited in June, 1900. Only one tender-was received that'of Maxim Gratton at $500. This was considered by the department excessive and the inspector at London was instructed to secure lower offers, with the result that a contract was awarded to John Ravelle at $300 per annum from the 1st October, 1900. This contract has since, in view of the satisfactory manner in which it was performed, and in view of the fact that the contract price represented $200 less than the offer secured by public tender, been renewed for four years on the 1st of July, 1904, and also from the 1st of July, 190S. In both cases the inspector reported to the Postmaster General that the service was being satisfactorily performed, and that the price was reasonable.
3.	Answered by No. 2.
4.	Notices inviting tenders were posted in all the post offices on the route, and in the principal places of business in the district served.
5.	Answered by No. 2.


How many returns have been asked for since the opening of parliament requiring an answer from the Post Office Department?


Eleven returns have so far been asked of this department since the opening of parliament. Of this number eight have already been answered.


1. Has a contract been made for groceries and provisions for the active militia at Halifax for the current year ? If so, were tenders called for?
2.	Who were the tenderers for bacon, what were their offers, what is the price in the current contract, and with whom has this contract been made?
3.	Who got the contract last year and the year before?
4.	At what price did he agree to supply breakfast bacon?
5.	Has the department received information that the bacon furnished was not breakfast bacon, but shoulder or roll bacon?
6.	If so, was any action taken to ascertain the truth of that statement?
7.	Had the department an offer to supply roll bacon for the current year? If so, from whom and at what price?


1.	(a). Yes. (b). Tenders were called by newspaper advertisement.
2.	No tenders for bacon separately were called for. The custom of the department is to make a contract for groceries and vegetables, including bacon. Only one tender was received for groceries and vegetables, that of Mr. J. F. Outhit. His prices were : for breakfast bacon, 131 cents per pound ; green bacon 7 cents yer pound.
Messrs. Davis and Fraser submitted a tender for bacon and lard only, on the form of tender for groceries and vegetables ; the prices being, for breakfast bacon, 12 7-8 ; for green bacon, -Ilf. To their tender was attached a letter quoting lOf cents per pound for shoulder, or rolled bacon, smoked; and 10 cents per pound for shoulder or rolled bacon, green.
The contract for groceries and vegetables, including bacon, was made with Mr. J. F. Outhit; the prices for bacon being those specified in his tender, as above.
3.	Mr. J. F. Outhit.
4.	In 1906, 14 cents, in 1907, 13f cents.
5.	In letters received from Messrs. Davis and Fraser, rival dealers, the opinion was expressed that rolled bacon was being supplied, instead of English breakfast bacon.
6.	No action was necessary as no complaint from the supply officer was received by the department.
7.	(a). Yes. (b). See answer No. 2.


1.	Has the Minister of Customs received any communication complaining of the active participation of Mr. P. G. Veniot, collector of customs at Bathurst, in the late provincial election in Gloucester county, New Brunswick ?
2.	If so, in what manner and to what extent was it complained that Mr. Veniot engaged in said election?
3.	What action has the minister taken, or what action does he propose to take, in the matter?
4.	What is the salary of the said collector?


Complaint has been received against


Yeniot, collector of customs at Bathurst, as to active participation in the recent provincial election in Gloucester, N. B. Mr. Veniot has been advised of the complaint, and his explanation requested. His salary is $1,100 a year.


1.	Who were the parties who tendered for dredging done at Wiarton in 1907?
2.	What proportions or quantities of clay, sand, and boulders were in the estimates for which $25,026 was paid to Mr. Bowman at Wiarton in 1907?
3.	Was the request of the council of Wiarton for said work verbal or in writing?


1.	A. P. Bowman and C. S. Boone.
2.	Clay, 115,800 cubic yards ; clay and sand, 5,800 ; clay and boulders, 2,200 ; boulders, 400, ; total, 124,200 cubic yards.
3.	In writing.


Mr. BERGERON-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	Was an investigation held on the Sou-1 an res canal? If so, when, where, and for what reason?
2.	Who was the commissioner?
3.	How many witnesses were examined?
4.	What is the cost of the investigation?
5.	What is the report, if any?
1.	Yes, at Vaudreuil, on account of certain charges made against the overseer.
2.	Mr. Louis Boyer, advocate of Montreal, was appointed commissioner, by order in council, dated 5th March, 1908.
3.	No report has yet been received from the commissioner.
THE 'LABOUR GAZETTE/
Mr.	BERGERON-by Mr. Sprouleasked :
1.	Where has the 'Labour Gazette' been printed in English and French since its existence?.
2.	What is the cost of such printing?
3.	What is the cost of the ' Labour Gazette '
altogether ?	-


1.	The ' Labour Gazette ' from the date of its establishment has been printed in Euglisn and French by the Printing Bureau or by arrangements made by the Printing Bureau. From April, 1906, the * Labour Gazette ' has been printed at the office of the Ottawa ' Free Tress.'
2.	Cost of printing and paper.


Bill (No. 145) to amend the Act relating to Ocean Steamship Subsidies-Mr. Bro-(leur-read the second time, and the House went into committee thereon.
Is it to be paid $100,000 or $200,000 ?


We will undertake to pay $100,000 for eighteen trips, being at the rate of $5,555 per trip. If it makes other trios, the company is to be paid at the same ratio for the increased number, but the total payment is not to exceed $200,000.


What regulations will be put in the contract regarding freight rates and cold storage?


This subsidy is based on a contract passed some years ago. The government proposes to require that cold storage facilities be established on this line. That is also provided by the contract about to expire. As regards freight rates, we intend proposing that they should be under the control of the government. I do not know whether the company will agree to that, but it is the intention of the government to try to get that clause put into the contract. It is proposed, however, that the freight rates shall not be higher between a Canadian and a French port than between an American and a French port. The gov-eminent intend exacting this clause, and in that respect the contract will be a departure from the others, because there is no such

provision in any contract made so far with any company subsidized by the government.


E, What abo.ut the rate of speed?


I think in the old contract no rate of speed was provided and it is not in this.


Practically we have no definite information. We are told that there will be cold storage, but we are not told what kind or how much. When we ask about freight rates, we are told that they will not be higher than the rates between Prance and Boston. That is very indefinite. The rate of speed, we are told, is something to be agreed on later. In fact, we are not given any information at all.


The cold storage facilities are to be absolutely under the control of the government and to be provided as required by the Department of Trade and Commerce. That was the provision in the old contract, and I do not anticipate any difficulty on that score. All shipping companies are interested in having cold storage facilities on their steamers. This line will have to carry butter and cheese and there is no reason why it should not furnish proper cold storage facilities. As regards the rate of speed, it is provided in the contract what time shall be taken on each voyage. I think it is eleven or twelve days.


When this question came up the other day, I was not opposed to the principle of our having direct communication with Prance. Does my hon. friend not remember that?


My hon. friend said he was not opposed to the subsidy, but he proposed an amendment to provide that the freight rates should be under the control of the government.


I am glad to have this admission of the hon. minister because a statement was made in his Montreal organ


Have I an organ?


I believe so. The statement was made in it that Col. Hughes and Dr. Sproule with Mr. Monk opposed altogether the idea of having direct communication by steamship with Prance. I am glad to take note of the minister's admission that there was no opposition offered to the principle of having such communication. What ground has he for anticipating that we will do a good business with France in butter and cheese? The French export a great deal of butter, and my hon. friend knows that there is no market there for the cheese we make here.


With regard to cheese. I was told, when in France in connection with the negotiation of the treaty, that quantities of cheese were consumed in France supposed to have been produced in Canada. This cheese was sent to England, warehoused there and afterwards sent to France. Tills was the statement made to me several times, and those who gave me the information led me to believe that it was absolutely correct, and I had every reason to believe that they were well informed. As to butter, my hon. friend (Mr. Monk) knows that this line of steamers will Tun not only between Canada and France, but to England as well. Last year, considerable quantities of butter and cheese were exported by this line, especially butter to London. And I do not see why this should not be done.


There is no doubt that the line may be used to export butter to England; but I understood the minister (Mr. Brodeur) to say that he wanted to insist on cold storage because there was to be an export of butter from Canada to France. The exporters of butter in Montreal will tell the minister, that, under the present conditions, there is no probability of our exporting butter to France.


There may be some trade in salt butter.


There may be a little, but not much. I do not question his statement that he received the information as to cheese of which he has told us. But I do not think he will be able to substantiate the statement that our cheese, which is exported to England in large quantities, finds its way to France. I would like to ask why the hon. minister intends making it a condition that the freight rates on this line shall be subject to the American rates. Can he give us any idea what the rates are between American ports and Le Havre?


I do not think there is any fixed rule; the rates vary according to the circumstances and the time of year. But I understand that those who engaged in negotiations with the government on this subject were willing to undertake that the freight rates should not be higher between Canada and France than between the United States ports and France.


Which reminds one of the Irishman, who, when asked his age, said he was the same age as his brother Mike- both were born in the same month. It has always been understood that those taking advantage of the cold storage were charged so much above the regular freight rates, and thus one could judge pretty accurately whether the exporter would be inclined to ship in cold storage. So, the two elements must be taken into account, first, whether the cold storage is adequate in every respect and kept in proper condition, and, second, whe ther the rates are so low that the method of shipment will be used. The information given to the House by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Fisher) in answer to a question went to show that, in shipping apples to

England, only a few thousand barrels were sent In cold storage while a great many thousand barrels were sent by the ordinary means. And so with eggs and butter. It must be, therefore, that either the cold storage is not adequate or not kept in proper condition, or the rates must be too high for the ordinary shipper to use the cold storage system. Without information on these points, we cannot very well know what return we are likely to get for this subsidy. We are granting $5,000 for each trip. What for ? Not merely for the purpose of establishing a steamship line between here and France but to develop trade. But trade can only be developed by providing suitable transportation at reasonable figures. I think the government should have been in a position to give the House the information we are asking, so that we might be able to judge whether or not we are likely to get any substantial return from this expenditure. Up to the present time we have failed to get any information, as far as I can see.


I find, from the trade and navigation returns that neither butter nor cheese is exported from Canada direct to France. It is possible that cheese may have been sent to the United States or to England and thence to France, but in that case, Canada would not get credit for it. .


My information is that the cheese was exported to Britain and thence to France.


However, nothing in these lines seems to have been exported direct to France. Now, I would like to ask what advantage will imports into Canada have if brought in by this subsidized line ? We understand, from the discussion we had the other evening, that Canadian goods, to secure the advantage of the minimum tariff to France must be exported directly, or if they go, for instance, through England to France, they must go direct by the vessel and in unbroken bulk from the British port. Will goods imported from France into Canada have to come the same way? Suppose they were sent through England, or through the United States, will they get the benefit of Canada's intermediate tariff? Or will the government, in that case, insist upon the general tariff?


If the goods are imported from France direct, of course, there will be no doubt about it. If the goods are imported through England to Canada, the rates will be the same-that is, the rate under the treaty will apply. Suppose that goods are sent from France to some British port, Liverpool for example, and thence from Liverpool to Canada. These will be subject to the duty provided in the treaty. If, under the treaty, they enjoy the benefit of the intermediate tariff, they will be dutiable under the intermediate tariff. If they belong to the class coming under the most reduced Mr. SPROULE.
rates, what we call schedule C, they will be liable to the duty mentioned in that schedule.


Assuming that silk goods, for example, are exported from France to London, are repacked by a London dealer, and the Canadian purchases them through the London dealer. The goods come from France to London, they are packed and sent to Canada, what would be the tariff under which they would come into Canada ? Would it be the intermediate tariff?


They would come under the treaty, provided satisfactory proof of origin was furnished. If they could prove that these goods, although sent from Great Britain, were French goods and of the class mentioned in the treaty, they would be entitled to the benefits of the tariff when shipped from Great Britain.


The goods will have to be imported direct, whether from France or from a country enjoying the benefits of the preferential tariff. I think those are the words of the treaty.


Then we are in this position, that we give a great advantage to France.


In what respect?


In this respect, that we cannot ship from England to France at all after transhipment, whereas the French can ship here through London. In the case of silks, goods can be transhipped, repacked, and after an interval sent to Canada, and get the benefit of the special list under the treaty, and no article that we ship to France through Liverpool, even if transhipment takes place on our part, can benefit by the treaty. Surely that is not possible.


That is quite possible, but we thought it desirable that French goods coming here by way of Great Britain should receive the benefits of the treaty.


Why not give us the same advantage?


Because the French government, by their national law, will not do so. They have the right by their law of imposing the surtax, and all we, in our wis-is to put in a proviso that if we, in our wisdom, wish to impose the surtax we can do so. We have not deemed it advisable to do so. If we want to put ourselves on even terms with our French friends, we may do so by imposing a surtax, because we have put this proviso in the treaty:
Provided, however, that nothing in this article shall exempt the products c>f either country from any surtaxe d'entrepot that is now, or hereafter may be, imposed on products imported indirectly.
The French authorities impose a surtax ; if we wanted to be on even terms with them

we can impose a surtax. Up to the present we have not thought it advisable to do so.


The Minister of Finance is always telling us what the French law is. We have a law too, and we have broken that law when we made the treaty; we have altered our law in order to make the treaty with France. Why did not my hon. friend tell them that we never impose a surtax, that we raised our taxation in an entirely different manner, and that we could not easily resort to that form of taxation. When nations meet together in order to conclude treaties, those treaties are supposed to supersede the law ; favours are granted mutually and the law is changed to that extent. In this case I did not think that the French could send their goods to London or any port in England, and then those goods might come out here at any time on proof of origin and get the benefit of that treaty. We are bound down ; we cannot tranship through England in any way. and we have to subsidize a steamship line in consequence. I did not think, when there was such a demonstration in honour of the Minister of Finance, and a still larger demonstration in honour of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, that things were as bad as that.


I' cannot agree with my hon. friend when he says that the law has been broken. There has been no law broken.


We have changed our tariff law.
Mr. FIELIHaG. We have not broken any law. A proposal was made to amend the law in precisely the same way as we propose to amend any other law, and when the Senate and Commons of Canada decide to amend the tariff law as proposed, then and not till then will this take effect. Therefore there is no breaking of the law. That is the first point. The second point was, that we should have told the French authorities that we did not impose anything like a surtax. Well, we could not tell the French authorities that, because the statement would be untrue. We do impose surtaxes in Canada, but my hon. friend I suppose forgot that at the moment. Now, the only difference between the position of the two countries is this, that it suits the purpose of the national law of France to establish a surtax under the conditions which have been spoken of ; it does not suit Canada to impose a surtax under those circumstances. But we have reserved the right to impose that surtax if we want to do it. If we think it will do us any good to require those goods to come direct from a French port to Montreal or any other Canadian port, rather than by way of Great Britain, all we have to do is to exercise the right that we have reserved to ourselves in this treaty and impose the surtax. If the surtax is not imposed in Canada, it is not because we have 204
given up the right to impose it, but because, in our judgment, from a Canadian point of view, it has not so far seemed desirable. So I fail to see the point of my hon. friend's observations. If we want to put ourselves on exactly even terms with France, the parliament of Canada has the right to do so.


It seems to me the observations of the Minister of Finance are not to answer to the remarks of my hon friend from Jacques Cartier (Mr. Monk). The real point of the argument made by my hon. friend has not been met at all. It is this : All treaties of this kind are designed to effect a certain change in the fiscal laws of both countries, that is the object in view when you begin negotiations for a treaty. Therefore, it is not an answer to my hon. friend for the Minister of Marine and Fisheries to say that the French law is so and so. Our law was of the same character until we made this treaty, and proposed to sanction that treaty by Act of this parliament. Therefore it is merely begging the question to say that the French law is so and so. Our law would equally have prevented this entry if it remained as it was. The whole point of the observations and alignments of my bon. friend from Jacques Cartier is this ; The treaty is designed to encourage commerce from Canada to France and from France to Canada ; it is designed to assist France by giving her a certain market for certain of her products in Canada; it is designed to assist Canada by giving her a market for certain of her products in France. The question as to whether "these improved markets will be found in either country depends largely on the question of transportation. As the matter has been left by this treaty, France enjoys the privilege and advantage of sending her goods by the numerous steamship lines which ply between Great Britain and Canada, whereas Canada does not enjoy the advantage of sending her goods to France by the same steamship lines. That is the whole matter, as it seems to me, in a nutshell. Under the terms of this treaty, a decided advantage is left on the side of France in that respect.


My hon. friend is entirely wrong. The government, by the terms of this treaty, have done nothing of the sort, on the contrary the government, by the terms of this treaty, have specifically the right to impose a surtax if we want to impose it.


Are you going to impose It ?


I have no hesitation in saying that that is a question for the future and that is a matter in the judgment of parliament. If we should in the future impose the surtax on goods coming from France by way of Great Britain then the 1 two things would be equal. If we do not



impose the surtax on goods coming from Great Britain it is not because we have not the right to do it, it is not because we are under any obligation to the French government not to do it, but it is because we do not think it expedient to do it. But, since the French government say that it is part of their national law which they cannot change, we take the precaution to say that if at any time in the future we want to make it a part of our national law we shall have the right to do so, and that the treaty shall not be a barrier to it. It seems to me very simple.


It is very simple indeed, and the simplicity amounts to this that while France'will be enjoying the benefit and advantage of a dozen steamship lines by which she can send her goods to this country we shall get the advantage of only one steamship line-the one contemplated by this Act-and all the consolation that our shippers and producers can enjoy will be the knowledge that this government has the right to impose the surtax which my hon. friend the Minister of Finance admits he has absolutely no intention of imposing at any time in the immediate future. What is the policy of the government in regard to this surtax ? Have they any policy at all in regard to it ? If they intend to exercise that right in future under what conditions and upon what grounds and for what reasons will they do so ? If the Minister of Finance declares, as he does declare, that this country enjoys some advantage by the reservation of that right, under the terms of the treaty, under what conditions do they propose to exercise it ? My hon. friend argues that he has secured this right. Then under what conditions does he propose to exercise it ? I do not think my hon. friend will desire this question to be put to him by the shippers and producers of Canada.


I do desire it. I do not think the question has any appropriateness at all. In the first place, may I suggest, that we are not discussing the treaty and if it were such a vital and important point as my hon. friend has suddenly conceived it to be might it not have been his duty to have raised that question when the treaty was before parliament ? However, I do not attach any importance to that.


It was raised.


I say again that if my hon. friend thinks it is the part of wisdom for us to shut out English goods, or French goods coming by way of England, we have the power to do it. My hon. friend asks what is the policy of the government in this matter. If the government had a proposal to make on the subject it would be their duty to expound and pro-Mr. FIELDING
claim it. As they have no proposal to make they are not called upon to expound or proclaim any thing about it. However, I will answer my hon. friend. He wants to know what the policy is. The policy at the present time is not to impose any surtax. Is that clear ? It is a little late for my hon. friend to wake up to the importance of this question. He allows the treaty to go through and now he comes to something in it that he never heard of before. I do not think my hon. friend is so dense on the subject as he appears to be.


I hope I am no't as dense as the Minister of Finance seems to be. As a matter of fact the surtax was discussed in the debate of the French treaty. I do not think the hon. gentleman is accurate when he says that it was not discussed. It may not have been gone into exactly on the same line but it certainly was discussed if my recollection is correct. The hon. gentleman has very frankly declared his policy : it is that he has reserved a right, which he regards as sufficient compensation for the certain right that he has given to France, and that having reserved that right he has no policy with regard to its exercise.


Yes, he has.


What is it ?


It is for the present not to exercise it.


That is what I say.


No, that is not what the hon. gentleman said.


Well, let us take it at that then. He has reserved the right as compensation for certain advantages which he has given France and it is his policy not to exercise the right which he has so reserved as compensation. I am very much obliged to the hon. gentleman for the statement


The hon. gentleman is quite welcome to it.


It may be a consoling circumstance to the shippers and producers of this country to know that having given France a certain advantage and having reserved a certain power as compensation for that advantage the policy of the government is not to exercise it.


My hon. friend is very much alarmed about the shippers of this country but it may surprise him to know that no shipper has raised a question such as that to which he alludes. I do not know of a shipper in this country who will regard it as any advantage that we should impose the surtax and shut off importation from England.


I am not talking about shutting off importation from England at all. I am talking about the right which should have been obtained of sending goods to France by the steamship lines which bring goods to this country- We will have a dozen steamship lines bringing goods from France to this country but we will have only one line taking goods to France.


If we do not want a dozen steamship lines bringing goods to this country this parliament has the right or power to cut off eleven of them at any time that we think it wise to do so.


But this parliament 'could not get the other eleven steamship lines to carry the goods of our shippers and producers to France.


When my hon. friend talks about insisting upon making arrangements which are -at variance with the well known laws of France, and which they will not change, the hon. gentleman ought to know that he is talking very absurdly. This question of the surtax is part of the national law of France. If we do not wish to make a treaty under those conditions we need not do so but we must make our treaty with France with a recognition of the fact that they are attached to that principle and that they will not change it.


Of course the imposition of a surtax by Canada at the present moment, when we have just concluded a treaty with France, is such a preposterous and ridiculous idea that I quite understand the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) declaring the policy of the government to be that they will not do it. In what position do we find this question ? In the first place I would remind the Minister of Finance that when the treaty was discussed these matters were gone into. The question of shipment through England at that time was discussed and although objection was taken to it I must confess that I never understood that French shippers had such an immense advantage over us. What is the position as I find it now ? We went to France and we insisted on direct shipment. There is no question about that; it was admitted the other day. We insisted that in order to benefit by the treaty goods should be shipped direct from one country to the other and then, without asking for any assistance from France, we took the responsibility of the payment of $200,000 a year to help that direct shipment without having the advantage of shipment through England or of the lines of steamers that come from England to Canada. The result is that our own shippers are met by a formidable question of monopoly. Without competition we are bound to ship direct to France. One would suppose from what the 204*
Minister of Finance says that the surtax law of France forms part of the constitution of the country. It is like our own laws; we changed our law in order to include this treaty and they changed theirs.


No, they changed their constitution, but not their commercial law.


They did not change their constitution but they changed their tariff law as against ourselves. The law with respect to the surtax is not in the constitution of the French Republic. That law, like another, simply applies to shipments through European ports and the object of it is to protect France from undue competition from European shipping. Why cannot they allow us to ship through England since we allow them to ship through England, why cannot they modify their law to that extent. On the question of shipments, it seems to irritate the Minister of Finance that the Canadian plenipotentiaries have been outdone, and I am not surprised that Mr. Pichon speaking in the French Chamber seemed to speak like a man who had triumphed over our negotiators.


My hon. friend must have had in mind the negotiators of the earlier treaty which permitted just the condition which he has attributed to this treaty. Under the old treaty our goods could only be sent direct to France just as under the present treaty. There is no new condition in that. The present treaty as respects shipments of goods to France is precisely the same as the former treaty which my hon. friend admired so much. But now in this treaty we have made it reciprocal. It was one sided under the old condition of affairs and now it is made reciprocal. Under the former treaty we were obliged to send our goods direct and they now can only send their goods direct from France, or by way of England so long as we see fit to allow it. They cannot send via the United States. There the principle of the nonEuropean country comes in. I point out again that as respects the shipment of Canadian goods to France there is substantially no change. The law which has been in force for the last fifteen years is the law which continues in this treaty, but as respects the other side of the question we say that as whereas formerly they wTould have the right to send goods out here through any country and get the benefit of the treaty, they must now send them either direct or by way of Great Britain, and if we want to put a limitation as respects Great Britain we have the right to do it. My hon. friend will therefore see that the one-sidedness which he speaks of existed in the old treaty but is not to be found in the new one.


I do not understand the Minister of Finance when he says that

goods from France cannot be shipped through the United States. I am not aware of any such restriction so far as I can read the treaty. They may ship through Hamburg, through London, through Liverpool, or through Hong Kong, or through the United States if they think fit.


If goods were shipped from Germany would my hon. friend say they will enjoy the benefit of the intermediate tariff ?


I am not discussing that feature of it at all. I am discussing the feature of the treaty which gives to the public of France all the privileges and gives us comparatively none. In that way I think the French negotiators have got the best of the deal. Now, in order to get the advantage of the minimum tariff with France we are called upon to provide direct connection between France and Canada, and on the other hand France is not obliged to export directly to Canada. Should the Minister of Marine and Fisheries go to a steamship company and say: I want to make an arrangement with yon to give you a subsidy to carry goods direct from Canada to France in order that they will get the advantage of the minimum tariff, it would be very natural for that steamship company to ask : What return cargo will we get? and the minister would have to answer: We cannot guarantee you any return cargo because we failed to insist that the French republic should send their goods direct to Canada-they may send them via the United States, they may send them by Great Britain or any other route they may think fit. Had we insisted upon direct shipments coming to Canada the same as respects goods going from Canada to France it would have been a very important matter when we come to arrange for the subsidy which we are obliged to arrange for in order to get this direct exportation. To my mind that is where we are going to sustain the greatest loss. I fear we will have to grant a larger subsidy to convey our goods directly to France to get the advantage of the minimum tariff simply because we cannot assure the steamship company that under the treaty they will get any return cargo whatever. However, there is no use discussing it now; it is all signed, sealed and delivered, it was all completed before ever it came before the House. All we can do now is to criticise the acts of the ministers who negotiated the treaty in the hope that if they ever have to negotiate another we may be able to give them some light as to how they can get better advantages for Canada, and not allow the other country to get all the advantages. We do not expect we are going to make the treaty any better now, we are simnly pointing out what we regard as oversights on the part of the negotiators and to show that in negotiating this treaty thev have not got all
Mr. HENDERSON
the advantages we thiuk ought to reasonably accrue to Canada.


The desire of my hon. friend (Mr. Henderson) to divert attention from the inequalities of the old treaty


Excuse me, I made no reference to the old treaty whatever. I see no advantage in discussing the merits or demerits of the old treaty because it is a thing of the past and we are repealing it. If the negotiators of the old treaty made a mistake the present negotiators should have taken a lesson from it and made a much better treaty. For them to say they have got something just as good as "we had before, is no argument whatever.


The hon. gentleman is a veteran member of the House and he was here no doubt in 1893 and 1894 and gave enthusiastic support to that old treaty. I do not see why he should now have a disposition to repudiate it and say he is not responsible. So far as direct shipments of Canadian products to France go the provisions in this treaty are" just the same as they were in the old treaty. The only change that is made is that that which was one sided before is now reciprocal and that the French products, which formerly could come to Canada through any channel in the wide world must now come either direct from France to Canada or by way of Great Britain. We are willing to have them come by way of Great Britain and if hon. gentlemen opposite think that is a mistake we disagree with them. But if at any future time, for any reason, the parliament of Canada should desire to change its policy in that respect, then we take the precaution that the treaty should not stand in the way, and that we should put in the reservation that if at any time in the future it might be deemed expedient to impose the surtax on the goods coming by way of Great Britain we have the right to do so and the 