Bill (No. 175) for the relief of Catherine Ann Cannon.-Mr. Stewart.
Bill (No. 177) for the relief of Mary Alexander.-Mr. Stewart.
Bill (No. 176) for the relief of Ada Katurah Stewart Paulding.-Mr. Stewart.
Bill (No. 174) respecting certain patents of the General Chemical Company.-Mr. Stewart.
QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE-Mr. BERGERON.
On the orders of the day being called.
I beg to rise to a question of privilege. I was away on Friday last, but on reading ' Hansard ' I find a statement referring to myself in a speech made by the hon. member for Victoria and Haliburton (Mr. Sam. Hughes) which is not correct. That hon. member is reported as saying :
I am just coming to that. It was strange that a gentleman, a member of the great Conservative party, following the same noble leader, would not have come to me and said something to me about it. Now I come to whait I have got to do about it. Soon after the notice was put on the paper last year, the hon. member for Beauharnois (Mr. Bergeron) notified me that Dr. Worthington had something terrible against me. He is going to expose you, said Mr. Bergeron, and your grafting in connection with the Ross rifle. And he asked: Is it not possible for you to pay back the money?
This is the first time I have heard anything of the matter. The hon. member for Sherbrooke (Mr. Worthington) has never spoken of it to me and I have never spoken to the hon. member for Victoria and Hail-burton (Mr. Sam. Hughes) in the way he has here indicated. The whole thing is entirely a dream, as far as I know.


Mr. R, L. BORDEN. Before the orders of the day are called, I wish to ask the government whether they have any information as to the use of the government steamer 1 Champlain ' on Sunday last. I have a telegram in the following words from a gentleman who professes to be familiar with the facts as stated :
Government steamer ' Champlain ' used by Tascherean, Minister of Public Works, Quebec, candidate in Charlevoix, for political purposes. Please have question put by whose order and who is paying for it. Conservatives
were turned off steamer yesterday though they offered to pay passage.
I am sorry to say I have no knowledge of this matter. The Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. L. P. Brodeurl is not present, he is not in the city to-day although I expect him. I shall make inquiries and report to my hon. friend at a later date. If any government steamer is being used for election purposes prompt action will be taken to put an end to that practice.	.


I wish to ask the Minister of the Interior for information in respect to the Saskatchewan Valley Land, Company. I have here a letter which explains the matter perhaps better than I could explain it. The letter reads :
Would you kindly inform me if the Saskatchewan Valley Land Company have any agreement with the Canadian government to sell homestead lands. I bought the northeast quarter 12-31-1, west third meridian recently. Their contract calls for actual residene on this land for three years and I have live years to pay for it in. It seems hardly right that a company can take money for this land and compel actual residence which makes it a homestead under homestead rules, and a private concern getting the money which shonid be better applied to the country's welfare. If so, can I obtain full title for this land by paying all the price this fall or any time before the three years? Hoping you will favour me with an early reply and thanking you for your kind consideration, I remain, Sir,
Yours respectfully,
NORMAN WILLERTON, Craik, Saskatchewan.
As I do not understand very thoroughly the exact scope of this inquiry I thought, that as the minister will know the circumstances, it was best to apply to him in this way.


If the hon. member will allow this to stand until to-morrow I will have an opportunity of seeing the letter and will be better able to reply.


Is there any objection to lay on the table of the House the report of Mr. Robertson who made an investigation in Halifax recently which I understand resulted in dispensing with the ser-viices of Mr. Joseph Bernstein ? It is understood that the report would be laid on the table of the House.


If the hon. member wishes it I would be very glad to place it on the table of the House, is it the wish of the hon. gentleman ?





Some weeks ago while the investigation was pending I understand the minister to promise that as soon as it was completed the report would be laid on the table of the House. I know of no reason why it should not be laid on the table of the House ; if the minister knows of any, of course that will have to guide him.


None whatever ; I simply wanted to have an expression of the wish of the hon. gentleman.


Has the attention of the Minister of the Interior been called to the statement that one of his officials in Halifax is impeding to some extent the free choice as to location of certain immigrants. I have a statutory declaration which charges that one of the officers of the Interior Department is concerned to the extent of $2 per head in inducing immigrants to go to a particular place and that some 15 of them whose names are given in this declaration have been sent to a part of the Dominion where they did not intend or desire to go.


I would like of course to have the terms of the declaration. I might say in a general way that any such action on the part of any official is absolutely contrary to his instructions, and if he is acting in that way he is acting improperly. When I have been made aware of it I will take such action as seems proper. No such information has come to me until now.


Mr. FIELDING moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.
['It is perfectly cleart then that the city council are satisfied with the Bill in its present form.']
I have a complaint to make about the distribution office. Instructions were giveu two or three years ago by the Debates Committee that the supply of ' Hansard ' to members should he increased as it often occurs that members require more than their allotted share of two copies. There is sometimes a great demand for * Hansard.' especially for the unrevised edition which is supposed to be the more correct. However, the employees in the distribution office seem to assume that they are masters in their own house and seem to care little whether they comply with the wishes of the members of the House. I regret to have to say that members of parliament are not treated in that office as they should he. Instead of being treated as masters they are treated as servants, and an end should be put to that. I may be answered that this is a matter for the Debates Committee but I would point out that the Debates Committee is very badly managed. It has sat two or three times this session and about ten times altogether in the four sessions of this parliament. It meets to appoint a chair-

man and after that it sits whenever it is forced to, and the reports of that committee are made haphazard as for example the report which was presented the other day. I suppose some of the officials who are under that committee come to think they can do anything they like.
A few minutes ago I sent for a copy of Thursday's ' Hansard ' and I was sent one copy and when I wanted to get more I was told there were no more and to understand that there were no more. You, Mr. Speaker, should be the master of all these employees, and if you do not take means to deal with them I shall be compelled to resort to another course. I shall not allow any employee in this House or anywhere else to be impertinent to me as long as I have the honour of a seat here. I think it is in the interest of every member of parliament, whether he sits to the right or to the left of the Speaker, to see that proper treatment is accorded the members by the officials, and if something is not done to correct tlae condition of things which I have pointed out I shall have to defend myself by other means.
Mr, A. JOHNSTON (Cape Breton). The observations of my hou. friend (Mr. Bergeron) should not go unchallenged. I do not think it is fair to the chairman of the Debates Committee who is not here this afternoon, or fair to the members of that committee to say that the committee is badly managed. If that committee is badly run the members of it are to blame, for, as the hon. gentleman knows, the members of the committee receive notices to attend the various meetings and if they do not attend it is their own fault. I happen to be a member of that committee as is my hon. friend (Mr. Bergeron) and I am equally to blame with him for failure to attend regularly. I acknowledge that I have been dilatory in my attendance upon the committee, and upon inquiry I have discovered that my hou. friend (Mr. Bergeron) is in the same position in that regard as I am. The same remark would apply to many other members of the committee. We had a meeting a few days ago when my hon. friend (Mr. Bergeron) was not present, and this question of the distribution of ' Hansard ' was discussed. At that meeting there were present the hon. gentleman from Leeds. (Mr. Taylor), the hon. gentleman from Victoria (Mr. Sam Hughes), the hon. gentleman from Marquette (Mr. W. J. Roche), and myself, and I suggested that at our next meeting we should revise the present list of those to whom ' Hansard ' is sent and make a new list, because in my judgment the existing list is not a proper list. The matter will come up at the next meeting of the Debates Committee. Now, as to the officials of the distribution office, so far as I know, they have always been disposed to grant any reasonable request
made by a member of the House, but of course when they have no copy of ' Hansard ' to give they cannot give it to my hon. friend from Beauharnois or to anybody else. I can hardly believe that the officials of the distribution office are to blame as my hon. friend would seem to indicate. If there is blame to be attached to any one I feel that it must be placed elsewhere. I agree with my hon. friend that the committee should take steps to inquire into the distribution of ' Hansard.' If it is at all convenient I shall attend when the next meeting is called t>y the chairman, and I trust my hon. friend from 'Beauharnois with others will be there so that we may try to settle this question of the distribution of ' Hansard ' once and for all.


Let me tell my hon. friend from Cape Breton (Mr. Johnston) that I have been present at every meeting of the Debates Committee except the last one, and I will avail of this opportunity to explain why I was then absent. The committee sat at 10 o'clock in the morning ; the House did not adjourn until 3 o'clock the same morning and as the post office was closed when I left the House I was not able to get my correspondence. If the notice of the committee were there I consequently could not receive it. When we leave here at 3 o'clock in the morning and get to bed at 4 o'clock we are not very much disposed to get up to attend the meeting at 10 o'clock. Any way I did not know anything about the meeting and it is- the only meeting I missed. About two or three years ago instructions were given by the Debates Committee that when there was an important debate the officer at the head of the distribution office should communicate with the Printing Bureau and order 300 or 600 or 1.000 extra copies of ' Hansard.' When the type is set up and the forms prepared it does not cost a great deal more to print the extra number. There is sometimes a great demand for ' Hansard ' and members should be enabled to get a sufficient supply. The press of the country, in spite of all they can do, do not give a very elaborate report of what goes on in the House, and we can only get it from 1 Hansard.' The officer of the distribution office should get extra copies printed without being told every time. When the Elections Act was under discussion, nearly every member asked for ten or twelve copies of ' Hansard,' but could only get two copies. The discussion on the Ross rifle was a very important discussion, and a good many members wanted extra copies of * Hansard ' containing that discussion, but could not get them. A good many members have complained to me of this matter, and unless there is a change, something is.going to happen, because we cannot be driven in this way by employees of the House.


The clerk of the distributing office is not responsible for ordering more copies of 'Hansard.'


Yes.	*


I doubt that very much.


I have been told that some hon. members opposite sometimes get as many as a hundred copies.


I am afraid the hon. gentleman has been told something that only exists in some person's imagination.


It seems rather invidious to place on the chief clerk of the distribution office the responsibility of deciding whether a debate is sufficiently important to justify him in ordering an extra number of copies to be printed. I would think that a matter of that kind should be left with the chairman of the committee. The chief clerk might of course be instructed, in respect of the budget debate and other important debates that must occur every session, to have an extra number of copies printed. Apart from that, you can hardly expect him to realize the standpoint of members of this House, and decide whether'or not an extra number of any particular debate would be required. Perhaps the suggestion might be made by the Prime Minister to the chairman of the Committee on Debates to give this matter attention. It is very annoying sometimes to send for a few extra copies and not be able to procure them ; but looking at the matter from the standpoint of the chief clerk of distribution, the very demand for extra copies of a particular debate might suggest to him that other members would be likely to come for further copies, and that therefore he must not exhaust the supply. So far as my own experience is concerned,
I am bound to say that he is not only very diligent but invariably courteous in the discharge of his duties.


The distribution office is not under the control off this House alone. It is under the control of the Printing Committee, which is a joint commute of the Senate and the House of Commons. Mr. Davidson is an active and painstaking officer, and will do whatever he is told to do, by that committee.


hW GEO. E. FOSTER (North Toronto).
I rise, Mr. Speaker, to move :
That all the words after that be omitted and the following substituted therefor: The civil service system of Canada should be based on merit and character alone, and all the appointments thereto should be made from candidates whose competency has been established through open competitive examinations conducted unedr a non-partisan civil service commission.
This motion has been a long while in finding its way to discussion in the House.
8133 MAY 26, 1908 9134	
It is not necessary for me to give the reasons; I think they are patent to all who have at all followed it. Suffice it to say that I bring it to the attention of the House at the present time with a good deal of hope that the resolution may commend itself to both sides of the House and be practically agreed to as the principle upon which the civil service of Canada should be based. I am led to that from a good many indications. I think it is clear to all of us who have studied public opinion that, during the last three or four years, opinion in the country, outside of parliament and in political circles, has been paying considerable attention to the question of the civil service, the principle upon which it should be based, and the rules under which it should be conducted; and there appears to be a growing and widely distributed sentiment in favour of a better system than the present one. [DOT]Many of our most prominent daily and weekly organs have advocated the merit system with greater or less force; and it is very gratifying to know that a good many of our public men on both sides of politics have given more or less time to the discussion of the question, and that a great many very strong opinions have been expressed by men prominent in both political parties in favour of a change in the basis of the system. It is therefore in the hope that the resolution will receive practical accord on both sides of the House that I venture to make a few remarks in reference to it. I do not propose to make any apology for bringing the question before the House. It is not by any means an academic question. It is an intensely practical question, and there never has been a time in the history of Canada when it has been more practical and more vital than now. When a country is young and its operations comparatively limited, a civil service system which is not the best and the most carefully thought out, might be fairly effective by reason of a personal supervision given it by heads of departments and the general and every day supervision made by the press and the critical portion of the community. Both these tend to keep it within line and prevent abuse and lead to a fairly good carrying out of the general business of the country. But in proportion as the country widens and its proportions become more important and the amount of business grows, then it becomes necessary for the system to be the very best in principle and very strongest in regulations in order to do the work absolutely necessary. That time has arrived-perhaps it arrived years ago in the Dominion-but there can be no doubt that it has arrived now. So that in view of the public interest concerning the subjeci and its importance and practical nature, I do not suppose anybody expects to hear an apology from me for discussing it.	[DOT]It would be interesting to thoroughly deal with the question historically, but that would take one over a great deal of ground; and the history of civil service reform in all countries is an open page to-day which can be easily read and known by any one who takes any interest in the matter. Therefore I do not propose to deal with the subject very largely in its historical aspect. I propose however to discuss two or three systems of civil service and the operations thereunder, to the end that what has been proved in experience and results may be made patent to our minds and we may have the conclusions which result therefrom. Of course one would not attempt any remarks on civil service systems if he did not at once refer to the system of the motherland, which has had a long history, which is full of rich results, and the lesson of which is open and available to all students of civil service reform. Suffice it to say that in the beginning, the service was entirely in the hands of the sovereign. Everything was at his disposal, and he used it for the purposes that best suited him ; sometimes for the common good, but oftener, I am afraid, for purposes of the royal family and the royal person and its adherents and favourites. After this power was taken away from the King and translated into parliament the patronage system, without any great alleviation, went into the hands of the ministry of the day and the parliament which supported that ministry. So that from the earliest time of the work of the country as carried on by what we denominate civil servants until 1855, there was a period in which patronage was absolutely supreme, in which the principles of civil service were very little adhered to if they were even acknowledged; and history shows us the results in a demoralized, inefficient and costly civil service. About 1853 or thereabouts, the first great forward step was taken and the directors of the East India Company abolished all Patr°"' age with reference to the kingdom, for it really was such which they had under their direction, and instituted an absolute and strict civil service system in which everything was thrown open to merit, and m which that merit was ascertained by means of examination. This radical improvement had its effect in the mother country. In 1855 a system of civil service was introduced against the will of parliament, absolutely against a majority vote in parliament, and was initiated by the executive itself. By judicious explanation of its motives and methods, and a judicious distribution of that information through the country, the executive worked upon public sentiment s that, within a very short time, the parliament which had been adverse to a civil service system based, on examination came to be entirely in its favour and from that
time up to the present, that is from 1856 or 1857, the parliament of Great Britain has never wavered in its allegiance to the system of merit and examination as applied to the civil service. It was not until a good deal later, however, about 1870, that the full measure of civil service reform, so far as principle and regulation is concerned, was applied to the service. In 1870, after repeated investigations and commissions, and as a result of the information thereby gathered, the open competitive system was put into force, and the old system of appointment through patronage or nomination, the old ineffectual departmental examination and system of limited competition, were all done away with, and the principle of open competition for every British subject under proper conditions was established by the parliament of GireatJ Britain and embodied in the British civil service. The results have been, I think beyond all doubt, eminently satisfactory. That they have been satisfactory is shown by the adherence of the British'parliament and people to the system and the continuous strengthening of that system, so that, at the present time, it is, perhaps, stronger than it ever was before, and, during its history, it has served as the starting point and example for civil service systems in almost all the great progressive countries of the world.
In brief, we find the system to be the establishment of a civil service commission, the granting of freedom to every British subject who complies with necessary conditions, to compete for entrance into the service and for the prizes of the service; the absolute elimination from the great bulk of the service of anything like patronage of any kind, and the utter banishment from the service of anything like political influence, either by way of assessment, intimidation, promise, or anything of that kind unfortunately too well known in other countries, our own not excepted. There are certain limited classes of positions which are excluded from this general system, namely, the classes of technical and political positions. But, even in these, the larger portion are still subject to what we call non-competitive examinations. That is, although these positions are not open for competition on the part of allcomers, yet when the head of the department, or whoever has that duty, nominates to an office, the nominees must be examined and receive their certificates of fitness from the civil service examiner, and do not receive the position unless they pass these competitive examinations; and, of course, the successful applicant, as shown by the result of these examinations, gets the position. So, in that case, merit is again defined by examination; and, although at the entrance to it, the number who may apply to be admitted to the competitive exarnin-Mr. FOSTER.
ation is somewhat limited, still there are competitors and they have to pass examinations and the best man wins.
There are two statements that I wish to read on this subject. One was made by Mr. Mundella, who was a member of the British cabinet at one time. He said:
I stand before you the representative of the largest constituency in England, and yet have not the power to control the appointment of the lowest excise officer.
The other was made by Mr. Gladstone, who was still greater in power and influence. He said :
As to the clerkships in mv office-the office of the Treasury-every one of you has just as much power over their disposal as I have.
-	[DOT] In order that the public service might
be indeed the public service; in order that we might not have among the civil officers of the state that which we had complained of in the army, namely, that the service. was not the property of the nation, but of the officers, we have now been enabled to remove the barriers of nomination, patronage, jobbery, favouritism, in whatever form; and every man belonging to the people of England, if htf so please to fit his children for competing for places in the public service, may do it entirely irrespective of the question what is his condition in life.
To these two statements I desire to add a fact which I came across aud which I will give without mentioning names. A very distinguished member of the British cabinet commenced his career as a clerk in the lowest grade of the civil service. He entered through the system of examination, and made his way up to the highest, or nearly the highest executive position of the British government.
I suppose there are now about 70,000 employees in Great Britain coming under the provisions of the Civil Service Act. Two or three instances might be given to show the difference between the condition, of things here and there. Take, for instance, the Inland Revenue. The Inland Revenue service of Great Britain is in charge of a board of commissioners who are appointed by the Crown and hold office during good behaviour. They have over 8.000 officials besides a large number of employees. The entrance is by examination through the lowest grade. There is no removal except for cause, and religion or politics is never a cause of removal. When a removal takes place, the cause has to be written and signified to the Civil Service Commissioners' board, and no interference from politicians, or wardworkers or ministers may interfere with the discipline of this large staff of officials and employees. Not only is there no removal except for cause, but, before removal, there must be a proper hearing. The Customs Department of Great Britain has been managed now for over one hundred years in the manner I am about to

describe. A board of four commissioners is appointed, as in the case of the Inland Revenue. They have over 5,000 clerks, -besides large numbers of employees who are exactly on the same basis as under the Inland Revenue Board-no politics, no interference. The higher places are filled by promotion, and the board annually inspects each port, which I think is a most excellent feature of the system.
Then there is the treasury, which is run by a board of seven managers. There is the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and others, and as these are pasing, ephemeral, there is a permanent secretary in whose hands is placed the chief business of directing the treasury so far as its officials are concerned. The Treasury Board, of course, dominates the policy. However parties may differ, the board defines the policy for the Department of Inland Revenue or Customs. But there is no political interference in any way. shape or form, nor removal except for cause, and the reason, in case of removal, is to be given in writing.
The postal division is managed by a permanent non-political secretary. The post offices are divided. There is the very small and unimportant post office, which is allowed to take care of itself and is judged by its results. If the results are good it is undisturbed; if any difficulties arise, troubles or laches take place, then of course it is looked into and a remedy applied. Then there is the class of post offices which have not over £120 of income. There the clerks are nominated by the postmaster and the postmasters are selected by the Treasury Board, and are removable only for cause. Tne next class are the post offices having over £120 revenue. There the postmasters are selected from the entire service as a recognition of merit. That opens the horizon and gives scope and consequently spirit to the service. They are appointed by the Postmaster General and are removable only for cause, and any application in favour of them by members of parliament or persons in political life is a detriment, and is more likely to militate against the appointment of the candidate than to help him. Then the last are the great city post offices. These great city post offices are under the civil service entirely. All clerks enter by open competition and examination, and the same rule applies with reference to promotions and removals.
Then there is the consular or diplomatic service, which is now almost entirely taken out of patronage, and a system of rigid and thorough examination prevails, combined as well with the record of the person himself, whose experience makes up a large part of that record. In the House of Lords the clerk of Parliament selects those who are to be examined for clerkships, and in the House of Commons the librarian selects them, and they have to make good by competitive examination. Any one, I think, who has the interest of the service at heart would be glad to see a system of that kind applied to both our Houses here, at least I certainly would. So much then with reference to the British service. I will have a little more to say with reference to the results of that service later on in my remarks.
The next country to which I invite the attention of the House is the United States of America. Many of those who have not followed closely the track of progress of the United States in this respect are inclined to think that it is a very poor example of a civil service country to bring before the parliament of Canada, and I have noticed on two or three occasions that when some remark has been made with reference to the civil service in the United States it has provoked a smile. Well, that is not impossible of explanation. No man can keep all subjects within his ken, and until a few years ago when I gave some attention to the civil service in the United States, I myself would have been inclined to put it amongst the more backward of countries, and to conclude, as so many in our country do, that it is delivered over body and soul to the spoils systems, as it was not very long ago delivered over almost absolutely to the spoils system. But to make a long story short, the evils of their system so impressed themselves upon the better thinking public men of the United States, as they had done before in Great Britain, that methods were adopted, a plan of educational work was undertaken throughout the country and carried up into Congress, and it resulted in 1882 in the enactment of tile present civil service law of the United States. Now, wonders have been doue under that legislation, giving as it does a very large power to the president, by proclamation, to bring under the operation of the Civil Service Act such departments and such parts of departments as it may suit him. This of course he does with a full knowledge of what is needed and of what will be fairly well supported. President Cleveland began that work particularly, and he and President Roosevelt have been especially the two presidents who have done so much to widen the scope of the civil service, and by their repeated proclamations to bring constantly wider and wider areas under its scope. In operation the United States appoints a Civil Service Commission of three. This Civil Service Commission, with the president, is authorized to prepare the rules and regulations for the civil service, and what they prepare, when it is promulgated by the President, has the force of law and becomes equal to an enactment. They have the power of examination, and for that part of the civil service which is under the merit system, a careful system of examinations is carried on by
these commissioners, not a pedantic system which takes care simply for the literary parts of the examination, but one which is intensely practical in its end. It is carried out by men who mingle with all parts of the service in every part of the United States, who become thoroughly saturated with its needs and with its capabilities as well. They conduct their examinations on the line of getting at the best that is in the applicant, practically deciding, as far as they can, what is the best the candidate can do for the service into which he wishes to enter in any one of a dozen of different great trends that the service takes. They then carry on their examinations. All who fail to get 70 per cent on an average in these examinations fail to get their names on the register; all who make 70 per cent or over are placed upon the official register in the order of time and in the order of merit, and this is the register of certificated candidates for employment. When the head of a department requires some one to fill a vacancy he applies to the Civil Service Commission and the Civil Service Commission look over their different branches, having regard to the kind of work that this head of a department requires, and hand him the thr'ee highest names on the register in that line of work. The appointing power has then a choice between those three. He selects one and the appointee must be placed on probation for at least six months. If he fulfils the requirements he is then permanently appointed. If he does not, then the head of the department must state to the Civil Service Commission the reasons for his failure. The Civil Service Commission then give him the next three highest names out of which a choice must be made.
How do the commissioners get the list?


By examination.


Made by themselves ?


Made by themselves.


Do they examine from all over the union?


From all over the union.


Have they no boards of examiners under them?


Oh, certainly, do you suppose that three men could extend themselves all over the union and cover the work?


They do not themselves get the list.


They get the list because they are the body who manage and control the whole system, who appoint all sub-examiners.


Is there a board of examiners for each state ?
Sir. FOSTER


That is according to the necessities of the case; in some states there is more than one body of examiners and when I say that the commission do it, I say it in a sense that the Minister of Customs collects the revenue. He has to do it through those whom he appoints and for whose actions he is responsible. The examination papers are under the control of the commission in every respect.


They are prescribed by them.


They are prescribed by them. Of course, as I said before, they are careful to procure information from every source, to know what a department wants, to know what its various services are, the kind of work it does and what kind of talent is best fitted for it. They consult the heJads and chief officials of departments; they do not simply sit down, draw their salaries and issue mandates, but are a real, live, governing, actively-working board who try to saturate themselves with the service and making every effort to get the best services for the country from the material within the country. I have now explained the register.
The applicant who gets his name upon the register and is so enrolled is eligible for a year, but not for a longer period unless the Civil Service Commission extends the term of eligibility for another year or some other period which they have the power to do. This is to prevent the list becoming crowded with names whose owners have gone into other employment or grown stale by lapse of time. This keeps the list from becoming old and burdened. There is a possibility of making emergency appointments. Suppose that no one is at hand ready for appointment, then the head of the department can make an emergency appointment, but he must immediately notify the board of that appointment and the appointment cannot be for more than three months, unless the board, under certain circumstances, see fit to allow it to go on for another three months. But it is their duty, the moment they are notified of the emergency, to see that the position is filled by the permanent person just as soon Sas they can get a suitable applicant.
Two great reforms have been brought about in the United States by the operation of this system, two great sources of corruption in the civil service and in politics, taking the two conjoined, have been eliminated, first, the levying of political assessments which at one time in the political history of the United States might have been described Sas au open practice universally carried on, and, secondly, the use of the service for political purposes in any way. The Civil Service Commissioners' reports of later years, that of this year particularly, declare that these two evils have

been practically rooted out of the civil service. No person is allowed within a department under the civil service to solicit assessments of any kind and no officer in a department who acquiesces in such a practice will be allowed to go unpunished. (The law in this matter has been for a good many years coming to the point of perfection. It is very difficult to eliminate the use of political influence in the service, by the head of a department using his influence over employees, and in the thousand and one ways in which political use may be made of the civil servant as a partisan. One of the chief difficulties in eliminating this evil was that if a charge of political partisanship was made, it was left to the head of the department, whoever he was, to deal with the charge and it was found that this system was ineffective. Some heads of departments were loyal and true to the principle of the system and they would carry out the law with rigidity and success. Others were still more politicians than they should he and in their hands the law would become almost a dead letter, so there was still a lamentable lack of effectiveness. This evil has been cured by President Roosevelt handing over the investigation of matters of partisanship to the Civil Service Commission itself. That has been the effective step that has put the quietus upon that form of partisanship and of political use of the civil service. The last report of the American Civil Service Commission, 1907, which I have here chronicles that as the final and decisive act which now puts this matter in the hands of the commission and rings the knell of partisanship or political use of the service of the United States. Here when a charge of political partisanship was made, when it was alleged that a civil servant of the Department of the Interior was fooling with politics the political head let it go in one ear and out of the other, at least it was not taken heed to. Now in the United States instead of its being left any longer with the head of the department, the charge is to be investigated by the Civil Service Commission itself and they, having the good of the service at heart, may be relied on to make it effective and uniform.


What is the meaning of partisanship there ? Does it extend to the vote?


It even goes this far, by one of the decisions, that if a civil servant carries around the nomination paper of a candidate that is doing political service.


It does not extend to the vote?
M!r. FOSTER. It allows every man to vote, to express his own opinion, to express it privately. The civil servants have a perfect right to the vote and to the franchise, as I think every civil servant should have, as he is a citizen of the country and
he has a right to his vote; he may have his private opinion and is allowed to express it to his friend or his family or in any other private way, but the moment he goes outside that it is political partisanship and may become a charge and subject for discipline. The last civil service report of the United States, page 13, is my authority for the statement I have just made with reference to the trying power. The considerations I have mentioned led to the amendment of rule 1 on June 15, 1907, when the president put the matter under the control of the commissioner. The amendment provided:
That persons who by the provisions of this resolution are in the competitive classified service, while retaining the right to vote as they please and to express privately their opinions on all critical subjects shall take no active part in any political management or any political campaigns.
With reference to the enlargement of the system a most important change affecting excepted positions was made by executive order November 7, 1908, under which 1,100 deputy collectors of internal revenue were transferred to the competitive class. The report says :
This is an important advance as it has been impossible ,to secure satisfactory results in any part of the service to which any considerable proportion of positions of the important classes are exempted from examination.
This illustrates the power I spoke of, possessed by the President of bringing in portions of the service under the sweep of the Act.
Quoting still from the report:
The United States undertook work in the Philippine Islands a few years ago. Some seven years ago (this report goes on to say), on September 19. 1900, the Philippine commission passed an Act for the establishment and maintenance of an honest and efficient civil service in the Philippine Islands by which provision was made focr filling vacancies^ in most positions in the civil service by examination.
The Filipinos, owing to lack of knowledge of the English language, were not eligible, and this report goes on to say :
It was impossible to get eligible men. It was necessary a/t first to fill almost all the positions by English-speaking_ people. Rut what would happen as the Filipinos at that time had no knowledge of English? They qualified in the Spanish examinations only and got appointed only 'to those positions in which a knowledge of English was not essential. As the years have passed the Filipinos have steadily acquired English and they now take part in English examinations and during the year ending June 30, 1906, 53 per cent of the Filipinos examined took the examinations in English and it was found possible to appoint Filipinos to 80 per cent of the vacancies filled by local appointees. By amendment to the Philippine Civil Service Aot the classi-

[DOT]jl44
fieri service was greatlv extended until it includes almost all positions above the grade of unskilled labourers, except the Philippine con" stabulary. The Philippine Cdvdl Service Act provides that employees of the Philippine assembly selected by it shall be in the unclassified service. One of the first acts of the first assembly was to waive this exception and provide for the appointment of its employees under the Civil Service Buies and Regulations.
This is an indication that the merit system has the support of the people, and the remark that is made upon it Is the great impetus it has given to education in English among the Filipinos ; their desire to participate in the service has given them a trend in an educational way in the acquirement of the English language and the knowledge that appertains thereto. Then In Porto Rico they have applied the civil service regulations in the same way and they have now an effective civil service in that island, a thing which of course was unknown before the people of the United States took possession of it:
The federal services were placed under the Federal Civil Service Act by an Act of Congress of April 12, 1900, and examinations and appointments have since been made in accordance with civil service law, and on March If, 1907. a civil service law was passed by the legislature of Porto Rico and approved by the government to take effect January 1, 1908.
The above quotations from the United States Civil Service Board for 1907, serve as indications to show how widespread is the work which has been done In civil service reform in the United States of Ameriica and its dependencies. There is also another point to be kept in mind with reference to the United States service. The United States service is divided into two classes, one called the classified service and the other the unclassified service. Not all of the service in the United States is under the examination system and the merit by examination system, of which I have been speaking. I wish to briefly give an outline of the service in that regard. First, there is subject to the civil service law' the classified civil service. That takes in all persons employed in the executive civil service of the United States, however they are remunerated, whether they are permanent or temporary, by regular salary or otherwise, first those who are merely employed as labourers or workman, and second those whose appointments are subject to consent or ratification by the Senate. These two classes are exempted from the classified service, but all others are included in it and are subject to examination, except those who come under schedule A who are appointed without examination or upon what is called non-competitive examinations. That is to say, the head nominates them and then they are to be examined by the Civil Service Commission to see whether thev are Mr. FOSTER.
qualified or not. Or, if the head wishes it he can have them undergo a competitive examination and conform to the general rule of the service. Under schedule A you get a pretty large list. For instance, it includes : two private secretaries and confidential clerks which are allowed to each head of a department such as the Navy or the Interior; one confidential clerk and private secretary to each inferior department : one to the head of certain bureaus, and such appointments as attorneys, Chinese and Japanese interpreters, persons receiving not more than $3,500 and doing work in connection with their own private work ; quasi naval and military officers under enlistment, employees of the government in foreign countries in many cases. It is a special and technical class which is embraced in schedule A and these officers are therefore not subject'to examination though they are within the classified service. In the unclassified service is included all appointments by the President which have to be approved by the Senate, and all unskilled manual labourers in Washington and in the field service. But with reference to the unskilled labourers there is ttiis somewhat remarkable feature, and it seems to me to be very praiseworthy : the unskilled labourer in Washington and in the field service does not get in helter-skelter ; whoever comes first and may have the null is not selected. The whole of that unskilled manual labour department is under the head and direction of the Civil Service Commission and certain machinery is provided by which it is all tabulated and registered, and the Civil Service Commission direct and dominate.
In practice it so works out that the whole matter is practically under the Civil Service Commission thi'ough its appointment upon the employment board, and the head of the department takes little interest in it. All applicants for employment are examined and inquired into as to their physical and mental qualification-they have to undergo a medical examination ; as to their character and habits-their record is thoroughly searched ; as to the experience they have had and which is shown by vouchers which they get; and of course the age-limit restriction has to be taken into account. On the information thus got these men are rated, mid ail who rate over 70 per cent are put upon the labour register; and when labourers are wanted in this field or the other field, application is made to the civil service board, wbo at once send the men who they think, from that examination, will be best fitted for the work. In that way incompetent people are weeded out from the great unskilled labour department which I have spoken of. and it is put upon a basis where character, good habits, ability and record comes to be a determining factor. To show the progress that has taken place, I take two years. In 1903 there were 271,000 in tlie executive civil service, and of

those 135,485 were appointed after competitive examinations. In 1907 there were
337.000	in the whole service, and of those
197.000	held tlieir position by competitive examinations. Making up the other 140,000 employees are 6,314 postmasters of first, second and third clashes, and 53,345 postmasters of the fourth class ; that is, nearly
60.000	postmasters who do not come under the examination system.


How many postmasters altogether ?


assessment, subscription or contribution, and no person shall enter, or remain in any said office, building or room, or send or direct any letter or other notice thereto, for the purpose of giving notice of, demanding, or collecting a political assessment, subscription or contribution, nor shall any person therein give notice of, demand, collect or receive, any such assessment, subscription or contribution. Any person who shall be guilty of violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanour.
Section 29-Official influence-Whoever, while holding any public office, or in nomination for, or while seeking a -nomination or appointment for, any public office, shall use or promise to use, whether directly or indirectly, any official authority or influence (whether then possessed or -merely anticipated) in -the way of conferring upon any person, or in order to secure or aid any person in securing any office or public employment or -public contract or any nomination, confirmation, promotion, or increase in salary, upon a consideration or condition that the vote or political influence or action of the last named person or any other, shall be given or used .in behalf of any candidate, officer or party, or upon any other corrupt condition or consideration, shall be deemed guilty of bribery or an attempt at bribery -as the case may he. And whoever, being a public officer or having or claiming to have, authority or influence for or affecting the nomination, public employment, confir