I wish to present a motion calling for the


thi9 respect, what is the reason for such difference?


The Department of Railways and Canals, cross section all dredging work ; and do not let contracts on scow measurement.


For the Department of Public Works, I hare a statement from the chief eugineer. He says :
There are two ways of measuring the quantity of material dredged, one being measurement in situ and the other, scow measurement.
It has always been the custom of the department to adopt the latter, as it is considered that with faithful inspectors in charge of the different works, the quantities returned are as near as practicable absolutely correct and therefore fair and just both to the department and to the contractor. Moreover, the in situ mode of measurement necessitates extensive and most accurate surveys before the beginning of the work, monthly during its execution and after its final completion, which accurate surveys of course, would entail such a large expenditure in the way of additional staff, as to be, in my opinion, prohibitive, In fact, the expenditure for surveying would, in some eases, be as great as the cost of the dredging itself.
Moreover, I am of opinion, that it is practically impossible to return accurately, by this way of measurement, the actual quantity of dredging performed, as the surface dredged would have to be entirely covered with soundings, say every five feet apart, in order to arrive, even then, at only an approximation.
For these reasons, I am of opinion that the method adopted by the department is certainly the best, providing of course, that the inspectors be competent and thoroughly reliable.
Respectfully submitted, EUGENE D. LAFLEUR, Chief Engineer.
I should add that the dredging work in the two departments is entirely different. In the Railway Department it usually extends over but a narrow area, being mostly confined to canal work, while in the Public Works Department the area is very much larger, in connection with the dredging of harbours and rivers and the like.


1.	What was the amount of contract for the boat harbour at Toney River, Nova Scotia, who were (the tenderers, what is the amount of each tender, and to whom was the contract awarded ?
2.	When was the work commenced, when wa.s it completed, and what was the total amount paid under contract?
3.	What extras, if any, did the contractor receive, for what were extras paid, and what were the several amounts paid as extras?


4.	Since completion of work -has any expenditure been made on the work? -If so, when were the expenditures made, and what were the -reasons for making each expenditure since completion of work under the contract?
5.	What is the total amount to date paid since completion under contract?
6.	Is any further repair or addition to be made to work -in. the current year ? If so, what is the reason for such repair or addition, and whiat is the estimated cost of same?
7.	Was any land purchased an connection with this work? If so, from whom and for what purposes?


1.	No contract; work was carried out by day's labour.
2.	Commenced 12th March, 1906; completed 23rd October, 1907.
3.	No contract, therefore no extras.
4.	No expenditure made since completion of work.
5.	Total cost of work, including purchase
of land, $7,588.71.	.
6.	Resident engineer has submitted a report regarding extension of channel protection works at mouth of river, estimated to cost $2,000. Matter under consideration.
7.	Land purchased from Duncan Johnston for $474.


Mr. FOWLER-by Mr. Taylor-asked :
1.	Is James A. Stewart still in (the employ of the Intercolonial Railway? If -so, in what capacity, <what is his pay, and what his hours of -labour?
2.	Why was he employed, on whose recommendation, and what were his special qualifications for the work?
3.	What iso far has been the net result of his labours, land how long has he been employed?
4.	Is it .still considered necessaa-y that Stewart be retained in his present employment?
1.	There is a James A. Stewart employed on the Intercolonial Railway as brakesman, at $1.75 per day.
2.	As brakeman.
3.	His services have been satisfactory to the railway. Employed since March, 1899.
4.	Yes ; as long as his services are satisfactory to the railway.


1.	Is it (the case that the camp for military district -No. 1 is to be held at Goderich this summer? I-f iso, whiat superiority does this camp possess over London ?
2.	Was the change made on the recommendation of the military authorities? If not, by whom ?
3.	Will the accommodation for target practice be sufficient to enable the troops assembled to complete their practice during the


continuation of the camp? If not, what arrangements will be made to remedy this?
1.	Yes. It has a much larger area an.l better facilities for manoeuvring.
2.	Yes.
3.	There are four targets for long distance firing, and a sufficient number of min-ature targets will be installed.


1.	How many pounds of iron bolts were purchased for the wharf at Bic, province of Quebec, from the month of August to the month of December, 1906?
2.	How much was paid for that iron; and to whom were such amounts paid p
3.	During the same time, from the month of August to the month of December, 1906, what quantity of lumber and of timber was used for the same wharf?
4.	Who supplied that wood, what price was paid for it, and in what amounts?


1 and 2. From E. Lavoie :
24.9S0 lbs. at $2.50	$G24 00
7,900 lbs. at $2.65	 209 35


 37	98
N. Durette, 2,380 ft. spruce fenders at
12 cents	$285.60
N. Durette, 2,250 shingles	at	$1.50 ....	3.38

 288	98


Mr. lVORTHINGTON asked :
1. Did Major Gaudet, of Quebec, either as inspector of small arms or in any other capacity, ever make a renort on the Ross rifle, which was not included in the returns laid on the table of the House of Commons in response to a motion for return of all reports, correspondence, &c., relating to the Ross rifle?
If so, on what date was the report made, and what was the nature of the same?
2.	If this report was not brought down, why was it not included in the returns?
3.	Where is this report at present?
1.	Yes ; the report is dated January 2, 1907, and is on tests on the Ross rifle.
2.	The report was laid before the Militia Council by the Master-Genera! of the ordnance, and subsequently it was referred to the Ross Ritfe Company, who complained that they had not been notified that the tests were to be made, nor given an opportunity of being represented thereat. The company felt that this was unfair, and disputed the accuracy of the tests. It was considered that their view was sound. The report was, therefore, held in abeyance in order to give time for further tests which the company proposed to make, at which, it was stipulated, the department should be represented by Lieutenant-Colonel Gaudet or some other competent officer. The tests now being made at Quebec will probably determine the question at issue.
3.	The report is on record in the Department of Militia and Defence as a confidential document.


Has the Railway Department any claim against the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company or against the government of New Brunswick on account of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, other than that specified by the Minister of Railways in his answer to Mr. Ganong's question on May 27? If so, what?


Yes. There is an unadjusted balance for car service, freight balances, ticket sale balances, car repairs, &c., amounting to $9,459.94.


Mr. ELSON asked ;
1.	Is the construction of the semaphores lately erected at the interlocking plant on the railways near the London asylum sucli as to compel the employees to climb up a high, narrow and dangerous ladder to light and care for lamps?
2.	If not so constructed, can the lamps he lighted on the ground and pulled up to their places by a chain, the same as 'the Pipe semaphores ?
1 and 2. The chief engineer of the Board of Railway Commissioners, states that the semaphores lately erected at the interlocking plant near the London asylum are

equipped with iron ladders the full height of the semaphores, and the employees climb them to light the lamps. These ladders are high and narrow, but not dangerous. They are in common use in many places, and have received the approval of the board's chief engineer, he having tested them personally.


What are the names and post office addresses of the persons ito whom $39,574.64 worth of twine, including $14.40 for a .rope yarn, was shipped, as set out in first column of page M- 33 of the Auditor General's Report for 1907?


The names of these persons, together with the names of persons to whom $10,855.78 worth of twine was shipped in 1905-6, which was paid for in 1906-7, appear on pages M-33, 34 and 35 of the Auditor General's Report. I should be happy to send to my hon. friend (Mr. El-son) a list of these names as appearing in the report, but I hope that my hon. friend will not desire the post office addresses of these purchasers. There are something over two hundred of them and the post office address of each appears on the files at the penitentiary in Kingston, also iu the Auditor General's office here, but it is not published (as was the case formerly), because it was found that publishing the post office addresses of these individual purchasers prejudiced the interests of the penitentiary by reason of the access it gave to competitors of the industry to the purchasers of these consignments of binder twine.


On the orders of the day being called :
BORDEN (Carleton, Ont.) I would like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) whether or not all the correspondence with respect to the treaties between Great Britain and the United States has been brought down and is now being printed, or whether there are some additional documents to be brought d< wn ?


No correspondence has been brought down, but it is ready. I should have had it to-day. It is an omission of mine, it will be ready to-morrow.


The hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Brodeur) is not here, but the right hon. Prime Minister will take the request that the report of the investigation with regard Mr. GRAHAM.
to the accident to the ' Montcalm ' should be laid on the table of the House. I notice that the report has been given and we have seen just the bare results of it in the paper.


I would also like to know if the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Ayles-worth) has yet laid on the table of the House the commission issued to the inspectors that he is appointing along the Transcontinental Railway. I asked that one of the commissions be brought down so that we could see the general nature of the instructions.


I laid a copy of the commission to Mr. Paeaud, commissioner for Quebec, upon the table on the day following the inquiry.


I suppose the commissions are all the same?


Yes.


Sir WILFRID LAURIER moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.
['Those who have sent registered letters have the receipts in thier hands and they will know whether the parties to whom the letters were addressed received them or not, and they can themselves make complaint to the post office if they have a complaint to make. I am not aware whether or not instructions are given to the postmasters to notify the parties who sent registered letters ; but I will inquire as to that.']
Before you leave the chair, Mr. Speaker, I would like to inquire from the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Pugsley) it he has yet completed the return that I asked for some time ago with reference to the wharf down at Petit Rocher. I moved for an order of the House which was passed asking for all the papers. A return was brought down up to 1905 and we had quite a discussion on it the other day. I asked the minister to complete the return, telling him that I had in my possession correspondence that took place since then and that I knew that there was more correspondence. I would like to ask the minister if he has yet complied with the order of the House. That was on 24th April, over a month ago and I have heard nothing further yet.


The order of the House was completely and thoroughly complied with. The return was brought down just as it was called for. I stated to my hon. friend at the time that if he desired any further information he had only to make motion and ask a question and the infonna-tion would be cheerfully given if there were any further information in the department.


was started on February 19, 1908, brt on March 11, when it had reached a height of about six tiers, it was carried away by the ice. It was, however, recovered on May 14. The outer section, which was intended to complete the main part of the breakwater was found to be intact and work on it was resumed. By the end of the fiscal year this crib had been built to a height of nineteen tiers and the two cribs sunk in 1905 had been filled with ballast and built up to half tide level, and the upper ballast floors were laid.
During the fiscal year 1908-7, the crib forming the remainder of the main work was sunk in place and a crib to complete the ' L ' was begun and placed in position. The building of the superstructure was continued on the main part up to about high water level, when two storms, on November 12 and 16 carried away nearly the whole top, the break being about 9 feet in extreme depth.
Work was resumed on March 7, and by the close of the fiscal year the remains of three damaged tiers of face timbers had been removed, and a part of the wrecked superstructure near the southern end rebuilt, the interior being filled with ballast.
The expenditure for the fiscal year 1906-7 was $5,029.60."
Here in his own report he shows that work was going: on up to 1907, and the last correspondence brought down in the return moved for was in 1905; and the minister tells me again to-day that he has complied with the order of the House asking for correspondence up to 1907, including contracts, tenders and everything else. Now I have from the department a notice that they issued calling fox' tenders.


What is the date of the notice ?


June 14, 1907, I will I'ead the whole document for the minister :
Sealed tenders addressed to the undersigned, and endorsed ' Tenders for Petit Rocher Breakwater Extension/ will he received at this office until Monday, July 15, 1907, inclusively, for the construction of an extension from the Breakwater to the shore at Petit Rocher, Gloucester County, N.B., according to a plan and specification to be seen at the offices of E. T. P. Shewen, Esq., Resident Engineer, St. John, N.B., Geoffrey Stead, Esq., Resident Engineer, Chatham, N.B., on application to the Postmaster at Petit Rocher, N.B., and at the Department of Public Works, Ottawa.
Tenders will not be considered unless made on the printed form supplied, and signed with the actual signatures of tenderers.
An accepted cheque on a chartered bank, payable to the order of the Honourable the Minister of Public Works, for two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) must accompany each tender. The cheque will he forfeited if the party tendering decline the contract or fail to complete the work contracted for, and will be returned in case of non-aecep tance of tender.


The department does not bind itself to accept the lowest or any tender.
By order,


Secretary.
Department of Public Works,
Ottawa, June 14, 1907.
Newspapers inserting this advertisement without authority from the department will not be paid for it.
Now that will prove to the minister that there has been correspondence.
Will you allow me to see the notice ?


There is no notice. Several tenders wei'e received, and I have in my hand other correspondence from the department, which I will not i'ead at present until I see whether the minister will comply with the order of this House. But I have here a letter from the department, proving completely that there was correspondence.


To whom was the letter addressed ?


I will not tell the minister. I want him to obey the order of the House. When he gets up and tells the House that there is no further correspondence, I tell him that there is, and I know whereof I am speaking, because I have the correspondence in my hand. I have given the minister enough to convince him now that there has been correspondence, because there was an advertisement for fenders and tenders came in. I know of tenders coming in, and I know of correspondence going on in the department. Now surely the minister will make an apology for all he has said. I have read his report showing that there was an accident, that the wharf was carried away, that the work was going on, and an expenditure was made of $5,029 for the fiscal year of 1906-7. Surely this work has not been going on without some correspondence, and the correspondence is brought down up to the crucial point; July 12, 1905, is the date of the last document brought, down, although the order of the House asks for everything up to the 31st of March last. Now I want the file completed, I think it is high time. I have given him lots of time from the 24th of April, I have brought the facts all before him, I have made my statement, and I ask the Prime Minister to see that his Minister of Public Works obeys the order of the House. I have always undex-stood, when an order of the House was passed, it had to be complied with, no matter what department or what minister is affected. I have proved conclusively now to the Prime Minister that an order of the House was passed calling for all the papers, and the papers come down up to the time when it is discovered that there is a nigger in the fence, and then they are cut off.


You mean a nigger in the wharf, this is not a fence.


My hon. friend is acquainted with the nigger In the fence, he knows what it means, he knows there is a job behind this.


No, I do not.


I have correspondence in my pocket which proves it. Now I want the minister to obey the order of the House and complete this file up to the 31st of March, so that I may see what has taken place. I know there was a second tender called for, for I have given the minister the notice, and I want him to say when I may expect the order of the House to be obeyed.


I am not fully persuaded by the remarks of my hon. friend that the order of the House has not been obeyed, in fact my deputy informs me that it has been completely obeyed. I am rather inclined to think my hon. friend is more anxious to find fault with me than he is to get information, because a month or so ago I told the hon. gentleman if he would be good enough to tell me what further information he desired I would be only too happy to bring it down. I want to say further, that coming here new to the House and new to the department I am only too anxious to receive any information in regard to any departmental matters which might require attention. If there has been any job in connection with this breakwater I have no knowledge of it, and if the hon. gentleman has any information to give I shall only be too happy to look into it with the utmost care. I repeat that if my hon. friend will tell me what further he desires I shall bring all that information down without a formal order.


The order of the House calls for it, and I want the minister to comply with it.


The order of the House has been complied with. The order of the House asked for papers connected with matters which were detailed upon page 74 of the report of the Public Works Department. X saw my deputy and told him what the hon. member had said on a former occasion, and my deputy assured me that everything which was called for by the order had been furnished. There is no doubt tenders were called for in 1907, but that would be for additional work which is not referred to, so 1 am told, on page 74 of the report. There is no necessity for introducing any technicalities about it; without questioning whether my hon. friend is right or whether I am right, I say I will have any further information in the department brought down so as to carry the matter forward to the latest possible date.


When a member of this House asks for certain correspondence or for tenders, that member is not supposed to know what the correspondence is or what tenders there may be, and so he asks for all that is in possession of a department of the government.


This motion was limited to a certain date and to what was detailed on page 74 of the Public Works report.


I think the minister is not justified in saying that because a member does not specify exactly what he wants the order is complied with when only certain correspondence is brought down. How can a member know what is in the possession of the department; he expects the minister and the deputy to attend to that?


If the order of the House were to bring down all papers connected with a certain work to the 30th June, 1906, would the hon. member expect the papers to be brought down to the 30th June, 1907?


This order calls for everything in connection with the construction of a breakwater at Petit Rocher as detailed in page 74 of the report of the Minister of Pifblic Works for the year ending the 31st March, 1907.


That would not take in the work done up to June, 1907.


lYLOR. It would; the report refers to it.


It asks for everything in connection with the breakwater.


As detailed on page 74 of the report, and that would not take in the new work.


The work was under construction and correspondence must have been going on all the time. A substantial compliance with that order would be the bringing down of all correspondence up to the date of the order. I will read what is said at page 74 of the report of the Department of Public Works.


Would my hon. friend permit me to interrupt him to say that upon the intimation of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Taylor) that he desires further information I will cheerfully bring down everything right up to the date of the order. That ought to be satisfactory.


But the minister has said that he brought everything down.
iMV PUGSLEY. I said I had brought down everything in reference to what was detailed upon page 74 of the Public Works report which the order of the House was limited to. Now, I say that at the desire of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Taylor) I will

give direction to place on tlie table of the House everything right down to the date of the order.


Less than that would not be a substantial compliance with the order.


I will do it.


The minister should not shield himself behind his deputy and say that he has literally complied with the order when it has not been complied with in fact.


There is nothing to keep back I can assure you.


On Sunday night or Monday morning of last week an accident occurred by the derailing and immersion in a lake of a mail car near Kenora, and on the Wednesday following I asked the Postmaster General if he had any information about it and he replied that he had not. Since then the Postmaster General has been good enough to inform me that the information had reached the department on the 1st of June, that "a portion of the mails had been rescued and had been spread out and dried and forwarded to their destination with a note stating what happened to them. The fact remains that a portion of those mails may nof yet have been delivered, and I was expecting letters myself about that date. I have since received two letters. One of them was inclosed in a wrapper from the Ottawa post office stating that it had been received in a damaged condition, at Ottawa, Ontario. That is all the information I got to account for the damaged condition in which this letter, which was posted on the 23rd of May at the town of Moosomin, reached me. The other letter had a note across it stating that it was damaged by water owing to a railway accident near Kenora, Ontario. Of course, I realize that that is practically all that the Post Office Department could do at the moment ; but it would be much more satisfactory to me if I had known at the time the accident happened that the mails coming from the Northwest had been delayed in consequence of an accident. It would have been still more satisfactory if I were aware that the persons in the Northwest who had addressed letters to me knew that an accident had happened to the mail car on which their letters,had been conveyed. Last year I saw a very brief item in a paper stating that a mail car had been destroyed by fire in the Northwest several days before, and I had no idea whether some important letter of mine might not have been in that mail car and
had not reached its destination. It seems to me that when accidents of this kind happen, the proper course would be for notices to be sent to all the post offices from which bags had been sent by the destroyed mail car, so that people sending important communications would have the earliest possible notice if their communications had been destroyed or damaged or delayed in transit. It must be evident to everybody that accidents of this kind may be fraught with very serious consequences to private individuals using the mails. A good many years ago I suffered a great deal of inconvenience from the fact that a letter disappeared, and I could only guess that it must have been destroyed with a mail car that had been burned, as some time later I heard had been the case. When such a thing happens I think the Postmaster General should give notice to the post office from which letters conveyed on the mail car were despatched, stating that it had been burned.


I am glad that my hon. friend has called my attention once again to this accident which occurred on the Canadian Pacific Railway a few days ago. Since I wrote to my hon. friend giving him the particulars which had reached me after the accident, I think further details have reached the department, which I shall be glad to communicate to him. I quite understand that it is very annoying to have letters lost or damaged ; but after all an accident is an accident. I take note, however, of the advice which the hon. gentleman gives as to what should be done. As a matter of fact, I think that it is done-that as soon as an accident takes place, notice is sent to the different offices affected ; but my hon. friend will understand that when a fire destroys a mail car, with the mail bags, the result is a considerable state of confusion in the department. However, the advice given by the hon. gentleman is very reasonable, and I will see what is being done in these cases.-


Are the notices which are sent to the post offices posted up, or are they merely sent for the information of the postmaster ?


The duty of the postmaster is to post the notice in his office.


Is there any instruction to postmasters to that effect ?


Yes.


Is the postmaster instructed to notify all parties sending registered letters for instance.


In the case of registered letters it is easier to reach the


parties sending them, because their names have been entered in a book ; but 4n the ease of ordinary letters it is very difficult to reach the correspondents, but immediately after the accident the department notifies each postmaster affected, and it is his duty to post the notice up in the post office.


X have never seen such a notice.


When a postmaster is notified that a mail from his office has been destroyed, is there any instruction to him to notify all parties who sent registered letters by that mail ?


Those who have sent registered letters have the receipts in thier hands and they will know whether the parties to whom the letters were addressed received them or not, and they can themselves make complaint to the post office if they have a complaint to make. I am not aware whether or not instructions are given to the postmasters to notify the parties who sent registered letters ; but I will inquire as to that.


Mr. Speaker, before the motion passes I would like to bring to the attention of the government two matters that are more or less connected with the report of the Civil Service Commission. The first thing that I desire to do is to ask information from the government as to when it is likely that Mr. Justice Cassels will resume his inquiry. The right hon. Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) will recollect that the report of the Civil Service Commission was placed in the hands of the government on the 17th March last, nearly three months ago, and that it was presented to the House on the 20th March, after inquiry had first been made of the commission for certain memoranda which were referred to iu the report, but which did not accompany it in the first instance. On the 26th March the hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Brodeur) announced the determination of the government that a searching inquiry should be prosecuted with respect to the allegations of the commissioners in regard to his department. Later, on the 6th day of April, Mr. Justice Cassels announced to the Prime Minister in a letter that if he undertook the work of this commission he could only do so upon the understanding that his judicial duties should occupy his attention in the first instance and that he should give only such time to the work of the commission as would remain after he had properly discharged his judicial functions. Mr. Justice Cassels, in the same letter, made suggestions as to the appointment of some
person as his deputy to perform his duties as judge during the time in which he was engaged in the work of this commission. No action however was taken by the government, although a Bill had been placed on the Order Paper early in March and upon that Bill being presented to this House on the 14th May it was passed immediately with very little discussion and with some slight amendments and has gone from this House to the Senate. I do not know what its fortune has been in the Senate, nor do I know whether it is in a position to receive the assent of the Governor General. At all events it left this House on the same day that its second reading was brought on ; that is to say, on the 14th day of May last. Now, the allegations of the commissioners with respect to the Department of Marine and Fisheries were of a sufficiently serious character to evoke from the government, on the 26th day of March last, the statement that an immediate and effective inquiry would be made. Nearly three months have elapsed and nothing has been done except the examination of two of the commissioners before Mr. Justice Cassels, and possibly the examination of one or two other persons. It seems to me that this is a matter of some urgency. The opposition in parliament would be justified, without taking a very extreme position at all, in insisting that the work of that commission should be prosecuted to a conclusion and its report presented to parliament before the conclusion of this session and before any further supplies should be granted to the Department of Marine and Fisheries. I think that would be a perfectly proper and constitutional position for the opposition to take. We have not announced any such determination up to the present time, but I think it is only fair and right for me to say to the Prime Minister that this is a matter of urgency, that the government themselves have recognized it as a matter of great urgency and that the very slight progress which has been made in the prosecution of the inquiry does not reflect credit upon the administration of the government, nor does it indicate any great desire on the part of the government to facilitate these proceedings. That is all I have to say as to that particular subject. It might be elaborated at much greater length, but I think the Prime Minister will understand thoroughly, from the few words I have spoken, my view with regard to the matter.
'There is one other subject in connection with the report of the commission to which I also desire to call attention. Two of the commissioners were	examined-Messrs.
Fyshe and Bazin-and I believe that very little was elicited from them beyond the statement that they stood by the report and that they did not consider themselves subject to cross-examination with respect

to the grounds upon which they had made that report. They took, In effect, the position that all the information which they had obtained was available to the commissioner himself, that it could be procured by him and that it was not very consonant with the position which they had occupied as members of a royal commission that they should be cross-examined before another commissioner as to the grounds upon which they had reached their conclusions. But there was one officer, not a member of that commission, but an officer of parliament, who might very well have been called and called at the earliest possible stage before Mr. Justice Cassels, and I am at a loss to know why it was that the counsel acting for the government in this inquiry failed to have their attention directed to the necessity of calling Mr. Fraser, the Auditor General. As an example of the service that he might have been able to give in the prosecution of the inquiry, let me call the attention of the government to the evidence which Mr. FrSfeer has already given before the royal commission upon the subject of the Department of Marine and Fisheries. The evidence which I shall quote is at page 1309 of the evidence reported to parliament and printed :
Q. The Deputy Minister of Marine and Fisheries was here last Friday and he told us, among other things, that he had arranged with you about the system of certificates in use by the department. Is the system of certificates now satisfactory?-A. Not any more so than it was before.
Q. The certificates are either ' according to contract' or ' according to agreement,' or ' prices fair and just ' ?-A. Tes.
Q. And in regard 'to the Marine and Fisheries Department how far are they still satisfactory?-A. Well, they are just about as unsatisfactory as they were last year, or two years ago. I mean we have to be continually taking up accounts and going back of the certificate. The certificates they are giving us are not reliable-I mean they may be good, and they may not. There is a case now down on the ship channel where they have a lot of men employed by the day, and they also board these men on the vessels.
If there are any officers In the service of the government, whether in the Department of Marine and Fisheries or in any other department, whose certificate is not regarded as reliable by the Auditor General, I think it is very important that the circumstances should be inquired Into. We hare an inquiry proceeding with regard to one department, and one department only, in respect to which the Auditor General has stated upon his oath that the certificates which are given are not reliable. Then the witness is taken in hand by Mr. Fyshe and the evidence is resumed at page 1310:
O- You told us about that before?-A. Well, we find it very difficult to check that and see whether the men that aire em I w 'd by the Mr. R. L. BORDEN.
day are the mem whose board as paid for in the boarding house. The captain, or the man in charge of the work there, vets 75 cents per day for boarding them.
We asked them, for instance, to make out the two lists, that is the pay-list and the board list in the same oa'der so that we could see that the names would correspond, because there are a great many men, particularly down in that section of the country, who bear the same name. There is a recurrence of the same name frequently; it may be all right.
Q. But you cannot tell?-A. We cannot tell.
Q. Do they ndt sign for it or give a receipt ? -A.. The men give receipts for their own pay, but the man who has 'boarded them gives a general receipt for the board of the 'Whole list. We are trying to get the original books from him, to see whether he kept some record, a daily record, but we cannot get that. He says: ' Well, I did not keep it.' Of course you get the certificate from the man that these men were boarded there.
Q. But that is all you get?-A. Yes, but I want something back of that. That is why I say the certificates are unsatisfactory. I say a man ought to be able to back up his certificate with some other evidence.
Q. Instead of having proper vouchers you have only a bulk certificate?-A. Yes, the man receiving the money is practically certifying that his own account is correct.
Q. In fact that is net a proper receipt at all?-A. No, it is not.
By the Ohairman:
Q. Are there any other oases in which the certificates are unsatisfactory?-A.Well, I put it generally this way, that when you find a man makes a certificate in one instance that turns out to be wrong I have no confidence in his certificate afterwards.
By Mr. Fyshe:
Q. If he does the wrong thing once you cannot take 'his certificate again ?-^A. I have these certificates presented to me time after time. I mean certificates that are no guarantee the account is correct. It is unsatisfactory in that wav.
Q. Have you had any correspondence with the Deputy Minister pointing out what you want?-A. Yes, I haven't any doubt that in [DOT]the last year's accounts we had correspondence asking for further corroboration of the accounts. Take, for instance, the matter of travelling expenses

take an officer of the department, wheie I thought his travelling expenses account was too heavy and where he had to admit it and make a refund.
Q. He made a refund?-A. Yes, of course he said that his accounts got mixed up, that was the only excuse he gave, but the man's certificate is of no value to me ever since.
Q. Of oourse not?-A. And 'he is travelling still, and furnishing accounts, they may be right or they may be wrong.
I do not wish to add anything to what Mr. Fraser has said in his evidence, except that it is exactly the point that we had raised in respect of the investigation concerning the ' Arctic ' expedition. In that case there were certificates as to quantities and as to prices. It was urged by the Conservative members of that committee that we should go behind and investigate the cor-

rectness of these certificates and that the committee should hear evidence of persons who had made an examination of the stock remaining in the vessel after the expedition. The certificates were, so far as I recollect, considered to be prima facie evidence at least of the amount on board and there was not much investigation of the actual accuracy of the certificate. It is true that some persons were called who testified that certificates were given and they were all right so far as they knew, but I am making the same point that the Auditor General makes in his evidence that there as well as in the every day business of the government, the certificate is not good unless the officer certifying actually knows that the goods were supplied, that the prices are fair and that the expenditure is therefore a reasonable one.
There is another matter which concerns, but not so closely, the report of this royal commission. I shall not again refer to the parts of the report in which the commissioners point out that some better system should be devised with respect to the statistics of the country. It is pointed out in this report that the Department of Trade and Commerce and the Department of Customs both prepare blue-books containing reports of the trade and commerce of the country, and other important statistics. It is suggested ' by the commission that this work should be done in a more thorough and uniform way and they make several suggestions. Among other things they suggest that the publication might be supervised by the joint committee of parliament entrusted with the printing of parliamentary documents.
Certain correspondence has been forwarded to me by the government of British Columbia. I shall not quote it in full but shall merely state its purport. On April 2, 1908, the assistant secretary of the Bureau of Provincial Information of British Columbia asked the Department of Customs for a statement of the total exports and imports of British Columbia for the last fiscal year. The details were asked for if it was possible to give them, but the totals were asked for in the meantime. No answer having being received, on April 27, more than three weeks afterwards, a telegram was sent to the Department of Customs to which, on the same day, a reply was received from the Department of Customs stating that the letter of April 2 could not be found and asking that a duplicate should be sent. A reply to that telegram was forwarded on the same day from the office of the secretary of the Bureau of Provincial Information of British Columbia repeating the request for the total of the imports and exports of British Columbia for the last fiscal year. On April 28, the Department of Customs telegraphed to the provincial secretary of British Columbia that the. report 309
had been mailed on the 21st of April and the letter of the 21st of April, which arrived shortly afterwards, contained the information as to the exports and imports of that province during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1908. That letter was acknowledged on April 28, and a further request was made for the details of these statements, it being alleged by the secretary of the Bureau of Provincial Information of British Columbia that people were constantly asking for the quantities and values of imports and exports of different classes of goods. On May 7, that letter was acknowledged by the Department of Customs and it wras stated that some time must elapse before the figures would be available, but that a note had been made of the matter and the department would endeavour to comply with the request at the earliest possible date. On May 14, a letter was written by the Commissioner of Customs to the assistant secretary of the Bureau of Information. The letter is as follows :
Ottawa, May 14, 1908. Frank I. Clarke, Esq.,
Assistant Secretary 'Bureau of Provincial 'Information, Victoria, British Columbia.
Sir,-On the 7th instant I wrote you in reply to yours of the 28th ultimo, in which yon ask for a detailed statement of the .imports [DOT] and exports of British Columbia for the fiscal year 1908, as follow's:
' I beg to inform you that some time must elapse before these figures-will be available, hut a note has been made of the matter and I will endeavour to comply with your request at the earliest possible dated
Upon looking further into the matter and consulting the chief clerk in charge of statistics, I am advised that the preparation of such a statement would entail a great amount of labour and consume considerable time in its preparation, necessitating the withdrawal of clerks from their regular duties while so engaged, and as the staff is fully engaged in the preparation of the annual report and other parliamentary papery it is impossible to prepare such a statement unless by assigning the work to special officers to be done after regular office hours, for which they would expect to be compensated.
In the circumstances. I am writing to state that if yon are willing to compensate these men while so engaged in overtime work, the statement will be got readv as^ soon as possible. I estimate the cost will he about seventy-five dollars.
I have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN MoDOUGALD, Commissioner of Customs.
To this on May 21, 1908, the following reply was transmitted :
John MoDougald, Esq.,	.
Commissioner of Customs, Ottawa, Ontario.
Dear Sir,-I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of yours of the 14th instant, and I am



authorized by the lion. Minister of Finance to request you to furnish a detailed statement of the imports and exports of British Columbia for the fiscal year of 1908, on the terms which you name, that is an expenditure of $75.
It is regrettable that the statistics are not so compiled as to permit of the exports and imports of the various provinces to be got at without a large amount of extra work.
I have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
FRANK I. CLARKE, Assistant Secretary.
I am not disposed to minimize the difficulties in the preparation of these statistics directly after the close of the fiscal year, but it does seem a matter of regret if information of that kind cannot be furnished to the government of a province who asked for this reasonable public information, without imposing upon them a certain charge for furnishing it. I dare say the same system has been carried out in the past, indeed I am disposed to believe the Minister of Customs has made some improvements in the preparation of statistics, but it is an unfortunate condition of affairs that figures of that kind should not be available at the very earliest possible moment ; and without desiring in any way to unduly criticise the record of the government in this respect I would submit to the Prime Minister that the Minister of Customs and the Minister of Trade and Commerce should undertake a reorganization of this statistical branch at the very earliest possible moment so that not only for the provincial governments but for all the citizens of the country who may desire reasonable information of that kind such reasonable information would be forthcoming without the necessity of imposing a tax or charge upon either the provincial government or any person or corporation who may desire information of that character with regard to an important public subject.


With regard to the latter part of the information sought by my hon. friend, I have only to say that it is a purely departmental matter as to which I am sure the Minister of Customs, as soon as he is in his seat, will be able to give some answer to my hon. friend. I am sorry to say that personally I could not say anything at present upon this point.
With regard to the other matter, that is to say the inquiry of my hon. friend as to the investigation of the Civil Service, my hon. friend is aware that Mr. Justice Cas-sels has adjourned his inquest, I think to a certain date in the present month.


To a certain date ?


No, without any date. At all events he is coming back to Ottawa during the present month, and I daresay will be prepared to resume the investigation directly on his return, pro-Mr. R. L. BORDEN.
vided, as he has stated, that some one else is appointed by the government to take charge of his general judicial work. A Bill has been passed to that effect some time ago. That Bill is now before the Senate, and I do not know in what condition it is at the present time, but it will be ready for the sanction of His Excellency the Governor General as soon as we call upon His Excellency to sanction a Bill of Supply which we hope to be ready to present to His Excellency early in the coming week. At that time if the Bill which has passed this House receives the sanction of His Excellency, as it will, I have no doubt, the government will be prepared to make the appointment provided for in that Bill.


lion. G. E. FOSTER (North Toronto). There seems to me to be an expensive and unnecessary reduplication of publications with reference to the trade and other statistics. There is also a lack of agreement between the publications as they are issued by the different departments. The Trade and Navigation reports are issued by the Minister of Customs and the Trade and Commerce reports by the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Any person taking these up and arranging a series of comparative statements or reports from one of them finds when ho refers to the other that for the very same year and the very same period there is a disagreement in the total figures, and in order to be accurate and save himself he has to state from which of these returns he takes the figures so that he may not be confronted with a statement for the same year which he cannot substantiate from the report he has used. Besides that there is a complete reduplication of matter in the Trade and Navigation report and the Trade and Commerce report in certain particulars. Both of these are very bulky and costly volumes, and I do not see why it is necessary to have a reduplication of the very same information in these two large volumes issued by different departments of the same government and simply issued by different departments. The Trade and Commerce Department issues a series of monthly reports. They call them bulletins. They are large reports, they are costly, but the trouble about them is that when you receive them they are two, three or four months late. To whom are they distributed? They may come to the members of parliament but they are practically of no use to them, the member of parliament may occasionally use some figures from them if he is preparing speeches, but a member of parliament depends upon the yearly reports. It is with yearly statements that he is particularly engaged. Then where do these go? It is supposed they are distributed to boards of trade and merchants, &c., but there again

the trouble is they are two or three or four months behind the time, and the information they give is, 1 think, of very little practical benefit, at least I have talked with people who get them who say that. Now, these cost a lot of money. Again you have the abstract which is now issued. Your census report is made up and is distributed in complete form and also in bulletin form. These figures come to the members of parliament, to the men who make a study of statistics and to all those who propose to use them. Then again there is the statistical abstract, the Year-book of Canada as it is called. The statistical abstract for the last two years'has been very largely an extension of the figures that have been published in the census report. It is, I was going to say, absolutely useless for the purpose for which a Year-book is compiled. Any man who wishes to study these figures gets them in the reports of the Census Department and then he takes up the Year-book thinking he is going to get fresh information but finds that a large portion of it is available in other forms. A very la