That on Friday, instead of the time devoted to Private Bills being limited to one hour, under rule 25, the time be extended until the Private Bills order be exhausted or otherwise disposed of.


Does this require notice, or has some arrangement been made? I do not understand it.


It should be on the Order Paper. This matter was discussed and the understanding was arrived at on Tuesday last.


I think perhaps the reason that it is not on the Order Paper is that the notice says that the right hon. gentleman will move it on Friday.

Sir WILFRID LAtTRIER. No, on Thursday.


The notice, I think, says that it should be moved on Friday.


No, I think not. If my hon. friend will look at the Votes and Proceedings, he will see it says Thursday.


Yes, it is on the Order Paper.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. MADDIN-by Mr. Taylor-asked:
1.	Who Collects the mails from the boxes in the town of Glace Bay, in the county of Cape Breton, and what does he receive for his services ?
2.	Was the contract given after tenders? If so, how many persons tendered, what are their names and the amount of each tender?
1.	Daniel McIntosh, $400 per annum.
2.	The contract was awarded to the lower tenderer after public tenders were invited. Only two tenders were received, one from Mr. Daniel McIntosh at $400 per annum, and the other from Mr. Daniel Merlin at the rate of $314, for six trips per week, or $470 for twelve trips per week. As 12 trips per week is the frequency of collection, Mr. McIntosh's tender was the lower.


Mr. BOYCE-by Mr. Taylor-asked:
1.	What are the contract prices for dredging at present paid by the government in Port Arthur harbour, in the Kaministiquia river, and at Mission river, respectively, per cubic yard, scow measure, for rock and other materials?
2.	Who are the contractors, and what amounts were paid during the year 1908?
3.	Who were the inspectors on the dredges in the three places above referred to?
1.	Port Arthur Harbour:
Rock excavation, $3 ; other materials, .26.
Mission and Kaministiquia Rivers: Rock excavation, $2.
Other materials, .09.
2.	Port Arthur:
R. Weddell, $3,627.67 ; The Great Lakes Dredging Company, no payment made yet under above contract.
Mission and Kaministiquia Rivers :
The Great Lakes Dredging Company, $390,966.67.


3.	Port Arthur:
I. W. Cousins, dredge * No. 6.' Mission and Kaministiquia Rivers : James Horrigan, dredge ' No. 15.'
A. G. Forrest, dredge ' No. 5.'
F. G. Flanagan, dredge ' No. 8.'
Wm. McCall, dredge ' Dominion.' Geo. L. Allan, dredge ' No. 15,' replacing James Horrigan from 1st to 5th December, 1908.


1.	Has the post office at Greenfield, Prince Edward Island, been removed from where it was formerly kept by James Ennis?
2.	Who is postmaster at present at Greenfield?
3.	Why was the reported removal made, and who asked to have the change made?
4.	Were any complaints made against the former postmaster? If so, what was the nature of the complaints?


Information having reached the Postmaster General that the post office at Greenfield was not in the most central location, a report was obtained which was to the effect that the office was too far in what is known as the ' Upper end of the District,' and accordingly steps were taken to remove the same to a site better calculated to serve the postal needs of the people. Before the transfer of the office took effect, the proposed postmaster refused to accept the position, and the actual postmaster notifying the inspector to take delivery of the equipment, no other course remained except to temporarily close the office, pending further inquiries which the inspector desires to make after a personal visit to the ditsrict. Apart from the alleged inconvenient site of the office, there were no complaints against the postmaster.


1.	How many tenders were received by the Post Office Department up to March 26, 1909, for the carrying of the mail between Lorne Valley, Prince Edward Island, and the station on the Prince Edward Island Railway called 48 Road?
2.	What is the name of the tenderer, the amount of each tender, and which tender was accepted ?


1.	Five.
2.
Andrew Finlayson	 $50	00


MacGrath	
54	00Malcolm MacDonald 35 cents per double trip	
54	60
James McLeod	 $60 00
Wesley MacLeod	 70 00
The tender of Mr. Andrew Finlayson was accepted.


Bill (No 176) to incorporate the St Maurice and Eastern Railway Company.-Mr. Ethier.
Before the orders of the day are called, I would like to mention to my hon. friend the acting Minister of Public Works


Pardon me, I am not acting Minister of Public Works. I simply answered a question in the absence from the Chamber of the Minister of that department.


Then, pardon my misapprehension. I would like to ask the government to lay upon the Table of the House, before the end of the session, a statement of the payments for damages in connection with the Trent Valley canal, from and including the city of Peterborough to the county of Victoria; I am referring only to those within the county of Peterborough. I wish to have the names of the persons, the date, the amounts paid and the purpose for which paid. There ought to be no difficulty about giving me this information before the end of the session.


That is in the Department of Railways and Canals.


Then, the Minister of Railways will pardon me for overlooking him.


Oh, certainly.


L, BORDEN. I am informed that part of it is in the Public Works Department.


I will ask the Minister of Public Works if he has any such information.


The House resumed adjourned debate on the proposed motion of Mr. Fielding, ' that Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to go into Committee of Supply/ and the proposed amendment of Mr. Crothers thereon.
["and Rv. Station Mail Contract. Tenders, Charges, &<*.-. Dues. (Mr. Bradbury) 869 (i).\nWinnipeg Post Office Building :\tin Com. of\nSup., 1549 (i).\nWinnipcgosis lish Hatchery. Total Expenditure, &c.: Ques. (Mr. Campbell) 1402 (i). Wire Fencing, Advertisements for Tenders. Ac.: M. for Ret* (Mr. Geo. Taylor) 354 (i).\n- \n\nQues. (Mr. Taylor) 245 (i).\nWire Fencing, I.C.R.: Inquiry for Ret. (Mr. Taylor) J321 (i).\nWireless Telegraphy on-Ships: See ' B. No. 74.'\nWolfe Island Canal, Bridge, &c.: Remarks (Mr.^Jldwards) in Com. of Sup., 3302 (ii). \n\nConstruction, Contribution re Maintenance: Ques. (Mr. Edwards) 3043 (ii).\nWood Alcohol, Quantity purchased, Price, Cost, &c.: Ques. i(Mr. Miller) 1396 (i).\nWood and Wood Pulp, Negotiations re Tariff Increase: Ques. (Mr. Jameson) 1241 (i). Woodstock Armoury, Bowling Alley Operations: Ques. (Mr. Crocket) 5157 (iii).\n.Voollen Industry and Tariff Changes: M.\n(Mr. Lennox) 4126 (iii).\nWoollen Mills, Number, Quantity of Canadian Wool used, &c.: Ques. (Mr. Lennox) 150 (i).\nWool, Raw, Quantity imported into Canada for 1907, Duty, &c.: Ques. (Mr. Leunox) 149\n(i).\t' '\nWrecks, Investigations: in Com. of Sup., 6679\n(iv).\nW'recking Plant Subsidy, &c.: in Com. of Snp., 6680 (iv).\nYamaska Landing Pier:\tin Com. of Sup.,\n2909 (ii).\nYamaska River Dredging: in Com. of Sup., 3291 (ii). '\nYarmouth Harbour Buoys, Displacement of: Remarks (Mr. Jameson) on M. to adjn., 1114 (i).\nYarmouth Harbour Improvements: in Com. of Sup., 2184 (ii).\nYear-Book: in Com. of Sup., 701 (i), 3186 (ii). Young, W. S., Payment re Collection of Whitefish Eggs: in Com. of Sup., 6982 (iv). Yukon Act Amt.: See ' B. No. 156.'\nYukon Buildings, Rents, &c.: in Com. of Sup, 1620 (i).\nYukon, Commissioner's Residence, Dawson: in Com. of Sup., 1592 (i), 3224 (ii).", ' Buildings, Rents, &c.: in Com. of Sup.,\n1620 (i).', " Commissioner's Residence: in Com. of\nSup., 1592 (i), 3224 (ii).", ' Northwest Mounted Police: in Com. of\nSup., 3859 (ii).\nYukon Govt., Administration of: in Com. of Sup., 6272 (iv).\nYukon Ordinances: Prop. Res. (Mr. Oliver) 7075 (iv).', 'Beer Tax (prop, res.) 5892 (iv).', ' Roads, Maintenan ce, &c.: in Com. of\nSup., 6273 (iv).', " Telegraph Lines: in Com. of Sup., 3348\n(ii).\n' Zaidee ' and ' Gladiator,' Govt. Strs., Privileges re Towing, &c.: Ques. (Mr. Paterson) 5S31 (iii).\nZinc Mines, Discoverv in Albermarle Twp., Govt. Bounty to: Ques. (Mr. Beattie) 1077\n(i)."]
Mr. Speaker, before the adjournment of the debate last night, I was discussing the defence of the Minister of Public Works to the charges contained in the report of the
Royal Commission, that this company of which he was the head and front, had no records or no books of account, and to the further charges, that the government of which the Minister of Public Works was a member had illegally paid subsidies over to the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, and had also illegally endorsed the bonds of that company. I quoted several passages from the evidence with respect to the books and the records which were kept by the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, or rather with respect to the lack of those books, which I think fully bears out the statements and the reflections contained in that report. I desire to add one or two passages from the evidence in this connection. In the first place, I wish to quote from the evidence of Mr. J. J. F. Winslow, who succeeded the late G. W. Allen as secretary of the Coal and Railway Company. At page 41, Mr. Winslow was asked:
Q.	Was there a treasurer of the company?-A. I do not think there was. I kept track of the expenditure pretty well during the time I was secretary. I would not know about all the expenditures. What I did know t kept account of.
That is the answer of the secretary of the company.
At page 43:
Q. Had you anything to do with the transfer of the railway to the government?-A. I did not know anything about that.
Here we have the answer of the secretary of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, who was supposed to have all the records and accounts, and he states he knew absolutely nothing about the transfer of the Central Railway to the Company.
At page 47, referring to the accounts which Mr. Winslow had made up after Mr. Allen's death from scattered data we have this evidence:
Q. You made up the account yourself?-A. Yes, in fact I made up a new account.
iQ. From whom did you receive vouchers?- A. I received 'Mr. Allen's own vouchers from what I found in the former secretary's office.
At Page 50:
Q. If I understand you right when you entered Mr. Allen's office you found no books of account being kept when you commenced to work for the railway?-A. No, sir.
There is the statement of the secretary after this company had been in business for three years that he found no books of account being kept.
Q. You went to work at that stage to make up an account?-A- Yes.
Q. You gathered all the data you could from Mr. Allen and the papers in his possession; how far did you go back in making that account?-A. I went back in the case of

the Peoples' Bank to the start, that was the *first of these items, Novemlter 22, 1901; they started to build the railway in October, 1901.
At Page 52:
Q.	All accounts you know of which were kept by the company for any other people, person or corporation?-A. When Mr. M'e-Avity became president he wanted to get things straightened out as they should have been., He got Mr. Sharpe and myself to make up the best sort of a statement we could out of what material we had.


That is fine book keeping.


Then on page 55 Mr. Winslow says:
When we had any payment to make prior to my being secretary, money would be paid to Mr. Allen. He would get enough to pay Mr. Barnes on his running account and then pay into his private account and from that check out.
At Page 58:
*Q. Prom his private account and the funds of the company were in his private name in the bank?-A. He would make provision for *anything he knew was coming due by getting the money from the Peoples' Bank. It would be deposited to Mr. Allen's account.
Now Mr. Speaker, I ask the members of this House what they think of the financial business of this company amounting to over $900,000 being transacted upon such a basis as that. And yet the Minister of Public Works would endeavour to make the members of the House believe that there were adequate records and adequate data from which this commission could have arrived at the expenditure of every dollar of the money of the Company. The Minister of Public Works made reference to a statement made by Mr. Shannon, the auditor of the Intercolonial, who went down to investigate the affairs of this company in order to determine the question of the payment of the Federal subsidy.
At Page 476, of the volume entitled Orders in Council and Documents we have a report of Mr. Shannon, and I notice in it this statement:
After the contractors relinquished the work

That was of the 15 mile section from Chipman to Minto which they had undertaken to build for $117,000.
After the contractors relinquished the wo; k, the company requested them to go on and complete the work, and the company would pay the actual cost of the same. To ascertain therefore the actual cost, I requested that I should b9 furnished with all vouchers, cheques, &c., but this I found to be impossible.
That is the statement of Mr. Shannon, auditor of the Intercolonial Eailway, the Mr CROCKET.
same gentleman to whom the Minister of Public Works referred last night as having examined these accounts in detail. Furthermore with reference to the absence of records and books, I wish to quote from the evidence of Mr. G. N. Babbitt, Deputy Receiver General of the province of New Brunswick. There has been issued by the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, bonds to the amount of $450,000, all of which were guaranteed by the Provincial Secretary on behalf of his government. Mr. Babbitt was asked whether there was any registration or record of these bonds in his office at Fredericton, he being the deputy receiver general and the one who should have that record. On page 27 I find this evidence:
Q.	After this, did you or did you not yourself personally know that the government guaranteed any bonds which bad been issued by the company?-A. Yes, I knew there were orders passed to do it.
Q.	In the way of information in your office? -A. The bonds were not brought to the office and recorded.
Q.	Did you ever see the bonds yourself at all?-A. No, I never did.
Q. They never came near your office at all? -A. No.
Q. Personally you do not know to whom they were delivered or what became of them ? -A. No.
Q. You say that no registration was made of these bonds in your books?-A. Yes.
What do you think of that way of transacting business by the government of any province in this Dominion? Here was an issue of $450,000 bonds guaranteed by the province and no register or record kept of them in the government office at Fredericton. Furthermore on page 28:
Q. Had any coupons been paid by you as Deputy Receiver General in connection with the bonds which has been guaranteed?-A. Oh, yes.
Q. Have you any idea as to the amount of general coupons you paid?-A. Yes.
Q. About what	amount ?-A. The full
amount.
Q. What would that be?-A. About $18,000, $9,000 on the half year.
Q. They would be coupons on how many thousand dollars worth of bonds?-A. $450,000 at four per cent.
Q. That is the only way yon know the bonds had actually been issued, was by paying the interest coupon on them?-A. Yes, I might say that.
Q. Yvu said the first coupon-the first conpon was presented for payment in what year? Was all that issue of $450,000 out then?-A. The July coupon, 1905, due July 2, 1905.
So that the Deputy Receiver General actually had no knowledge of the issue of these guaranteed bonds until 1904 after the great bulk of them had been issued and disposed of and had no record of them at Fredericton. Further I want to refer to the evidence of
5781 MAY 6, 1909 5782	
the then provincial secretary, Mr. Tweedie, now governor of the province, upon the question of the accounts, page 524: Q As a matter of fact, did you ever look to see if they did keep accounts?-A Yes. Q You found they did not?-A. They did not keep them satisfactorily to me. I raised the devil with them. But he does not seem to have raised any books. We have the evidence of the Minister of Public Works himself upon this question at page 703: Q. Did you ever see an acoount-book of the company showing the moneys received or disbursed by the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company?-A. No. That was the answer which the Minister of Public Works gave-the gentleman who made the speech yesterday. These hooks will probably be kept by Mr. Winslow, the treasurer of the company, or Mr. Allen, the secretary. Both these gentlemen unfortunately died before this investigation began. Q. I have the only book, so they say?-A. Who says? , , Q. Here is the book and the only book of account except what was kept at Norton, 1 think there are about half a dozen pages in it. I do not see any account at all of this there?-A. I cannot help that. Q. Notwithstanding that you were in the interests of the province, you and the provincial secretary, appointed to see that the provincial moneys were correctly accounted for and expended, you never took pains to see whether the company kept books or not?-A. Mr. Allen was a gentleman of high standing and Mr. Winslow was the treasurer. In view of the evidence I have quoted, hon. members ought to know pretty well what value to attach to a statement made by the Minister of Public Works. All this, I wish lion, members to bear in mind, despite this section ' 2 of the Act of 1901, which authorized the guaranteeing of these bonds. Section 6: The company shall keep such books and accounts as may from time to time be required by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and such books and accounts shall at all times be open to the inspection of the Lieutenant Governor in Council or such person as he may appoint to inspect and audit the same. And all books and accounts shall be each half year audited by the expert accountant appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council, and the expense of such audit shall be borne by the company. Think of the record of evidence such as I have adduced this forenoon, in the face of a statutory provision of that kind. Then I ask hon. members if they take any stock in the statement made| by the Minister o1 Public Works yesterday afternoon that there was no justification for the reflections made upon him. I also dealt in part last evening	with the minister's defence to the charge that the government had illegally paid subsidies out of the treasury of New Brunswick and in contravention of the provisions of the Act. I pointed out that under the Act of 1882, there was a subsidy of $3,000 per mile for the line from Chipman to Gibson, a distance of 45 miles, and that the total subsidy was $135,000. Of that line only 15 miles have been built up to the present which, on the basis of $3,000 a mile, would make the maximum subsidy available $45,000. Prior to the appearance on the scene of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, $13,000 of that subsidy had been paid on account of work done on that 15 miles. So that there was payable in subsidies to the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, on account of this 15 mile section, under the Act of 1882, but $32,000. Notwithstanding that the government of New Brunswick, on representations made to it by the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Pugsley), paid $57,000, or $25,000 for which there was no authority of any kind in law. I pointed out further that of that $25,000, $2,550 had been paid on orders which were held by the Minister of Public Works and by Mr. W. T. Whitehead, another member of the Liberal machine; in New Brunswick. These orders had been obtained a few days after the contract was entered into between the Central Railway and Mr. de Bertram in the year 1895. Mr. Pugsley obtained his order the very day after that contract was entered into-Mr. Pugsley and Mr. Skinner jointly. In order that there may be no misapprehension, I propose to put on the record these assignments because the Minister of Public Works referred yesterday afternoon to these statements of these assignments to him as something with reference to which there was some error. I shall have to crave the indulgence of the House to put these statements on record. At page 92 of vol. labelled 'orders in council relating to the Central Railway,' we have this document: St. John, October 9, 1895. To the Hon. James Mitchell, Provincial Secretary. Dear Sir,-I hereby request that you pay to ffm, Pugsley and Chas. Skinner, or their order, the sum of $7,500 out of part of the subsidy made payable to me under the agreement dated October 4, 1905, and made between the Central Railway and Her Majesty Queen Victoria, represented by the provincial secretary, and which agreement is for the building of a line from Chipman to the Newcastle coal fields, a distance of 15 miles, so soon as the same may fall due and as it may become payable. And for the purpose of securing such payment to the said Wm. Pugsley and Chas. Skinner, or their order, I hereby, in consideration of the sum of $1 to me paid by them, receipt of which I acknowledge, assign to 1 them, their executors, administrators or as-

signs, the said sum of $7,500, part of said subsidies aforesaid.


That is the day after the contract was entered into, this assignment was made by Dr. de Bertram, who got the contract, to Pugs ley and Skinner. Then there was an order a little later in favour of W. T. Whitehead of which I have made mention. At page 97 we have this further communication:
St. John, New Brunswick,
November 18, 1895.
To the Honourable
The Receiver General of New Brunswick, Sir,-Tou will please pay to the order of the Bank of New Brunswick the sum of $2,750 out of the first moneys which shall be coming to us from you as such receiver general, under the letter of order of Louis G. de Bertram, dated the 5th day of October, 1895, and filed with you on the 8th inst., said moneys being a portion of the subsidy to be paid by the provmce for and in respect of the extension ot the Central Railway from Chipman to the Newcastle coal fields.
C.	N. SKINNER, WM. PUGSLEY.
Then there is a letter on page 98 to Mr. Babbitt:
St. John, New Brunswick,
„	November 18, 1895.
Then there is a letter on the following page from Mr. Babbitt to the manager of ^ew Brunswick in accordance with this instruction. At page 100 there is this further order to the Receiver General of New Brunswick:
November 26, 1895.
To the Receiver General
of the Province of New Brunswick.
You will please pay to David O. Connell of tne city of St. John, m the city and county of
e j2yl or to tls °.rder' the sum of $2,000 out of the moneys which will be coming to us under a certain assignment or transfer from Louis G. da Bertram to us, bearing date the 5th day of October, 1895, of the sum of $7,500, portion of the subsidy which will he payable by the province of New Brunswick to the said Louis G. de Bertram as the assignee of the Central Railway Company in respect of the extension of the Central Railway from Chip-Mr. CROCKET.
man, m the county of Queens to the Newcastle coal fields, and which subsidy to the said amount of $7,500 was by the said transfer dated the 5tli day of October, 1895, and assigned and transferred to us. The transfer hereby given to the said David O'Connell of the said sum of $2,000 is subject to a 'previous assignment heretofore made by us to the Bank of New Brunswick of $2,750.
.	WM. PUGSLEY.
Then there is a letter from Mr. Pugsley to the deputy Receiver General asking him to send to Mr. David O'Connell a letter similar to the one he had sent the Bank of New Brunswick, so that the House will see that, as soon as this assignment was procured from de Bertram, the Hon. Mr. Pugsley at once pledged it and raised money, through the bank and from Mr. David O'Connell, who was a money lender in the city of St. John. At page 103 there is a further letter to the Deputy Receiver General as follows:
„	St. John, June 4, 1896.
G.	N. Babbitt, Esq.,
Deputy Receiver General,
Fredericton, N.B.
Dear Sir, Mr. Skinner and I have handed to Mr. Trueman, which he will forward to you, a further order against the subsidy coming to us re Central Railway for $550 Will you kindly send him a letter addressed to the bank, similar to. the one sent to Mr. O Connell. This comes next after the orders to the B.N.A., B.B.N.A., and Mr. Connell on file with you	
Yours truly,
So that there were outstanding against this assignment of $7,500 of the subsidy for Messrs. Pugsley and Skinner, orders to the amount of $5,300. Now, on May 28, 1896 an order in council was passed authorizing the payment of $8,000 of subsidy on account or work to the amount of $23,000 that had been done on that 15 mile section, and immediately we find further correspondence and directions from Mr. Pugsley. At page 105 will be found the following letter °
St. John, June 3, 1896. To the Receiver General of the province of New Brunswick.
You will please pay to the Bank of New Brunswick the sum of five hundred and fifty dollars out of the subsidy which will be payable by the province in respect of the extenSion of the Central Railway from Chipman to the Newcastle coal fields on account of the assignment to us by Louis G. de Bertram of $7,500 of said subsidy. This amount is to he a charge on the balance due us on said amount as per memo, below next after balance of $1,250 due said hank, $700 due Bank of British North America and $1,550 due David O'Connell.
Yours truly,
This is the further memo:
Amount of assignment to C. N. Skinner and W. I'ugsley	$7,500
Amount paid on first estimate	2,250
And another portion of the record, which is very suggestive, I think, in connection with the assignment of these subsidies to Messrs. Pugsley and Skinner, is a letter which will be found at page 192 of the book entitled 'Orders in Council and Documents.'
Amount due B. N. B	$1,250
Amount due B. B. N. A	 700
Amount due D. O'Connell	1,550
Balance now pledged for $550.. .. 1,750


Now, on page 131 of this tile there is a statement of $8,000 of bonds that was issued to pay this subsidy and the disposition of them, and this is the statement as it appears on record:
Central Railway-Date of Bonds.
1896.
Forward	$139,000.
May 28, 1870 to 1885, sold to O'Hara & Co., proceeds used to Pay-
Merchants Bank	$2,000
(Bank B. N. A	 300
B	1,500
W. T. Whitehead	 300
D.	O'Connell	
450J.	Barnes	3,450
8,000
See ledger, 1896, page 636.

St. John, May 16, 1904.
G. N. Babbitt,
Deputy Receiver General,
Fredericton.
Dear Mr. Babbitt,-A note of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company of $14,106 came due to-day at the Bank of New Brunswick and I have given the bank a sight draft on you for the amount. Attached to the draft is a letter from Hon. Mr. Tweedie engaging to pay the bank the $14,000 on the 4th of April last, and the $106 is for the interest.
An order in council was passed for the payment, and I am sending^ a copy of Mr. Tweedie's letter to him to-night asking him to instruct you to pay the amount and likewise to pay an amount of $5,600 odd to David O'Connell.
Mark that, Mr. Speaker, a direction in the year 1904 to pay out of further subsidies provided by an order in council the sum of $5,600 to the same David O'Connell, who held Mr. Pugsley's order under the first assignment and who was Mr. Pugsley's creditor in that connection.
Now, hon. members who have followed the documents which I have read will see that these payments to the Bank of British North America, the Bank of New Brunswick and D. O'Connell were under the orders of Messrs. Pugsley and Skinner, totalling $2,250. The Bank of New Brunswick was paid $1,500, which left a balance of $1,275 referred to in Mr. Pugsley's memo.
D.	O'Connell was paid $450 on account of $2,000, which, left $1,550 due to Mr. O'Connell. There was a further payment of $300 to the Bank of British North America, presumably on the order of Mr. Trueman. Then, Mr. Whitehead was paid $300 on his order for $1,000. So that is the way in which the $8,000 was disposed of that was authorized by order in council of May, 1896.
Now, Mr. Speaker, in view of these facts the -order in council to which I referred last night, dated 12th April, 1902, which was after the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Pugsley) had re-entered the New Brunswick cabinet, becomes very interesting. That order in council, as I pointed out, provided that there should be deducted from the subsidies payable on account of the 15 mile section, not only $13,000 previously paid under the old contract, but a further sum of $8,000 to pay these very orders on account of which the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Pugsley) had already received $2,250, and Mr. Whitehead $300.
This cheque can be given to the Bank of Nova Scotia at Fredericton to-morrow if you get the Premier's authority for payment.. The exact amount is $5,630. These two accounts together will make less than $20,000 which is the sum which X assume the Premier will direct you to pay on subsidy account. This is pursuant to the statute passed at the last session, which authorized the payment on branch lines and is authorized by the engineer's report. He reports 7-7 miles completed, and there is grading for some distance further, and also the chief engineer of the company reports about a mile of additional rails ready to be laid upon the extension to another of the coal miles. You need not accept the draft until you hear from the Premier, and if it should be necessary to hold it over for a day or two, get the bank to so instruct its Fredericton agent.
Yours very truly,


And in that way the entire amount of the subsidies which were authorized for the construction of the branch lines was disposed of, ($20,000) and of that sum David O'Connell, money lender, of the city of St. John, received $5,600 under the direction of Wm. Pugsley. Now I think, in view of this record, the statement which the Minister of Public Works made, and the strictures he passed upon the commission for commenting upon this matter, will not carry very much weight, either in this House or with anybody who reads his speech, and who reads the record that I have adduced.
Now, Mr. Speaker, with reference to the illegal guaranteeing of bonds. Last night I quoted the several Acts that were passed from the year 1901 to 1904 in relation to the guarantee of bonds of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company. 1 showed that under the Act of 1901 not one dollar of these bonds was entitled to be guaranteed until the whole line of 45 miles from Chipman to Gibson was completed and in operation. I showed furthermore that in 1902 a further Act was passed amending the Act of 1901, in this way, that the bonds might be guaranteed upon progress estimates, but always bearing in mind the cost of the completed work relative to the cost of the whole line; providing furthermore, that there should be retained out of the bonds of the company a sufficient amount to provide for a coal plant, which was valued at $50,000. So down to the year 1904, under these two Acts in relation to the issue of bonds on the Gibson-Chipmain section, the government only had authority at any time to guarantee a proportionate amount on this 15 mile sec tion. I showed furthermore that under this Act of 1902, an estimate which was made in January, 1903, by the engineer, Evans, of the relative cost of the two sections, the 15 mile section and the 30 mile section which is unconstructed, the 15 mile section being estimated at $130,000 and the uncoustructed section at $213,000, showed that the unconstructed portion of 30 miles of this railway was entitled to at least sixty-one per cent of the guarantee of these bonds, and that there was available for the constructed portion of the 15 miles less than thirty-nine per cent. Now working that out, it would be clear to anybody who cared to examine the record, that deducting, in the first place $50,000 to provide for bonds for the coal plant, which was never done away with, there was left for this whole section of 45 miles $200,000. Sixty-one per cent of that amount would give $122,000 to the 30 mile section, and $78,000 to the 15 mile section, and that allows for the increased estimate of the cost per mile of the 15 mile section over the cost of the construction of the 30 mile section. So there was left $78,000. Now from that $78,000 should be deducted an amount of $40,000 which the provincial government by order in council guaranteed to pay to the Dominion government for rails supplied by the Intercolonial to the contractors for use on the 15 mile section, amounting to $40,000. That order in council specifically provided that the company should deposit with the Receiver General bonds covering the purchase price of those rails, $40,000, and that order in council had never been altered, and has never been altered down to this date. So if you take $40,000 from the $78,000, the govern-Mr. CROCKET.
ment could legally guarantee only $38,000 bonds in respect of the 15 mile section. Notwithstanding that, the rails have never been paid for, the government in New Brunswick owe the federal government for those rails to-day, the coal plant has never been provided, and the whole amount of $250,000 has been guaranteed for the construction of 15 miles of this railway. And yet the Minister of Public Works criticised and attacked, and vehemently attacked, this Royal Commission for holding that he as a member of the government was responsible for the illegal guaranteeing of bonds of the New Brunswick Goal and Railway Company.
Now, Sir, the Minister of Public Works produced a statement which he said he addressed to the late Mr. Shadbolt, manager of the Royal Trust Company in St. John, on the 6th of August, 1903, in reference to the distribution of certain bonds which the company had. In 1903, after these Acts were passed to which I have alluded^ there was a further Act passed authorizing, in addition to the guaranteeing of $250,000 for the construction of the Gibson-Chipman line, a further guaranteeing of bonds to the amount of $200,000 for the purchase of the Central Railway from Norton to Chipman, $180,000 of which was said to be for the purchase of the road, and $20,000 to recoup the company for improvements they had put upon it. I will quote a section from the Act of 1903, this is the proviso:
Provided however that before guaranteeing the said bonds hereby authorized to the amount of $200,000 in respect to the said Central Railway, it shall be made to appear to the Lieutenant Governor in Council that a clear title has been obtained by the said, The New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, to the said Central Railway, and that the bonds so to be guaranteed, together with the said bonds to the amount of $250,000 authorized by said Act 1 Edward VII, chapter 12? are secured by a first mortgage upon the said whole line of railway from Norton to Gibson.
Before such bonds in this section provided for shall be so guaranteed hereunder, all bonds of the said, The New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, which are secured by mortgage to the Royal Trust Company of Montreal, shall be cancelled and a new first mortgage to secure the whole issue of $450,000 to the satisfaction of the Lieutenant Governor in Council shall be executed covering the said whole line from Norton to Gibson.
2. The rate of interest upon the said bonds so to be issued under this section shall not exceed four per cent per annum.
The rate of interest provided on the $250,000 bonds for the Chipman-Gibson line was three per cent. This Act provided for a new issue covering a loan of $450,000 and for the substitution of four per cent bonds for the three per cent bonds that had been previously issued. Bearing that sec-

tion in mind, I wish to draw the attention of the House to a statement to which the Minister of Public Works referred yesterday afternoon. This statement will be found at page 518 of the documents relating to the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company:
Bank of Montreal, St. John, New Brunswick,
Memorandum for E. M. Shadbolt, Esq., agent
_ Royal Trust Company at St. John.
You will please deliver the bonds of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company guaranteed by the province, as follows:
To Bank of Montreal, 140 bonds.. ..$ 70,000 To the Bank of British North America
40 bonds	 20,000
To the Bank of New Brunswick, 54
bonds	 27,000
To the Bank of New Brunswick, for Peoples' Bank of New Brunswick,
140 bonds	 70,000
Trueman, solicitor of
company, 171 bonds	 85,500
To Bank of New Brunswick, in addition to above, 132 bonds	 66,000

(Sgd.) WM. PUGSLEY,
Attorney General.
August 6, 1903.


Trueman referred to here was the solicitor of the company and the partner of the Minister of Public Works. That statement bears date the 6th of August, 1903. So that, over the signature of the Minister of Public Works we have the evidence that there were issued and guaranteed at that time $338,500 of these bonds. By the Act of 1903 that I have already quoted, the government could not guarantee any bonds for the purchase of the Central Railway * until the title was completed and vested in the government. The deed of conveyance to the coal company bears date the 21st of August, 1903. So that, even in respect to the further issue of $200,000 which, the Minister of Public Works states, is included in the $338,500, there was an illegal guarantee of bonds. But, take the minister's own statement, give him the $200,000 as having been issued, admit that the whole issue of $200,000 was exhausted on account of the pur-[DOT] chase of the Central Railway, and we have $138,000 of bonds which were issued and guaranteed to that date, the 6th of August, on account of the fifteen-mile section. That, Mr. Speaker, is just exactly what the commissioners say in their report, a statement which the Minister of Public Works has characterized as being absolutely false.
Furthermore, there is another memorandum in addition to the memorandum that I have already read, at page 519, to this effect:
Bank of Montreal, St. John, New Brunswick.


That is later than the 6th August.
November 6, delivered to Arthur I.
Trueman, 40 bonds	$ 20,000
November 16, delivered to Dr. Pugsley, 40 bonds	 20,000
December 23, delivered to Arthur I.
Trueman, 30 bonds	 15,000
January 20, delivered to Dr. Pugsley,
8 bonds	 4,000
January 29, delivered to Dr. Pugsley,
105 bonds	 52,500
Now, that exhausted the whole issue of $450,000 of bonds. Every one of these bonds was guaranteed, with the exception of the last $52,000, before the Act of 1904 was passed which authorized the guarantee without respect to mileage. That Act was passed on the 18th day of April, 1904-that very suspicious Act which I submitted to the attention of the House last night, an Act which related to another railway entirely distinct from the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company, but which, in its last section, which scarcely any lawyer and certainly no layman in any legislature would understand, and passed on the last day of the session, provided that the bonds of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company could be guaranteed without respect to mileage.
That is to say without regard to the cost of the work?


Yes, without regard to the cost. But it is a fact and it appeared from the record that every one of these bonds was guaranteed by the government excepting the last $52,500 before the passing of the Act of 1904 on the 18th day of April. The section which authorized the guaranteeing of bonds irrespective of the mileage reads as follows:
If, by reason of the work on any section of said line of railway being or having been found to be more than ordinarily expensive, it is found necessary so to do, _ the provincial secretary, by and with the direction and authority of the Lieutenant Governor in Council, may endorse such guarantee on the bonds required to complete such section and to provide rolling stock therefor, although the amount of such guarantee may be greater than the mileage completed bears to the whole mileage of the line.
I would submit that there is no court in this country which would hold that, even in the face of that section as it exists on the statute book to-day, the government were authorized to exhaust the whole issue of $450,000 or the $250,000 with respect to ' the Gibson-Chipman section. How can it

be so contended, in view of these last words, 'although the amount of such guarantee, may be greater than the mileage completed bears to the whole mileage of the line'? That provision must be read with reference to the former legislation which provided, in the first place, that there should be no guaranteeing until the whole line was completed and as modified by the Act of the following session which provided for progress estimates upon a pro rata basis. But, I say that even to-day, with the law as it stands on the statute book, the exhausting of the entire issue of $250,000 was a distinct violation of the statute which the Minister of Public Works or no other lawyer in this country can justify for one moment. I want, in reference to the minister's statement as to the guaranteeing of the bonds and the incorrectness of the commissioners' finding, to refer to the evidence of Mr. Shadbolt at page 267. Mr. Shadbolt, as I have said, was the manager of the Royal Trust Company, the institution which was looking after the substitution and exchange of the three per cent bonds for the four per cent bonds. His evidence is as follows:
I think the whole issue was guaranteed by the government, that is my understanding of it.
There is the statement of Mr. Shadbolt who was the custodian of all of the $250,000 of bonds that it was his understanding that the whole issue had been guaranteed on the 6th day of August, and that, Mr Speaker, is the statement which the com-mision have put in the report and which the Minister of Public Works has stated was false.
Q. A guarantee was placed on the bonds?- A. Yes.
That is Mr. Shadbolt's evidence conclusively that the guarantee of the province was placed on all those bonds on the 6th of August, 1903. Then, an interesting question arises with regard to the disposition and the use which was made of these bonds. In that connection I wish to put before the House the evidence of the Minister of Public Works himself, when he was on the stand before this commission in the month of December last. At page 720 of the evidence, I quote the Minister of Public Works:
Q. On the 6th of August I see a letter by you to the bank of Montreal in which you say you will please deliver the bonds of the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company guaranteed by the province as follows, to the bank of Montreal $70,000, to the bank of New Brunswick $20,000, to the bank of New Brunswick $20,000, to the People's bank of New Brunswick $70,000, to the bank of New Brunswick $66,000, A. I. Trueman $85,000. Can you tell us have you any record as to what these bonds were given to the bank of Montreal for?-A.


Q. Does that tell what became of the money which came from the bank?-A. It would tell you that the money went to the company. Then I presume Mr. Allen, the secretary, or Mr. Winslow would have an account of it.
That presumption of the Minister of Public Works is quite erroneous for neither had an account of it.
Q. Mr. Allen and Mr. Winslow have both passed over to the great majority?-A. Yes.
Q. To come to the next one, 23rd December, I see where Mr. Trueman got $15,000 of bonds, do you know what was done with them?-A. On my order?
Q. Yes.-A. They were for the purposes of the company.
Q. What was done with them?-A. I cannot tell you now from memory.
Q. You have no record to show?-A. Tell mo the numbers of the bonds and I have no doubt I can go to the bank and see the records.
Q. That would .not show the disposition made of the money?-A. It would show whether these bonds were used as collateral.
Q. Only to what loan put up as collateral, not to how applied?-A. It would not show what Mr. Allen, the secretary, did with the money, but it would be traced to the hands of the company.
Q. The ultimate destination you do not know?-A. I could not be supposed to tell you from memory.
That is the kind of evidence which the Minister of Public Works, the gentleman who negotiated these bonds and the loans on the securities of these bonds, gave to the commission in December last. I ask hon. members to bear that evidence in mind and contrast it with the statement which the minister made here yesterday.
There is another feature commented on in this report, and which I think deserves the attention of the House, and that is the misleading character of the reports which were made to the Lieutenant Governor in Council, on which reports these orders in council were issued for the endorsement of the bonds. The Minister of Public Works complained very vehemently of the reference which is made to the, report that was signed by Mt. Evans, the engineer of the company, on the 2nd of January, 1903, and he read that report in an attempt to show that the commission were wrong in _ their reflections respecting him. The commission referred to only one of these reports. The evidence, however, gives three just such reports as the minister quoted last night, including the one he quoted. The first is dated April 2, 1902, page 143 of the documents. That report states that work had been done under the contract to the extent of $20,029.25. That is all the work the report showed had been done, but there was an attempt made to show expenditures for the purpose of	rolling stock _ and
the payment on account of the option for the purchase of the Norton-Chipman branch, which had no right however to


figure in the estimate of cost for the purpose of issuing the subsidy moneys on the fifteen-mile section. That is what the commission, I suppose, alluded to. There are two or three pages of that report having reference to this and other matters having no relation to the question of issuing subsidies. The only amount that did not come under the Act was the money expended on that particular section, $20,229.25. Yet upon that report, prepared by the Minister of Public Works, an order in council issued authorizing the guarantee of $60,000 of bonds on $20,000 of work.
There is another dated the 1st of September, 1902, on page 148. That proceeded, on the same line as the first with respect to the expenditure on the Norton and Chip-man Railway, and sets out that the work down to that time amounted to $67,634, and upon that report an order in council was issued authorizing the guarantee of bonds to the extent of $120,000.
On January 2, 1903, and that is the report of the Minister of Public Works I have referred to, there was a statement of work only to the value of $74,574, and on that the recommendation was made that bonds should be issued to the extent of $140,000.
From the report of September, 1902, to the report of January, 1903, there had been less than $17,000 of work performed between these dates, yet there is a report recommending an increase on the bond issue to the extent of $20,000.
These reports the commission characterizes as misleading, and no one can read them without coming to the conclusion that they were made for the purpose of procuring an issue of bonds against the spirit and letter of the Act. So that the Minister of Public Works is as far astray in this as in almost every statement he made in connection with these matters.
Now, I come to what I consider the most grievous accusation contained in this report, the one to which there can be absolutely no reply, and in respect to which I say it is a disgrace that any one guilty of the conduct therein charged should remain in the government of Canada in control of its greatest spending department. I refer to the statement regarding the misappropriation of $39,000 in respect of the purchase of the Central Railway, and I am going to read what the commission say with reference to that. It will be found on page 51 of their report.
Mr. Evans stated the small ledger was all he had seen out of the wreck in the way of books, and the others must be at Hampton showing expenditures. These, however, could not be found.
He swore that the above $146,409.03 was all he ever got under his agreement with the New Brunswick Coal and Railway Company to pay him $180,000. What became of the balance, in

round numbers $39,000, he could net tell and would not even attempt to surmise. He made several earnest attempts to get this balance which he thought was due him, but was told he did not give a complete title, &c., and getting tired out after a time, he accepted the last payments as a settlement.
It was stated in the House of Assembly the full $180,000 was paid for the Central Railway.
This statement was made with the full knowledge that some $39,000 of the $180,000 had not been paid and was not to be paid. It was known besides that Mr. Sharpe had preparod under instructions, a statement that the full amount of $180,000 had been paid, and such statement was allowed by the government to be put on file at Fredericton without correction. In an order in council dated July 12, 1904, prepared, we believe, by the Hon. Mr. Pugsley, it was declared that this $180,000 had been paid for the railway from Norton to Chipman. These statements were made although Mr. Pugsley had participated in the negotiations with Mr. Evans by which the amount, about $39,000, was abandoned, and we cannot conceive how such a fact could "have been forgotten by Mr. Pugsley.
I ask you if any more serious accusation could be made against any public man than that contained in the quotation I have read. It charges misappropriation of Public Works participated in the negotiations in this connection, that he had the full knowledge of the facts; and although the commission does not say that the misleading statement in the legislature was made by Mr. Pugsley, I will prove from the record that it was. Let me say that, from my reading of the evidence, if the commission have erred at all in this case, it 