Bill (No. 180) respecting the Montreal Bridge and Terminal Company.-Mr. Martin.
Bill (No. 181) for the relief of Laura Mc-Quoid.-Mr. Nesbitt.
Bill (No. 182) for the relief of Fleetwood Howard Ward-Mr. Bradbury.
Bill (No. 183) for the relief of Aaron Wm. Morley Campbell.-Mr. W. H. White.
Bill (No. 184) for the relief of John Christopher Cowan.-Mr. Turriff.
Mr. ETHIER moved that the 8th report of the Select Standing Committee on Miscellaneous Private Bills be concurred in as follows:
Your committee have considered the following Bills and have agreed to report the same without amendment, viz.:-
No. 142 (Letter F of the Senate), intituled:
' An Act to incorporate the Governing Council of the Salvation Army in Canada.'
No. 136	(Letters	GG of	the	Senate),	intituled : ' An Act for the relief of Hannah Ella Tomkins.'No. 157	(Letters	00 of	the	Senate),	intituled: 'An Act for the relief of John Dennison Smith.'As no petition was received in the House within the first six weeks of the session in connection with either of the two last-mentioned Bills, the said Bills became liable to the additional charge of $200 under the provisions of Rule 88 (8), which charge was duly levied and paid	in each	case;	as,	however,	thecounsel for both the applicants 6tated before your committee that the omission to present the petitions in the House was the result of	misleading information furnished
him in the Senate, your committee recommend that the said additional charge be refunded in each case.
This is a motion to approve the report of the Select Standing Committee. I beg to move in amendment that the last paragraph of the report be struck out and that the report as amended be agreed to as follows:
As no petition was received in the House within the first six weeks of the session in connection with either of the two last-mentioned Bills, the said Bills became liable to the additional charge of $200 under the provisions of Rule 88 (8), which charge was duly levied and paid in each case; as, however, the counsel for both the applicants stated before your committee that the omission to present the petitions in the House was the result of misleading information furnished him in the Senate, your committee recommend that the said additional charge be refunded in each case.
When the rules were revised, it was provided that the fee on private Bills would be a certain sum, and then, if the Bill were not presented within the time prescribed by the House, there should be an additional charge. This report recommends that the additional fee should not be charged, giving as an excuse that the petitioners were misled by^ the Senate as regards the time within which the petition should be presented. That excuse is not sufficient. We should strictly adhere to the rules.


Amendment agreed to, and report as amended agreed to.
May I be allowed to inquire again with reference to the Civil Service Bill. The point between us two months ago was as to the schedules. We agreed on a form which was to be attached in each case. I remember the conversation which took place. It was understood that a great majority of those schedules would elicit no contention, but there might be some regarding which there would be some contention. Is it possible that the schedules could be laid before the House so that we might have a chance to look over them before the Bill comes up?


All the schedules are prepared, so far as the departments are concerned, and I shall be happy to lay them on the table. The schedules for the employees of the House of Commons, the Library and the Printing Committee are already on the table but not adopted. Those of the departments were adopted and passed by the Governor in Council. Those of the House of Commons and the library employees and the employees of the Printing Committee, who are joint employees of the Senate and the House, are now on the table for approval. The employees of the Senate, we have no control over, and their schedules are before the Senate but not yet approved. I will see that the schedules for the departments are laid on the table this afternoon.


I understood last night our arrangement was that those would be taken up on Monday. How much longer are we to delay or is it possible to go on with the legislation, even if the Senate and the government do not come to an agreement. That need not necessitate the delay of the whole Bill or will it?


It need not if the House will be willing to have the schedules of the departments put in as the schedules of the Bill and a lump sum granted for the employees of the Senate and this House in those schedules. If the Senate does not adopt the schedules for its employees, we

can make provision for them, as far as we know how.


What is the difficulty? Is there some difference of opinion between the Senate and the government?


The government have nothing whatever to do with the classification of the Senate.


Why does the Senate not make the classification?


I have been speaking to various senators and members of the government in the Senate and have been urging them, but so far without success.


As my hon.
friend from North Toronto knows, the Civil Service is. always a difficult matter to deal with.


If the Senate appropriations are in such a shape that the employees will not be paid until the classification is put through, that might expedite the business.


I see in the press that the difficulty arose because of the objection of the Civil Service Commission to the classification. Has that anything to do with it?


Not the slightest. Any such rumour, I am sure, is unfounded.


I would like to ask whether the government has any information with regard to the proceedings of our trade commissioner in Japan. I have had newspapers sent to me from time to time; and though not disposed to trust implicitly to everything contained, even in a Japanese newspaper, with all deference to my hon. friends the Minister of Labour (Mr. (Lemieux) and of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Fisher) our trade commissioner seems to be carrying on most extraordinary antics in this country, according to those journals, and some restraining influence had better be put on him. If the accounts are to be believed he seems to be running amuck with every commercial body and interest he can find willing to engage in combat. The result is that not only the gentleman-himself, but the government he represents, is more or less brought into controversy and conflict with certain important public and commercial bodies in Japan; if these statements are correct.


I am pretty sure they are not correct. At all events, we have no information to that effect, either officially or semi-offieially, or of any kind.


Has my right hon. friend received the newspapers?





I receive so many that I cannot undertake to read them all, but I should think that if any of our officers have given offence in the way suggested, we would have received official notification.


I shall send the right hon. gentleman just one of those which have come to me, and he will be able to judge whether or not my remarks have any foundation, if any credence is to be given the press.


Of whom do you speak?


Of Mr. Preston. I thought he was our trade commissioner in Japan.


He was, but he has been transfered to Holland.


I must apologize to the new trade commissioner in Japan, If there be one. I was referring to Mr. Preston. I was not aware until the Prime Minister spoke, that he had again been translated.


That is another reason not to believe in the newspapers.


What is the trouble in Holland that he has been sent there?


Possibly he has gone there to attend the Hague conference, or perhaps he has gone to assist in arguing the fishery case in that country.


Or the celebration of the recent happy event in Holland.


Mr. CONMEE moved third reading of Bill No. 34 to incorporate the Ontario and Michigan Power Company.
I am sorry to have to ask to have this matter referred back for amendment to the Committee of the Whole. In going through the sections yesterday, I called attention to the fact that certain standing provisions respecting telegraphs and telephones were omitted, and it was thought they would be found in subsequent sections of the Bill, but that is not the case. I move that the Bill be referred back to the Committee of the Whole to insert the following two clauses as subsections:
No toll or charge shall be demanded or taken for the transmission of any message or for leasing or using telegraphs or telephones of the company until approved by the Board of Railway Commissioners for Canada who may also revise such tolls and charges from time to time.

3. Part two of the Telegraph Act shall apply to the telegraph business of the company.


Motion agreed to, and House went again into committee.
I think my hon. friend is correct, that was the intention and I think that is provided, because the Bill is under the Railway Act; however, I can see no harm in having those subsections in it.


There was a similar provision in the Alberta and Brazeau River Power Company Bill.


Amendment agreed to, Bill reported.
Mr. CONMEE moved third reading.
Before this motion is carried, I would like to say that a great many objections to the Bill, in the first instance, seem to have been removed. The Prime Minister last evening expressed the opinion that this parliament has power to expropriate land belonging to and used or about to be used by a provincial government. I take absolute issue with him on that point. On principle, I think that this parliament has no power whatever in that respect, and the exercise of such power would lead to most absurd conclusions.
If this parliament, acting within the ambit of its jurisdiction, can expropriate or authorize the expropriation of lands belonging to the provincial government, then the legislature of the province, acting within the ambit of its jurisdiction, can authorize the expropriation of lands belonging to the government of Canada. There is no escape from that. If my right hon. friend's view were correct, the western provinces could get their lands back from Canada by expropriating them. They are the property of Canada, but the western provinces could expropriate them, and probably expropriate them without much compensation; because the ordinary principle of compensation, as any one who has bestowed the slightest attention upon the subject knows, is the value of the land, not to the person who expropriates, but to the person from whom it is expropriated. I have only to recall a very familar instance in which land in the very heart of London, owned by church wardens and vestry and incapable of being used by them except to let it remain as a churchyard, was expropriated by a railway company, to whom it was worth hundreds of thousands of pounds, but the church wardens and vestry could get no compensation for it whatever, because the basis of compensation was the value of it to them, and not the value to the railway company. So, if the power contended for existed, I would invite my friends from the west, who are interested in
the point to seize this opportunity and have the lands expropriated, because I can assure them that under the ordinary principles of valuation in such cases, very little would have to be paid for them. But, as a matter of fact, it seems to me that no such power exists. If it did exist, could not the parliament of Canada authorize the expropriation of the parliament buildings at Toronto, could not the legislature of Ontario return the compliment by authorizing the expropriation of land upon Parliament Hill, including, no doubt, $he site of the new hotel to be built in Major's Hill park. These powers do not exist. Nor, as I understand it, does this Bill purport to confer any such powers. It is an elementary principle of the construction of a statute that the Crown is not bound unless the Crown is named. That is a principle that has prevailed in the construction of statutes in Great Britain for the last six hundred years, and it prevails in the construction of our statutes as well. Therefore, inasmuch as this Bill does not purport to bind the Crown, it does not bind the Crown; it would not bind the Crown even if we had the power to bind it in this regard, which I contend we have not. Under these circumstances, with all deference to the members of the government of Ontario, and to the Attorney_ General of Ontario, I do not think that this Bill is so drafted that the province of Ontario has anything to fear from it in that Tegarcl. I agree with the view expressed by my hon. friend the Minister of Railways and Canals (Hon. Mr. Graham), and I think by the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier), last evening, that the Bill does not purport to do anything of that kind. 1 think the Prime Minister did make an exception with regard to the Nipigon river. But I do not know any authority for that. I think authority must be got from the legislature of Ontario before that can be done. Ontario could take proceedings to prevent trespass upon its lands, notwithstanding the enactment of this statute, and properly so. Why should this parliament undertake to give access to Ontario lands without the authority of the province, when the province, through its government and legislature, could give all necessary powers P Each government is sovereign within the ambit of its jurisdiction. And the principle of home rule in the Dominion of Canada has been carried out to that extent. Not only is the government and parliament of the Dominion of Canada all powerful within the ambit of its jurisdiction, subject, of course, to the legal power-but not the constitutional right-of the imperial government and parliament to interfere, but the provincial government and parliament is all powerful within the ambit of its

jurisdiction, subject to the powers reserved to this government under the British North America Act, especially the power to check provincial legislation -by means of disallowance. So, in that regard, I do not see any difficulty on the part of the government of the province of Ontario. But it does seem to me that the Bill is open to objection in another respect, and that is that the powers of expropriation undoubtedly will enable this company to gather up the interests of private persons in the localities which are mentioned in this Bill, and possibly to make a monopoly of them. I do not know enough of the local conditions to justify one in saying that a monopoly will be created, but it does seem to me that the granting of expropriation powers such as are given in this Bill has a tendency in that direction.


The hon. member (Mr. R. L. Borden) will remember that the company, under the Bill as it is now, is confined to one river, so far as expropriation powers are concerned, and to one point only on that river. Therefore, the idea of monopoly, I think, is eliminated.


That is the only objection I have to the Bill. I do not think it wise to grant powers of expropriation for purposes such as this, inasmuch as the grant of such powers must inevitably tend to the creation of a monopoly in waterpower, and water-power is the all essentia] thing to be conserved for the benefit of the people of the whole country. If my hon. friend from Thunder Bay and Rainy River (Mr. Conmee) can convince me that the Bill does not tend in any way to the creation of monopoly, then, I think, his Bill in every respect is absolutely reasonable. And I think the hon. member (Mr. Conmee) has been very reasonable indeed in his conduct with regard to .the Bill. He has agreed to eliminate many objectionable features, and I have no fault to find with his attitude on the Bill in -that respect. I dare say that he has very good precedents even in the matter to which I object. At the same time, we must not forget that new ideas and conditions are beginning to obtain in Canada with respect to matters such as this, that whatever the policy may have been in the past, the policy of the future should not in any way tend to the creation of a monopoly in the water-powers of Canada.


I said yesterday, speaking upon this Bill, that, in my estimation and judgment-and I still adhere to my position-we have the power in this parliament to expropriate, but not to the broad measures my hon. friend (Mr. R. L. Borden) suggests which would carry the doctrine to an absurd degree. The position Mr. R. L BORDEN.
which I take, and upon which I challenge everything that the hon. member has said, is this:	This parliament has power to
make laws for the peace, order and good government of Canada; this power carries with it all the corollary powers necessary to give effect to our legislation. One of our duties is to provide for public works. If, for instance, we order the construction of a railway, necessarily we have to give to the entity which we create the power which will make this enterprise effective, otherwise our powers would be nugatory, we should be giving a power which we could not enforce. Until it is settled otherwise by judicial authority, I contend that we have the power to enact any law that we think for the best interest of Canada, and the corollary power to do anything necessary to that end. We can even invade civil rights, though vested in the province. I agree with my hon. friend that the provinces have as much power within their authority as this parliament has. This is good Liberal doctrine, and it was fought out in years past, and I am glad to see it accepted to-day. The province is supreme within its authority, as the Dominion is supreme within its authority, and we have a right here to do all that is necessary to carry out any work which we provide for.


Before this Bill is carried, I wish to refer my hon. friend the leader of the opposition to a case decided in the Supreme Court of British Columbia, in 1904, which he will find in Volume 11 of the British Columbia Reports. It is the case of the Attorney General of the province of British Columbia vs. the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. I refer particularly to the judgment of Hunter, Chief Justice, found on page 297. This question involved the right of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company to take lands which were admitted to be the property of the province of British Columbia, and the Chief Justice in giving the decision, uses these words:
On the other hand, it has never been doubted, so far as I am aware that parliament, in the exercise of its railway j urisdic-tion, may provide for the expropriation of such private interests in land as may be required for railway purposes. If the interest of one man may thus be taken, then why may not parliament do the same in the case of lands, the beneficial ownership of which is in the inhabitants of a province collectively, i.e., Crown lands.
He goes on and decides that once this parliament has jurisdiction to create a railway company then that company has power to expropriate any land, even Crown lands of the province of British Columbia. The same doctrine is laid down by Martin, Justice, pages 304 and 305, of the same volume.
I will not take up the time of the House in reading these decisions, I will send them

over to my hon. friend, and he will see that I am correct in the doctrine laid down that once the parliament of Canada incorporates a railway company with powers of expropriation, that company has power to expropriate the lands of a province.


So far as my hon. friend has quoted the decision it is an authority in support of his view. But with all deference to that court, I would like to see the judgment reviewed by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
House divided on motion for third reading.
YEAS:
Messieurs
Alien,
Aylesworth,
Beauparlant,
Beland,
Bickerdike,
Brodeur,
Bureau,
Calvert,
Carvell,
Cash,	.
Chisholm
(Antigonish), Chisholm (Inverness) Clark (Red Deer), Clarke (Essex), Congdon,
Conrnee,
Dugas,
Ecrement,
Emmerson,
Ethier,
Eielding,
fisher,
Fortier,
Gauvreau,
Gladu,
Graham,
Guthrie,
Hunt,
Knowles,
Lapointe,
Laurier (Sir Wilfrid) Laver gne,
Law,
LeBlanc,
Lemieux,
MeCraney,
McGiverin,
McIntyre (Perth), McIntyre (Strathcona),
McKenzie,
McLean (Huron), McLean (Sunbury , Marcile (Bagot), Martin (Montreal, St. Mary's),
Martin (Regina), Martin (Wellington), Michaud,
Miller,
Molloy,
Murphy,
Oliver,
Pardee,
Parent,
Pickup,
Proulx,
Prowse,
Pugsley,
Rankin,
Reid (Restigoucbe), Richards,
Rivet,
Ross,
Roy (Dorchester),
Roy (Montmagny), Rutan,
Savoie,
Sealey,
Sinclair,
Templeman,
Todd,
Turcotte (Nicolet), Turcotte (Quebec County),
Turgeon,
Turriff,
Warburton,
White
(Victoria, Alta)-76.
NAYS:
Messieurs
Armstrong,
Arthurs,
Barker,
Barnard,
Barr,
Borden (Halifax), Bradbury,
Burrell,
Crosby,
Crocket,
Crothers,
Daniel,
Lancaster,
Lennox,
Lewis,
Macdonell,
Maddin,
Magrath,
Marshall,
Northrup,
Paquet,
Perley,
Sharpe (Lisgar), Sharpe (Ontario),
Foster,
Goode ve,
Haggart (Lanark), Haggart (Winnipeg), Henderson,
Herron,
Jameson,
Kidd,
Lake,
Smyth,
StanBeld,
Taylor (New Westminster),
Wallace,
Wilson (Lennox and Addington), Wright.-39.


I beg to call attention to the fact that the hon. member for South Oxford (Mr. Nesbitt) has not voted.


I was paired with the hon. member for Grenville (Mr. Reid) ,-otherwise, I would have voted for the motion.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the third time and passed.
House again in committee on Bill (No. 56), respecting the Canada Life Assurance Company.-Mr. A. H. Clarke.
On section 2, expressions used in chapter 71 of the statutes of 1879 defined.
I have, on different occasions, in the standing committees of this House and in the House itself, expressed my opinion of this Bill, and it is only a keen sense of my duty to my constituents, to those whom I represent, that impels me again, at this time, to give my opinion upon the legislation that is offered to the House now. It may be remembered that a few days ago I moved a resolution asking that the Bill be referred back to the Committee on Standing Orders, in order that the House might be informed whether the notices that have been recently published were sufficient or insufficient for the purposes of this Bill. I did so feeling keenly that although the notice had been widely circulated it did not come within the requirements of our standing rules, that, inasmuch as the Bill sought to enact retroactive legislation, the notice to the public to appear and look after their interests did not refer in any way to retroactive legislation. I simply draw the attention of the House to this matter because it goes to show that either intentionally or unintentionally those in charge of the Bill did not give to the public that intimation that I think they ought to have that the rights of the policy-holders were to be taken away from them not only in the future, but in respect to the past thirty years. There is no doubt that the use of the word ' are ' in the notice did not cover what is contained in the Bill in which the words ' were ' and ' are ' are used. The word 'are' would not relate altogether to existing policies. Why the notice was put in that form I cannot say, but this I did regard as


a sufficient reason for asking the Bill to go back to the committee to be again reported upon. Following that motion, my hon. friend from South Simcoe (Mr. Lennox) moved that the Bill be referred back to the Committee on Banking and Commerce in order that the policy-holders who are so deeply interested in this Bill should have an opportunity of being heard and of expressing their views upon a matter which is of far reaching importance to them and to the dependants of those who have taken out life policies. I do not wish to reflect upon the House, but I regret very much indeed that the House did not see fit to allow the Bill to go back to the committee after so much money had been expended in advertising the Bill so as to permit policy-holders, of whom it is alleged there are 35,000 or 40,000 interested, to appear before the committee and state their reasons why they do not approve of this legislation. This Bill has been discussed in the House. Some weeks ago we had an important discussion and then the hon. Minister of Justice (Hon. Mr. Aylesworth) expressed himself very freely and gave a decided opinion as to what he thought was the main characteristic of the legislation. To my mind, the kernel of the whole matter lies in the question: Was there a mistake in the legislation of 1879? We are now asked to declare that what is contained in an Act of Parliament passed in 1879 means something different from what the ordinary acceptation of the English words used in the Bill would indicate. We have, what I may say, is the highest legal authority in Canada and the highest legal authority in Great Britain for the opinion which we hold.
We do not believe that there was a mistake in the legislation of that day, not a tittle of evidence has been produced before the Committee on Banking and Commerce of any mistake, beyond the mere statement of the solicitor who had charge of a Bill before the Banking and Commerce Committee, Mr. L. G. McCarthy, who was a mere child at that time and could not possibly have any personal knowledge of the matter. I grant that a deep impression was made on the Banking and Commerce Committee by the statement of Mr. McCarthy, the solicitor, that Mr. A. G. Ramsay, who was for a long time manager of the company and who is a man for whom we all have the highest regard, considered that an error had been made away back in 1879. The statement was read hurriedly during considerable confusion, and, I think, very few of the members caught its drift. The moment the statement was read, instead of being handed to the clerk of the committee so that it could be examined it was deposited in the Mr. HENDERSON.
valise of the solicitor and hurried away, so that we had no opportunity of examining the original letter or knowing its contents until recently when it was published. It has been stated that a great deal of force should be given to the fact that the Banking and Commerce Committee had passed the Bill. To my mind no force whatever can be attached to that fact. The committee were misled by the statement of Mr. McCarthy who alleged that a mistake was made. The statement of Mr. Ramsay was not presented to the committee in such a way that they could intelligently understand its meaning, and I say without hesitation that I consider the committee was misled. So keenly did I feel the position at that time that I asked that no division be taken in the committee. I said then and I hold to the same idea now that this is too serious a question to throw into the cauldron of partisan politics, and hence I asked the committee not to divide on the question and there was no division. Hon. gentlemen may say that was a unanimous vote. It was not, because it was decidedly stated that we did not propose to divide the committee for the reason I have given and a number of us in the committee voiced our opposition to the Bill. Consequently when it is said that a great deal of stress should be laid on the position of that committee, I say on the contrary that it should have no weight whatever because it was not an expression of opinion by the committee. That was a strong reason to my mind why the Bill should have been sent back to the committee again foy further consideration after having learned all the facts and especially the fact that the committee had been misled by the statement that a mistake had been made in 1879. We were told the other day by a leading gentleman in the House that the first thing of which we should be satisfied is that there was a mistake. If there was no mistake in the legislation of 1879 then there was no ground on which to pass this Bill. If the legislation of 1879 was what the Canada Life Assurance Company asked for there is no room for the appeal to this parliament to change the wording of that Act of Parliament and substitute some other words. I propose to read section 4 of Mr. Ramsay's letter which to my mind comes the nearest to an explanation of the reason for now asking this legislation. This I apprehend is the clause on which Mr. McCarthy endeavoured to make the committee believe that Mr. Ramsay thought there was an error:
In the year 1879 it was deemed advisable to obtain an amendment to the company's Act of incorporation, and as the division of profits for upwards of thirty years had been made not in strict accordance with that Act, it was decided to apply to have it made clear

in future that the directors might make the allotment and division of profits from the entire business of the company
That is from both participating and nonparticipating policies.
among the persons assured on the participation scale and the shareholders, and might increase the proportion of such profits as between such policy-holders and the shareholders, and that was the object and intention of the recital in the Act passed, 42 Victoria, chapter 71, and of the first section thereof.
The whole business of a life insurance company consists of two things, dealing with participating policies and with nonparticipating policies. The investment of money, the investment of the reserve or capital is simply incidental to the carrying on of the insurance company's business or the issuing of participating and non-participating policies.
What about annuities?


Annuities if they are profit policies would be included under these too. There was nothing in Mr. Ramsay's letter to indicate that there was a mistake or that parliament had been misled at that time.
I propose to look at the petition presented in 1879 in order to point out where the House and the committee have been misled, and to follow up the declaration of the Minister of Justice that the first thing to be satisfied of is that there was a mistake. If there was no mistake then I say that we have no right to pass this legislation. If the Bill of 1879 was what the company wanted, and if they knew what they wanted, and if people insured on the strength of that charter,_ j>aid their money and obtained their policies, then I say we have no right as a parliament here to-day to change the contracts between the assured and the company even supposing there was a mistake in the Bill the company itself was responsible for it, the policy-holders were not responsible for it there is no reason in the world why the policy-holders should have their rights taken away now, even although the company did make a mistake thirty years ago. But I submit there was no mistake, there is no evidence that a mistake was made. All the evidence direct and inferential is that there was no mistake whatever. The company applied for an amendment to their charter and they obtained what they wanted. Who had to do with this application? Mr. A. G. Ramsay, who was manager, I believe, in the year 1875, was a man of high standing, of good business qualities, who knew all about life insurance, a man who knew what the board of directors wanted.
I do not think he was managing director at that time, I am not sure of that, but at any rate he was on the board from 1875
until the time he left the company, about 1899. No doubt the board consisted of men of high standing, chiefly in Hamilton- men who knew what they wanted, men who knew how to ask for what they wanted, and who would not have asked for anything they did not want. Who was the solicitor of the company at that time? It was Mr. Alexander Bruce, for whom, I assume, every hon. gentleman who knows him has the highest regard. He is a good lawyer, able to advise the board of directors and draft a petition to this parliament. He was a member of the firm of Bruce, Walker and Burton, in Hamilton, as well as solicitor for the Canada Life. Mr. Walker, I believe, is dead. Mr. Burton afterwards became Jus-time Burton, showing the high standard of men who had to deal with this whole matter. They were not second or third class, but high class lawyers.


What do you think of Mr. Bruce now?


Just what I always thought of him.
. ^A. H. CLARKE. He is the man who is asking for this. -


But he does not make the contention that Mr. Cox does-not by any means. I think I know Mr. Bruce's private opinion, and if Mr. Bruce had been willing to say there was a mistake, why did he not come forward in the Banking and Commerce Committee and say so? He did not do it because he is an honest man, and would not make a statement he did not be-"eve- This Bill was put in the hands of Mr. Thomas Robinson, then member for Hamilton, to present to this House. Who was he? He was a good lawyer, who afterwards became judge in the High Court of Ontario. All those who had to deal with this matter were men of high character and ability, who knew what they were doing, and no doubt did exactly what they wanted. And we are asked to-day to review what they did and to say that every one of them blundered.


Parliament must have blundered too.


Certainly, let me read who were in parliament at that time. Were they inferior to the men we have today? Let me take a list of them. I have the journals of the House for 1879 and will give you the list, and probably the hon. gentleman who says that a grievous blunder was committed in 1879 will change his mind when he finds that his own respeeted father was one of the men who assisted to pass the Bill. We find here men like the Hon. David Mills. Did he blunder? I had a very high regard for David Mills. Many a

time I listened to him in this House and I often asked him for advice and counsel, and he was always willing to treat young members fairly and give them the benefit of his experience. The Hon. Wm. Paterson was member for the House then. Did he make a blunder? Did he not know the meaning of the legislation he was helping to pass? Is he willing to come now and say he made a mistake, and that the legislation they passed meant something else than he thought it did. Mr. George A. Kirkpatrick, afterwards lieutenant-governor of Ontario, was one of those who put that measure through. Also Dr. Sproule, and I never heard him say there was a mistake made. There was also the Hon. Mr. Macdougall, who then represented Halton. Will any one say that he was the kind of man who did not know what he was doing?


Does my hon. friend think that Mr. Kirkpatrick was a man who would do what my hon. friend thinks the Act meant?


I think he would do what he thought was right. The company asked for certain legislation and he gave it to them. Then we come to Mr. Thomas Farrow, now Judge Farrow, then member for the north riding 'of Huron.


Mr. Farrow was not a judge and not a lawyer. He is now postmaster in a village.


I stand corrected. I was misled by the similarity of names. Then we come to the Hon. Alexander Mackenzie. Where is the man on that side who will stand up and say that honest Sandy Mackenzie made a big blunder and did not know what he was doing?


Has the hon. gentleman not often said that Alexander Mackenzie was a great mistake and failure?


I undertake to say that the hon. gentleman never heard me make that statement. I may have thought it sometimes but not always. I do not say he always made mistakes by any means. In a simple matter like this, he would do what was right. Next we find Mr. John Haggart and Sir John Carling, and then we come to another gentleman whom I am sure no one on that side will accuse of wrong doing, the Hon. G. W. Ross. Did he make a blunder? He had not arrived at the age when he blundered, but later on in life, he did go astray. At that time, however, I am under the impression that the Liberals thought he was incapable of committing a blunder, whatever they may have thought later on. Then we come to John Charlton, a man of good judgment, a good business man and thoroughly veTsed in the English Mr. HENDERSON.
language. Did he make a blunder? And the Hon. Peter White, the late respected speaker of the House, in whom we all had confidence as a business man. He blundered too? Then we come to Dalton McCarthy, the late lamented uncle of the gentleman who, up in the committee room, told us that the legislation of 1879 was a mistake. I wonder what his uncle would think if he heard his nephew make a statement of that kind? I do not believe that he did make a mistake. He had too great a command of the English language not to be able to give exact expression to his ideas. Another was Mr. John Beverly Robinson. I never expected to be called on to review his judgments. I never expected to stand in the same class with him, much less to be put in court to declare that J. B. Robinson did not know how to frame an Act of Parliament.


Is that the chief justice?


It is the same name at any rate. He belonged to a family we have always held in respect in Ontario, as men of intelligence and abilty. Then we come to Mr. Hector Cameron, who.represented North Victoria and who was a high class lawyer. Then we have another gentleman I know well, a good lawyer, highly respected for his ability, and yet we are told . that he made a grievous blunder. His own son in the House the other night said a grievous wrong had been done.


If I be the one to whom the hon. gentleman refers, I would ask him to point out anything I said to that effect.
I said I had my own conclusion on the subject and did not express it.


I am speaking from memory.


Your memory is bad.


I hope the hon. gentleman will forgive me if I misquote him, but I have a distinct recollection that he made the statement that a grievous wrong had been done.


Read it again.


I have not now the time to look it up. But the hon. gentleman's father was one of those who did the wrong. If he admits that his father did not make a mistake, he ought to vote against this Bill. I would very much dislike to see him vote against his father. Now, we come to the Hon. Desire Girouard, who is on the Supreme Court bench today, are we, farmers and others from western Ontario and elsewhere, going to sit on his judgment?


Were there only but lawyers in that House. Will the hon. gentleman hunt up a few farmers?


Yes, I will find a few. If you have a higher opinion of the farmers than you have of the lawyers, I shall endeavour to catch a few of them Mr. Julius Scriver was here then. He was a farmer and a very highly respected member of this House. I come to Joseph Alderic Ouimet, another lawyer, who afterwards became a judge in the province of Quebec. My hon. friend, may excuse me for not giving the names of farmers, because if I did he would tell me that the farmers were not capable of drafting Acts of parliament. It is for that reason I have selected men who are versed in the law, who would know what they were doing. Another of those men who made a blunder -and I would ask the Finance Minister to say whether this man did not know what he was doing-was Sir Wilfrid Laurier, now Prime Minister. He is one of those my hon. friend tells us made a blunder and who did not know what they were doing. He passed legislation he did not know the meaning of, and now we are to sit in judgment on him and declare that in 1879 he was guilty of passing into the statutes words which did not convey the meaning they were intended to convey. I believe that the right hon. gentleman was right then; and if he will only vote that he was I will be perfectly satisfied. There was another member of that parliament, in whom perhaps some hon. gentlemen would not have so much confidence, I refer to the hon. Sir Charles Tupper. He was one of those who made that mistake. Then there was Mr. Frank Killam, of Yarmouth. I am not sure but I think he was the late judge.


No.


If not, it must have been his father. But I am told that in southern Nova Scotia all the Killams have a high reputation for ability and integrity. Then we come to another gentleman, I would not expect to make a mistake. I refer to the Rt. Hon. Sir John A. Macdonald. He was satisfied that this statute was correctly drafted.


Are you quoting from ' Hansard '?


I am quoting from the journals of the House.


You will not find his speech there.


I am not quoting his speech but I am giving my opinion of him as a legislator, capable of examining an Act of parliament and deciding whether it was in conformity with the petition and
proper legislation to pass. I do not feel disposed to sit in judgment on the actions of men like Sir John A. Macdonald or those others I have named. They were all men of high standing in whose judgment we ought to have confidence. I think I have fairly well established the fact that there was no mistake. Here is what the petition stated as presented in 1879 asking for an amendment of the Bill;
That the directors have heretofore allotted and divided among the assurers upon the participation scale seventy-five per cent of all the profits realized from the entire business of the company, and in view of the increases. business of the company it is deemed desirable that they should be empowered to increase the proportion of such profits which may be allotted to such assurers.
That is what they asked. Did not they get what they asked? They got it exactly; they asked for power to increase the allotment owing to the fact that the business has been increased, and, as they had more money, they were willing that the allotment to policy-holders should be increased from 75 per cent to 90 per cent, retaining not more than 10 per cent for themselves. For the twenty years previous to 1879, the capital of the company stood at $125,000. During that time, the dividends paid amounted to $690,625, an average of nearly 27 per cent. And the directors decided that they would be more liberal with the policy-holders, and, instead of taking 25 per cent for themselves, would take only 10 per cent, giving the policy-holders 90 per cent. Now, they say that all through this business the company credit the shareholders with the interest on capital and then divide the balance in the proportion of 90 to 10. I have here a statement of the Canada Life Assurance Company-I have similar statements for several years-showing the balance sheet as at December 31, 1899. If the company considers that the interest on capital was a liability, it ought to have put it in that statement and let the policy-holders know. But they did not do so. I, will read the liabilities, because I wish to get this on 'Hansard', for it shows that the company did not deal fairly with the policy-holders. If they ever charged the shareholders with this interest, they certainly kept the policyholders in the dark about it. I will undertake to say that no man ever went to an applicant for life insurance; and told him: The shareholders are first going to take the interest on their capital and then you will get 90 per cent of the balance. I never heard of a man who was canvassed in that way. On the contrary, the mode of canvass was to print leaflets and distribute them throughout the country-I have distributed many of them myself-in which appeared in large, black letters '90 per cent for the


morning at ten o'clock. I have no doubt the hon. member for North Essex knows all about it. Here is the affidavit on which that application was based-and I am only going to read one clause of it-here is what the applicant said, being sworn testimony along the line I was referring to:
I had always supposed until recently that the business of the Canada Life Assurance Company was conducted in accordance with the Acts of parliament and the duty of directors in pursuance thereof, and I never had any suspicion that the directors had been taking double dividends as alleged in the particulars of claim, and I never had any notice or knowledge of any such use, taking or appropriation of the money of the policyholders until after the investigation into the subject of life insurance before the Royal Commission.
There is an affidavit made by a business man, a policy-holder to the extent of $35,000, a man who did not know but that he was getting his fair share of the profits of that company, a man who was lulled asleep, as we would be told by accounts published by his c.ompany, not being told that his rights were taken away. No man would suspect for a moment, from that statement of liabilities, that the shareholders were getting their interest first on their capital and then dividing the balance. I have no hesitation in calling it, to use a mild term, decidedly misleading. Now we are told that because the profits have been illegally taken away from us in the past by the shareholders, the practice should continue, that because the policyholders had slept on their rights for 30 years they have no right to redress now. I have shown you that they could not help but sleep on their rights, because they did not know that their rights had been taken from them. And forsooth, we are told that because they have not instituted an action to recover their rights at this late day they have no right to make a demand.	,
Now let me say here and now that the policy-holders to-day are not asking for anything, they are asking for nothing but justice. They come to this parliament and ask for nothing except to be let alone. The policy-holders of the Canada Life Assurance Company are satisfied with their contracts. They entered into those contracts in good faith, they paid their premiums in order to secure something that, at their death, would benefit their wives and children. They say:	Let us alone,
we have made provision for our dependent ones, and we want you to let us alone, and when that policy matures pay the money; we are not troubling you. The policy-holders I believe as a rule think, X know X do, thst th6 C8.ns.d3. Xiifo Assurance Company is able in every respect

financially to pay every claim that will come against it. I believe the insurance reserve they have put aside would be sufficient, under proper management, to meet every claim that would ever be brought against the Canada Life Assurance Company, and I as a policy-holder, and other policy-holders, says :	' Let us
alone. We do not want to be troubled by you, we do not want you to come to parliament and get an Act declaring that the charter under which we made our contract means something different from what it says.' That is all they are asking. We say that these assurances, effected largely for the benefit of women and children, women and children who cannot appear here to defend their rights, women as well as men who were refused the right to appear before the Banking and Commerce Committee to state their grievance. Is it fair to take the bread, to take the widow's mite away simply because it is going to benefit a millionare? I cannot imagine how we can pass legislation of that kind. I respect the widow's mite. It may be small, but yet if it be only $100, if it be only $200, it belongs to her. Don't take it away. The other man has got an abundance, and far more than an abundance, more than he can ever make use of. Let the widow and the orphan have their little pittance, without trying to build up millionaires, making one man enormously wealthy in Canada at the expense of so many others.
I have said what I purposed saying about profits being wrongfully taken. It is alleged that because we had not put in our claim before to-day that we are debarred now. I think I have given you good reasons. I have given you the sworn testimony of one policy-holder, a large policy-holder, that until the Boyal Commission sat, and until this judgment, he was not aware of the fact that he was not getting his rights. After that he took proceedings, he has instituted an action which is pending in the court to-day, as other actions are, and* here we are asked to pass an Act of parliament to put that man out of court, to declare that his action cannot succeed. If we do that are we fit men to sit in judgment on Wilfrid Laurier's actipn in 1879, on Donald Guthrie's action in 1879, on Sir John Macdonald's action in 1879, on John Beverly Robinson's action in 1879? Are we fit men to review their opinions if we are capable of passing an Act of parliament to take away vested rights from helpless women and children in order to make one great millionaire in this country?
Another point I want to refer to, because I have no doubt that the argument will be advanced that other companies do this. I grant there may be a great deal of truth 191
in that. Other life insurance companies do just what the Canada Life has been wrongfully doing. But the other companies were doing what they have a right to do.
I challenge any hon. member to furnish me with the name of an insurance company organized as the Canada Life has been. At any rate if there is one I do not know it). I have searched among the records of Canadian insurance companies, of American insurance companies; I have inquired as to British insurance companies. I haye gone to the head of the insurance department of Canada, and the evidence I get is that there is not another company doing business in Canada who has a charter similar to that of the Canada Life, not another one that compels the company to divide all the profits arising from the entire business of the company.


Not another company with the same system of non-participating policies?


I do not know. It
makes no difference to me, because it was a voluntary act on the Lpart of the company to have their charter drawn in that way. They made the charter very attractive, giving policy-holders 90 per cent of all profits arising from the entire business of the company, no matter where it came from, no matter whether it came from interest or from profits on non-participating policies, it made no difference, because the policy-holders' contract was for 90 per cent on everything, and it is too late _ to say now that the Canada Life is giving something that no other company is giving. It has no bearing with me. Those who took out their policies since 1879 took them out under the charter of 1879, which was em