LEWIS (West Huron) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 13) respecting injuries to persons due to motor vehicles.


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, this Bill has reference to damage done on the highway by a vehicle which was not known at the time the Criminal Code was instituted. This is a vehicle which is under the complete control of the man who is managing it-the chauffeur-and in this respect differs from a vehicle drawn by horses. I refer to motor
vehicles. There is a precedent for the Bill I am now asking leave to introduce. I have a report here in which it is stated that the British parliament is alarmed at the destruction of life and at the damage to roads occasioned by motor vehicles. As part of the explanation of this Bill I would mention that while there was not one passenger killed on the railways of the United Kingdom in the years 1907 or 1908, there were 101 killed in New York alone by motor vehicles, and there were 5,616 motor accidents in the United Kingdom 248 of which were fatal. I have some expressions of opinions here from the newspapers with regard to this Bill and I shall hand them into ' Hansard' without taking up the time of the House in reading them'
Montreal Daily ' Witness,' Wednesday, May 5, 1909.
Highway Assault.
We have decisions by courts of competent jurisdiction that the person on foot has the right of way, at least upon recognized crossings. This is common law and common sense. As things stand the motor car is on the same level as the horse and vehicle before the law, but there is an essential difference; when a horse runs away there is some excuse for the frightened animal. The machine is guided in all its motions by human hands. The driver of it is, therefore, with few exceptions-for machines have been known to ' run amuck '- responsible for its conduct.
Toronto ' Saturday Night,' May 15, 1909.
Take warning, ye motorists. Get over the excessive speed habit. Be alive to the rights of the other fellow. Put yourself in the place of the farmer for a few moments. Look the problem square in the face from his view point, and then see if you do not curse the automobile speed fiend, as the farmer now curses him.
Big sentence for motorist-Gets from 1 to 20 years and $500 fine for killing child.
Seattle, Wash., June 14.-Guy C. Stratton, a prominent lumberman, whom a jury convicted of manslaughter on the charge of having run over and killed 7-year-old Henrietta Johnson, while speeding his automobile, has been sentenced by Judge Frater, of the Superior Court, to an intermediate term of from one to twenty years in the state penitentiary, and to pay a fine of $500.
This is the first conviction for manslaughter under the provision of the state automobile law. The defence gave notice of appeal.
The ' Globe,' Toronto, Wednesday, OetobeT 20, 1909.
The British parliament is considering the advisability of building special tracks for motor vehicles and separating the two kinds of road traffic. Roads constructed for ordinary vehicles are destroyed by the automobiles, and the two kinds of traffic require radically different methods of road building.

Confiscate the cars of wicked motorists-Duke of Northumberland advocates this plan-keep them for, say, six months.
London, Nov. 14.-I do not believe that you will ever get over the difficulties unless you have, for certain definite offences, the right to confiscate the car for so many months. The speaker was the Duke of Northumberland, and, in view of the road casualties we have again to record this week, his Grace's remarks would seem to have the fullest justification.
Clinton ' News-Record,' June 3, 1909-The Auto question not yet settled.
Seventy-seven persons were killed by automobiles in New York alone during the past twelve months.
The cause of many of these killings is found in the reckless driving of high-powered engines through crowded thoroughfares by men intoxicated either with the speed of motion or in. the ordinary way. Women, children and the aged should be free to go and come without fear of being run dowrn by an engine capable of travelling fifty miles an hour, and which may be in the hands of a drunken driver.-Sun.
The Auto Nuisance in England.
It is not. only in Ontario rural districts and villages that the auto has made a nuisance of itself. The same thing has occurred in England. As a result a petition to the Queen is now being signed for presentation by the women of English villages in the following terms:-
'We women of England humbly beseech your Majesty to help us to get some relief from the motor cars. We are sure Your Majesty cannot know how much we suffer from them. They have made our lives a misery. Our children are always in danger, our things are ruined by the dust, we cannot open our windows, our rest is spoiled by the noise all night. If they could be made to go slow through the villages it would be a great thing; but we are only poor people, and the great majority of those who use motor cars take no account of us. We do not know what to do, so we appeal to Your Majesty to use your great influence on our behalf.'
The ' Huron Expositor,' Seaforth, Friday, July 23, 1909.
The automobile, which is becoming more common every day, is still a terror to many travellers on the public highways with horse vehicles. Some of those in charge of these machines are commendably careful and considerate, and with such there is not much danger. Others, however, are just as reckless and inconsiderate and evidently seem to care little how much trouble or danger they occasion. These latter should be sharply looked after and severely punished. "We heartily agree with the Montreal ' Star ' when it says:	If
the owners and drivers of automobiles will not observe the common decencies of life while they are on the public roads, then the community must treat them like the dangerous criminals they make themselves, and let them see that the resources of society are not Mr. LEWIS.
yet exhausted in dealing with men who take their pleasure at other men's peril. We would arrest and send to prison a reckless fool who should fire a rifle down a public highway upon which vehicles and pedestrians might easily be, and there is no reason why we should deal more tenderly with those who charge down these same peopled highways with immense cars.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Bill (No. 14) respecting offensive weapons and capital offences.-Mr. Lewis.
SINCLAIR (Guysboro) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 15) to amend the Canada Shipping Act.
Some lion. MEMBERS. Explain.


The purpose of this Bill is to avoid the unnecessary inspection of Canadian ships. Under the present regulations Canadian ships are practically subject to two inspections each year. A ship has to be inspected by Lloyds' inspector in order to obtain qualification for insurance, and when she arrives in a Canadian port she is also subject to inspection by the Canadian government inspector. In England the Board of Trade accepts Lloyd's inspection as quite sufficient. Everybody knows that Lloyd's inspection is the best inspection in the world and that a second inspection is absolutely unnecessary if the ship holds a certificate from Lloyd's. This inspection is an expensive piece of business for the owner of the ship. It means the cooling down of the boilers, the cleaning out of the hold, the taking the coal out of the bunkers; it means that the ship may be several days in the dock, and it often costs thousands of dollars. As Lloyd's inspection is accepted by the British Board of Trade, and Great Britain being the greatest shipping country in the world, I see no reason whatever why Lloyd's inspection should not be accepted by the Canadan government. My Bill provides that a _ ship holding Lloyd's 'certificate of inspection, shall not during that 'year be subject to a second inspection by Canadian officials when she arrives in a Canadian port.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Hon. SYDNEY FISHER (Minister of Agriculture) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 16) to amend the Seed Control Act.
Explain.


The use of alfalfa has become so general in the country that it is thought well to include alfalfa seed amongst the seeds to be affected by this Act. The Bill also provides for the inclusion of certain other seeds. There are some minor amendments to facilitate the working of the Act.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
GRAHAM (Minister of Railways) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 17) to authorize the government of Canada to acquire by lease lines of railways connecting with the government railways.


Explain.


The object of this Bill, in short, is to give the minister power to enter into negotiations to lease any line or lines or part of a line that may be thought by the board of management to be of benefit to the Intercolonial railway. One provision of the Bill is that such railway must be leased on the report of the managing board, that it must be certified to by the chief engineer of the government as being in a safe and proper condition for operation, and that no such lease shall be operative until ratified by parliament?


Do I understand the minister to say that he can enter into a lease and practically purchase a railway without first submitting the lease for the approval of parliament?


Oh, no; the lease does not become operative until it is ratified by parliament.
Mr. J, D. REID. That is better.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
SHARPE (North Ontario) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 18) to amend the Bank Act.


Explain.


The object of the Bill is to provide that all stock on which no dividend has been claimed for upwards of six years shall be transferred to the government as trustees; that dividends on that stock which have not been paid for upwards of six years shall also be transferred to the government as trustees, and that balances remaining unclaimed in a chartered bank for upwards of six years shall be transferred to the government as trustees. The Bill also provides that should
any person afterwards establish a legal right to these balances or to the stock the government will pay the accumulated interest at the rate of three per cent.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
GRAHAM moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 19) to amend the Intercolonial and Prince Edward Island Railways Employees' Provident Fund Act. He said: the object of this Bill is to reduce the time of service required before an employee of either of these lines is entitled, to be placed on the provident fund. During the past few months one of the strongest arguments made in favour of certain employees who have been dropped from the service has been that they were dropped just a short time before they would have been permitted to be placed on the provident fund, thus losing what they had paid in. This Bill is to obviate what might in a measure be an injustice to these old employees.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Before the orders of the day are called, I would like to ask the Prime Minister one or two questions with reference to the papers brought down as to the conference in London. In looking them over, it seems to me that they are incomplete. For instance, I was very anxious to find out what was the position taken by New Zealand and the position taken by Australia in reference to the provision that should be made for aiding in the imperial defence. I find nothing in the papers which gives any information as to that. The other day the Prime Minister spoke of what New Zealand and Australia were going to do and read an article from a newspaper. That, lie knows is not the best kind of information for us to go on. I supposed that when these papers came down, we would see accurately, as we see in the case of Canada, what. Australia and New Zealand proposed to do. It struck me that this paper was prepared for consumption in Canada, and therefore that the parts relating to Australia and New Zealand were not included. I may be wrong in that. The other point on which I would like to ask for further information, if it can be brought down, is this: I find that there are in that report allusions to the admiralty trying to meet, as far as they could, the wishes of Canada; but I do not find in these papers any expression of what the wishes of Canada were; and that is somewhat vital, I think, to an understand-

mg of the whole question. Are there not some lacunas which might be filled up?


All the papers, as far as I know, and I think I am correctly informed, have been brought down, with the exception of the deliberations of the imperial conference So far as we are concerned, we have no objection to these being brought down, but I understand that objections come from other parties. The deliberations of the imperial conference, comprising all the self-governing dominions-New Zealand, Australia, South Africa and Canada-have not been given to the public.


Then Australia and New Zealand will get information from the papers laid on the tables of their houses which we have not got?


No. There was a separate conference with the admiralty by Australia and one by New Zealand.


We did not get permission to bring down the papers with regard to Australia and New Zealand. I suppose we might inquire from the imperial authorities whether there would be any objection to bringing down those papers. The papers brought down are those which have_ been sent here by thp imperial authorities. The proceedings of the imperial conference and the papers laid before the conference are secret, and cannot be brought down.


I understood that the papers already brought down were the proceedings of the conference. By the word proceedings, does the hon. gentleman mean the oral deliberations of the conference ?


Yes.


These are not before us at all?


No.


I,. BORDEN. The only things before us are some written documents put in on one side and on the other?


I may explain more fully the situation. There were, of course, in the conference some discussions, which, as may be seen from the papers, were private; and at the close of the conference it was decided that they should not be published, but should be kept secret. As a result of that decision, the papers laid before the conference and also the proceedings of the conference have not been brought down. It was understood that a statement should be made by the Prime Alinister of England and a synopsis or precis of the documents would be prepared by Air. FOSTER
the Colonial Office, and this has been brought down.


If I may be allowed, I would like to get this matter clear. It seems to me that in these papers w'e get the general conclusions of the conference, and then we get the results of the modification of the general plan laid down as between Canada and the admiralty. It seems to me that New Zealand and Australia will look for, and will undoubtedly get, the same laid upon the tables of their houses of parliament. They are not secret documents. It is only supposed that we do not want to know anything about them, and therefore they were not included in what was sent to Canada. But it does seem to me that, as we are all colonies together, it is very important for us to know what position New Zealand and Australia have taken, and there would be not the slightest objection, I am sure, to our getting that information.


Let me explain again that the conference was between the imperial government and the governments of the self-governing dominions. It was decided that the oral discussions should not be brought down. Then, there was a separate conference between the admiralty and Canada and offers between the admiralty and the other colonies. We brought 'down the papers relating to the conference with Canada. I understand that what my hon. friend wants is the papers relating to the conferences with Australia and New Zealand. We have no objection, and we will at once wire for them.


Then, the recommendations of the Canadian government or the expression of their wishes, are entirely in the hands of the government here. Have they any objection to bringing these down?


I suppose it was in the discussion which took place at the conference.


It might have been a memorandum.


No, there was no memorandum prepared by the Canadian representatives. The only thing was some wishes which were expressed in the discussions before the conference.


From the return brought down, it is quite evident that the government have their scheme already prepared. Is it the intention to bring the Bill down at an early date or to hold it over until after the holidays?


We intend to bring it down at an early date.
Air. R, L. BORDEN. There is a good deal of inquiry for the report. I do not know

how many copies have been prepared, but I would suggest that a sufficient number of copies should be prepared to have it generally available.


I think two thousand copies have been prepared, but I shall speak to the Secretary of State about that.


Supplementary report' of the International Waterways Commission, 1909.-Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
House in Committee on the following proposed resolution :
Resolved, that it is expedient to pass an Act to prevent the introduction or spreading of insects, pests and diseases destructive to vegetation; providing for the granting of compensation for matter destroyed for this purpose, the appointment of inspectors for the enforcement of the Act, and penalties for its contravention.-Mr. Fisher.
The object of the Bill to be founded on this resolution is to provide against the introduction into Canada of various insect pests which are prevalent in other countries but from which, so far, we in Canada have been fortunately free. It is also intended to provide that where insect pests or infectious diseases exist in Canada precautions may be taken to prevent their spread. The House will remember that we have in Canada an Act known as the San Jose Scale Act, which was adopted by this parliament some seven or eight years ago for the purpose of protecting this country against the introduction of that well known pest. That Act was aimed simply at the introduction of the pest from abroad and provision was made at first for the absolute prohibition of the importation of vegetable matter, trees or shrubs, from countries infested with the San Jose scale. Afterwards provision was made for the importation of such things from those countries under conditions which would still protect this country. That Act has worked very well and from its inception until to-day we have been able to trace no instance of the existence of San Jose scale in Canada to an importation from abroad. Unfortunately before the Act was passed there was a little San Jose scale in Canada.
Last spring we were informed of the existence of an insect pest in France commonly called the brown tailed moth. We were informed that shipments of nursery stock were coming to this country which were infested with the eggs of that very injurious insect. We had no power to deal
with the matter. We, however, took what precautions we could and owing to the information obtained from the Customs and from shippers we were able to find out where the importations of nursery stock from France were coming in, and with the co-operation of importers we were able to examine something like 1,500,000 stock obtained from France and on that we found a very considerable number of the eggs of that insect, probably, in the aggregate, millions .of eggs, and these, with the concurrence and the forbearance of the owners, we were .able to destroy. There was, however, at first, a very decided objection on the part of the importers to having their stock examined, delayed or destroyed. I must say that they acted with great consideration and public spirit after they were impressed with the dangers existing and the importance of the work. Still, at any time any one of those importers would have been quite within his rights in refusing to permit the action of our entomologists.
Under these circumstances it seemed necessary to provide a further. safeguard to the orchardists and fruit growers of Canada and to the people generally who have, property that might be injured in this way. I therefore examined the cognate legislation in other countries and in the provinces of Canada. I found that in British Columbia they have an Act in very good form which has been in operation for some time, I think, very successfully. In Ontario they have two Acts, one aimed directly at the San Jose scale and anotheT more general Act which provides for certain precautions or regulations but comparatively little advantage has been taken of these Acts. In Nova Scotia there is an Act on a very small scale. In many of the American states there are Acts of this character, but I do not think there is any Federal law in the United States. They have experienced difficulties there owing to the Acts being State and not Federal Acts. In Great Britain a good many years ago, I think in 1887, an Act was passed to protect Great Britain against the ravages of the potato beetle, and quite recently, I think in 1907, a general Act very much of the same character as I am now proposing was passed in Great Britain to protect that country against the dangers from which I am now proposing to try to protect Canada. The present Act follows largely the lines of the British Act, giving power to the department to make investigations and to the Governor in Council to pass regulations dealing with the niceties of the case. Hon. gentlemen who are familiar with entomology or the insect diseases and pests which attack our agricultural products well know that the character of the pests varies greatly and therefore the treatment that would be required to guard against one pest would be quite different from that required

in the case of another, and consequently the regulations dealing with |any particular danger or menace would have to vary according to the character of the danger. Under these circumstances I find it impossible to embody in the Act the details of regulations. I have therefore found it necessary, as it has been found necessary in Great Britain and other countries where Acts of this kind are on the statute-book, to ask for authority to deal with each individual outbreak or menace by regulation made by order in council at the time, without waiting for special legislation in regard to it. This is the substance of the Act and the reason for it; I can give more detailed explanations when the Bill itself is under consideration.


I understand that the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Fisher) is aiming at two things-first the prevention of the import of these pests and the other power to deal with these pests within the limits of the Dominion. Do I understand that he will specify the pests under order in council?


Yes.


Of course, the hon. minister is thoroughly familiar with the various legislative and administrative efforts in this same direction which have been made by the provinces. I take it that he agrees that the provincial and Dominion powers in these matters are concurrent. And I suppose he has tried to avoid any clash with the legislation already existing and the administrative steps already taken by the provinces to safeguard the interests of their own people in this matter. May I suggest that those interested in the various provinces be given an opportunity to examine the details of the Bill before it becomes law.


I would ask the Minister of Agriculture whether this Bill would conflict with the measures passed by the local legislatures of any of the provinces ?


There is no such intention. I said, in the remarks I have just made, that there were laws on this subject in British Columbia and Ontario. I shall be very sorry indeed to have any clash with the working of those Acts. There is no doubt that, under our constitution, there is concurrent jurisdiction between the provinces and the Dominion on these subjects And there is certain work which can be done better under a Dominion law, because that law applies to all the provinces, whereas' each provincial Act covers only the territory of the province by whose legislature it is passed. In the working of this Act. I should be disposed to be very careful not to overlook the operation of any provincial Mr. FISHER.
Act and certainly not to clash with anything in those Acts that tends to the accomplishment of the general object sought. I think that in every province the people will be quite aware of the danger of the spread of pests of this kind from one province to another, which spread can only be dealt with by a federal law. I would say, in answer to the hon. member for Yale Cariboo (Mr. Burrell) that the Bill is ready, and I propose to introduce it to-day on the passage of this resolution. It can then be printed, and I will not proceed with it until members have had an opportunity to examine it, and, if necessary, to communicate with those whom they desire to consult concerning it. At the same time, I would like to have it pushed forward as rapidly as possible consistent with the public interest.


Why not add a clause dealing with foul seeds?


That is another Act altogether, the Seed Control Act.
Resolution reported, read the first and second times and agreed to.
Mr. FISHER moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 20) to prevent the introduction or spreading of insects, pests and diseases destructive to vegetation.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
['Yes, that is the statutory salary. As to the other items, I may say that there is no change whatever in the staff of the Supreme Court, except the statutory increases. In the Court of Exchequer an additional clerk is asked for. That clerk, the registrar says, the business of the court requires. He is to do the work of a stenographer, as the present staff of the court is not able to cope with that work without the aid from time to time of stenographers who are employed for temporary purposes. The salary of the new clerk, which it is proposed should be $2,100, is the lowest that an efficient man can be obtained for, and it-will be, perhaps not in whole Mr. CROCKET.\nbut in large part, met by the charges for copies of evidence, which are paid for by litigants before the court. .\nSome resolutions reported.\nOn motion of Mr. Paterson, House adjourned at 9.35 p.m.', 'Monday, November 22, 1909.']
FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.


Before you leave the Chair, Mr. Speaker, I wish to make a few remarks on the subject of the civil government expenses, which, I understand, it is proposed to take up to-day. I was talking not long ago with a very intelligent man, who takes as deep and continuous an interest in the public affairs of this country, probably, as any other man in it, and, in looking over some figures of our expenditures, or rather estimates of expenditure as set forth in the main estimates, and contrasting them with the expenditures of previous years, he made the statement that he would not have believed it to be true were it not before him in a most incontrovertible way. That is, he expressed his utter astonishment that expenditures in these lines had gone to the limit to which they have. I believe that this is by no means an isolated case. I believe that the people of this country, for whatever reason, have not any adequate idea, in the first place, of the extraordinary large dimensions to which these expenditures have grown, or in the second place of the extraordinarily rapid rate at which these expen-

ditures have increased. It may be that the members of His Majesty's opposition are at fault for not having put these matters before the people. Certainly, some things are different now from what thew were before. While we were in government and the party on that side were in opposition, every Liberal and Grit paper, large and small, printed repeatedly in large letters, kept constantly before the people, the increasing expenditures of the country, until, by daily repetition, by almost hourly reveiw, the people had it impressed upon them that there was a dangerously large expenditure and a dangerously rapid increase in that expenditure. But that large and influential portion of the press is to-day absolutely, or almost absolutely, silent with regard to the growing expenditure of Canada. There are no more large headlines in these papers, no more reiterated expressions in large figures and bold-faced type warning the people of danger, notwithstanding the rapid increase of expenditure that is taking place. Our own press-I mean by that the press that generally voices the opinion of :he Liberal-Conservative party may have failed in this respect, as we as members of this House may have failed, and that may be a good reason why the country as a whole is not alarmed.
The great convention of 1893 made a unanimous proclamation that they viewed with alarm the large and growing expenditures of the country, and the rapidly increasing debt of the country. To-day the people do not seem to be alarmed. That condition is not prevalent in the country, it seems, and my view of it is that the people, in a time of comparative prosperity and of large dealings, have had their minds more upon their own business than upon the business transacted under the administration of the Dominion government, and consequently have not taken time to inform themselves with respect to this matter. Well, I think it is the part of His Majesty's opposition in this House, partly, outside the House more than in it, and of the press which is favourable to our view of the question, to see to it that these expenditures are brought before the people, that they are understood by the people, and then, if the people absolutely desire that that shall be the rule, why the people are the arbiters in the final decision of the question. And so I am going to take up this matter of civil government expenditures, and just for a moment place two or three facts before the House in the hope that they will get to the country, that they may form an impression, and that at least the minds of the people shall be directed to what is going on so that they may form their own conclusions whether they consider it to be proper expenditure or not.
When these gentlemen sitting opposite were in opposition, there was nothing about
which they thundered and volleyed with more persistence and vehemence than the increase and quantity of the expenditures upon the different services of the country. If there was one subject more than another to which they paid especial attention, it was the item of civil government expenditures. They talked about the number of people that filled the corridors and were placed in the offices in the city of Ottawa; they talked about the extravagant salaries that were paid; they talked about the useless men and women that were employed, and they made it a strong point that if they came into power they would reduce this civil government expenditure, they would root out the useless officers, and they would put in just a sufficient number to carry on the work, and that they would effect notable economies.
Now what has happened? In 1883-4, civil government cost this country $1,084,417; thirteen years afterwards, in 1895-6, when the Liberal-Conservative government went out of power, civil government cost this country $1,396,628, an increase of $312,211, or a little over thirty per cent; thirteen years afterwards, in 1907-8, civil government cost this country $2,088,416, an increase of $691,788, or a little over fifty per cent. In 1908-9, civil government cost $3,283,265; in 1909-10, it cost, according to the estimates, $4,537,074; in 1910-11, civil government costs according to the estimates, $4,703,707.
Now I say it is absolutely startling that on this hill, and surrounding it, for civil government alone, nearly $5,000,000 is taken #out of the taxpayer's contribution that he has to lay before the government each year for the expenditures of this country. No man can convince me that it is necessary that $5,000,000, or anything near it, should be spent in order to get a fair and effective service in the offices and departments here in Ottawa. It is absolutely unthinkable that such is 'necessary, or that such ought to be the case.
Now, I want to be absolutely fair. In 1908-9 there were seven months in 'which the civil government estimates bulked larger, because a number of those that had been employed and paid out of contingencies in the different departments were brought into the civil service, and after September 1, 1908, went then into the civil government list. That makes it somewhat larger. But I purposely took the year before that, when no such translation had taken place, and showed that at that time there had been the large increase up to $2,088,416, while from 1908-9 when the Civil Service Act was in force throughout the whole year, the increase is a startling one. In 1908-9. $3,283,000; in 1909-10, under the same conditions, $4,538,000; in 1910-11, under the same conditions, $4,703,407, an

increase in this last year of pretty nearly $160,000.
Now that is a statement which I think ought to make even ministers thoughtful; it ought to make, every good citizen who believes in economical administration thoughtful. But when you take into consideration with that the increase of the expenditures in every other department, brought up last year to $127,000,000, whereas in 1896 it was about $41,000,000, those things all put together, I think, ought to give pause to the business people of this country, and to every good citizen, and at least ought to set him thinking.
Here, is a list of civil government expenditures as provided for in the estimates for 1910-11:
CIVIL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES. Estimates for 1910-1911
		$	$
Gov. Gen's. Seety	14	20,000	40,600Privy Council	20	35,137	7,400Justice	53	103,498	11,000Militia	98	127,000	10,000Sect'y State	34	56,412	9.000Printing and Stationery	70	86,648	7.300Interior	722	876,886	47,000Indians	75	111,825	12,550N. W. M. Police	n	18,425	900Auditor General.	79	103,200	5,000Finance	92	113,500	12,000Customs	182	244,975	10,500Inland Revenue	69	100.912	8,000Agriculture	274	359,175	13,500Marine and Fisheries..	175	250,150	30,000Railways and Canals..	89	130,187	15,000Public Works	243	358,537	15,500Mines	103	174,689	Post Office	505	546,260	64,800Trade and Commerce..	34	44,887	21,500Labour	23	32,300	12,000Supt. Insurance	15	18,750	11,300All of which is, of	course	, supported by	the insurance companies.	$	$


2	7,300	700Lxternal Affairs	9	14,875	3,500


8	12,950	
C. S. Comm		10	18,675	13,500
Depts. Generally				54,000
Totals at Ottawa	2,909	3,966,757	436,950High Comm's. Office	6	11,350	21,280Grand totals	2,915	3,978,107	458,230In all	Add Ministers and Governors	
267,066
Grand total	 $4,703,403
and I do not wish to add anything in the way of comment except to make a plain presentment of this one single branch of government expenditure. Take into account the necessary increase owing to increased business, take into account, if you like, the increased salaries which came into vogue in 1908, take into account the progress of the country and when you have done all that there still is a mighty big margin of, I believe, absolutely unnecessary and wasteful expenditure which is taking place under the shadow of this parliament on the hill at Ottawa in the departments. There is a way by which thii may be tested. I challenge the government to test it. They have appointed their own Civil Service Commission, men of their own choosing; there is authority in the Civil Service Act to authorize the Civil Service Commission to make an inquiry into the different departments and report as to whether they are sufficiently manned, or over-manned and whether the services rendered are equal to the salaries that are paid. This then can be tested. Let the ministry avail themselves of the power which they have in the Act and at least give to the people in the country, even though it be through officers appointed by themselves and consequently supposed to be favourable to themselves, a little chance to know whether or not they are paying too much for the work which goes- on on the hill at Ottawa.


Mr. Speaker, I do not think that my hon. friend (Mr. Foster) ever need accuse himself of any lack of duty in the matter of calling attention to the increase in the expenditures of this government. I want to do him the justice, if it be justice, to say that in every session when he has been amongst us he has discharged that duty. The only difference that I can recall is that in previous sessions my hon. friend has deferred his arraignment until the close of the session while this time he has been good enough to give it to us at the beginning, which perhaps will make for the expediting of public business and I have no fault to find with him on that score. My hon. friend, while referring particularly to the civil service has generalized with regard to the increased expenditure of the country. I would only remind him that some changes have come over the condition of the country during the period to which he has referred. He refers to the expenditure on the civil service in 1883 and then he points out what the increase had been down to 1895. He says that it had been some thirty per cent. Then he compares it with the very large increase of recent years. Well, we cannot very well challenge the accuracy of my hon. friend's figures, but it appears to me that
I do nr, think that needs any comment Me. FOSTER,

there are some other things which he ought fairly to have introduced into the discussion.
Now, the business of the country may be measured in various ways. The revenue of the country is one measure, and increased revenue means increased cost of collection. Increased revenue is usually followed by increased expenditure and increased expenditure involves increased cost of management in every department of the government. Had my hon. friend looked at it from that point of view he would be obliged to tell us that in the year ending the 30th June, 1883, the revenue of the country was thirty-five and three-quarter millions, that in the year ending the 30th June, 1905, the revenue had actually fallen short and the country was making no progress. It was a period of comparative stagnation, and so for the year ending the 30th June, 1895, the revenue was less that $34,000,000 and the highest revenue of any of the years my hon. friend cited was about $38,000,000. If my hon. friend is going to make comparison as between two periods, one period showing stagnation all along the line, a period when . the Northwest territories were not being filled as they are to-day, a period when little or no growth was taking place in Canada, then my hon. friend should have told us of these conditions and compared them with the prosperous conditions of the country when the revenue has grown to more than $96,000,000. My hon. friend (Mr. Fisher) reminds me that according to the hon. gentleman's own statement his government increased the expenditure of the civil service more than 30 per cent at a time when the country was- in a condition of stagnation. While it is true that we have increased the expenditure we have increased it only to meet the expansion of the business of the country. I am quite sure that upon careful examination it will be found that the expenditure has only kept pace with the growing needs of Canada. Then, turning from the civil service the hon. gentleman made reference to the general expenditure, I would remind him that while he and hon. gentlemen opposite are ready to condemn the increased expenditure generally, yet when you come to deal with matters of detail, with very rare exceptions the cry of gentlemen opposite is not for less expenditure but for more. They are very human on that side of the House. Some hon. gentleman who sits on the Speaker's left, goes home to his constituents and he discovers that in this growing time the post office accommodation in his town is insufficient, and he comes back to this House and he is quite as ready as any Liberal to say it is time that a new' post office should be built.


They cannot get it though.


They get it in many cases. Never wras there a time in the history of this parliament when the opposition were so well treated in the matter of public expenditures as they are to-day. Why, Sir, it is a matter of notoriety that in the days when the Conservatives were in power the counties wdiich did not return supporters to them could get little or nothing. We know that by our experiences in the eastern provinces. But, in the estimates now on the table of the House it will be found that .constituencies that do not support the government are treated most generously and liberally, and that the needs of the public are considered without reference to the question of politics at all. There is only one way to consider the question of the expenditures of civil government and that is to take each department on its own merits. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) speaks of the enormous increase that has been made to the staff of the Interior Department. We grant there has been an increase there but we say that it measures the expansion of Canada in the northwest. Would the hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) compare the cost of managing the Interior Department to-day, with its abundant revenue, with the tremendous immigration coming into the country; would he compare it for one moment with the Department of the Interior in the days of stagnation when the Conservatives were in power? If he looks at it in that light I am sure that his sense of fairness will compel him to admit that there is just cause for the very large increase in the public expenditure in re-lato-n to the civil service. I do not know the details respecting every department of government ; but I am not prepared to say that the hon. gentleman can find of no instance where a department is over-manned. There are many departments in which you have old officials, men who have served the country rvell in their day and generation, but who to-day are not able to do very much work. We. from a sense of fairness and in appreciation of the services rendered by these old employees retain them in the service when we are not able to get as much work out of them as we would out of younger men. Probably my hon. friend could find that here and there he could economize by getting rid of those old and faithful servants, but I think the hon. gentleman himself v7ould rather bear the responsibility of some enlargement of the expenditure in this respect than treat these old officials in a harsh way. There is another thought, and that is that the hon. gentlemen on the opposite side of the House are generally disposed to increase the expenditure on the civil service rather than to reduce it, because wp frequently
2X9

have had complaints from them that the public officials are not sufficiently paid, and I know of no proposal to increase the salaries of civil servants at Ottawa that was not warmly advocated by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) or by those who sit near him. It is rather too late to arraign the government for this large expenditure on the civil service, unless we are prepared to take due account of the tremendous change that has come over Canada; of the enormously increased public business, of the great increase in our revenue, and the thousand and one things which devolve upon the government to-day and which did not devolve upon the government of some few years since. When the people take into consideration not merely the increased expenditure but the increased business and the increased prosperity of Canada, the conclusion I believe will he reached by them that we have been simply keeping pace with the growth of the country.


Motion agreed to, and the House went into Committee of Supply.
Department of Agriculture-Salaries (including George F. O'Halloran) $6,000, $359,175.
['They get it in many cases. Never wras there a time in the history of this parliament when the opposition were so well treated in the matter of public expenditures as they are to-day. Why, Sir, it is a matter of notoriety that in the days when the Conservatives were in power the counties wdiich did not return supporters to them could get little or nothing. We know that by our experiences in the eastern provinces. But, in the estimates now on the table of the House it will be found that .constituencies that do not support the government are treated most generously and liberally, and that the needs of the public are considered without reference to the question of politics at all. There is only one way to consider the question of the expenditures of civil government and that is to take each department on its own merits. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) speaks of the enormous increase that has been made to the staff of the Interior Department. We grant there has been an increase there but we say that it measures the expansion of Canada in the northwest. Would the hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) compare the cost of managing the Interior Department to-day, with its abundant revenue, with the tremendous immigration coming into the country; would he compare it for one moment with the Department of the Interior in the days of stagnation when the Conservatives were in power? If he looks at it in that light I am sure that his sense of fairness will compel him to admit that there is just cause for the very large increase in the public expenditure in re-lato-n to the civil service. I do not know the details respecting every department of government ; but I am not prepared to say that the hon. gentleman can find of no instance where a department is over-manned. There are many departments in which you have old officials, men who have served the country rvell in their day and generation, but who to-day are not able to do very much work. We. from a sense of fairness and in appreciation of the services rendered by these old employees retain them in the service when we are not able to get as much work out of them as we would out of younger men. Probably my hon. friend could find that here and there he could economize by getting rid of those old and faithful servants, but I think the hon. gentleman himself v7ould rather bear the responsibility of some enlargement of the expenditure in this respect than treat these old officials in a harsh way. There is another thought, and that is that the hon. gentlemen on the opposite side of the House are generally disposed to increase the expenditure on the civil service rather than to reduce it, because wp frequently\n2X9', 'have had complaints from them that the public officials are not sufficiently paid, and I know of no proposal to increase the salaries of civil servants at Ottawa that was not warmly advocated by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) or by those who sit near him. It is rather too late to arraign the government for this large expenditure on the civil service, unless we are prepared to take due account of the tremendous change that has come over Canada; of the enormously increased public business, of the great increase in our revenue, and the thousand and one things which devolve upon the government to-day and which did not devolve upon the government of some few years since. When the people take into consideration not merely the increased expenditure but the increased business and the increased prosperity of Canada, the conclusion I believe will he reached by them that we have been simply keeping pace with the growth of the country.']
Does this include payment for those who will be engaged in the census ?


It includes an additional vote for the extra labour entailed in Ottawa in the coming year. I will possibly have to get an amendment of the Civil Service Act to enable me to employ extra help of a temporary character in the city of Ottawa. The extra work on the census -will not commence in the city of Ottawa until well on in the coming fiscal year. This, of course, does not include any work done outside the city of Ottawa. Under the present Civil Service Act I cannot employ temporary clerks for work of that kind for more than a few months in the year. When the staff comes to be formed for the compilation of the census, it may be requisite to employ a number of extra clerks in the city of Ottawa for one or two years. To enable me to do this, there will have to be an amendment made to the Civil Service Act or to the Census Act.


I notice that there is provided for here an additional clerk in the first division, subdivision A.


In the organization of the department I find that I shall have to have certain work in the department, which is increasing very materially, done under an officer who will have responsibilities and duties which will justify his being placed in that position.


What is the work?





First of >all, dealing with the correspondence and other matters connected with the International Institute of Agriculture in Rome, obtaining information regarding Canada for that institute, and receiving and dealing with the information procured from that institute for the service of the people of this country. It is proposed that that same officer shall have charge of the correspondence of the department, which is at present under the special charge of the office of the deputy minister. There is also the question of the distribution of the hundreds of thousands of documents sent out from the department. These are now being sent out from the different branches, and there is a duplication, which is unnecessary and adds to the expense. I think one officer ought to^have charge of that. There are also other details which have not been worked out.


It does not seem to me that the minister has made a very good case for having