Bill (No. 1) respecting the administration of Oaths of Office.-Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier (Prime Minister).
I have the honour to inform the House that when the House did attend His Excellency the Governor General this day in the Senate Chamber, His Excellency was pleased to make a speech to both Houses of parliament. To prevent mistakes I have obtained a copy, which is as follows:	.
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate :
Gentlemen of the House of Commons [DOT]
In welcoming you to the performance of your duties at the first Session of a new Parliament, I desire to acknowledge with devout thankfulness the abundant harvest with which Divine Providence has again blessed us.
The Quebec Tercentenary festivities in July, which were honoured by the gracious presence of His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales, as representing His Majesty, marked an epoch in the history of the Dominion. The generous support given to this National Celebration by the Federal Parliament and Provincial Legislatures, and by the peoples of Canada, of the other Dominions and of the United Kingdom, emphasized the community of sympathy which binds the various parts of the British Empire to each other, and to the Throne and Person of His Majesty the King. The presence of representatives from the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and! Newfoundland, and from the great and friendly Republics of France and the United States, with the ships of war of the three nations, served not only to add lustre to the occasion, but to provide an assurance of increasing amity and peace.
I have much pleasure in announcing that a Treaty relating to the Great Lakes and other International Waterways has been agreed upon between His Majesty and the Government of the United! States of America and is now awaiting ratification. Both countries are to be congratulated on having arrived at an amicable settlement which I trust will remove during the lifetime of the Treaty many vexed questions from the field of controversy. The
Treaty and papers relating thereto will be laid before you in due course.
A little more than a year ago, the whole civilized world entered into a period of commercial, industrial and financial depression, which may not yet have completely spent its force; signs there are, however, that it is gradually passing array. Whilst it is hardly disputable that owing to the abundance and elasticity of 'her resources Canada has suffered less than other nations, this depression has seriously affected our trade, producing an appreciable shrinkage in the public revenue, and calling for exceptional caution in the administration of our national affairs.
The rapid settlement of the new provinces calls for new lines of transportation. The construction of the Transcontinental Railway ha9 been vigorously pressed forward during, the last year. The line was open for the carrying of the crops from Winnipeg to the Battle river, a distance of 675 miles.
Exploratory surveys for a railway from the wostern wheat fields to Hudson's bay are being, pushed energetically. Four parties have been at work since August last. Upon their report it will be possible to reach a decision as to both the route to be followed and the approximate cost. The provision of the Dominion Lands Act of last session for the sale of pre-emptions and purchased homesteads has created a new source of revenue that will be sufficient to bear the cost of the railway to Hudson's bay without burdening the ordinary revenue. From September 1, when the Act came into force, until January 1, sales of pre-emptions and purchased homesteads have amounted to over two million acres, all subject to homestead settlement conditions.
The total volume of immigration has not reaohed the high figure of previous years, but the number of those seeking homes on our unoccupied lands has been fully maintained during the last season, and, owing to the ever closer supervision of the immigration branch of the public service, the character of these new inhabitants of Canada seems to be of the highest, and promises no small addition to the wealth of the country.
The government of the United Kingdom having expressed its willingness to include a representative of Canada among its delegates to the conference, held at Shanghai, to investigate the opium trade, my Government has been pleased to welcome an offer so significant of Canada's growing importance, and on its recommendation the government of the United Kingdom has accordingly appointed a member of the Dominion Parliament to be a member of the commission.

Representatives of Canada participated lately dn the permanent establishment and organization of the International Institute of Agriculture, with its headquarters at Rome, an event of interest to our country in whose economic system agriculture plays so great a part. It is gratifying to note that among the forty-eight States adhering to the Institute recognition of Canada's agricultural importance was shown by election of our representatives to some of the highest offices of the Institute.
The appalling calamity which has befallen Sicily and Southern Italy and caused a total destruction of life and property absolutely unprecedented and unequalled in the long series of historic disasters, has induced my government to offer assistance for the immediate relief of the hundreds of thousands of sufferers who were helpless against famine and all its consequent horrors. I confidently hope that you will approve its action.
In pursuance of an announcement made during the concluding session of last parliament, a commission was appointed to examine the various lines of railway connected with the Intercolonial Railway and which might become valuable feeders thereto. The report of this commission has been received and will be placed before you.
The commissioner appointed for investigating the conduct of officers in the Department of Marine and Fisheries has concluded his labour, but has not yet reported. His report, however, is expected at an early date and when received will be placed in your hands.
A measure will he submitted to you, based upon similar legislation enacted in 1906 by the parliament of the United Kingdom, aiming at the repression of the payment of secret commissions and gratuities both in public and private business.
You will be asked to consider measures relative to insurance, the civil tservice, immigration, naturalization and other subjects. Gentlemen of the House of Commons :
The accounts of the last year will be laid before you.
The estimates for the coming year will be submitted at an early date; they have been prepared with a due regard for economy consistent with the requirements of the public service.
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate :
Gentlemen of the House of Commons :
I pray the Divine Providence that it may guide your deliberations, and that they may tend to a further increase in the prosperity of our country and the well-being of our people.





That the speech of His Excellency the Governor General to both Houses of parliament of the Dominion of Canada, be taken into consideration on Monday next.
He said: It was our intention to proceed to-morrow with the speech, but several members have suggested to me that Monday would be preferable. We are in the hands of the House and if there is no objection I will say Monday.


Why delay?


Very good-tomorrow.
Motion, as amended, agreed to.


That a special committee be appointed to prepare and report with all convenient speed lists of members to compose the select standing committees of this House under Rule 10, such select committee to be composed of the following members:	Sir Wilfrid Laurier,
Messrs. Borden (Halifax), Paterson, Fielding, Haggart (Lanark), Calvert and Taylor (Leeds), and that the portion of Rule 10 limiting the number of members of said committee be suspended in relation thereto.


Motion agreed to.
Report of the Joint Librarians of Parliament.-Mr. Speaker.
Report of the Auditor General for fiscal year ended March 31, 1908, Vols. 1 and 3; Public Accounts for the year ended March 31, 1908; Trade and Navigation returns for the year ended March 31, 1908; Report of the Department of Inland Revenue for the year ended March 31. 1908, part 1, relating to excise; Report of the Department Inland Revenue for the year ended March 31, 1908, relating to the Inspection of Weights and Measures; Report of the Minister of Justice for the year ended March 31, 1908.-Mr. Paterson.
Report of the Minister of Agriculture for the year ended March 31, 1908, first appendix thereto, being report of the Dairy and Cold Storage Commission.-Mr. Fisher.
Report of the Postmaster General for the year ended March 31, 1908; Report of the Department of Labour for the year ended March 31, 1908.-Mr. Lemieux.
. ADJOURNMENT-GRAND TRUNK HOTEL SITE.
Sir WILFRID LAURIER moved the adjournment of the House.
BORDEN (Halifax.) Mr. Speaker, before the House adjourns I would

like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister <Sir Wilfrid Laurier) if he would be good enough to give to the House at some early opportunity, if he cannot do so to-day, information as to the present condition of the negotiations, if there be any negotiations, for the erection of an hotel on a portion of the grounds of parliament. The Prime Minister will recollect that an order in council was passed some weeks before the commencement of last session by which a portion of Major's Hill park was proposed to be conveyed to the Grand Trunk Railway Company for the purpose of the erection of an hotel thereupon. The matter seemed to be of some urgency because the consent of parliament was not asked in the first instance and a Bill had to be passed afterwards for the purpose of ratifying what the government had done. According to the present conditions there would not seem to have been any great urgency for dealing with the matter before parliament assembled, because, so far as I can see, the only thing since accomplished has been the construction of a fence, no doubt of a very artistic and beautiful design on the land.
I presume that is not intended as the hotel. If it were, I should be inclined to suggest that it should at least be roofed in. I most sincerely hope there will never be a hotel erected there, but inasmuch as the matter was regarded as one of urgency, we should have some explanation why that particular step was taken as nothing whatever has been done since. I am not aware that the conveyance of the property has ever been laid on the table. If any such conveyance has been made, it should be laid on the table at the earliest possible moment together with a statement of all the conditions, if any, imposed by the government on the corporation, whether in the terms of the conveyance itself or otherwise, so that the House should be made acquainted at the earliest possible moment with the actual conditions as the matter now stands.


I think I can gratify the curiosity of my hon. friend. Nothing has been done since last session when the Bill was passed.


Where, then, was the urgency?


It was the need of a hotel.


Yet nothing has been done.


Is my right hon. friend in a position to give us any information as to when the Minister of Inland Revenue (Mr. Templeman) is likely to take his seat in the House?


On this point I cannot gratify the curiosity of my hon. friend. He is much more inquisitive than his neighbour and upon a more delicate subject. The Minister of Inland Revenue has had a misfortune which has happened to other members of former governments to which I think my hon. friend (Mr. Foster) is not a stranger. My hon. friend is not as sympathetic as he should be.


One more question. Would my right hon. friend be able at all to satisfy the laudable curiosity of the House as to whether the commercial negotiations in that regard are progressing favourably?


I do not know what my hon. friend means. If he means anything which is in his line of thought, it is not in our line of thought at all.


More likely in your line of action.


Motion agreed to, and House adjourned at 4 p.m.
Friday, January 22, 1909.
I have the honour to inform the House that I have received from William Sloan, Esq., his resignation as member for the Electoral District of Comox-Atlin. I accordingly issued my warrant to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery to make out a new writ of election for the said Electoral District.


Final Report of the Survey of the Georgian Bay Ship Canal, with plans, estimates of cost and 56 plates.-Hon. Wm. Pugsley.	.
The report was ordered to be printed foithwith.
Annual Report of the Department of Indian Affairs for 1907-8.-Hon.	Frank
Oliver.
Report of the investigation by Mr. Justice Cassels concerning the Department of Marine and Fisheries.-Hon. L. P. Brodeur.
The report was ordered to be printed forthwith.
Report of the Secretary of State for 1907; also, Civil Service List of Canada for 1908.-Hon. Chas. Murphy.
The House proceeded to the consideration of His Excellency's speech at the opening of the session.
ment of Immigration, and learn that there is coming into our further west, our middle west and portions of the east, so fine a class of settlers. Especially are we pleased to see so many coming in from the neighbouring republic, bringing with them the skill and knowledge they have acquired in the pursuit of agriculture in their own country, and the energy and means of their own which they will contribute to the development of the resources of this new country. Each settler brings with him a boundless faith in this new country [DOT]of his adoption, and fairly realizes that he is making of Canada a competitor with all countries in the markets of the world, he is surprised to find when he comes here natural resources of a richness that he never dreamed of in his own country.
Reference is also made in the address to the disastrous earthquake which recently occurred in Sicily and Southern Italy ; and I am sure that all Canadians were glad to hear that the government had made so generous a grant to the sufferers from that great calamity. We do not know why such things happen, we do not know what may be the inscrutable designs of divine Providence in permitting such disasters to take place ; we only know and are happy to see that this great calamity has evoked feelings of sympathy from all nations, which are a credit to human nature itself. Not only Canada but many other countries have contributed many thousands of dollars for the relief of the sufferers from that earthquake.
Mr. Speaker, it is indeed a great pleasure to me to be able to join with hon. members on this side of the House in congratulating ourselves and the country on the magnificent heritage which we possess in this Canada of ours. You may call her My Lady of the Snows, if you will. Though now robed in white, she will soon be clothed in robes of emerald green and a little later cmd in the golden vestments of a bounteous harvest. Certainly we have reason to be proud of this country ; we are glad to feel, as I have said before, that we control the largest fisheries in the world ; we have in our possession millions of acres of arable and fertile soil, and many other resources of wealth which can never be taken from us. We are already reaping the benefits of science in the various arts employed in the development of this country, and we feel how necessary it is that we should not fritter away our natural resources, but husband them to as full an extent as possible, in order to make of Canada as great and as wealthy a country as the republic to the south of us.
Mr. Speaker, I have much pleasure in moving that a humble address be presented to His Excellency the Governor Gen-eial in reply to the speech from the Throne.





Hear, hear.


Will you stand for this? Read and decide for yourself.
I want to say to those gentlemen who have cried, hear, hear


Hear, hear.


That the statement that that was circulated by the Conservative party or by any Conservative organization is an absolute, a malicious and a deliberate, falsehood. That is all I have to say about it, and if any hon. gentleman has any information to the contrary I can only say that I have made the most careful inquiry and I cannot find that that pamphlet was ever circulated in any constituency in Canada by the Conservative party or by any Conservative organization. In my own county of Halifax I believe that pamphlet wrought an effect exactly the opposite of that which was intended.


Hear, hear.


Because although the pamphlet was distributed by the Liberal organization in certain portions of the country where it was hoped it would have a certain effect, I believe that I obtained in the last election in the county of Halifax a larger number of the votes of the Roman Catholic electorate than on any previous occasion.


Would my hon. friend inform me whether he knows that that pamphlet was circulated by Conservatives who did not happen to belong to the official Conservative organization in the county ?


If any such thing took place I never heard of it, and with all resepect to my hon. friend I may say that I have no reason to believe and do not believe that it was circulated by the Conservative organization of the county or by any person having any official connection with the Conservative party.


I have in my possession copies of the pamphlet entitled ' The Duty of the Hour ' circulated in the county of Pictou by Conservatives in that county.


How many did you circulate ?


What individual Conservatives may have done I do not know. I shall read again this fly-leaf in order that its language may be emphasized and that the false and misleading character of the statement made may again attract the attention of the House :
This is a sample of the literature circulated by the Conservative party in Orange and Protestant settlements.


That is correct.


My friend from Wright (Mr. Devlin) is usually wrong, so I think we may take it for granted that he does not depart from his accustomed usage on this occasion.


The hon. member stated that this was published in a newspaper in Ontario. Would he be good enough to give the name of the paper ?


Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted for once to take upon myself your functions and to appoint the hon. member a committee of one to give that information to the Rouse.
I desire at this early stage in the session to deal briefly with certain matters of comment in the press of the country during recent weeks respecting the length of sessions of parliament. I have heard and read a great deal of criticism upon the length of sessions, and I am not disposed to disagree that the sessions have some times been perhaps unduly long. It may be that there is a certain misapprehension in the minds of the public that a session is expensive in proportion to its length. As a matter of fact the indemnity of members of the Senate and House of Commons and the salaries of permanent officials of the House do not increase with the length of the session and therefore, so far as they are concerned, the expense to the public is precisely the same whether the session be long or short. Of course in other respects the expense is increased by a lengthy session.
I desire to again point out to my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) in no censorious or partisan spirit, who I think will agree in my statement, that the date at which a government brings down its important measures in any session has a great deal to do with the length of that session, and I pause to express the very sincere hope that this session, called as it is on a very late day, will find the government prepared and that we will have all important government measures down at a very early date.
Let us look at the sessions of the last five years. The session of 1903 opened on the 12th of March and closed on October 23. The Bill respecting the National Transcontinental Railway was introduced on July 30, after the House had been in session 141 days ; the necessary resolution was not moved until the 11th of August after the session had lasted 153 days. The Railway Subsidies were not brought down until October 10, when the House had been in session 212 days and they were not moved until October 22, when the House had been in session 224 days. A very important measure respecting the Quebec bridge was brought to the attention of the House for the first time *Mr. R. L. BORDEN.
on October 21, when the House had been in session 223 days, and moved on October 22, when the House had been in session 224 days.
With regard to these measures and to all the others which I shall venture to bring to the attention of the House, the government is face to face with one of two alternatives, either that they were not ready with these measures and purposely held them back in order that discussion might be restricted in respect to some of them at least, or that the session was not too long for the necessary measures which the government thought it was its duty to bring before the attention of parliament in the interests of the country.
In 1904 the session opened on the 10th of March and closed on August 10. Notice was given of the Customs Act on June 28, after the House had been in session 110 days and the Bill was moved on August 8, after the House had been in session 151 days. The Railway Subsidies were moved on August 8, when the House had been in session 151 days.
In 1905 the session opened on January 11 and closed July 20. The Autonomy Bills were given their first reading on February 21. The House had then been in session 41 days. The second reading of one of these Bills was moved on March 22. when the House had been in session 70 days. The second reading of the other was moved on July 4, when the House had been in session 174 days. It would perhaps be unfair to criticise the late reading of the second of these measures as the whole subject was thoroughly threshed out in the debate on the first Bill.
The session of 1906 opened March 8 and closed July 13. The amendment to the Act respecting ' the National Transcontinental Railway received its first reading June 27. The House had then been in session 110 days. It was given its second reading on July 3 when the House had been in session 116 days. The railway subsidies were brought down on June 25, when the House had been in session 108 days and they were moved on the following day.
In 1907 the session opened on the 2nd of November and closed on the 26th of April. The railway subsidies were brought down on the 19th of April ; the House had then been in session 148 days. They were moved on the 25th of April, when the House had been in session 154 days. The bounties on iron and steel were brought down on the 5th of April, when the House had been in session 134 days. They were moved on the 23rd of April, when the House had been in session 152 days. The bounties on binder twine were brought down on the same dates. The Quebec Bridge and Railway Company loan was brought down on the 17th of April, 146 days after the House had opened, and it was moved on the 19th

of April, 148 days after the session had opened.
Then the session of 1908 opened on the 28th of November and closed on the 20th of July. The Bill to amend the Railway Act had its first reading on the 10th of March, when the House had been in session 102 days, and its second reading on the 16th of June, when the House had been in session 200 days. The Election Act had its first reading on the 9th of March, when the House had been in session 101 days, and its second reading on the 5th of May, when the House had been in session 158 days. The railway subsidies were brought down on the 15th of July, when the House had been in session 229 days, and were moved on the 16th of July, when the House had been 230 days in session. A very important resolution, regarded as such not only by the House, but by the country at large, respecting what is called the All-Red Line, was not moved by the right hon. gentleman until the 9th of July, when the House had been in session 223 days.
I point out to the House the great delays which occurred through the government's own remissness in bringing down important matters, and I express once more the sincere hope that this session will be an exception to the rule. Indeed, I for one would not be unwilling that some rule of the House should be adopted prescribing a date beyond which no railway subsidy, no estimate, no important government measure should be brought down unless with the consent of two-thirds or three-fourths of all the members of this House. It strikes me that that would tend to facilitate and expedite business and conduce as much as any other amendment to the rules to bring about shorter sessions; for I thoroughly agree that we should do everything possible, that would be fair to the government and to the members on this side of the House, to make the sessions shorter in future than they have been in the past; because there is not the slightest doubt in my mind that the length of our sessions has a certain tendency to keep out of public life men whom we should be glad to welcome to this parliament, and whose presence here would be of great advantage to both political parties and to the interests of the people of this country as a whole.
Now, there are one or two paragraphs of the Address to which I desire to devote a little attention. The hon. member for Quebec County has referred in very eloquent terms to the celebration of the tercentenary at Quebec. I had the good fortune to be present. I saw there very imposing pageants of great historic interest. I saw many thousands of the sturdy yeomanry of Canada pass in review before some of the greatest soldiers of the world. I saw official representatives of the great republic of France and the United States and many
distinguished men from Great Britain, including the illustrious heir to the Throne, who were present to lend importance and dignity to the occasion. But what perhaps impressed me most of all in connection with that celebration was to see the two great nationalities of the country, the English and French races, vying with each other in generous emulation to make the celebration worthy of the occasion. And it was worthy of the occasion, an event which cannot fail to bring about a better spirit and feeling, if that be possible, between the two great national races of this country.
I thoroughly endorse the proposal of the government with respect to aid to the people of Italy in the very great calamity which has befallen them. This is only a tangible expression of that deep and heartfelt sympathy which is extended by all the people of Canada to the people of Italy in this awful calamity.
Coming for a moment to that portion of the speech which deals with trade conditions, I may be permitted to notice once more how extremely solicitous the government are to point out that the depression which has been felt in Canada during the past twelve or fifteen months is world wide. There is a marked distinction in the language of the hon. gentlemen on the Treasury benches when referring to prosperity or to depression. Let us look at what they said in 1906:
On the opening of the third session of the tenth (parliament of Canada. I avail myself on the opportunity to offer you my congratulations on the unparalleled prosperity prevailing in all parts of the Dominion. The harvest has been abundant, and the trade with both British and foreign nations continues to expand in annually increasing volume, with every prospect of continued growth for many years to come.
There is a somewhat different song sung at the present time, and it is this:
A little more than a year ago, the whole civilized world entered into a period of commercial, industrial and financial depression, which may not yet have completely spent its force; signs there are, however, that it is gradually passing away. Whilst it is hardly disputable that owing to the abundance and elasticity of her resources Canada has suffered less than other nations, this depression has seriously affected our trade, producing an appreciable shrinkage in the public revenue, and calling for exceptional caution in the administration of our national affairs.
You will observe that the prophecy put into the mouth of His Excellency the Governor General two years ago was that 'the trade with both British and foreign nations would continue to expand in annually increasing volume, with every prospect of continued growth for many years to come.' While the prosperity of Canada in 1906 was

apparently confined to Canada alone, the depression in 1908 is world wide. In other words, the prosperity is due apparently- by innuendo at least-to the presence of these gentlemen on the Treasury benches, while the depression is world wide, or, in other words, is due to Providence. Well, I trust that the depression will be of very short continuance, and it may have one very beneficial effect at least. The people of the country have entrusted the administration of affairs to these hon. gentlemen for three or four years more. The government needed some lesson in caution; they needed some pause in the wild career of extravagance, and perhaps worse than extravagance, upon which they had embarked, and they seem to have taken the lesson to heart to some extent, and the depression in Canada will be well worth the price it costs the country if it simply teaches these gentlemen more caution, more economy and better administration of public affairs in the few brief years during which they shall yet continue to sit on the Treasury benches.
I observe that our good old friend the Insurance Bill is to visit us once more. It is two years since the report of the Insurance Commission was received, and during that time the ills which were to be redressed have remained unredressed, and the patient people of this country have been suffering in silence. I trust that this important measure will be brought down at the very earliest opportunity, and that we shall know this session, as we did not know last session, what the mind of the government is with regard to their proposals, and that a measure in the public interest may be passed by parliament and placed on the statute book.
A measure is promised having for its object the repression of the payment of secret commissions and gratuities, both in public and private business. I assume, although I do not know, that this measure is based to some extent upon the evidence, not at present before the House, which has been taken before the Hon. Mr. Justice Cassels in the inquiry which he has been recently carrying on. I have no doubt that it is essential, but how far will it go? We raised the point last session that the inquiry was too restricted, that it dealt with only one paragraph of the report, concerning only one department, and we asked that the inquiry should go further and be extended to every one of the spending departments of the Government. Events have proved that point to have been well taken. There has been, I believe, a fairly thorough inquiry, so far as the officials are Concerned; but when, according to the newspaper reports, the question was put to a certain witness whether or not the percentage of overcharge had any relation whatever to contributions to the political Mr. R, L. BORDEN.
party now dominant, the objection was at once taken that no such inquiry came within the terms of the reference. I am not finding fault with the commissioner in that regard. He was restricted by the terms of his commission; but I say that when that question was put and the actual conditions /revealed, the government should have taken the earliest possible opportunity to pass an order in council extending the scope of the inquiry and giving Mr. Justice Cassels the amplest opportunity of ascertaining whether or not the people of this country have been paying prices far in excess of those which should have been charged, and whether or not that was done in order to swell the political contributions to the Liberal election fund. The system followed is very plain and simple in the light of the revelations which have been made. The ordinary citizen put upon the patronage list will sell his goods to the government at a fair rate. He will perhaps seek to obtain from the Government a little higher price than from his ordinary customers, although I do not know that that will always be the case. But	when	he expects	to	becalled upon for political contributions, when he	knows	that the same	influence which procured for him the patronage	of the	Government	will	afterwards demand from him political contributions out of his private purse, what will be the natural course for him to pursue if	he be	a man not	specially
scrupulous in matters of this kind. He will no doubt put an increased price upon his goods and in that respect reap some personal advantage to himself, the coffers of the Liberal party will also reap an additional and perhaps greater advantage, and both profits will come out of the people of this country. It is they who, out of their taxes, will pay the shot. That is what it amounts to. How far will this Bill which we are promised go? If it should go so far as to make criminally responsible those who see these things being done under their very eyes, who know that this system is being carried on, we may perhaps have, out of this legislation, conditions better than those which have prevailed within recent years. I see no difference in principle, or rather lack of principle, between the system to which I have alluded and that of offering open bribes to a constituency by saying: ' If you support the party now in power, certain public works, which are justly your due, will be constructed in your riding; but if you see fit to support a candidate not in sympathy with the government, no such works will be carried on and you will not receive your due.* Further, 1 can see no difference between that and the bribery of a single elector, except that the bribery by wholesale is tenfold more iniquitous and demoralizing and

deserves tenfold more punishment at the hands of the law than ordinary bribery.
So far as the waterways treaties is concerned, we cannot discuss its terms until it is laid on the table. It is undoubtedly very important and I trust that the interests of Canada will be found adequately safeguarded when that instrument is before the House. We shall give any measure submitted by the government our fair consideration. I trust that the government measures will be brought down promptly, and that we may be able to complete 'the labours of this session at so early a date as to make some compensation for the long session of nearly eight months through which we passed just before the general election.


My hon. friend who has just addressed the House (Mr. Borden), and who still keeps the seat which he has adorned for some years past, who has been confirmed in it, as I understand, by a recent expression of the confidence-the well-deserved confidence-of his friends, and in which he has been likewise confirmed by the expression of the non-confidence-the well deserved nonconfidence of the people of Canada,-my honourable friend has paid a very grateful compliment to the mover and seconder of the Address, in which I altogether agree. My hon. friend did not travel very far, however, with those whose efforts he thus appreciated. He has something on his mind which came out almost immediately after he began, and that something had to do with the result of the late elections. These hon. members who were here last session-and there are still quite a number, though their ranks have been thinned-will remember that we were frequently taunted by our hon. friend opposite with having lost the confidence of the country and were challenged to appeal to the people. Well, we accepted that challenge, and my hon. friend is not satisfied with the result. He says that if we had a different system of representation, the numbers on both sides would be different, and he argues that we should in consequence bring down a new measure of redistribution. I have heard that before. The present system is, perhaps, not perfect, but at all events, it is the same today as in the old days. My hon. friend said that in the old days, we on this side, complained of the gerrymander. That is very true. We said we thought that the redistribution then was a gerrymander and we complained of it incessantly, in parliament and out of it, and especially during the elections; but I have yet to learn that in the last election there ever was a word of complaint from the hon. gentleman opposite as regards the redistribution.
My hon. friend also brought to the at-2
i
tention of the House the famous pamphlet called 'The Duty of the Hour', and he asked by whom it had been distributed. I am surprised he does not know and will tell him at once. It was distributed surreptitiously and clandestinely by the Conservative party and broadly and openly by the Liberal party. I have not had the pleasure of seeing a copy of the pamphlet, but I understand the injunction upon it was to pass it from neighbour to neighbour, not to do it publicly, but pass it quietly among the people, so that they can see all the iniquities of the Laurier government. When we found that, sir, as I understand, some of our friends openly got a supply of 'The Duty of the Hour' to be circulated, so that friends and foes might know what was contended and what were the appeals that were being made on behalf of hon. gentlemen opposite.
We come back, after accepting the challenge of our friends on the other side, very much as we were during the last session of the last parliament, so far as numerical strength is concerned. In the maritime provinces there has been a displacement of forces, but no change in numbers; we come back as strong from the maritime provinces as during last session. In Quebec, there has been hardly any change whatever. And in Ontario-Ontario upon which such hopes were centred, Ontario in which there was to have been a landslide-we are exactly as we were last session. There is, however, one part of the country where we_ suffered; we suffered in the west-in Manitoba and British Columbia. As to Manitoba, if I may give credence-as I do not doubt I may-to the statements made by my hon. friend from Brandon (Mr. Sifton,) it is no credit at all to the opposition, and no discredit to the government that we have suffered in the province of Manitoba. My hen. friend who, generally, is well informed, who knows the province of Manitoba as well as any man can know it, whose vision is as clear as that of any man living, and who is generally accurate in his statements, has stated that, if the opposition gained the advantage over us in Manitoba, if there was a reversal of strength in the parties, it was due to the fact that the lists upon which the elections took place had been outrageously made up. I am bound to say that this statement has been denied, and stoutly denied. I am not here to pass any opinion at this moment on the statement or the counter-statement. The matter can he investigated to see whether or not the fact is as stated, and if it be as stated, what measures can be taken to prevent such things in the future. At present, I pass bv the subject.
In British Columbia we suffered. We had the whole province on our side before the last election; this time, we come with diminished numbers. But I say without hesitation, and I say especially to my hon.



friend (R. L. Borden) opposite me, that the causes which led to our defeat in British Columbia are not to the discredit of the government, and still less are they to the credit of the opposition. The province of British Columbia is the only province in which the election was fought upon something like principle. In the other provinces the election was fought upon no principle; the campaign against us was simply^ an appeal to certain prejudices. In British Columbia, we had an open fight. I have no fault to find with that, on the contrary. In British Columbia we were assailed upon cur policy. It was our policy in regard to Asiatic immigration which was in issue. And, now that the battle has been fought, I have to say that the policy brought forward by our opponents against our own policy was a policy very shortsighted, a policy which sacrificed-no, I will not use so strong a word, but imperilled and jeopardized-the best interests not only of Canada but of British Columbia itself. Sir, in British Columbia, the problem of Asiatic immigration is the one question that interests all sections of public opinion; and all classes of the people in British Columbia, to whatever party they may belong, unite in the opinion which is expressed in the words now current in the politics of that province, ' A white British Columbia; a white Canada,' meaning that British Columbia should be preserved as a home of the white race. To this opinion, to this fact, we on this side of the House have no opposition to offer, and to it we take no exception whatever. But, Sir, we differ altogether as to the means by which this end is to be attained. The policy advocated by the opposition in British Columbia, advocated with greater emphasis last election than ever, and forced upon the leader of the party opposed to us and by that leader at last reluctantly accepted, is to prevent the immigration of Asiatics into British Columbia by hostile legislation. The policy which we have adopted, and upon which the issue was fought in British Columbia, was that we should not seek to reach that end by hostile legislation, especially against a friendly nation, but should endeavour to reach that object by negotiation and diplomatic action. There, Sir, is the issue. And new, I ask: what is the policy that is conducive to the best interests of Canada and of the British empire to which we belong? Sir, to put the question is to answer it : our policy is the policy which ought to impress everybody who pretends to be a Canadian or pretends to be British as the one best calculated for the weal of both Canada and the empire. But, before I go further, let me say that I find no fault with the view maintained in British Columbia that that province should be maintained as a country for the white race. I have no hesitation in saying also that I do not attribute the attitude of British Columbia Sir WILFRID LAURIER.
in its passionate desire for a white man's country to anything like prejudice-prejudice of colour or of anything else. No; I recognize that the origin and cause for the feeling which prevails and predominates in British Columbia is to be found in economic laws which would produce the same result in any other place in which the conditions were similar to those of British Columbia. The races of Asia, whether they be Japanese or Chinese, East Indian, have been for many generations, as we know, subjected to despotism which has reduced them to a condition of penury. In their lodgings, in their food, in their garments, they are content with the most simple necessaries of life which can be supplied with only a fraction of the wages necessary to maintain a workingman in respectability in this country. So, when these races come to this country in such large numbers as to compete with white labour, they accept wages so low that they create at once an economic disturbance. And all economic disturbances are far-reaching in their consequences. Sir, if that were the only aspect of the question, it would be easy of solution according to our friends from British Columbia. But there is another aspect of the question which, unfortunately, is too often forgotten, and to this aspect of the question I would especially ask the attention of our friends from British Columbia. Our neighbours on the Pacific coast are next door, so to speak, to those very Asiatics whom we are now asked to treat with so much contempt. The Asiatics have lain dormant for ages in respect to civilization, but they are now awakening from their lethargy and adopting western methods and western modes of living. They offer immense facilities for trade, and we see the greatest commercial nations of the world, England, Germany and the United States, vieing with each other in order to obtain a share of that commercial abundance.
Now, Sir, what should be our attitude in regard to that matter ? Should we not seek to obtain a share of that abundance ? Should we not take every possible advantage that our propinquity gives us over our less favoured competitors ? It is sufficient to put the question for the answer to suggest itself. I may say that in this duty we have not been remiss. Shortly, or immediately, before the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, we took measures to extend it across the continent to the Pacific Ocean in order to reach the Asiatic trade. This parliament acting in conjunction with the mother country, subsidized a line of steamers in order to engage in that trade with Asia. That service has been well performed during the last twenty years by the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. Their steamers have been ploughing the ocean during all these years between British Columbia and Japan and China, and from those countries back to

British Columbia. Well, Sir, some five years ago Japan invited the nations of the earth to a world's fair. We were urged to take part in that fair, and we did so. Just before the fair was concluded we were deluged with petitions coming from all parts of Canada asking us to make a treaty with Japan in order to obtain, if possible, a share of the immense trade that would develop with that country in the future. We negotiated a treaty and laid it before parliament. It was received in this House without a word of dissent or criticism. Our friends opposite were eager for it. But we knew there was a difficulty, and that difficulty was with respect to Japanese immigration. At that time we had an understanding with the Japanese government, accomplished through the Japanese consulate here, to the effect that the Japanese government themselves would undertake to restrict their own immigrants. Unfortunately after the treaty had been ratified there was an influx of Japanese immigration into British Columbia, as if the treaty had superseded the understanding. We sent one of our colleagues to Japan to protest. He had no difficulty in getting the Japanese authorities to agree that they would respect the understanding we had entered into with them, and that they themselves would restrict immigration from Japan to this country. The matter came up for review in this House. We presented our policy to the House, and it was not accepted by the opposition. The opposition held, on the contrary, that instead of having a treaty we should take the matter into'our own hands and restrict all Asiatic immigration. My hon. friend the leader of tlie opposition moved this resolution :
That this House, whilst expressing its profound appreciation of the friendly intentions and courteous assurance of the Japanese government, and whilst declaring its sincere desire for the most cordial relations with the Japanese people, desires, nevertheless to record its strong protest against a policy under which our wage earning population cannot be protected from destructive invading competition, except by entreating the forbearance and aid of a foreign government.
We did not endorse these views, for the obvious reason that if the object were to restrict Japanese immigration to Canada, and if that could be done either by legislative enactment in this parliament or by friendly action on the part of the Japanese government themselves, we would prefer that it should be done by the voluntary action of the Japanese government. I would ask the leader of the opposition, Why should we-I will not put it on the ground of international comity but on the ground of our own self interest-Why should we hurt the feelings of a friendly nation when that nation was willing to do what we wanted her to do ? Sir, this was the posi-2i
tion we took, and the position was so strong that I was not at all surprised when I saw my hon. friend the leader of the opposition accept that position, both for himself and for his party, at the opening of the last general elections. At that time I was not surprised to see that the^ opposition had come to our way of thinking. In that debate I used these words, speaking of the Japanese government :
If they fail to carry out this understanding that we have with them, then we s'm'-1 have the power ourselves to put an end to the treaty. But that will be done only m the last resort, only when every method of conciliation has been exhausted, only when every other means has been tried and failed.
This was so reasonable a proposition that I was not at all surprised that my hon. friend, at the opening of the campaign, practically accepted it. I do not say that my hon. friend announced his acceptance to the people. But he had an ambassador to the people of British Columbia who spoke for himself and the party to which Ire belongs. One of the candidates in British Columbia was a gentleman whom I am very glad to see in this House-as the constituency has to be represented by a Tory, though I would much prefer to see it represented by a Grit-I mean the constituency of Vancouver. The gentleman who now represents the city of Vancouver, and whom I see before me, accepted the nomination, but accepted it with some compunction, some hesitation. In order to be absolutely sure _ of his ground, and before finally committing himself, he came east to interview the leader of the opposition, and obtain from him certain pledges in respect to this question and another one. In a speech delivered in the city of Vancouver by Mr. Cowan, the Conservative candidate, on the 1st of October last, as I find it reported in the < News-Advertiser,' he used this 