That the fourth report of the Special Committee appointed to investigate the charges , and allegations made by Hugh D. Lumsden against a portion of the engineering staff of the National Transcontinental railway be taken into consideration on the 31st instant.
He said: I would suggest this date if it is convenient to the leader of the government.


Quite so.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, before the orders of the day are called, I wish to bring to the attention of the government, especially the Minister of Public Works, a complaint made by the people in the western part of the province of Ontario in regard to the lease by the government of Ontario of the privilege of

taking sand and gravel from the Detroit river, or rather the River St. Clair, which is an international stream. That privilege has been granted for five years to a Detroit concern over a district running from the Indian reserve to the head of Point Edward, and comprising some 2,025 acres. Heretofore it has been the custom of the people of Sarnia, Wallaceburg, Dresden and other places desiring sand, to go to the neighbourhood and take it. They find now that before they can get any sand they have to pay a royalty to this Detroit concern, without whose consent they are not able to avail themselves of this public property. A great deal of feeling amounting to indignation has been aroused over the matter, and it seems to me that by reason of the interest which the Dominion has in a stream of this character, some action might be taken by this government to protect the rights of the people of Canada.


I am glad that my hon. friend has brought up this very important matter. I may say that my attention has been already called to it by persons who complain of this exclusive right being granted by the government of Ontario to the company to which my hon. friend refers. Of course, if the sole right to the bed of the river is vested in the Ontario government, it would be impossible for the Department of Public Works to take action unless the operations of the company might be injurious to navigation. I am rather inclined to think that is the case, because a company dredging simply for the purpose of taking out sand would not be likely to have very much regard to navigation, and the result would be that deep holes would be left in certain parts of the river, which would prevent proper anchorage, and in other respects might be injurious to navigation. I may say to my hon. friend that I will have the matter looked into, and will see whether it is possible or desirable that action should be taken by the Department of Public Works in the matter.


House in committee, on Bill (No. 102), respecting immigration-Mr. Oliver.
On section 26, bill of health,
If the minister will permit me to refer back to section 3, I would like to ask him if he thinks that the words ' persons afflicted with loathsome diseases, or with disease that is contagious, or infectious, or which may become dangerous to the public health,' would cover tuberculosis? I see, by the amended immigration regulations of the United States, adopted in 1907, that w'hile they have made provision practically along the lines which the minister has followed in this Bill, they have expressly included tuberculosis. If the hon. minister thinks this clause will cover that point, I suppose there is no necessity to make an amendment, but otherwise, it would be well to consider the matter.	.


I may say that the matter was considered when we were drafting the Bill. Our view was that tuberculosis is such an insidious disease that if we mentioned it by name, and specifically included tuberculous people among the prohibited classes, the provision might be used to work unnecessary hardship, whereas the section, in its present shape, is sufficiently operative in cases where the disease is so developed that there can be no question about its existence. In such cases, the immigrant may be excluded under it. But if we were to include the word ' tuberculosis ' in the section, it would cover cases which might show a tubercular tendency or a tubercular condition which it would not be right to exclude on that account. By leaving the section as it is, if the disease has reached such a stage as to be a danger to public health, the patient can be excluded.


As long as the minister thinks the section sufficiently broad to cover cases of tuberculosis, and the officers of his department are so instructed, I shall be perfectly satisfied, but I hope that the minister's view will be understood, because it is very important that we should guard against the introduction of that loathsome, and most deadly disease.


This provision is practically identical with that in the Act to-day, and which is operated under the interpretation I have given. We employ the section for the purpose of excluding patients who are evidently tubercular and whose condition is such as to constitute a public danger.
On section 28,
Medical officers appointed under this Act shall make a physical and mental examination of all immigrants and passengers seeking to land in Canada from any ship or vessel, except in the case of Canadian citizens. Such examination shall he made in accordance with and subject to regulations prescribed by the superintendent of immigration under the direction or with the approval of the minister.


Does the hon. minister contemplate having any examination of intended immigrants at the port of embarkation? I have alluded several times to the United States regulations, and I do not wish to unduly bring them into this discussion, but it does seem to me that, with

their very long experience, they ought to be in a position to know what is required. I find that, according to the provisions of their Act of March 3, 1893, they require the shipmasters to furnish a list of all passengers, and that the passengers shall be examined by the master of the ship or its surgeon at the port of embarkation. If that be not done, they are liable to heavy punishment-both the master, and the ship owners. When the Bill before us was under discussion on its second reading, my hon. friend from .Tacques Cartier (Mr. Monk) made a suggestion along this line, and I do not know whether the minister said that any regulations of that character would be enforced. But it seems to me such a regulation would relieve in a large measure the pressure on the officers on this side. I should like to have the minister's views.


Section 26 might be utilized to require the information which my hon. friend has suggested, but our view is that we cannot accept any inspection by any person who is not responsible directly to us, and therefore we have not provided for any examination. Section 26, however, would enable us to require the master to give us the information on the manifest. That, however, is a question of detail, and not of principle. Our principle is that the examination made by the officers responsible to us is the only one we can recognize. In that way we place the responsibility absolutely on the steamship company. If the company take passengers who do not meet the requirements of our law, they have to take them back, and the responsibility is theirs, not ours..


This section concerning inspection is perhaps the most important of all. What we should insist on is moral, physical and mental inspection.
Persons who have been convicted of any crime should not' be permitted to land in Canada. In that connection, I express the opinion, founded on the statement of Mr. Scott, that we should provide for the moral examination of the immigrants on the other side. Whoever intends to settle in our country should be the holder of a certificate stating that he has committed no crime. This certificate might be issued by a magistrate, by the clerk of a court of justice, ot by a clergyman. Let us insert a similar test in our legislation, and we shall have at our disposal a further means of keeping away undesirable immigrants. On the twenty-first of April. 1909, in the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Monk put this question to Mr. Scott: 'What objections do you see to it if the immigrant should hand to the examining authority on the other side that document which would show that the immigrant is not a criminal?'' Mr. JAMESON. \
And Mr. Scott said: ' I would have no objections.'
I desire to make another suggestion. The ideal system would consist in a medical examination performed on board ship by a Canadian physician, appointed and paid by the Department of the Interior. He would be permitted to take the necessary time to make an inspection of a very scientific character.
You will allow me to make a few remarks concerning the medical inspection of immigrants at Quebec. Dr. Page has thoroughly organized the system of medical inspectors at that place. Those having any experience in the practice of medicine know how7 difficult it sometimes is, to discover mental disease. The physician is obliged to make long and repeated examinations. I think Dr. Burgess, medical superintendent of Verdun Asylum, is right when he says:
But, apart from the question of heredity, there is another and more remediable cause for the rapid increase in our asylum population, namely, the defective class of immigrants being dumped upon our shores. That a country so vast as ours should be more densely peopled is ' a consummation devoutly to he wished,' hut the question of number should be secondary to that of character, and quite a large proportion of the immigrants brought in are of a low standard of mentality, some of them even having been inmates of asylums before coming to this country.^ In our own establishment, of the admissions since its opening, over forty per cent have been of foreign birth, and there are in residence at the present time not a few patients, who, if subjected to any proper examination, would never have been allowed to set foot in the country. The new Immigration Act, assented to in July, 1906, by which an immigrant probationary period in this country was extended to two years, has certainly been a great help toward reducing the number of undesirables foisted upon us, and by its aid we were able last year to bring about the deportation of some fourteen patients. There are, however, still resident no less than eleven persons whom we are morally certain come within the provisions of the Act, but in regard to whom we have been able to get no positive proof that such is the case. Insane, they are unable or unwilling to give any reliah'e information about themselves, and friendless, we have no one to whom to apply for it. This fact alone proves the crying need for a much stricter examination of every alien seeking our shores. All persons wishing to emigrate to Canada should he rigidly examined by liberally salaried medical officers appointed by the Dominion government, before being allowed to embark, and should furnish proof that they have never been insane or epileptic, and that their parents have never been affected with such diseases. The examining medical officer should be held strictly accountable for the mental calibre of the applicants for emigration passed by him.
I hope the minister will be able to go along these lines. I believe this Bill is a

step in advance. I would like a perfect Bill, and I believe that there is room foi great improvement, even upon the present legislation. The government would be accomplishing a progressive work should they appoint a commissioner with power to investigate in order to enlighten the legislators of this country with regard to this great question of immigration.


In reply to the suggestion of my hon. friend (Mr. Paquet) that there should be a moral examination of the immigrant before he leaves his own country, I would point out that, while that would be possible in the case of immigrants from the continent of Europe, it seems to me it would be either difficult or ineffective in the case of immigrants coming from the British islands. On the continent there is a general system of supervision of the people; a record is kept of every individual. Consequently, as I have suggested, it would be possible, in the case of immigrants from the continent of Europe to arrive at a very fair idea as to their conduct by such a scheme of investigation as my hon. friend suggests without unduly and unreasonably hampering the immigration movement. But I fear that, in the case of British immigrants who come from a country where there is no such system of keeping records of individuals, the result would be to hamper desirable immigration to a degree that would be beyond the benefit that we should derive. The deportation provisions of our Act are, I think, reasonably effective in getting rid of the morally unfit. That is the purpose, at any rate. And I think that the purpose is fairly served. So that, when an immigrant arrives in Canada, if we find within a reasonable time that he is morally unfit, we can, under the Act, return him to the country from whence he came at a minimum of expense to Canada. This fact -that they can be returned and that the expense of return has to be borne by the transportation company, and the effect of failure by the unfortunate person who is deported-seems to me to be a fair deterrent. I think the House will find, as we wrork along the lines of our present Immigration Act, that the effect will be to restrict the coming of the undesirables through the knowledge that if they come they can and will be sent back.
As to the suggestion that there should be a medical examination on board the ship on the way out, I quite appreciate the great advantage there would be in adopting such a plan. Certainly, it would give an opportunity for physical examination which does not exist in the rush and hurry that occurs in the landing at the ocean port. But, on the other hand, there would have to be considered the very large expense that would be involved in making such an examination as is proposed. But, if the matter is fairly examined, and if the
immigrants who came last year and those who are coming this year be considered rather than those who came years ago before we put in force the restrictive and selective provisions of the Act under a selective and restrictive policy, I think it will be found that the conditions are not such as would reasonably require the additional expense that would be involved in my hon. friend's suggestion.


I do not quite understand what rule the minister follows. At many of these points where immigrants arrive, he has physicians to examine them, and I suppose they also see at the same time that the immigrants fulfil the law in other respects. At many other important points his officials are not medical men, and therefore are not in a position to judge whether the immigrants are proper persons to allow into this country. As long as they have the necessary funds, which I think is $25 each, the immigration officers allow them to come into this country. They may be persons who are not .altogether mentally right, and yet these officers are not qualified to judge, and therefore undesirables are allowed in. As an instance, take Sault Ste. Marie, where tlm minister stations medical men to examine immigrants coming in. But opposite my own town there is no medical officer. There are men there acting as immigration agents, and I am not saying anything against them, they are all good men. But how are they to decide whether a person is fit to come into this country? As long as they have the funds they are allowed to come in. There are other cases where I think this immigration law is violated, and the minister knows it; it is violated on account of the kind of officers he appoints. We all know that it is not very long ago when thousands of Japanese were allowed to come ^ in at Vancouver. After one immigrant' was allowed in -yvith $25, he handed that money over to another one who is also allowed in, and so they kept the thing going on, and the official allowed immigrants in who were not able to comply with the law. We had another case at Halifax or St. John, where one of the minister's officers was letting in immigrants that were diseased, and that were certainly not the proper kind of citizens to allow into this country. But he was allowing them to come in and getting a rake-off for doing so. In that case all the minister did was to dismiss this official-at least I think he did, but he did not prosecute him for violating the law; and the Tesult is that the next man he appoints is probably doing the same thing. But that is not the only case. There is a case before the public at Quebec to-day where an official appointed by the minister himself has been,

I understand, allowing these _ people to come in, though they have violated the law; he allowed a lot of them to come in that had not the necessary funds. The way they do it is a contractor will go down and hand the men the $25, and then they are allowed in and remain here as citizens. Yet the minister pays noi attention to that. People can get into this country, no matter whether they have $25, or whether they are filled with tuberculosis, or anything else, because of the class of men the minister has acting as inspectors. When I read of these things taking place at Vancouver, at St. John, and at Quebec, and the minister paying no attention to them, I think it is time the people should rise and rebel against the kind of officials he puts there to carry out the inspection law.


I have not in mind all the instances my hon. friend has mentioned, and cannot reply as exactly as I would wish. He mentioned one case where thousands of Japanese, he says, were allowed to come in at Vancouver; and he placed the responsibility upon the immigration official at that place. My hon. friend is entirely in error. At that time the law did not permit the agent at Vancouver to prevent these people from coming in, nor was he able to prevent them until, as I mentioned last night in reply to the hon. member for Kootenay (Mr. Goodeve), we got legislation which enabled us to put up a barrier against undesirables, then no more of them came in, and I think we have the same agent.


Did not each one have to have $25?


Not at that time. In regard to general incompetence or improprieties on the part of the immigration agents, I may say to the hon. gentleman that we have to guard a frontier of 3,000 miles, with ports on both oceans, and it is not reasonable to suppose that we can always get a perfect or entirely satisfactory agent. When the people of Canada all become angels, then that will he possible, but not before. I am glad to know, however. that those officials my hon. friend is most acquainted with, those whom he sees most frequently he has no fault to find with. Now, I beg to say to my hon. friend that the minister is sitting in his place in the House, and no one in the House I am sure would find fault with him . more quickly than my hon. friend if the minister were not in his place. The minister is in his place in the House. I beg to assure my hon. friend that complaints in regard to the conduct of any particular officers in any part of the country receive prompt attention, and justice Mr. J. D. REID.
is done as we understand Justice in the matter. We do not claim perfection for the head of the Immigration Department or for any of its officers or officials, but. we do claim that both officers and officials average up fairly with the rest of the community.


I do not think the minister deals out justice to his officials as he says. I remember a case in the minister's department up in his own city of Edmonton, where one of his officials was found guilty of stealing money from immigrants, and he was put in jail. The minister paid his salary while he was in jail, and after he got out he increased his salary, and still keeps him as an official in his department. That is the way he deals out justice to his officials. He still has that official in Vancouver. I was surprised to hear him state that he had kept on this othcial _ at St. John. Then there has been a complaint against an agent at Quebec that he allows a" contractor to go down and pay all the men $25 so that they can put it in their pockets and walk past the inspectors and then hand the money back to him again. That is how the minister deals out justice, a man who commits an offence is promoted and that is the kind of officials he has in many of these places along the frontier. Of course in my county they are good officials because you cannot get any but good men there, but when you go to Edmonton, and some of these places you get men of the class I have mentioned. I do not find fault with the minister, there are other departments where the same thing is done. At Sorel an official robbed the country by padding the pay-lists, and the Prime Minister had him removed to his county with a larger salary, that was a man named Roy.


No.


If the Prime Minister has forgotten


They are all good in my constituency.


-if he looks it up he will find that what I say is true. Another immigration agent of the Minister of the Interior, is Jackson, who was guilty of all the election frauds in South Oxford. He was sent to England as an immigration agent. It is with the class of immigration agents I find fault. I hope that when the minister is appointing any more agents, if he cannot get good ones in the constituencies where they are to be employed, he will come to my constituency where he will find good men who will do what is right if they are given the opportunity.


I was not able to follow all the hon. gentleman's statements but if they are all as incorrect as two I happened to* catch, his criticism is not very damaging. He mentioned an instance of an

official of the Immigration Department in the west who was sent to jail for stealing from immigrants, and said that the minister paid his salary while he was in jail, and promoted him on his release. If the man mentioned is Wagner, whose case was up before this House on several occasions, I was not the minister at the time Mr. Wagner got into jail, and I have every reason to believe that he did not get any salary while in jail, nor was he promoted while in jail, nor was he employed by the department when he came out of jail, nor for a considerable time afterwards.


Is he employed now?


Yes, and giving every satisfaction. The man Jackson, "whom my hon. friend has mentioned, is not in the employ of the Department of the Interior in any capacity whatever. As to the other statements my hon. friend has made, if he will become definite rather than incoherent, and will give U3 the instances by name and date, and place, I will guarantee him that every means will be taken to see that justice is done.


I do not think it is well to do that any further than I have. I have mentioned the agent at Quebec. The trouble is that if the minister investigates that case the result will be that the offender will get a better position, and the country will have to pay more. The best thing we can do is to let him stay there until this party gets into power, when we can put a "ood man in his place.


The minister would not say that Jackson is not in the employ of the government. It is true he is not in the employ of the Department of the Interior, but it is well known that Jackson, who took an active part in the election trial in South Oxford, was appointed to an important position by the Department of Trade and Commerce, and the Minister of Trade and Commerce defended his appointment in this House in a general discussion some years ago.


I would again call attention to the desirability of having a doctor on board each ship that brings immigrants to Canada so as to thoroughly examine them on the voyage. I think that is particularly desirable because while we cannot prevent them getting on the ship, as the minister has no authority in a foreign country, the doctor would certainly have plenty of time on the voyage across the ocean to make investigation and report, and then permission to land might be refused to undesirables. We are passing a stringent law and ought to do everything we can to enforce it.


I have already spoken on that point. There is no doubt the method
suggested would give opportunities for medical examination that we have not now, but it would also greatly increase the expenditure, and if we are to judge of the efficiency of the present law, and administration by the immigration of the present as compared with that of past years, it will be generally agreed that it is not necessary in the interests of a proper selective policy to make that expenditure. If it should appear from the experience of this year that it is necessary, I will be very glad to consider the proposition favourably, but it is my desire to keep the necessarily heavy expense of administering the immigration law as low as possible consistent with efficiency. I believe that with the campaign we are now making, with the warnings that we give, and with the attitude we have assumed towards the transportation companies, placing the responsibility on them, that we are in a very good position in regard to the exclusion of undesirables from Canada.


I suggested the other day a method of furnishing the money without largely increasing the expenditure. I have been opposed for some years to the bonusing system, giving agents one pound for every man or woman that they send to this country. I think that is altogether unnecessary. In a recent speech the president of the New York Central railway told the people of the United States that unless they greatly increased the productiveness of their farms they would within five years be importing breadstuffs to feed their own people, and he added that it was desirable that experimental farms should be established in every county and every state of the union. If that be true, then the American people will shortly have to come to us for their foodstuffs, and in that light the giving of 160 acres of land free is quite an inducement to immigrants to come to Canada, without donating a bonus to some smooth-tongued agent who often induces undesirables to come to this country.


The bonus is only paid in respect of immigrants who will settle on the land-and to female domestic servants -whose presence in Canada may reasonably be expected to increase the production and productiveness of our land. It is true that the offer of 160 acres of free land is a wonderfully good offer, but it is no use unless people know about it, and we pay the $5 bonus to the booking agent on the ticket he sells to the farmer or farm labourer in order to advertise to them the offer that Canada makes. Our bonus policy is part of our advertising policy, and I believe we get more direct and indirect value from it than from any other part of our immigration expenditure. It is not correct to say that the bonus is paid in any way to induce the immigration of people of

Canada other than those who will go on the land or go into domestic service.


I have been somewhat interested in this question, and I had supposed that from the number of immigrants of the farming class upon whom we are paying a bonus, that fully two-thirds of the population of the new provinces would be foreigners. I was surprised, however, to find by a recent report that of 808,000 people there in 1906, 444,000 were Canadian born. About one-half the population of Winnipeg are foreigners, and where are ail these men gone to that you would expect to find in the rural districts. I believe that everything possible should be done not only to induce foreigners, but to induce our own people to settle on the land, and I do not think the bonus is doing very much good. We expect to get immigrants from Great Britain, but out of the 44,000,000 population I find that less than 2,750,000 are settled on the land, and in view of that I do not see how we can expect^ to get farmers from Great Britain. I think the probability is that a large number of the settlers on whom we pay a bonus are taken from the cities rather than from the agricultural communities.


The very fact that the proportion of farm occupants in the old country is small and that the number of occupants of the cities is large, is the very reason why we give the bonus in order that the advantages of Canada may be brought to the attention of the agricultural population. The report of the homestead entries in the west shows that we have been successful in some measure. The number of people of British birth who have taken homestead entries in the northwest in the past ten years is ample evidence that whether the agricultural population of the British isles is large or small, we under our present policy, secure a very considerable share of them for Canada.


They do not have to be farmers to take a homestead.


I know, but if they take homesteads and retain them they must become farmers. The evidence is plain in the northwest that our administration in that regard has not been by any means unsuccessful.


Can the minister say what proportion of the immigrants come because of the solicitations of immigrant agents, and what proportion come voluntarily?	,


It would be impossible to answer that question. It is impossible, of course, to draw the line between the immigrant who has been personally met bv the immigrant agent and solicited or the man Mr. OLIVER
who has come to Canada through the medium of the advertisements published by th.-j agents, and the man who may have come without any of these inducements. But it will be plain to any one that at the present day, when all the world is open to the immigrant, the man from Great Britain who comes to Canada in preference to going to the United States, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa or any of the other British colonies, must have made his choice because of information received and very likely because of information contained in the various forms of advertising in Great Britain, for which the Immigration Department is more or less responsible.


I will draw the minister's attention to the fact that when this matter was investigated a few_ years ago the statement was made in evidence that these steamship companies had formed a pool under which a certain percentage of all the immigrants was set apart for each steamship company, so that, without regard to the agents fixing the destination of the immigrants, so many were assigned to Canada, so many to New Zealand and so many to each of the other countries that were absorbing immigration, and the booking agents simply sold tickets and took toll for the steamship companies, and did not add to or take from the total volume of immigrants comine to this country. If that is true, the companies will have a certain interest in trying to school immigrants coming to this country, who pass through their hands, to become farmers. The only test given by the minister was the number of those who homesteaded in the west. He gives no information in regard to the number in eastern Canada. Many of these people who go out west and take up homesteads simply stay long enough to prove them up, and then sell out to some man from Ontario, the maritime provinces or Quebec, and drift into the cities, as they are not farmers and do not like farming. A number of years ago the same kind of people were attracted to the northern part of the province of Ontario by promises of free grants of land; but they did not stay long, the great bulk of them drifting into the cities. I think that much the same thing has happened in the west.


There is always in every country a movement from the country to the towns and cities. That is how the cities exist; it is because of that natural flow of population to them. Population never goes from the town to the country; it always goes from the country to the town. It is not only the British or continental immigrants, but it is the Canadian-born, the British-born, the continental-born and the United States-born on the farms who ultimately build up the towns. It would be nonsense to suggest that because British

immigrants come to Canada and take up land, therefore, neither they nor their children, nor their children's children would ever become residents of a town; but there is no difference whatever between the British immigrant and the Canadian-born citizen in that respect. If there is, it is rather in favour of the British immigrant and his children staying on the land rather than going to the town.


I would point out that the settlers from Ontario and Quebec, as a rule are people from the rural portions of the country, farmers and farmers' sons. The people who come from the old land are city people. Under such conditions, there would certainly be a smaller proportion of young men from Ontario who would drift off to the cities than these city people who come from the motherland and who are not farmers.


I have lived in the northwest for a long time and have followed the trend of immigration, and so far as my knowledge and -experience go, the British immigrant to the northwest stays on the land as well, or better, than the Canadian settler, one reason being that the towns in the west are Canadian, whereas the countrv districts are of mixed pojoulation. In regard to a steamship combine, there is no doubt one, but it operates in exactly the opposite way to which my hon. friend supposes. Instead of the companies dividing the actual transportation of the immigrants among themselves, they each .get their share of the total proceeds of the passage money, no matter to what country the immigrant goes. So that it becomes a matter of indifference to the steamship company where the immigrant goes so long as he goes somewhere. Under these circumstances, it is all the more necessary, if Canada is to get immigrants of a desirable class, that we should take means to place the advantages of this country before them.


According to the minister's own admission, it is not likely that any steamship company will exert itself to bring immigrants to Canada when it has to turn over a portion of the profits to some steamship company that does not carry them at all.


When the hon. gentleman introduced this Bill, I put this question to him:
Is there a demand from any part of Canada to abolish altogether assisted immigration?


There is no assisted immigration into Canada so far as this government is concerned. I know of no demand to abolish that which in this ease does not exist.
I think that was hardly an .answ-er to my question, and I find from the discussion now, as I knew at the time, that there is a great deal of money expended by this government, which in reality is for assisted immigration. My hon. friend has pointed out that they paid bonuses upon farm labourers, and domestic servants, so that I do not quite see how he came to make the statement he did.


Apparently my hon. friend and myself hold different views as to the meaning of the term ' assisted immigration.' I understand it to mean assistance given to the immigrant personally to come to Canada. I replied that we gave no such assistance. I believe that at one time there was some assistance given to immigrants. There was a money payment made to them after they had taken up homesteads in the west.


Do you remember the date?


I cannot. It was a long time ago, and it did not last very long.


More than twenty years ago?


I could not recollect the date, but there was a time when there was a direct payment to the immigrants. That, however, has not been the policy of this government. It is absolutely contrary to our policy that any part of the passage money or expenses of an immigrant should be paid in order to enable him to come to Canada.


The assistance is given the steamship companies.


No. There was a time when assistance wTas given these companies, but that time has gone by, and now our money is spent entirely in advertising the advantages of Canada. If that be assisting immigration, then of course this government does assist immigration.


What is the bonus or assistance?


We do not assist the immigrant. There is a payment to the agent to recoup him for advertising in order to induce immigrants to buy their tickets from him. I draw a distinction between assisting, and inducing immigration. Our policy is to induce immigration by advertising the advantages of Canada. There is a distinction between that, and the policy of advancing money to enable immigrants to come to Canada. The latter is a policy which is now in vogue in Ontario, and I think British Columbia, as well. The governments of these provinces have seen fit to inaugurate a policy of what I would call ' assisted immigration.' We have not done anything of the kind. We spend many thousands of dollars in

advertising the advantages of Canada, but not one dollar is paid to any immigrant to bring him out.


What proportion of the total immigration, and what classes are bonuses paid on?


I could not give the information. I am not sure that our returns are in such a shape that I could give it.


I believe my hon. friend's remark applies to some booking agents, but they are the agents who do very little booking. The booking agency business in the British Islands, and continental Europe is a special business, carried on the same as the grocery business, or any other. Every immigrant to Canada has to buy his ticket at a booking office. Just as in the case of other callings, some are enterprising, and some are not, and the booking agent who does a large business, makes money while the one who does a small business makes very little. The booking agent who is energetic and ambitious advertises to the public that he is a booking agent, and in addition the advantages of some country to which immigrants are likely to go, in order to induce them to buy their tickets from him instead of from his competitors. So that when Canada offers a bonus of $5 to these agents for bringing certain classes of immigrants to Canada, they advertise in the newspapers, and give lectures with the idea of getting the business. In that way we get ample returns in publicity for the money we spend, and in interesting the men to whom the immigrants must go to purchase their tickets. They are booking agents for every part of the world, and sell tickets to every part of the world. Everybody has heard of Cook's, for instance, who have booking agents everywhere, and sell tickets to everywhere. The result of our offering a bonus of $5 to the booking agents on tickets sold to agricultural people coming to Canada is that the booking agent advertises Canada, and particularly the agricultural advantages of Canada, because that is where the money is made. That is where we get some of our best advertising results. The Australian colonies are now Mr. OLIVER.
waking up, and, I am sorry to say, are adopting our methods. But imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Besides, I do not think that anybody will suggest that our Australian cousins are lacking in enterprise or in good sense. They see what we have been successful in doing by this policy, and they have decided to follow it. It is true they are adding to it by a system of what I call assisted immigration. We are not doing that; we do not believe it is the best policy. We believe that the advantages which Canada offers are such that if they are brought to the attention of the people who are able to use these advantages, that is sufficient; and if we cannot get the people that way, we are content that they should go somewhere else.


In criticising the minister in the efforts to promote immigration, I was merely pointing out that these booking agents seem to be not so much promoting immigration as taking toll from the immigrants who come to Canada. As _ to their advertising Canada and promoting the emigration of the class we desire, it is clear that the large population from which they can most easily draw is that of the towns. As the minister has pointed out, only a small proportion are those who are really on land. I am somewhat of the opinion that the booking agents convert a lot of those who pass through their hands into agriculturists-they have an interest in doing that. While I am on my feet, I would ask the minister if there is any person who looks after these booking agents to see if they are actually doing something to bring immigrants of the right class to Canada?


We have five salaried agents in England, two in Ireland and two in Scotland. Each of these agents _ has supervision of the booking agencies in a certain number of counties, and is expected to make visits to these booking agencies from time to time to see how they are carrying on their business. If we find that a booking agency is not doing our business in what we think a right and proper manner-if they are giving out improper advertising, misrepresenting the conditions in Canada or otherwise acting discreditably- we put them off the bonus list. Then, no matter to whom they sell tickets, we pay them no bonus. I think my hon. friend will agree that that has a fairly salutary effect.


Do the salaried agents of the department make a proper report to the minister with regard to these booking agents? If so, I suppose that is included in the minister's report?


No, they are under the control of the Assistant Superintendent of Immigration in London. They receive their

* orders direct from him, and make reports to him. These reports are not part of the records of the government on this side, so that I should not be able to bring them down. But the supervision of the booking agents is a part of their business, and I am satisfied that they attend to it. My hon. friend is entirely in error in thinking that the booking agents-the enterprising ones, I mean-do not spend money, and a great deal of money, in directly advertising the advantages of Canada.


Is there an age limit in regard to the immigrants for whom a bonus is paid to the booking agents?


If the committee desire to discuss immigration questions generally, I am ready to accommodate myself to that desire. But. I may remind hon members that the clause before the committee is that relating to medical examination of immigrants. I think that after this long general discussion, it would be better to come back to the clause before the committee.
Mr-. S. _ SHARPE. On this subject of examination, what system of checking has the minister with regard to these immigrants? What is to prevent the booking agents making fraudulent returns its to the classes they book?
Mr. OLIVER, An account is kept between the booking agent and the London omce on the basis of information received from this side. The booking agent claims a bonus on such-and-such a person. If the records here show that that person arrived and was of the agricultural class according to our information, authority is given to pay the bonus to the booking agent.


With such a good system, why does the minister restrict this bonus to a few agents? Why not offer it to any booking agent who will earn it, and so give Canada the benefit of the widest advertising?


This is open to any booking agents in Great Britain and Ireland except agents who may have shown by their actions that. it is not desirable that we should do business with them. Prima facie every booking agent in the British Islands who has received a license to sell transportation in the British Islands is entitled to claim this bonus on fulfilling the conditions on which it is paid.	,


They are licensed by the imperial government?


Yes.


Where is the inspection of the immigrants made?


At the port of landing.


At no other place?


At no other place.


That is the system we have always had?


Yes.


The minister has no doubt noted in late American papers that about 4,000 have been deported from New York. Has he any idea of what their means of inspection is?


It' is the same as ours, but it is much more elaborate.


AVould it not be far more satisfactory to have an officer inspect these immigrants on their way over? He could certainly make a far more thorough inspection. The minister will agree that it is impossible to make a thorough inspection of these immigrants as they are passing out of the boat, as I have seen it done at Halifax. I think they come out at the rate of five or six a minute. Why could not we have an officer on the boat all the way over who could make a thorough examination?


The onlv reason is the large expense. As I have already said, I think if we take the condition of the immigrants arriving this year since we have had our administration fairly tightened up, so to speak, and compare it with the condition last year, it will be found that our present system of inspection is fairly satisfactory. I think it would be generally agreed that really we do not require to go to the very large additional expense that would be involved in making the still more thorough medical inspection of immigrants that the hon. gentleman suggests. We have impressed the steamship companies very strongly that they cannot get undesirables through, and therefore they do not try to bring over undesirables as they have done in former years. Once they get that idea thoroughly grounded in their minds, we will have very little difficulty with undesirables. I may Say that in somei cases, in order to facilitate the work, we put a medical inspector on board the winter boat that calls at Halifax, and he inspects on that boat on its way to St. John. In the summer also, in the case of one of the steamship lines, we put on an inspector at Rimouski, and he inspects all the way to Quebec. That is not done on all the

lines, but we do it in connection with one of them. The system has its advantages, although it adds somewhat to the expense because it takes up more time of the medical officer, and it adds also to the expense of the steamship company, because we make them bear the cost of transportation.


Could the hon. gentleman say off-hand how much the medical inspection cost last year?


I could not. The committee will understand that questions of administration come up more pertinently when we are dealing with the estimates, at which time I would have the advantage of an officer of the department at hand to furnish me with facts and figures. But if it is desired, I can secure the information and present it.


One more question. I think all these ships bringing over immigrants have a medical inspector of their own on board, have they not?


Yes.


Why could not some arrangement be made with the ship's medical officer to inspect immigrants for the government?


I think I have had already occasion to say that we do not feel warranted in accepting the examination of the ship's physician when he would be responsible to the transportation company and not to us.


I think the minister might try the experiment of putting a medical officer on one or two of those boats next summer, and let him report, not only in regard to the physicai condition of these immigrants, but also obtain some idea of their object in coming over, Whether they intend to become farmers, or farm labourers, or what they intend to do. I think the same medical officer who inspects them in regard to health could also ascertain a great manv things about them in other respects, and make a report to the government that would be useful. I am satisfied it is impossible to make a proper examination of patients coming off the boats as they do at the present time, any medical man understands that. Take a case Where the physician examines a man in the morning for tuberculosis, he examines him with a thermometer and perhaps finds the temperature normal, while in the evening that same patient might have a temperature of 102. I understand that the way the immigrants are examined is simply by looking at them. That certainly is not satisfactory, because it is quality and not quan-Mr. OLIVER.
tity that we are looking for. I think the minister has improved the conditions a great deal, and I am sure he would like to improve them still further, but not being a medical man, he does not understand the difficulties. I am sure we are allowing in a great many diseased persons from abroad that could be kept out if we had an officer on board the vessel coming over. I agree that he should be responsible to this government. More than that,- his report should be published in a blue-book so that members of parliament could read it. But it is utterly impossible properly to examine immigrants in the short time allowed the inspector.
I have spent myself a whole day, from daylight to dark, examining eight or ten or fifteen patients, and been very busy. But here we find an officer putting through perhaps 500 persons in the same time. The thing is utterly absurd. I think the minister should try the experiment of putting a medical officer on one or two of those boats, it would not cost a great deal. I am sure if he did so the result would be so satisfactory that, notwithstanding the extra cost, he_ would continue the practice, and would also insist in getting other information about these immigrants. The physician could ascertain in regard to their moral standing by keeping his eyes and ears open, and he could learn a great deal about them which would enable him to judge whether they should be allowed in or not. I think he could be very busv the whole four or five days during the passage in examining the incoming immigrants.


I certainly agree with the Minister of the Interior when he says that the physician who makes the medical examination on board should be under the authority of this government. The expense, of course, must be considered, but I think the suggestion of the hon. member for Souris (Mr. Schaffner) is an excellent one, which could be carried out without very great expense. While I agree with the minister that it would not do to accept