Bill (No. 106) respecting the Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company.-[DOT] Mr. Nesbitt.
Bill (No. 107) to incorporate the Ottawa, Montreal and Eastern Railway Company. -Mr. Gladu.
Bill (No. 108) to incorporate the Rainy River Radial Railway.-Mr. Conmee.
Mr. CONMEE moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 109) to amend the Dominion Elections Act. He said: This Bill was introduced last year, and I explained it then at some length. It is to give railway employees the right to vote although they may not be in their own particular polling subdivision at the time.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
1.	What is the mileage of government telegraph lines in Canada, separated into divisions, and the cost of each division, (a) in construction, (b) maintenance, and (c) salaries of operators, and the revenue for each division for the last fiscal year?
2.	What has been the total construction cost of the Yukon system of telegraph lines, what the revenue for each year of its operation, and the cost in maintenance and salaries, respectively, for each year?


Year.	Construction.	Maintenance.	Salaries.	Revenue.1899	8 cts. 157,209 54 223,044 77 259,837 82 221,897 14 25,139 39 1,039 37	$ cts.	8 cts.	$ cts.1900	
1901	5,213 15 9,131 83 15,689 80 156,808 28 82,730 38 112,556 05 90,008 56 82,391 52	10,426 28 18,263 66 125,280 12 124,800 00 116,495 70 116,795 00 116,500 00 87,371 82	33,716 88 108,272 13 97,158 90 114,083 36 126,991 27 115,876 18 77,45.3 81 64,979 871902	1903	1904	1905	1906	
4,545 33 3,407 22			
Hootalinqua to Livingstone		 1909			78,497 08 97,391 25	118,500 00 117,618 80	80,440 96 76,805 13
Totals	 					
	896,120 58	730,417 90	952,051 44	895,778 49
Is it the intention of the government to take over and control locks or other improvements built upon navigable streams in Ontario by the provincial government? If so, when r


The government in February, 1906, took over from the Ontario government a number of dams at the head waters of the Trent 70
canal and several locks and bridges on the line of navigation of the Trent canal with a view of regulating the water in the said canal and also of better controlling navigation through the said canal, which are enumerated below:
Lock and three swing bridges at Lindsay, lock and swing bridge at Young's point, lock at Balsam river, together with all minor work in connection with the maintenance and operation of the same; also dams on Gull river waters, viz.: Balsam lake, Gull

21S7

lake, Horseshoe lake, Hawk lake, Paint lake, Hall's lake, Keneese's lake, Redstone lake, Eagle and Moose lake, Haliburton lake, Percy lake.
On Burnt river waters:	Kocklong lake,
Drag lake, Loon lake, Big Bear lake, Otter lake, Grace lake, Farquhar lake.
On Nogis creek: Swamp lake.
Mississauga creek: Gull lake, Eagle lake.
A few other smaller dams taken over but not actually required by the department for proposed reservoirs system, but now used for flotation of logs. The Dominion government is not required to maintain these dams except for the purpose of log navigation.
With reference to the taking over of any further structures, the government has not considered the matter.


1.	Does the government (federal) own or control the lands, surrounding and adjacent to Scugng lake, province of Ontario, which are flooded at times of high water caused by the government dam at Lindsay?
2.	Are these lands claimed by the adjacent owners, or is it possible for them to purchase them, subject to the damage caused by flooding?
3.	Or are these lands looked upon as common property, in which every citizen has equal rights?


1.	No.
2.	The Department of Railways and Canals has no knowledge as to whom these lands are claimed by, or what the conditions of purchase would be.
3.	Answered by No. 2.


What number of immigrants have used the Victoria immigration building since its completion, and what is the nationality of such immigrants?


European immigrants from the United States, 197; from Australia, 9; Japanese, 27; Chinese. 147; Chinese detained in building for customs, 57; building also used for registering Chinese outward bound to the number of 1,382.


1.	When did the steamer 'William Joliffe ' enter the service of the Department of Marine and Fisheries?
2.	For what length of time is she chartered?
3.	What is the rate paid per day. and does the same include wages, fuel, supplies, &c.?


1.	First chartered on September 2, 1907.
2.	Each year she has been chartered for one month, then from day to day.
3.	$150 per diem, all found.





Has the government arrived at a decision in regard to a grant of land to the veterans of 1866-7? If not when may the veterans expect a decision to be reached?


The government has not come to any conclusion, but will at an early day.


1.	What reply, if any, has been made by the Postmaster General to communications from residents of Central Park, with respect to the closing of the post office there?
2.	Has the department any information to show that the business of the post office had been decreasing, or that the service was not appreciated by a sufficient number of persons to warrant its continuance?
3.	When was the post office established,
when was it closed, and upon whose advice did the officials of the Post Office Department move in the matter of closing?	[DOT]
4.	How many persons, approximately, were receiving mail matter at the Central Park post office at the time of closing, and what is the average distance they have to proceed to receive mail from the nearest offices now maintained ?
5.	Had the department received, shortly before the closing, a largely signed petition for free delivery at Central Park? If so, what .did this petition present as to the importance of that district as a residential centre?


1.	The Central Park post office has not been closed. Representations having been made to this department that by changing the location of the post office and establishing a post office at Collingwood East the interests of the majority of the residents would be best served, after official inquiry, which bore out the above representations, these changes were authorized. Inquiries in the matter have been answered in accordance with the facts.
2.	As stated in reply to No. 1, the post office has not been closed but removed to a point where it would be a greater convenience. There was no decrease in the revenue of the office.
3.	The post office was established on the 1st April, 1896, and was removed to its present location on the 1st August, 1909, after official inquiry which bore out the representations made by the residents.
4.	The department has no exact information as to the number of persons served by the post office at its former site. The post office is now about three-quarters of a mile from its former location and about one and three-quarter miles from the Collingwood East post office.

5.	A petition praying for free letter carrier delivery in the Central Park district was received at the department on the 2nd January, 1909, but as such services are only established in municipalities having a population of at least 12,000 and a total postal revenue of $20,000, and as these conditions did not prevail at Central Park, the department was unable tp comply with the request of the memorialists. The reasons advanced by the memorial for making this requesst were ' the growth of the district of Central Park and neighbourhood and the increase of places of business.1


1.	On what date was L. M. Jones appointed to the Senate?
2.	On what date was F. T. Frost appointed to the Senate?


Hon. L. M. Jones appointed to the Senate on 21st January, 1901; Hon. F. T. Frost, appointed to the Senate on 12th March, 1903.


On the order: Government notice of motion for a special committee to investigate charges of Hugh D. Lumsden against a portion of the engineering staff of the National Transcontinental railway.
I intended to move this to-day, but, as the House is to adjourn at six o'clock, it is understood between myself and hon. members on the other side, that we shall take it up on Tuesday, the first order.


I desire to call the attention of the government to an article that appeared in the Ottawa ' Free Press ' yesterday, and I do it for the purpose of asking the Minister of Mines (Mr. Templeman) a question. The article purports to give a summary of the evidence of Mr. Arthur Wilson before the Mines and Minerals Committee of this House yesterday. It speaks of him as, ' Mr. Arthur Wilson, at present of Toronto, but officially engaged in an investigation on behalf of the British government into the nickel resources of Canada.' It proceeds:
Be pointed out that there were only two countries in the world which had any appreciable stores of nickel, Canada and New Caledonia. Canada had three-fifths and the French colony the balance. Both deposits [DOT] were controlled bv substantially the same organization, the International Nickel Company of New York, and while nickel could be used for many purposes the price was made 701
so high by the trust that only governments were in a position to buy the mineral.
The Canadian deposits were incalculable, but tens of millions of tons were lying in the earth because it did not suit the purposes of the trust to work them.
The nickel deposits of Canada, as we all know, are in the districts of Nipissing and Algoma. If Mr. Wilson made the statement reported here-and I have no reason to doubt it-I can only say that it is absolutely incorrect. There are millions of tons of nickel in Nipissing and Algoma with which the International Nickel Company has nothing to do, and which are to be had by others. In view of this, I would ask the Minister of Mines if he knows that Mr. Wilson is a duly accredited representative of the British government? Also has the minister taken steps to refute these statements of Mr. Wilson and prevent them from being broadcasted through the country?


I had not the privilege of hearing the statements of Mr. Wilson before the Mines Committee the other day. I am informed that Mr. Wilson is a mining engineer of prominence from England, who was in Canada investigating our mineral resources-whether for the imperial government or private parties I do not know -and was invited by the Mines Committee to appear before them. His remarks, I believe, have been reported in the Ottawa ' Free Press.' I was informed by the chairman of the Mines Committee that the report was inaccurate. I have not read the Ottawa papers so I cannot give my hon. friend a categorical answer to his inquiry as to the correctness of the report. But as to his last question whether steps have been taken to refute these statements, I can only say that it would be almost impossible for the Department of Mines-and I am sure the same is true of other departments-to refute the many inaccurate statements made in regard to public matters. It was considered advisable that this mining engineer, who, I am informed, is a man of large experience, should give evidence before the committee. Whether he has a correct conception of the mining capability of Canada or not, I am not able to say. I am sure he could not grasp, upon a mere cursory examination, the wealth of mineral of our great Nipissing country.


I am somewhat surprised at some of the remarks-


Of course, no discussion can take place at this stage.


I merely wish to make an explanation with the permission of the-House.


Perhaps the House will permit it. The hon. member for Nipissing (Mr. Gordon) might have been called upon to give notice of his question, for questions at this stage must refer to the business before the House or must be upon some urgent matter. I allowed the hon. gentleman to put the question, but if the hon. member for Thunder Bay and Rainy River wishes to make an explanation it must be by general consent. If the order is to be applied, I will have to apply it.


Go ahead.


I saw the hon. member for Nipissing to-day, and told him that Mr. Wilson had not made any remarks from which any one would be justified in making the report which he has quoted. I am in receipt of telegrams from Mr. Wilson, who appears to be much annoyed that he should be quoted as having stated that he represented the British government or as having made any proposition that the government should take over the lands from the present owners. There are a number of members present who heard Mr. Wilson yesterday. I am sure these hon. gentlemen were well pleased with the remarks he made and the information he was able to give. There was nothing in his language from which the things stated in the report could be inferred, and the reporters have simply made it oift of whole cloth. They were not present; had they been present they would not have made 3uch a report. Mr. Wilson was asked the question whether he represented the British government, and he said no; he said that he had formerly made reports for manufacturers of nickel steel in England. He did not at all suggest that the government should take possession of the mines of the country. And, instead of saying that the nickel was all in the hands of the international company, he said there were hundreds and thousands of locations held by others independent of that company. He gave the area as being about seventy-five miles northerly and southerly by about thirty _ or forty miles east and west. I took occasion last evening to give a correction of the matter from Mr. Wilson to the editor of the ' Free Press.' Hon. members will see the corrections, I assume, in the ' Free Press ' this evening.


Mr. GRAHAM moved the third reading of Bill (No. 17) to authorize the government of Canada to acquire, by lease, lines of railway connecting with the government railways.
In view of the fact that I have taken con-Mr. CONMEE.
siderable interest in the subject mattej of this Bill, and of the further fact that I was compelled to be absent in the city of Toronto when the measure was under consideration for its second reading and in Committee of the Whole, I am sure the House will indulge me in making a few observations which I feel called on to make in connection .with the subject. The acquisition by the government of the branch lines of the Intercolonial railway is not solely a maritime province matter; it is of profound importance in the solution of at least one of the transportation problems of this Dominion. I have, it is true, devoted a good deal of time to a careful study of the question but I have done so not because I come from the maritime provinces where these railways are located, but because I felt it my duty as a Canadian to interest myself in this question which is as wide as the Dominion. I assert boldly that the people of Ontario and the other provinces are just as much interested in the question as we who come from the east are. At every session of this parliament, from 1906 to the present time, I have brought the matter to the notice of the House and have endeavoured to enlist the sympathy of the government and of the members of this House for it. I think I may say that I have always presented my views from a non-partisan standpoint and advanced the scheme as a business proposition and a business proposition alone. On the 22nd of March, 1907,
(' Hansard ' page 5225) I addressed this House as follows:
1 have felt that while the Intercolonial has had to combat many prejudices, and while there have been many influences against it, yet in view of the good it lias done to the country, in view of the trade it has promoted, the day would come when the people of Canada, irrespective of section, would join in the desire to have the Intercolonial extended; would wish it to widen out its influence and absorb its feeders, either by leasehold or by some other means.
In the history of Canada, especially of western Canada, we note this striking fact that when you follow along the line of the Grand Trunk railway or the Canadian Pacific railway, wherever there are independent branch lines, feeders to their main trunk lines, one by one they are gathered in so that after a time the main trunk lines absorb all these branch lines and they are all run as one system. I assume that that is a business course, else these great corporations, governed by keen business men, would not have followed such a course. They would not have acquired these lines but they would have left them to run as independent connections of the main trunk line.
I have felt that the government of Canada might some day be impelled by the force of public opinion, by the judgment of the people throughout the country, to secure to the Intercolonial railway as against all other . companies the branch lines which constitute the feeders to the Intercolonial railway. What are these branch lines but instruments to

gather up the traffic in the adjacent country side and hand it over to the trunk line system-the Intercolonial railway. In so doing these branch lines are favouring and contributing to the advancement of the sections and communities which they are supposed to accommodate; nay, more than that they are contributing materially to the growth and expansion of the traffic of the Intercolonial railway, and therefore I say that I believe the day will come when a demand will go out from the people of Canada in favour of the absorption of these lines. I would, Sir, not be content with that. I would feel that in order to clasp closer together those isolated communities and to draw them closer to the communities of the west it would be desirable that the Intercolonial railway should penetrate farther west, that it should reach the industrial centres of Canada and especially that it should reach the great industrial centre of central Canada-I refer to the city of Toronto. I look forward, Sir, also to this; There are railways starting out from the extreme west reaching forward eagerly and anxiously to an eastern seaport. Many of them are concentrating their efforts upon reaching the great city of Quebec and there reaching a great ocean port, but a port which is closed for many months of the year, and I would anticipate that at some not far distant day these railways, converging at the great city of Quebec, will be reaching still farther east, so that they may find, during the winter months, open water upon which the ships would sail that would take the traffic that our railways would gather up in the west and carry to the east. That day may come, I hope it will come-nay, more, I believe it will come and when it does it will settle all speculation as to the future of the Intercolonial railway. It will for all time settle the question of the value of the Intercolonial railway as an asset of the Dominion of Canada, and it will certainly bear out this fact, which, I have at least claimed as a fact, that the Intercolonial railway is a great na-tionl asset, that it is of value to the people of Canada both east and west, that it has served its purpose and its mission in the past and that it still has a purpose and a mission to perform, and I am sure that when we reach that stage there will be no sectional differences over the matter, and that we will all see eye to eye with reference to the manifest destiny of the Intercolonial railway.
Now, Mr. Speaker, the government, in the Bill which it has seen fit to present to parliament and which we are now^ considering, has adopted the principle laid down by me in the remarks I have just read, and I have great pleasure in congratulating the government on that fact. It demonstrates for one thing that my forecast of coming events in 1907 was correct, and that I truly interpreted the trend of public opinion at that time. I saw it was a business proposition which no government, which had in view the welfare of our great national railway, could hesitate to carry out. For having adopted that principle the government are entitled to the consideration of the people of all sections of the Dominion, because it contributes not merely to the advancement of the Intercolonial and the communities located along its line, and the communities which are served by these branch lines, but, every community in Canada. My remarks on the present occasion shall be as brief as possible and I shall only deal with the question from a purely business point of view. The propositions which I laid down in 1906,	1907,
1908 and 1909, are now crystallized into legislation, and it remains only for me to inquire whether the principle I advanced has been fully given effect to and to analyse some of the details of the present Bill. I know Sir, that there have been some very vexatious remarks made with respect to my advocacy of this measure. But I think those who know me will do me the credit of believing that in advocating the absorption of these branch lines I have been entirely disinterested personally. There are those who have been unkind enough to say that my zeal arose from the fact that I or some of my friends were in some way interested in one or more of these branch lines. Now, I trust the House will pardon me for making a personal reference, and I would not have mentioned it were it not that I am aware that such a statement was brought to the notice of the government and of the right hon. the leader of the government. When I learned of this I went to the right hon. the Prime Minister and I asked him if it were true that such representations had been made; he admitted that such representations had been made. Now, Mr. Speaker,
I want to say in the most unqualified way that while I have been for years an advocate of the extension and expansion of the Intercolonial, my advocacy has been solely as .a citizen oi Canada and a representative of the people.
I am in no way, directly or indirectly, near or remote, either by myself or by any of my friends, or relatives, interested to the extent of one single farthing, nor have 1 any prospective interest to the extent of one single farthing in any of these branch lines. I feel it incumbent upon me to make that statement in view of the remarks that have been made and circulated behind my back. On the other hand it has been said, very unkindly said, that this Bill has been thrown to me as a meaningless sop; that while on its face it purports to do something it in reality means nothing, that I was in effect a bothersome fellow, that I was a figure sitting at one time on the treasury benches, that I had bored the present Minister of Railways with respect to this matter, and that they had to satisfy me in some way. Well, if these remarks were made they may at least be taken as a compliment to my persistence and zeal in the promotion of this measure which I believe to be greatly in the interests of the

the provisions of this Act. Well, Mr. Speaker, apart from the difficulty that would attend any of these branch lines of railways in meeting those conditions, I say it would be in the interest of the Intercolonial to undertake the improvement and betterment of these railways. Why? It is known to the minister, it is known to the people who live in the maritime provinces, that along the line of the Intercolonial there are thousands and tens of thousands, I was almost going to say, hundreds of thousands, of tons of steel rails that have been taken up from the track of the Intercolonial, that are laying there rusty, that are of no value to the government or to the Intercolonial. There are tens, and I might almost say, hundreds of tons of steel structures in the shape of bridges which were too old to be continued on the Intercolonial railway, and which had to be removed and replaced by heavier structures. There is rolling stock, cars of every description, that are obsolete so far as the trunk line is concerned, but which could be made available on these branch lines. There is material of every description and kind lying in and about the right of way of the Intercolonial and at its shops, which could be utilized, and utilized to advantage in improving the conditions on those lines, and there would be no capital expenditure. I think it will be conceded by the minister that in the accounts of the Intercolonial this material, these old cars, these old bridges, stand as an asset, a capital asset, in connection with the Intercolonial, and it is represented in the accounts as a part and parcel of the Intercolonial, but it is of no service and no advantage to the Intercolonial. What would be the objection to having that material removed from its havens of rest, and placed where it would be of utility, where it would be of advantage to the people, to the country and to the Intercolonial itself?
* I do not feel called upon to prove the advantage of this, but I think it would be as well to ask hon. memebrs to bear in mind what has been said by those who went especially to examine these roads, and to inquire into their condition. I hold in my hand a report of the commissioners who were appointed by the New Brunswick government to examine and report upon the conditions of the branch lines of the railway in that province. I also hold here a report of the commissioners that were appointed by this federal government, to examine into and report upon the conditions which prevailed on the Intercolonial branch lines, as to their traffic possibilities, as to their physical condition, as to the potentialities, and the prospects of the respective roads. Turning first to the report of the commissioners appointed by the New Brunswick government, appointed by my hon.


friend who sits at my left (Mr. Pugsley), who was then, if not Prime Minister of New Brunswick, one of the most important members of that government, and holding a position high in the government of the province. He and his colleagues appointed this commission to make these inquiries, and they have reported. I need only refer hon. members to the details of the report, and I will read the closing sentence in the general report signed by Mr. T. M. Bums and Mr. Gillmor Brown. Mr. Burns is a very prominent business man residing on the north shore of New Brunswick. Mr, Gillmor Brown is a civil engineer who has, I may say, practically an international reputation, a man who held a very high position in the state of West Virginia, and had to do with the construction of some of the large bridges that were placed over the Ohio river, a man who holds to-day, I believe, a position in the Department of Public Works, who holds it very worthily, and who, I am sure, will be a credit to the position he holds, to the government under which he serves, and to those who had to do with his appointment. Now these gentlemen made a report, and in closing their report they say:
i Apart from their value to the Intercolonial as feeders, these lines of railway have been of incalculable benefit to the localities which they serve, and to the province at large. What the country would do without them is best illlustrated by the consternation that prevails when one of them closes down for a day or two. Their successful operation is of great benefit to the people of the province, and any money which has been put into them by the government by way of subsidies has been much more than repaid in the increased value of property in the districts which they serve, and in the increased business and prosperity of the country at large, due in great measure to their existence.
Those were the words of the New Brunswick commissioners. Mr. Tiffin and Mr. Storey were appointed by the government of Canada to examine into the question of the traffic and business on these branch lines, and I find that Mr. Tiffin, in his report, referring to the number of lines of railway which they had examined, said:
In preparing these reports we have as far as jjossible confined ourselves to the instructions contained in your letter, in giving our views as to the present traffic, traffic facilities, and probable traffic of the various branch lines, and we trust they will prove satisfactory.
We, however, feel that while our instructions do not call for any remarks outside of the line of procedure laid down for us, that we should supplement such reports by con-yeying to you the unanimous feeling predominating, as gleaned from our interviews with the various merchants and people living along the branch lines, as to the great benefit which would follow absorption.
The want of proper facilities for the conduct of even the existing traffic is detriment-

ally affecting the business interests of the districts interested in these branches, and preventing that development of industries, enhancement of property values, and general betterment that would undoubtedly follow on an improved service.
The present branches are hampered by lack of capital and insufficient equipment, and are not in a financial position to increase their inadequate traffic facilities, and the absorption of these lines into the Intercolonial system would beyond question result in a greatly improved condition of affairs.
These are the words of Mr. Tiffin, who as general traffic manager of the Intercolonial railway and as a member of the Board of Management of Government Railways, is certainly authorized to speak with a knowledge few others possess of the advantages or disadvantages of these branch lines. Further on he said:
It is a well established fact that in nearly every ease where branch lines have been absorbed by trunk lines and extended markets have thus been opened up for business along the main line, such a policy has not only proved of great value to the branch lines themselves hut has provided additional revenue for the main line, they becoming valuable feeders, increasing the traffic and the [DOT]earning powers of the trunk line.
There is evidence which cannot be gainsaid and is worthy of our most serious consideration. These branch lines are doing in some measure the work expected of them. Let it be borne in mind that the object of the Intercolonial railway was to reach the markets of the maritime provinces from the manufacturing centres of Ontario and Quebec, and it was desirable, in the interests of the country that every section of the maritime provinces should be reached by the Intercolonial railway if possible. There was a further hope, which I regret has never been realized, that there would be found in Ontario and Quebec markets for the natural products of the maritime provinces, such as coal, stone, gypsum, grindstones, &c. It was hoped that the cost of transportation over the Intercolonial railway would be so low that the builders and manufacturers of Ontario would not be compelled to go to the state of Ohio for their building stone and grindstones. That hope, however, was never realized. The government buildings in this very city are built, in a large measure, of stone imported from Indiana, Ohio and other American states. The coal use in many sections in Ontario and even in Montreal comes in great measure from the states of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio. I am not complaining of this, but I am only showing the facts which demonstrate that the hones we entertained, at the time of confederation, as regards traffic from east to we^t, have not been realized. So far as the traffic from west to east is concerned, that is so far as giving to the manufacturers
and commercial men of Ontario and Quebec, the markets of the fishermen on the coasts of Nova Scotia and the coal miners of that province, and the lumbermen of New Brunswick, our expectations have been fully realized. Three-fourths of the traffic over the Intercolonial railway is eastbound, showing that the manufacturers and commercial firms of Ontario and Quebec have benefited by the low rates which have prevailed on the Intercolonial railway.


Hear, hear.


One-fourth of the traffic over the Intercolonial railway is from east to west, showing that the maritime provinces have not the same interest m promoting traffic over the Intercolonial railway, nor have they the same interest in the Intercolonial railway as a transportation line. Every one will admit that it is in tne interests of the province of Ontario to have those maritime markets. I venture the assertion that there are none better on this continent for the manufacturers and merchants of the west than the market m the maritime provinces. The people of these provinces pay their debts, they have a good country, they have fish in plenty, lumber and coal-in fact everything that makes the home comfortable. If it has been to the advantage of the merchant princes oi Toronto and Montreal to have cheap and easy access to those ports, the^ easier we make our transportation facilities the greater will be the advantage to the business men of the west and central Canada. By permitting the absorption of these branch lines you improve transportation and enaJble the manufacturer to place his wares at points on those lines with the same facility' as now on the main line of the Intercolonial. I go further. We have a managing board that controls the Intercolonial which is part of the government system of railways. But we have the Prince Edward Island railway as well. I say that there should be a connecting link in some form between these two systems of government railways, to enable the consumer to get his goods at the least cost of transportation, .and to give greater facilities to producers and manufacturers who supply these people to reach their markets. I believe in the continuance of the Intercolonial as a government system; I believe that the Intercolonial should retain the zone of influence which, in ante-confederation [DOT]days, it was intended to have. True, many shudder when a proposal is made of expenditure on the Intercolonial. A deficit on the government railway is spoken of as a terrible thing. Men hold up their hands in holy horror at the idea. We are not concerned that the operation of the canals of Canada costs a million and a quarter or a million and a half; we say that that is in

the interest of the trade and transportation of the country. We do not whimper, nor whine, nor cry over it; there is not a word of complaint.' But if, perchance, there be a deficit on the Intercolonial, then the cry is raised that you must revolutionize its condition, and the fact of a deficit is held to convict the railway of every sin in the category of administrative error. It is true, the financial statements of the Intercolonial, from confederation down, have not shown a 'balance on the right side. Still, there has been a profit. The profit is in the pockets of the people if it is not in the coffers of the Dominion. You contribute to the Canadian Pacific, the Grand Trunk, the Canadian Northern and all the other railway corporations of Canada, and the rates of these companies are far beyond those charged on the Intercolonial. The rates on the Intercolonial were established for a certain purpose-to promote trade between the different sections of the then Dominion. But, in the case of the corporations I have named, the surplus is in the pockets of the shareholders. It is said that the Intercolonial has its deficits, and for that reason you should not extend it. If we brought in these branch lines, they say, you would only make the deficit worse. Are those who hold these views aware of the fact that the system of the Canadian Pacific railway east of the St. Lawrence river, tapping as it does the rich and flourishing section known as the eastern townships, and having the traffic of the border cities on the Eiver Ste. Croix between Maine and New Brunswick, and having a practical monopoly of the traffic of the River St. John-is it known, I say, that every year since the Canadian Pacific began operating in the maritime provinces, this system has shown an annual deficit running from $500,000 to $1,000,000? That is not under government operation, but under operation that is always lauded to the skies as the best operation of railways in America by one of the strongest corporations on this or any other continent. The company is obliged to set aside year after year out of the earnings of the railway in other portions of the country $500,000 or $600,000, and in one instance to my knowledge no less than $1,000,000 to make up the deficit on this system. And yet they would not sell it, or release it, or give away control of it under any consideration. And is it known that, in addition to the advantages which they have in traffic, for nearly a quarter of a century the government of Canada has been contributing to the treasury of the Canadian Pacific railway to aid them in the operation of lines east of the St. Lawrence river the isum of $186,000? There is a deficit worthy of the name-a deficit to the people of Canada of $186,000 on the operation of the main line through the state of Maine from Mon-Mr. EMMEESON.
treat to St. John, and a further deficit to . the railway ranging from half a million, two or three years ago, to an amount as high as a million. I speak, not on conjecture, not from rumour; the man in the street did not give me this information; the information comes from those high in authority, those who have the management and control of the Canadian Pacific railway. [DOT] Yet, forsooth, the Canadian Pacific railway is doing just what is proposed to be done under the provisions of this Bill; it has been absorbing branch lines. Those who advocate the absorption of branch lines by the Intercolonial, contend that the effect would be to improve the traffic and increase the earnings of the road, and that it would develop those sections of the country that are served and traversed by these branch lines. And this contention is well grounded in the experience of other railways. We have an object lesson in the province of New Brunswick. It is well known that the Canadian Pacific runs from the city of St. John to McAdam Junction, thence to Woodstock in the county of Carleton, and up the river St. John through the beautiful county of Victoria. In that county, at the town of Perth, it connects with a railway that had been constructed by the aid of subsidies from the federal and provincial governments. That railway was known as the Tobique Valley railway, and it was built by an isolated company. The company exhausted all its subsidies in the construction of the road, and it also had a bonded indebtedness. But when the road was built and equipped, the company had not the money to run it to full efficiency. But they kept on running it with very little satisfaction to the people and no profit to the company. The Canadian Pacific railway made a proposition to that company to assume the operation of the Tobique Valley railway, undertaking to pay the company forty per cent of the gross earnings, retaining sixty per cent, and agreeing to improve, maintain and operate the road. That contract was executed, and the railway has been in operation for a number of years with what result? The interest on the bonds, which previous to that time had been in default, has been paid regularly, and there has been a sufficient balance to give a dividend on the common stock of the shareholders of the company. OtheT instances of similar successful operation can be found in every province of this Dominion, but this is a case in point, and such an example is worthy of being followed by the Dominion government,
I have taken a deep interest in this matter and I am glad it has advanced to the point which it reaches even by this Bill, hut I would ask the Minister of Railways to think over the necessity of having continued in this Bill the requirement that these roads shall be in a good and safe

cor;dition for operation. I said a moment ago that it might be stated under present conditions certain sections of the Intercolonial railway are not in a good and safe condition. I am sorry to say it, and I am not saying it in any factious spirit, I am simply stating' facts. Would you say that because of that condition the Intercolonial railway is to be ignored? By no means. There may be certain lines of railway which in the opinion of the board and the Minister of Railways and the Governor in Council should be acquired and absorbed, but which in the face of this provision in the Bill it would be impossible for the government to take over, and a company might not be in a position to place its road in such a condition that the government could assume it. It may be said that if they had a contract they could go to the bank and get the money, but owing to the circumlocution of the procedure by which these contracts are made, there would be no contract upon which they could bank until the lease had been approved by parliament, and the company would have no contract upon which they could bank. If they endeavoured to place their railway in proper condition, they might be held up by banks and financiers or by those who had other interests to serve. This would cause great delay, and if it is desirable to have these branch lines of railway we cannot have them any too soon. It is not necessary to take over all these lines, but it certainly would be in the interest of the country to take hs many of them as possible, that is, those that have any value at all. There is no necessity for adding to the public debt in this matter, it can be done on the basis of a division of earnings, and when such a lease is executed and in operation the shareholders in the branch lines would be in a position that would not mean any loss to them and the government and the people of the country would have the advantage of increased facilities for their transportation.
I do not propose an amendment to the Bill, I accept it as far as it adopts the principle, but I think the government and the minister should take into consideration the features of this Bill which make it inoperative now. The government are hedged about and safeguarded in this matter and cannot get into any trouble in reference to it. They have their own judgment, they have first the proposition of the managing board; they are safeguarded by the report of the chief engineer; they have the minister himself who can exercise his judgment, and then it goe's before council and they exercise their judgment. After all this it comes before parliament. In this process, this red tapeism, how many months and how many years have been occupied? The good that it is acknowledged would follow from the execution of this
idea is retarded and the development of the country and the improvement of the Intercolonial railway are delayed. It seems to me the government should make such an amendment as would enable them to act. It is no use attempting to place on the shoulders of others the responsibility which the government must finally take if they would courageously say: we will assume this responsibility, it is in the interests of the country, we will dp it, we will have reports prepared, we will satisfy ourselves, * we will act-that is what the country expects any government to do.


Mr. Speaker, this Bill was discussed at some length on the second reading and again in committee. I am sure we aTe all indebted to the hon. member for Westmorland (Mr. Emmerson) for his excellent speech on this question, which is near to his heart. I can say on behalf of the government, and I think on behalf of the members of this House that no one for a moment suspects that he has anything but the purest motives in urging this matter on the attention of the House. He has done it for some years and has been persistent and consistent in doing it, and he is only doing now what he has done in previous years. We do not entertain the least idea that anything but the motive of doing what he thinks is best for the Intercolonial and for the solution of the transportation problem of the country is what animates him. I do not think I will discuss the Intercolonial in all its phases at present, as we will be discussing that in a very short time, when I hope to be able to show a good many favourable sides to the public owned railway of the Dominion of Canada. Any difference of opinion we might have as to the management and condition of the railway we will thresh out on that occasion. I agree with my hon. friend when he says very truly that this public owned utility belongs to the Dominion of Canada. I have endeavoured all over this country, wherever I have gone, particularly in the province of Ontario, to point out to the people that the Intercolonial railway belongs to them as much as to the people of the maritime provinces and that the people of this province have received marked benefit from it. I know that many of my acquaintances who do a large business in the maritime provinces have for years shipped goods to the eastern provinces by the Intercolonial railway. Whatever cheap freight rates there were on these goods these shippers and the consumers of the east have received the benefit. I will not now, I never did and I never will discuss the Intercolonial as belonging to any part of Canada. It belongs to us

all, and that is the reason why I tried to frame my Bill so that it would meet with the approval of all Canada. We discussed it fairly in the House and in the committee. Some objection was taken, it is true, to the principle of taking over branch lines at all, and I must differ from my hon. friend when he mildly intimates that the government lacks courage. - I think the government shows considerable courage in taking hold of this question in the way in which it has done. It was said when this Bill was up for its second reading that possibly anything we could do under this Bill we could have done without the Bill. That is true in a measure, but the government and parliament, by adopting this measure, put on the statute book their approval of the principle that, conditions being right, the Intercolonial would do well to take over branch lines. We have adopted that principle. I think parliament has shown some courage in that regard and not timidity. Now, what are the conditions of the Bill? My hon. friend thought we should not leave the decision as to the standard of the road and the recommendation as to taking it over to the board of managers. It is only a question as to whom it should be left to. The Minister of Bailways himself is not now and has not been, in so far as I know in years gone by, a practical railway man. He must base the judgment on which he shall make recommendations to council or this House, on the opinion of somebody, and that somebody ought to know his business. Whether we agree that the board of management is a good thing or not we accept its advice on a great many things, in fact, on all things appertaining to the government road at the present time. The members of that board know and ought to know. Their chairman is the chief engineer and deputy minister of the Department of Bailways and Canals and that board, or its present chairman, would be the source from which the minister would get his opinion or his recommendation. In the one case he would take it from one man, and in the other he would take it from that man and several others, acting with him and who know the conditions. I submit that the advice of the board of management is the safest and best we can take on a question of this kind, for if the board does not know what would be in the interest of the Intercolonial and in the interest of transportation along its line then nobody does. I take it for granted that expert railway men ought to know and do know as much as those of us who are not experts as to what effect it would have on the government railway. This is not something to get rid of responsibility at all. The government must and the government Mr. GBAIIAM.
is prepared to take the responsibility for all it recommends in that connection. It has no desire to take away from its responsibility, but on a great many points it naturally would have to avail itself of the advice of somebody that ought to know and that somebody in this Bill is designated as the Board of Management of the Government Bailways.
The question of not taking the lines over until they are in proper condition to operate, received considerable attention. The hon. member for East Ilamiltoq (Mr. Barker) paid it considerable attention from a practical standpoint and as a result we had that amendment moved and it was carried in the committee. It must be understood that the whole country is not unanimous in favour of taking over the branch lines without some such restriction as that. Personally, I am free to say that if the Intercolonial were owned by a company it would have taken over all the branch lines that are worth anything before this. I am also safe in saying, I think, that there are some branch lines that no trunk line will take over at any price. But those that are in good condition at once come into the class which if the traffic present and future warrants, can be negotiated with for a lease to the government. That disposes of those that are in good and safe running condition now. If there be others that future or present traffic would indicate as roads which would be of assistance in the solution of the transportation problem and a benefit to the government railways, I think a scheme could be worked out under this Act, or without this Act, by which they could be taken over when they are put in proper condition. I do not share with my hon. friend his fear with regard to some of the smaller branches. If the conditions were such that the board would say that there was traffic in a certain locality which, with a decent road and a decent service, would pay, I feel satisfied that the money could be raised to put these smaller branches in proper condition to lease. However, that is a matter of opinion. But this Bill was drafted, first, to approve the principle of taking over the branch lines where it was thought proper to do so. A great step forward has been made in that. Secondly, it was provided that there shou