Before the orders of the day are called, I desire to refer to a matter which was brought to the attention of the House

the 8th of this month by the hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Borden). My hon. friend drew the attention of the House to the herosim displayed by Conductor Thomas Reynolds in rescuing a number of people in the wreck of the 21st of January last, at the Spanish river crossing of the Canadian Pacific railway, and suggested that application be made to the imperial authorities for a suitable recognition of the heroic conduct of Conductor Reynolds. Had I been in my seat at the time, I would have been glad to inform my hon. friend and the House that, prior to his inquiry, application had been made for an award of the Albert Medal, the highest honour conferred in such cases by His Majesty the King. Just before coming to the House to-day, I had the pleasure of receiving the following cablegram:
Greatly, pleased to advise you that the King has awarded the Albert medal of first-class to Thomas Reynolds. When received it will be transmitted to you.


Mr. FIELDING moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.
Before we go into Supply, there is a matter which I wish to bring to the attention of the House, and more particularly of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Fisher). It has reference to the exportation of horses from Ontario to our western provinces. Horses brought from Saskatchewan into Manitoba are met at the border by a veterinary surgeon who examines them for any contagious disease, and in the case of the importation into my province from any other province to the south, the horses are examined at the borders of my province. But horses from Ontario are not so treated. I understand that the custom is to examine them at the point of shipment in Ontario, but that does not seem satisfactory. A case that has occurred within the last few weeks was brought to my attention the other day. A horse shipped from Toronto in a carload developed glanders inside a few days and was shot foT that disease. With the method employed in shipping hoTses a horse thus affected might infect all the animals in the car and all the stock yards at the feeding points; the water troughs, the hay racks and the thousands of horses shipped over the same Toute are subjected to that infection. Glanders is the worst disease to which horses are subject. It is incurable and very contagious not only to horses, but to men, and men so infected die a horrible death. The horses exposed to contagion in such a case go to a hundred different points and may carry the contagion all through the west-134	-
ern provinces. I think it is up to the government and the Minister of Agriculture to take such steps as will prevent the possibility of such occurrences and protect the farmers of my county. I would also point out to him that the sales stables in different large centres are sometimes in the most disreputable condition as respects the health of horses.


Was that horse shot by order of one of my officers?


Yes, I believe so.


Then I can assure the hon. gentleman that any animal that has been in contact with that horse in cars, stables or yards through which it has passed will be carefully watched, and the cars, etc., carefully investigated 'and disinfected immediately. That is part of the orders and practice of our department. Whenever any animals have been in contact with an animal infected with glanders, they are all watched, and we see that all places where the infected animal has been are disinfected. No doubt a report of this case has been sent to the department. I have not heard of it myself, but I have no doubt my officers have heard and I shall make inquiries.


I received my information from a shipper. The horse passed through and was fed in the various yards all the way from Toronto to Yorkton. It passed through some four or five weeks ago, and up until four days ago there had been no disinfecting of the yards. That is the point that I want the minister to notice.


I shall look into it.


Motion agreed to, and House went into Committee of Supply.
Public works-harbours and rivers, Quebec -Pointe aux Trembles (en bas), wharf improvements, $2,000.
This $2,000 io to make provision towards constructing a building for use as a waiting room and constructing guards at the side of the wharf. It is expected the work will cost $2,500 altogether.
Rimouski wharf-repairs and improvements,


This is to put on a new planking.
Riviere aux Vases-wharf near its mouth on northeast side of River Saguenay, $5,000.


This is to complete the sheathing on the part of the wharf already built, and to construct 100 feet more, consisting of one pier and head block. It is believed this will complete the work.



River Ottawa-beach protection work on Vaudreuil Cove, $3,100.


What is the nature of this beach protection work?


It has been made to appear to my satisfaction and to the satisfaction of the resident engineer, that this work is necessitated by reason of other works which have been constructed on the river, and which have raised the water so that erosion has thereby been caused by the increased floods. That is the ground upon which it is put. I hesitated until I got all the information and was satisfied there was good ground for that contention.


Will this complete the improvements?


It will require $1,900 more.


On whose property are these improvements located?


Not on anybody's property. I think there is a roadway passing near the water, the road allowance goes to the bank.


Is there any wharf there or landing at all?


I think not.


It is not in connection with any navigation.


This is what the engineer says:
The rapid and dangerous erosion of the bank here is due to the construction of locks and dams at St. Anne de Bellevue, and by the Grand Trunk and Canadian Pacific railway of numerous large stone piers, thus producing increased high water in the lake. The damages complained of are due to this increased flow.
So the injury we are seeking to guard against was caused first by the construction of the locks and dam at St. Anns, which is a government work, and to a certain extent also by the bridges of the two railway companies, which of course were constructed with the consent and approval of the government. But as I understand, the greatest cause of the erosion has been the construction of the lock and dam.
Riviere Ouelle wharf-repairs and improvements, $4,500.


This is to provide for repairs to the Riviere Ouelle wharf urged by the resident engineer. This will complete the work, the total cost of which will be about $8,000.


Did the government originally construct this wharf?





There was a wharf built there away back in 1856, and the government in 1906 made an extension or built a spur to the wharf. It is owned by the government. This is the place where the government steamer lands which runs in connection with the Intercolonial across to Murray Bay.


When did the government purchase this wharf?


I think it has always been a government wharf since the time of confederation.


It was built bifore confederation. Some years ago the Intercolonial built a spur line from the village of Ouelle to the St. Denis wharf. It gives a winter service to the village of Ouelle.
River Richelieu-improvements, $60,000.


This is to continue tile very important work of improvement upon the Richelieu river. The matter was fully discussed at the last session, when the vote for this purpose was granted. The improvements consist of a lock and dam at or near the city of St. John upon the Richelieu river, and also of the dredging and removing of large boulders which are in the channel. The object is to improve navigation, and at the same time to prevent the flooding of a vast section of country which has been flooded almost every year by the waters of the Richelieu.


While I do not object to this appropriation in itself, I wish to call the attention of the minister to the fact that this improvement is designed to perform a service on the Richelieu river which he denied to us on the Fraser river, on the ground that it was impossible for the government to make such expenditure unless it was to be made for the improvement of navigation. Now the minister has just stated that this item was for the improvement of navigation, and also that it was in connection with the works being carried on on the Richelieu river. I have referred to his report, and I see that the primary object of this work is, not for the improvement of navigation, but to save this land from inundation. Now I wish to make myself quite plain, I am not opposing any vote for that purpose; I think it is a matter to which this government should give attention. But, the point I wish to make is that when the Dominion government makes a large expenditure of this kind to save lands from inundation in one province, the government is in duty bound to make a like expenditure in other provinces. I find in the annual report of the Minister of Public Works this paragraph with respect to Richelieu improvements:

Along the upper part of the river from the boundary to St. Johns, a distance of 22 miles, the shores are all low lands, except the first two mdes.
These low lands are covered at high water for sometimes over two months, long enough to prevent the culture of large areas. This high water also extends over the shores of the tributaries of the Richelieu such as Riviere du Sud and Riviere au Brocket. Some 40,000 acres of land are thus rendered entirely useless.
Then it gives the parishes. The report proceeds:
In order to lower the water and prevent the annual floods, it was decided to dredge a channel, 1,750 feet wide (the whole width of the river at its narrowest place), and 5,200 feet long.
I wish to call the attention of the minister to the fact that in this official report of the operations on the Richelieu river there is not one word about these improvements being necessary in the interests of navigation. We must take it that the engineer who makes this report, the^ chief engineer of the department, is speaking by the book, and that he is making a faithful and trustworthy report to this parliament with respect to the real object of these improvements. I wish to call the attention of the minister to the fact that we on the Fraser river are entitled in equity to similar improvements which will protect our lands from flooding at Chiliwack, Matsqui, Langely, Nicomen Island and Ladner, where the conditions are precisely the same as we find here. We claim the protection on the Fraser river that is given on the Richelieu river, and we claim it not only as a matter of equity, but as a matter of compact with this government that has undertaken to give to us in the province of British Columbia expenditures of the same nature as are made in any other province of the Dominion. I wish the minister would take this seriously into his consideration, because, although this is a matter which has been mentioned frequently here, and has been met very casually by the minister, I wish to say that the conditions are getting so serious that the people of British Columbia will not permit their representatives in parliament to go without blame if they continue to vote money for expenditures in other provinces which are denied to the province of British Columbia.


My hon. friend (Mr. J. D. Taylor) says that no stress has heretofore been laid on the fact that these improvements are for the purpose of aiding the navigation of the Richelieu river. I am quite sure my hon. friend is entirely in error as to that.


If the minister will permit me, I was quoting from his own an-1341
nual report here, and I said that in this report there is no reference of that nature.


I find in the note which I have, and which is taken from the reports, that it is claimed that this movable dam will afford considerable advantage to the navigation of the river and permit dispensing with the dredging which has now to be done at regular intervals between St, John and Lake Champlain. It will also provide an increased depth in the Chambly canal of at least one foot, and with the additional improvements, 9 feet of water can be obtained in the canal prism instead of
7.	I repeat that the object of this improvement is two-fold. One effect will be to improve the navigation of the Richelieu river, which is a very important stretch of navigable water connecting the St. Lawrence River system with Lake Champlain and the Hudson river in the state of New York.


Is the Richelieu river more important than the Fraser river?


I am not compelled to answer that question at the moment. I will come to the Fraser river in a few minutes, and I think my hon. friend will say that this government has done full justice to the claims of those who are interested in the improvement of the Fraser river. I also repeat that the effect of this improvement will be to prevent an enormous amount of otherwise good land from being periodically flooded by the waters of the Richelieu river. I think my hon. friend will agree that the work is an important one. In regard to the Fraser river, my hon. friend says that his constituents will complain if he does not, while considering items for other provinces, insist upon similar work being done on the Fraser. No one appreciates to a greater extent than I do the importance of the Fraser river, and as an evidence of the importance which I attach to that great river, I may say that last year the government, upon my recommendation, purchased a suction dredge called the ' Fruhling ' at a large cost, a dredge which is one of the very best operating upon either the Atlantic or the Pacific coast, and the primary object of the purchasing of that dredge was the improvement of the Fraser river. We have, through the engineering department, laid out a system of improvements on the Fraser river, by means of dredging and by means of jetties, which we expect will give a ship channel 30 feet in depth from the city of Westminster to the Gulf of Georgia. We anticipate that these improvements are going to cost this country at least $1,000,000, and yet, when we have engaged in this great work and have asked parliament to vote money for the purpose of carrying it on, it seems that the hon. gentleman feels

it to be his duty, when we aie asking for a small amount for the River Richelieu, _ to rise and protest against this item being passed unless a similar item is put in the estimates for a certain improvement on the Fraser river.


I do not think the minister is quite fair in his remarks. I do not think he has interpreted fairly what I said. He seems to have entirely misunderstood my remarks. I did not protest against this work on the Richelieu river, but I did object to the policy laid down by the minister the other evening in answer to a question addressed to him by myself, wherein he said that work of this kind would not be carried on any longer, that this government would not any longer make outlays in any of the provinces except for the improvement of navigation. If that is strictly adhered to, no doubt we in British Columbia can stand it as well as the people of any other province, but I would like to call the minister's attention to the fact that we in British Columbia are very large contributors to the general revenue of the Dominion, that we pay to Canada every year many hundreds of thousands of dollars, or, many millions of dollars, in excess of all the expenditures upon the province of British Columbia. Therefore, it is our good British Columbia money that is being spent to a considerable extent on these Richelieu river improvements, and it seems to us an intolerable position that, while our money is being spent upon the protection of property throughout Canada, the minister should lay down the princiole that vre must not ask for any of that protection in British Columbia. What I am asking for is equal rights. I am not jealous of any other constituency getting improvements, but I do object to one yard stick being applied to eastern districts which are near, which are under the eye of the minister, and in which the department seems to take more particular interest, and another yard stick being applied to British Columbia. I think the minister lays too much stress upon the cost of this magnificent dredge, the ' Fruh-ling.' and tells us too little of what the ' Fruhling ' has accomplished. The ques tion is not as to whether the minister has spent $300,000 on that dredge. What we would like to hear from the minister is what the dredge is doing, what progress it is making, not giving its capacity per hour or its capacity per lift, but how many lifts will be necessary to carry through the work, and what return we get for this $300,000. Moreover, to say that the dredge ' Fruhling ' is working at the mouth of the Fraser river comes very far short of being an answer to our request for improvements on the Fraser river. I would like to point out that the work of the ' Fruhling ' at the Mr. PUGSLRV
mouth of the river does not meet the requirements of the people along the Fraser, because, as I told the minister just now, the lands that are flooded are not immediately at the mouth of the river. We are applying for protection at distances long removed from the mouth of the river, at Chiliwack, at Matsqui, at Nicomen island, at Langley, and throughout the Delta, and to answer me that the department has bought a $300,000 dredge and put it to work at the mouth of the river is not an answer to our request for protection to works from Chiliwack down, to which we think we are entitled.


It seems to me that my hon. friend on reflection will see that the question as to the money the government is expending on the Fraser river in British Columbia is an important question to consider in connection with other improvements in the same locality. We cannot spend all the moneys of Canada in the one place, and when we have made out a plan for a million dollars for improvements on the Fraser river I think it will be said that we are dealing-I will not say generously, but dealing justly with the important interests on the Fraser river. The hon. gentleman speaks of the large revenues derived from the people of British Columbia. I am very glad British Columbia is so prosperous. The population of the province is not large but the province has been blessed by Providence with resources of enormous value. We are all glad to see British Columbia improving so rapidly. I notice by the newspapers that the provincial government proposes to expend during the coming year some $7,000,000 which shows that their revenues are buoyant and that they are in a position to make improvements which other provinces are perhaps not able to make. My hon. friend will of course have an opportunity of discussing the Fraser river improvements later on, but when he complains that outside of this dredging work we are doing nothing for the Fraser river, I would call hi3 attention to page 71 of the items for British Columbia in which he will see that under the head ' Fraser river (lower) wing dam, bank protection works inclusive of repairs ', we are spending $35,000, in addition to the $25,000 which we expended last year.


It was not my intention to say that the government were doing nothing for British Columbia, and I do not think I said it.


The hon. gentleman is certainly giving that impression because he is seeking to convey the idea to the people of British Columbia that British Columbia is being discriminated against with regard to these improvements


Hear, hear.


That is the inference that the hon gentleman (Mr. Taylor) seeks to have drawn by the people whom he represents.


With regard to this particular kind of work.


In the item I have read we are providing for work of a similar character to that which the hon. gentleman has already brought to the attention of the committee. But, so far as I recollect the hon. gentleman has not spoken of works to prevent the surrounding country from being flooded. I understood the hon. gentleman to speak of work to prevent the erosion of the banks of the Fraser river. And when the hon. gentlemau the other day mentioned that class of work I spoke of the fact that while we have done work of that character in different provinces we were not prepared to recognize that it was the duty of the federal government to engage extensively in such work. I think on reflection the hon. gentleman (Mr. J. D. Taylor) will see that we are endeavouring to treat the province of British Columbia as fairly as any other province in Canada, and I do feel quite sure that if instead of complaining, when some item for another province is under consideration, he would prefer his particular request to my department it would be better, because then the request could be carefully considered on its merits irrespective entirely of what is being done for other provinces. I am sure the hon. gentleman will feel that he should not interpose any obstacle in the way of this vote passing, and when we come to British Columbia I shall be glad to hear any representations as to the particular needs of that province.	.


I have again to call the attention of the minister to the fact that he is persistently misquoting my remarks. I do not know how parliamentary it is to say that, but I have stated three times, if not oftener, that I have not opposed this item, and I object to the minister persisting in stating as he did state several times-and he was corrected by me each time-that I was opposing this vote. I wish to say, Mr. Chairman, that as a representative from British Columbia I am not to be gagged in this committee by any misinterpretation put upon my remarks by' the minister, and every time such misinterpretation is given I shall feel it my duty to stand up and correct him and to tell him that he is misquoting the observations I have made to the committee.


Surley when the hon. gentleman, without waiting for the British
Columbia items to come under consideration, rises in his place and complains that this item is being put in for improvements in one province and there is no similar item-for improvements for the province from which he comes, that is throwing an obstruction upon the item and seeking to raise an objection in the minds of the members of this committee against the vote being granted. In effect, the hon. gentleman says: It is not right or proper to make that appropriation for Quebec unless you make a similar appropriation for Brit'sh Columbia. Although the work may be similar in principle we are not making an appropriation for any work of a like character. It does seem to me that a fair inference from the hon. gentleman's remarks is that he wants the people of British Columbia and of his constituency to believe that by voting this item for' the Richelieu river and not voting a similar item for the Fraser river we are doing an injustice to the province of British Columbia, that we are discriminating against that province and treating the province of Quebec with a favour which we deny to the province from which he comes. If that is not a fair inference to draw from his remarks I fail to understand the meaning of language.


I wish to say that the minister during the course of the last part of the remarks which he has just now made correctly interpreted me. That is precisely what I wish this House and the province of British Columbia to understand.


I thought so.


But, in the first portion of his last address to the committee the minister reiterated that I opposed this vote, and I wish to state again for the fifth time that he is wrong in saying that I oppose this vote.


What is the purpose of the hon. gentleman's observations?


- TAYLOR. If the minister had been listening to me when I first spoke, instead of carrying on a side conversation, he would have understood precisely what was the purpose of my remarks. The purpose of what I said was that whereas the minister stated to this committee the other evening, in answer to me, tnat works of this kind could not be expected in future, that this government had carefully considered the matter and had come to the conclusion that they would not grant them in the future; that whereas he gave that to me as a complete answer and an intimation that we need not ask for them, we sue now called upon to vote this money for similar works. I say we are willing to vote for these works and that it is our

duty to vote for them, and that it is the duty of the government to make appropriations like this. But I say, further, that when they are made they should not be confined to one district or to four or five districts and denied to another district. That is the sole purpose of my rising to speak in connection with this vote for the Richelieu river. My purpose was to attract the attention of the minister to the fact that he is giving here a vote which he has represented to us we need not ask for British Columbia because we will not *get it.


Is not the provincial tax in lieu of all municipal taxes?





No. it is not.


Does not the provincial government look after all the roads and all the court houses?


No. A very large portion of British Columbia is not under municipal government. In the very nature of things it could not be. Remember that our arable lands are in most cases in narrow valleys and gulches surrounded by snow-capped mountains, and are not sufficiently settled for municipalities to be organized; they are unorganized districts. Outside of the large cities and the more thickly settled suburban districts, this is practically the condition of things in British Columbia.


Will my hon. friend pardon me a moment? I think he will ' agree with me that it was quite right that I should answer the hon. member for Westminister, but it does not seem to me that it is in order for another hon. gentleman to rise in his place and start in with a general discussion of the circumstances and the local conditions in the province of British Columbia. Of course, my hon. friend might and probably will refer pretty fully to British Columbia when we reach the British Columbia items; but on an item for the improvement of the Richelieu river, it seems to me that the hon. gentleman is hardly in order in giving us a long speech on the municipal and local conditions of British Columbia, its snow-capped mountains and beautiful valleys, with all of which we are very familiar. On another occasion I would be delighted to hear the hon. gentleman, but it seems to me that we should confine ourselves to the item under consideration.


The minister remarked that there was no discrimination against British Columbia, and I wished to show him that his statement is entirely inaccurate. If he will withdraw that statement, there will be no occasion for any further remarks from me.


I think I can satisfy the hon. gentleman. I can say that I am not aware that there is any discrimination, and there is no desire to discriminate.


Then, Mr. Chairman, it would seem to me that the minister's lack of knowledge on the subject calls for a little passing comment. Until he has knowledge that will make him aware of British Columbia conditions, it seems to me that it would be better for him not to give us even that negative statement. If Tie will say that even that negative statement should not have been made by him, I would be quite satisfied, and the only thing I could do would be to take my seat. Does he withdraw it? I understand the hon. minister withdraws even that negative statement.


I am glad you have such a good understanding.
River Saguenay-dredging and other improvements, $30,000.


This is for the improvement of deep water navigation. It is to make a navigable channel by dredging and also improve the approaches to the wharf at Chicoutimi and form a turning basin.
River St. Lawrence-protection wall along south shore between Laprairie and Little St. James river, $11,000.


This work will be 3,800 feet long and 25 feet on top with slopes. It is to be rip-rapped and covered with concrete. The estimated cost is $11,000.


Is this to protect navigation or the banks of the river?


It is to protect the town of Laprairie against the annual damage caused by ice shoves and floods, which prevent communication with Montreal by land at certain seasons. The necessity for this has been caused by the erection of the Montreal and Verdun dykes built by the Harbour Commission. That takes this work out of the category of general works for the protection of banks.


There is a bend in the River St. Lawrence below Lachine rapids and a large bay fronting Laprairie. For years the whole village of Laprairie, which is an important place, has been flooded and loss of life and property has been occasioned thereby. These works were laid down many years ago by the late Sir Hector Langevin, then Minister of Public Works, and it is absolutely necessary that this protection wall should be built, as the flooding is largely due to the piers of Victoria bridge and the guard pier.


What has the harbour work to do with this?


The land is very low and is submerged during April and the beginning of May. There is a large pier in the centre of the river at Isle aux Millions near Montreal, and this large pier and the piers of the Victoria bridge as well as the Lachine rapids, and the bend of the river, cause these floods.


This land -was always flooded before the Victoria bridge was built and there are many other places in Canada in the same position. Do the government assume the responsibility of protecting the shores of all navigable waters, which might be affected by erosions? If they do, we ought to know it. I am not finding fault -with the work, but we should know if similar work is to be carried on in other sections.	,


This protection has been rendered necessary by other works which the government, through the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal, has carried on in the vicinity. We have had a petition from the mayors of the municipalities affected asking protection against the annual damage caused by the ice shoves and floods, which entirely prevent communication by land with Montreal at certain times. This protection has been rendered necessary by the Montreal and Verdun dykes built by the Harbour Commissioners. The government did not at once undertake this work, but had the matter investigated by their resident engineer who made the report upon it.


What is the date of the petition and of the report?


I have not the date of the petition, but the report of the chief engineer was made in 1909, so that the petition must have been a little before then. Our resident engineer, Mr. Michaud, a very competent man, reported that the construction of these dykes had diminished the flow of the St. Lawrence at that point, and that the proposed work would not only be valuable to the citizens of the town of Laprairie but also to the farmers of Laprairie and Napierville and other parishes, by permitting them to take teams to Montreal at all seasons of the year whereas now, communication by land is stopped during high water.


How far are the works below Montreal?


They are nine miles above Montreal.


That would apply anywhere up the river; it might be assumed that the water would be affected in some way by the works constructed there. I want a pronouncement from the minister on the subject as there are hundreds of places in Canada undeT similar circumstances, and if works of that kind are being taken in hand by the Dominion government I would be pleased to know of it. I am not finding fault at all but I wish for the information.


In any case where complaint is made that as a result of the construction of a government work, whether it is a dam or dredging, or any work of a similar character, injury is done to one or more people, I would feel it my duty to investigate the matter, and if I found that by a reasonable expenditure we could relieve the people from the injury caused by such a Dominion work I would do so. That is the only thing involved in the passing of this item. I am not prepared to-day to admit and I think it would require a good deal of argument to in-

duce me to admit that it is the duty of the federal government in all cases to take the necessary steps for the protection of the banks of rivers or the shores of lakes from erosion. I think that this is work of a local character and ought to be attended to by the municipal or provincial authorities. In cases such as I have mentioned, where perhaps there is a vast damage caused and large sections of the country affected, so that it is work of a federal character, we might adopt a different rule. But, speaking generally, I think that w.ork of the character to which my hon. friend has referred is rather for the municipal or provincial authorities to attend to.


Did I understand the minister to say that this work was made necessary by works performed by or under the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal?


Yes.


Is the government taking the position that the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal, who are a duly incorporated body and are largely subsidized by this country, c'an perform works of a local character, and that if these works cause damage to localities, this government assumes the responsibility of making compensation for these damages? Surely the works of the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal can be taken care of by that commission; they have been liberally subsidized by this government.


They do not get a dollar of subsidy.


They have had Dominion loans. Is the government taking the position that it is to indemnify either private or public interests for damages caused by the operations or works of the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal? There are harbour commissions in other parts of the country that are doing their work in their own way under proper authority. As far as I know where they create damages they pay for them thern.-selves, some proper provision is made for the indemnifying of public or private interests damaged by the works of these harbour commissioners. Is the government creating this precedent that it will make good damages of this -nature which have been caused by the Montreal Harbour Commission? If so, it seems' that the government is leading itself into a position that is never-ending in so far as making good damages of this kind throughout the country is concerned.


I do not intend to lay down any general rule because I suppose the cases would very seldom arise. I regard the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal as really public officials. They are


called on to perform a great national duty in connection with perfecting, improving, enlarging and developing the port of Montreal, the greatest in Canada. They receive no bonus, they cannot engage in harbour work without coming to the government for its approval. They pay interest on the money the government loans to them and they are simply a branch of the public service. I think that where in the performance of their duties in improving the harbour of Montreal they cause flooding several miles away, in sections of the country not within their jurisdiction, it is not unreasonable that the government should perform the work of relieving the people from any damages they may have sustained. The harbour commissioners have no funds which would enable them to carry on work of this character. The money which they raise is all used for the improvement of the harbour. This is outside of their jurisdiction, their district is limited, and I do not see how they could do this work. There would have to be special parliamentary authority to enable them to do it. Without laying down any general rule, I vvould think that if the harbour commissioners of any part of the country in the performance of work which they undertake with the approval of the government for the improvement of harbours cause damage to individuals outside of their jurisdiction, it would not be unreasonable for the government to take steps to relieve the people of the consequences of that injury. However, I do not want to make any statement to extend beyond the particular work in hand.	.


What difference does it make if the damage is outside or inside their jurisdiction?


The harbour commissioners could not build any works outside of their jurisdiction. They would,.have to come to parliament to get authority to carry on a work of this character outside of their jurisdiction.


I do not suppose they would have any power to build a work of this kind in their jurisdiction.


They might if it was for the improvement of the harbour.


I have seen some of the works carried on by the Board of Harbour Commissioners of Montreal, and it is not conceivable to me, as a layman, that it interferes with the flow of the St. Lawrence to any appreciable extent, whatever might be said of the Victoria bridge.


The dock does interfere.


Have not the lands now supposed to be flooded by the improvement of the harbour of Montreal not been flooded before the work was undertaken, in fact every year since settlement first took place on the St, Lawrence?


The representation which was made by the mayors of these various parishes and towns was that the floods had been increased as the result of the building of these dykes at what is known as the Isle au Millions, and the report of the engineer was that while it was not possible to say how much the dykes had impeded the flow of the river, if the waters were held back, the low lands.would be flooded, whereas they would not be to -the same extent if the waters were allowed to flow freely. The road has been flooded to such a degree that the people could not travel on the highway at high water. We have been satisfied that to a considerable extent this flooding of the highways has been caused by the building of these dykes


The representation of the minister makes the case Tather worse than I supposed. I am not opposing the expenditure of this money for this particular purpose. I admit this is a necessary public work, from what the minister has said, and from the explanations that have been made. But what I object to is this: Here is a body duly organized under the authority of the government, known as the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal. They have large revenues and large resources, they act entirely independently of this government. They cut their coat according to their cloth; they make expenditures, they undertake public works on their own initiative, and carry them out. Now in carrying out these works this board of commissioners causes damage and loss to communities or to indivduals, and this government, without any knowledge of what the board is doing, without having anything to say about these undertakings, without knowing what damages are being done, this government comes along and makes good the damages they have caused. Is that a businesslike proposition? I have some knowledge of the operations of the Board of Harbour Commissioners of the city of Toronto. Whatever work they do, they have to pay for, and if any damages are caused by their works they settle the Bill themselves. Here the country is paying consequential damages resulting from the operations of this board, indiscriminately, without apparently having any control over them, and without knowing the extent to which they aTe being let in for damages. I object to that principle as unbusinesslike and improper, and I do not think the government ought to ask us to pass this vote.


I am sure I am convinced by the statement of the Postmaster General, and of the Minister of Public Works that this is a very praiseworthy appropriation. I would like to point out to the minister that the operations of this department are more extensive and comprehensive that he has any idea of. If I may be permitted to mention an item which is not in the present estimates, but is taken from the report of the minister, I. find that he goes beyond repairing damage done by the Harbour Commissioners, or by works carried on under his government, and he goes beyond works necessary to promote the navigation of rivers. I have under my hand this item in his report respecting the River St. Louis, page 120:
During the spring high water the River St. Louis spreads over the farming lands from the canal feeder to the village of St. Louis de Gonzague, a distance of about seven miles and thus causes considerable damage. During the summer, the river often overflows equally after a heavy rain storm, and extensive fields of promising crops have been entirely lost.
. . . By proper deepening of the river bed and straightening of certain curves, the waters should be lowered some four feet, which would be amply sufficient to protect the farmers along the banks.
Now, I say by all means protect these farmers along the banks, but do not limit the protection to those particular farmers.


Doe3 my hon. friend object to the proposed work in the River St. Louis?


Certainly not.


I may inform my hon. friend that the flood in that section of the county of Beauharnois is caused every year by the entrance to the Beauharnois canal constructed by the government. The level of the water of the St. Louis has been raised, and for years and yearo there has been some work carried on there in order to minimize as much as possible the damage caused by that flood. Now, this is a great public work which was started long before confederation, and which has been going on ever since. The new work on the Beauharnois canal made some fifteen or sixteen years ago, has even affected the level of the water to such an extent in the bay somewhere in the county of Huntingdon, that Ste. Barbe, I think, or some other village, was flooded. I remember when Mr. McLaren, the former member for Huntingdon, was in this House, he explained the whole thing. It is caused by the Public Works Department at the entrance of the Beauharnois canal.
Riviere du Loup (Fraserville)-repairs and renewals to wharf, $4,000.


Riviere du Loup is a very important place upon the St. Lawrence, one of the important towns on the Intercolonial, and this work is very necessary to repair the wharf. It is expected this sum will make all the necessary repairs required at present.
Shigawake-extension of breakwater-revote of $880 lapsed, $5,000.


This wharf is in the county of Bonaventure, and this work is urged by the resident engineer, Mr. Amyot. It is to build an extension of 300 feet to the present wharf, so as to give it a depth of seven feet at low water. The government owns the wharf.


Is there any revenue from any of these wharfs?


There is no revenue from this one, because it ha3 not yet been transferred to the Marine Department.
St. Alexis, Ha ' Ila ! bay-extension of wharf -revote of $2,500 lapsed, $10,000.
St. Alphonse de Bagotville-To complete new addition on south side of wharf and repair old work, $8,000.


This is to build a head block, 160 feet long by 56 feet wide. It is to be an addition to the present government wharf at St. Alphonse. We require this amount in order to make repairs to the existing wharf, also to build an extension. I understand this wharf will give accommodation to ocean steamers.


What ocean steamers go there?


My hon. friend from Saguenay (Mr. Girard) informs me that the railway is being extended down to St. Alphonse for the purpose -of getting to deep water, and ocean steamers will come there. This is the Lake St. John railway, which ships large quantities of manufactured stuff and farm produce over its road.


What will be the total cost?


The contract was $38,-[DOT]350, and this will complete the work.


What is the population of this place?


The hon. member for the district (Mr. Girard) tells me that this is a part of the parish, that it is not a separate town, but there are about 3,000 people in the parish. The important thing is that it will afford a deep water terminus for the railway. Until the Saguenay is dredged out ocean steamers cannot go any farther than St. Alphonse.


How many ocean steamers go up there each year?





My hon. friend from the district says that about thirty ocean steamers will go up during the course of the season. Those are tramp steamers going for freight.
St. Andre de Kamouraska wharf-extension -revote of $3,200 lapsed, $10,500.


The total estimated cost is $10,500, so that we expect this will complete the work.


What is the annual revenue?


I do not think this has been transferred; if not there will be no revenue.


I think we ought to. have information about such matters in connection with the very large sums proposed to be expended.


I think that last session, or the session before, a statement was brought down showing all the wharfs that had been transferred.


That would make it very easy to give the information.


It would make it very easy for my hon. friend to get it too.


I am not passing the estimates.


If my hon. friend had intimated he wanted that information I would have been glad to have obtained it.


Me should have it always. When we are asked to vote sums of money ranging from $10,000 to $25,000 for these wharfs it seems to me eminently proper that the minister should come fortified with the information in all such cases. This is information that ought to be given to the committee without any request having to be made. It would be very much easier to get the estimates through the committee, if the minister would always be prepared with a certain amount of information in every instance which should be available without any question whatever. When we do ask what seem to be absolutely relevant questions we are told that there is some other minister who might give it if he were here, or that there is some return which has been brought down and from which, if it were available, we could get the information instead of having it ready for us. I do not think the minister is really prepared with his estimates until he has all the information of this kind available.


I would call my hon. friend's attention to the fact that all the items for Ontario, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island went through and it is only now that my hon. friend says that he wants a statement as to the revenue.


I beg my hon. friend's pardon. Whenever I have been here I have asked about that particularly.
I did s*o a week ago to-day, when the estimates were under discussion. I said then that the information ought to be forthcoming in regard to the revenue.


The reason I did not think it important was this: Where wharfs have not been transferred to my department the revenue is nothing, as my department does not collect any revenue. In building wharfs we are not influenced by the revenue which we will get, in fact,, hardly at all influenced by the revenue; it Is rather by the accommodation which will be given to the public and by the opportunities for the development of trade and travel. But, if my hon. friend would like it, I will be very glad to find out as to the St. Andre de Kamouraska wharf and also as to the remainder of these wharfs, but I cannot give it to my hon. friend now.
I will undertake to furnish it if he wishes.


When we were considering the estimates a week ago I mentioned the information that I would like to have in this connection. There does not seem to be any principle whatever governing the transfer, or non-transler, of these wharfs from the Department of Public Works to the Department of Marine and Fisheries. In one case no tolls are exacted; in the other case tolls are exacted. In one part of the country farmers are not obliged to pay any wharfage charges upon their goods; in other parts of the country, farmers, equally entitled to consideration, are obliged to pay such charges. There seems to be no system at all except perhaps a system of political expediency, and I do not think it is a good way to carry on public business. The minister does not think it is a good way to carry on public business, and from his statement there is some proposal now under consideration by the government for the purpose of adopting a general system in that regard. A general system ought to be undertaken. There is a further consideration. In the case of some of these items there may be a very good justification for building a wharf, but I do not apprehend that the government is very much concerned with any general principle in building these wharfs. Not long ago, this alternoon. the minister was speaking of works of a local and private nature. He said that the government could not undertake to engage in the expenditure of public money upon such works. Yet, a great many of these wharfs seem to me to be works of precisely that character. I dare say I might find more than one illustration, but in one case in particular we were asked to spend a considerable sum of money in the construction
of a wharf in my own county, where there was a very good private wharf in existence at that time. It is impossible for the minister to suggest that the expenditure of that money was governed by any consideration of public interest. It could not have been governed by any such consideration. The fault I have to find with these estimates that come before us year after year is that they do not seem to be based upon or inspired by any actual consideration of the public interest, but by some considerations that are absolutely foreign to the public interest in a great many cases at least. Where there is a locality, even if it has not a large population, which is to be the terminus of a large railway, and where the produce of a large portion of the country will be brought to the wharf and will be shipped on steamers for export abroad, I can see some reason for the expenditure of public money, because the enterprise is too great for the local community to undertake. But, to spend $700 or $800 upon wharfs, here, there and elsewhere, all along the sea co