Bill (No. 214) respecting the Sault St. Louis Light and Power Company.-Mr. Bickerdike.
Bill (No. 215) for the relief of William Francis Currie.-Mr. Pardee.
Before the orders of the day arfe called, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he can give any information to the House as to the exact situation at the present time of the proposed negotiations between the Bahamas and Canada for admission to the confederation. It is stated in the press that papers have arrived at Mr. LEMIEUX.
home, and that the matter is being taken up. by the premier in London during his present visit.


There are really no negotiations whatever. We are aware from public discussion that the people of the Bahamas are interested in the matter, and it is not improbable that the question would arise in England and would be discussed between the Prime Minister and the authorities of the Colonial Office; but nothing official whatever has occurred on the subject.


House again in committee on Bill (No. 170) to incorporate the New Ontario and Quebec Railway Company-Mr. Gordon (Nipissing).
On section 7, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Lancaster.
When this Bill was last before the committee, my hon: friend from Lincoln was desirous of ascertaining the opinion of the Minister of Railways upon it. As the Minister of Railways is not able ! to be here this morning, he has left a mem: orandum with my hon. friend the Secretary of State in which he says that he sees no objection whatever to the Bill, as the gentlemen who are promoting it have given him the assurance that they intend to build the principal line proposed as well as the branches, and he is of opinion that the Bill ought to go through with an amendment changing the name to the New Ontario and Abitibi railway, so that it will not conflict with the name of another company already in existence.


I must insist upon my amendment, because there is a very serious principle involved. The government and the House of course can take the responsibility of rejecting it. I cannot see any force in the minister's statement that he sees no harm in this Bill. It undertakes to incorporate three lines of railway, two of them 25 miles each in length to connect with the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario railway, a provincially-owned and operated railway, with the assets of the province of Ontario involved in it and the taxation of the people of Ontario behind it, for the purpose of developing an undeveloped portion of the province. These two lines of railway provided for in clause (b) and clause (c) of this Bill, are purely local works, entirely within not only the province, but one electoral district of the province. The third line named in clause (a) is a line that, if it were going to be built, would have to have a Dominion charter; but the two other little lines ought not, under any circumstances.

to be incorporated toy this parliament. It would be in absolute conflict not only with the British North America Act, but with our own Railway Act, which provides in section 8 that a railway owned by any provincial government shall not be subject to Dominion legislation with respect to through traffic without the consent of such government.
The Ontario government sent a protest to our committee against our giving a charter to build the two twenty-five mile railways, _<which are f* connect with the Ontario government railtway now being operated and thus putting these two small	lines	under federal	jurisdiction.If we do that our Board of Railway Commissioners cannot control the provincial	line	with which	we connectthese two little railways and the provincial	Board	cannot control	these twolittle	railways which we	incorporate.
Besides under the British North America Act we have no right to incorporate any railways which are entirely within one province unless we go the length of saying, for some special reason, that they are for the general advantage of Canada. No such declaration, however, is made in this Bill, and none such could be made because it would be utterly opposed to the facts. There is nothing to prevent these two small lines getting a charter from the province, and thus coming under the same jurisdiction as the line with which they propose to connect. I have been asked why in the railway committee I did not move to strike .out these two clauses. But assuming that the company are going to build east and west and run across the boundary line into the province of Quebec to Lake Abitibi, I would not object to their 'having a Dominion charter in that case, because that would not be an unfair interference with provincial rights. Therefore, I moved an amendment that they should not be prevented building these two twenty-five mile branches, provided they first build their main line, 160 miles east and west, which is their only excuse "for coming here. So that instead of moving tio strike out these clauses, I moved that the company might be allowed to build these two short lines provided they first 'build the main line across into Quebec, which is their only excuse for coming to this parliament at all.
The Minister of Public Works says that the Department of Railways has been assured by the promoters of the Bill that they intend to build this line of railway mentioned in section (a) to connect with the Transcontinental. If that be the case, no harm can be done by .saying: You shall do that before building these other two.


These two branches will connect
with the National Transcontinental as well as with the Ontario and Timiskaming. Will he inform the committee how they will in any way interfere with the Timiskaming and Ontario any more than with the National Transcontinental?


Clause (c) begins at the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario, runs northerly and easterly along the Abitibi river to a junction with the line described in paragraph (to), being a distance of twenty-five miles, and the line in paragraph (b) connects with the National Transcontinental.


Does not that make one line connecting with the Transcontinental and running around to the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario?


It would make a line connecting the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario railway with the Transcontinental railway if they are both built. But even so those two little lines are entirely within the province of Ontario, and within the one judicial district, and we have no right to charter them at all unless we take the responsibility of saying they are for the general advantage of Canada. But we do not say that, and it would be absurd to do so. The fact that these two lines, if built, would connect the National Transcontinental with the provincial railway does not give us jurisdiction. But because they want a Dominion charter, the company apply for a charter to build a road to run across into the province of Quebec to Lake Abitibi. The Minister of Railways implied toy his statement the other night repeated by the Minister of Public Works to-day, that he had an assurance from the promoters of the Bill that the company are going to build that line of railway provided for in clause (a), which is an interprovincial railway and therefore should have a Dominion charter. If that is the case, what possible objection can there be to my amendment which simply provides that they shall be compelled to build that part of the railway before they build the two branch lines of 25 miles each, which are really the most outrageous interference with provincial rights in the sense of interfering not only with a prov-ineially controlled but with a provincially owned railway, which is under the control of a different railway commission from our Board of Railway Commissioners. Without my amendment the assurance which the minister has received does not amount to a snap of the fingers.


The hon. member for Lincoln (Mr. Lancaster) has admirably argued his point, and surely he would now be willing to trust to the vote of the committee to see whether they think with him

or against him. Let ns have a vote and get rid of the Bill. I am not interested in the Bill in any way.


I have just discovered that a great part 01 this proposed road is in my riding. It is unnecessary for me to tell the committee where I stand in regard to provincial rights, and the requirements for railways throughout New Ontario. The minitser says he has an assurance from the promoters that they are going to construct the proposed main line. The difference made by the amendment of the hon. member for Lincoln and Niagara is that the amendment will compel them to build the main line first, while the statement of the promoters is that they will build the main line.


Not first, they want to build them simultaneously.


The amendment says they shall build it first, and the statement made to the Minister of Railways says simply they will build it.


Where is the objection to letting them build simultaneously if they want to?	.


I know that the provincial government are opposed to this company receiving a charter from this parliament for the part of their line which is exclusively in Ontario, but if I had some assurance that the main line was going to be built, and that the project was not purely and simply a provincial matter, I would certainly favour the Bill, because I cannot see what harm it would do to the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario railway if this road connected both with the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario and with the National Transcontinental railway. If it opens up that country it will do great good to the people of that part. I also understand that one of the reasons for asking power to build one of the branch lines is that they want to connect some water-powers which they own with the Timiskaming -and Northern Ontario railway, and by that means, after having it completed, will be able to get their machinery and other plant into their water-powers. They should have applied to the provincial government for that right, there is no question about that. But if we are given a substantial assurance that they are going to build the main line, and you can hold them down to that assurance, I would certainly vote for the Bill because we require all the railways we can have in that northern country.


I might read a letter, a copy of which has been placed in my hands from one of the promoters of the Bill to the Mr. NESBTTT
hon. member for Nipissing (Mr. Gordon) who, I regret is unable to be present this morning. The letter reads:


Toronto, May 13, 1911. George Gordon, E-q., M.P.,
Ottawa, Ont.
Dear Sir,-As one of the promoters of this Bill, I desire to impress upon you that the objection which has been raised that the company should be incorporated by the provincial legislature is unfounded. It is absolutely necessary, as you will see from the map, that about twenty miles of the railway should be in the province of Quebec in order to get around Lake Abitibi. It is the intention to proceed with the construction of the railway as speedily as possible, and for that purpose the promoters desire to carry on the whole of the work, including that of the so-called branches, simultaneously.
Yours truly,
I do not know what stronger assurance one could have than that positive statement of what their intentions are.
The letter contains a statement that they intend to do all this simultaneously. My motion is that they shall do part of the work, the part which is properly the subject of Dominion legislation, first. We know that in practice a railway in course of construction is not all proceeded with at the same time. There would be no wrench to the assurance they have given if they were required to proceed with the Dominion controlled part of the road before proceeding with the part that is purely a matter of provincial concern. Now 'I appeal	to	the	Minister	of PublicWorks as	a	business man.	He	hasread here a letter; should not he put [DOT]the effect	of	that	letter in	the	bond[DOT]where it will	have	some meaning	and
effect?-which is the very intention of my amendment.. I discussed the form of this amendment with hon. members, and the draftsmanship is the result of that conference. I think the language is correct and adequate but, if it can be changed with advantage I do not object. If they are going to work on both these lines simultaneously we know, as practical men, that they do not have their derricks, their teams, their men at two points at the same time. Then why not provide that they shall begin with the Dominion railway before they begin with that part which, standing alone is a purely provincial work. They must begin somewhere, and if they begin on the twenty-five mile line and stop there-which I have not any doubt is .their real intention-


Had we not better knock it out altogether?


No. I admit that clause (a) ought to be in the Bill. If they are
89e:

going to build into the province of Quebec they have a perfect right to get a Dominion charter; but clauses (b) and (c) should not pass except with the qualification I suggest. Talk about ' assurance,' I do not want to be pernickity, as has been suggested, nor unduly uncharitable, but I want to be a little businesslike. Look at the names connected with this charter. The first is E. A. Wallberg. What does this government think of E. A. Wallberg, in view of the disclosures made on his contracts.


The Supreme court decided that he was all right.


Oh, yes; the initials are all right. ' E. A.,' my children would probably say, were thoroughly respectable initals in view of the initials of their father's name. But it is the surname that *is wrong, for proof of which I refer to the records of this House. The ' E. A.' is all [DOT]right, but the ' Wallberg ' is not.


Is not the hon. member (Mr. Lancaster) aware that the Supreme court has said that Mr. Wallberg is all right?


I was speaking of what transpired in this House under the contracts Mr.Wallberg had. I have a list of them here. If the Minister of Public Works would show a disposition to be something of a business man where provincial rights are concerned, I would not trouble the House with this matter. But, he proposes to take the statement of the promoter of this Bill instead of putting the condition in the bond. He is going to take a mere letter which he knows, as a lawyer is not worth the paper it is written on, and cannot be enforced or dealt with in court. I have here a list of contracts by which this man had made thousands of dollars out of the people of the country-contracts with the Railway Department, with the Marine and Fisheries Department, and with others; a contractor working as close to the line as he dare, making all sorts of money out of the people of this country. And when this man seeks to go into the province of Ontario with a Dominion charter behind him and interfere with a railway owned and operated by the people, a provincial railway run by a business government, this government ought to establish reasonable, businesslike conditions in granting privileges. I think the more that is said on the subject the more reason there is why my amendment should carry.
Amendment (Mr. Lancaster) negatived.


In accordance with the suggestion of the Minister of Railways I would move that section 1 be amended so as to make the name of the company ' The New Ontario and Abitibi Railway Company.'


What is the reason for that?


There is a company already chartered known as ' The Ontario and Quebec Railway Company.'


Is not the effect of the minister's amendment to put this railway under an entirely provincial- name?


No. But the name given in this section might be confounded with that of * The Ontario and Quebec Railway Company.' Lake Abitibi, I understand, is not wholly in the province of Ontario; there is part of it in the province of Quebec.


The part that this railway runs to is in the province of Quebec. Why not, as I suggested to the Minister of Railways, leave out the word 'new'? The Timiskaming and Northern Ontario Railway is developing New Ontario- that is what it was built for. It does not make much difference what the name of a railway is in one sense, but if you are going to change this name why not call it ' The Ontario and Lake Abitibi Railway Company.'


Besides, the people in Northern Ontario object to the name ' New Ontario.' It is the same old Ontario.


I see; Northern Ontario will soon swing the rest of Ontario-that is the idea. I should be glad to accept the suggestion of my hon. friend from Lincoln and Niagara (Mr. Lancaster) I move that section (1) be amended so as to make the name read the ' Ontario and Abitibi Railway Company.'


I am not objecting. But as I understand it the title of the Bill cannot be amended in committee. If the title is to be amended it should be on the third reading.


This only amends section 1 by changing the name.
Amendment (Mr. Pugsley) agreed to.
Bill reported.
Mr. WHITE moved that the Bill be now read the third time, and that its title be an Act to incorporate the Ontario and Abitibi Railway Company.


Before the Bill is read a third time, I want formally to move my amendment, which has been discussed and turned down by the Committee of the Whole:
That the said Bill be not now read a third time, but that it be referred back to the Committee of the Whole House with instructions to add to section 7, as subsection 2, the following



The powers of construction granted by paragraphs (b) and (c) shall not be exercised until the line of railway authorized by paragraph (a) shall have been constructed to the respective junctions on that line to which the lines authorized by the said paragraphs (b) and (c) are to extend.
I just wish to say that in view of the provisions of the constitution with regard to provincial rights, in view of our own statute providing that we shall not interfere with government owned and operated railways in any province, in view of what I said a few moments ago and last week, and the week before, I want again to protest against the House passing the third reading of this Bril, and T warn the House that, if it does pass it, it will establish a very dangerous precedent. It is all very well for some people to say that it does not make any difference whether a railway is under the Dominion or under a province. It does make a difference, until the British North America Act is amended. I might join in petitioning the home government to amend that Act, and to place all railways under this jurisdiction of the Dominion parliament; but as the constitution stands to-day the provincial authorities have the sole right with regard to lines of railway wholly within the province; and in this case the province has a special right, recognized not only by the British North America Act, but by our own Dominion statute. In view of the fact that the lines of railway mentioned in subclauses (b) and (c) are to have connection with the prov-ineially-owned and operated railway, this legislation is a most undue and unwarranted interference with provincial rights. Some of the other provinces, as well as the province of Ontario will be sorry in the future that this legislation has passed. We do not know when some other province may be struck at in the same way, and if we pass this Bill, as it stands to-day, we shall be making a bad precedent or else fish of one and flesh of another. The amendment I propose cannot hurt this charter if the company does what it promises to do. Under the circumstances, [DOT]I ask the House to vote for the amendment, so that this improper interference with the province of Ontario will not I>h perpetrated.


Might I ask the Minister of Public Works what serious objection he has to this amendment?


The motion is that one part of this road shall be built first. Now, what the promoters say is that they want Ho proceed at different points upon all parts of the line as may be most convenient for them. This is the memorandum which has been left for me bv the Minister of Railways:
Mr. LANCASTER
This railway runs twenty or twenty-five miles through Quebec (not one mile, as stated by Mr. Lancaster). There is, therefore, no doubt about the jurisdiction of the Dominion parliament.
There is no reason for assuming that the Quebec part of the railroad will not be built or for questioning the good faith of the promoters. A glance at the map would show that the railroad must run through Quebec. The easterly portion serves the country south of Lake Abitibi, a country which has been surveyed by the Transcontinental and which is a very fine agricultural count ry. Lake Abitibi is fifty or sixty miles long and the easterly end of it extends ten or twelve miles into Quebec. The Transcontinental is to the north of Lake Abitibi and to get to it at the easterly end of Lake Abitibi it is necessary for the present railway to go through Quebec.
Mr. Lancaster's motion would have the effect of delaying the completion of the railway by about two years. It would take between two and three years to finish what is called the main line. If Mr. Lancaster's motion carried, it would mean, therefore, that the promoters could not commence the so-called branch lines for between two or three years, and it would then take perhaps two years to finish them.
The promoters are anxious to get the whole road built as soon as possible. They want to be able to commence at different points at the same time.
If the amendment of my hon. friend was carried, they could not strike a blow on any one of these branches until the portion mentioned in paragraph (a) was competed, which would take about two years. They must have in view the most convenient points to get in their supplies, and I understand that the construction of these branches is necessary in order to get in their supplies for the construction of the main line. It seems to me unreasonable that we should say what part of this road should be built first. If parliament is going to incorporate the company at all, surely it ought not to hamper them by saying that they shall first build one part of the line, which will take two years to build, and must not touch any other part of the line until that is completed.


Can the minister give any reason why they ought not to go to the local legislature for a charter to build the two branch lines?


When those lines are completed they will all be parts of one system of railway. One portion of the line could only be authorized by this parliament, because it extends into the province of Quebec. Does not my hon. friend see how inconvenient it would be for the railway company to have two charters, placing one portion of its system under the jurisdiction of the province, and another portion under the jurisdiction of the Dominion? It would be under the control of

two Boards of Railway Commissioners, and be subject to two jurisdictions. It would be entirely inconvenient, and I can see no possibility that any public interest could be served by putting the company in that position.


The hon. gentleman is well aware that the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario is a provincially-owned railway, and these lines are to connect with it. This company is asking a charter apparently with the sole object of having Dominion authority to build branch lines as well as a main line connecting with the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario. Would it not be reasonable to say that, so far as the branch lines are concerned, they are a matter for the province to deal with. The provincial government are opposed to the Dominion granting this charter, and their interests should be given some consideration.


That was all thoroughly threshed out in the committee.


When does the hon. minister expect that this road will be begun and completed?


I have no personal knowledge, but I have the assurance forwarded to me through my colleague, the Minister of Railways, from the promoters, that they are acting bona fide and intend proceeding as rapidly as possible with the construction of the whole system. We have also the assurance of the hon. member for Nipissing (Mr. Gordon) that the promoters are acting in good faith. All these assurances had weight with the special committee which dealt with this matter, and ought to have weight with the House.


Is the minister aware that any application has been made to this government for a subsidv for any part of these lines, or the whole?


Not aware of any.


The reason I ask is this: The Ontario government has built the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario, of which these branch lines will be practically feeders. The Timiskaming and Northern Ontario was built absolutely without any subsidy from this government, and it would be unfair to assist any company in building lines, which should be practically branch lines of the Timiskaming and Northern Ontario, by giving this company Dominion subsidies.


Would my hon. friend explain why?
Amendment negatived on division; motion agreed to; Bill read the third time.
283*
Mr. PUGSLEY moved that the Bill do now pass, and that the name of the company be changed to that of the Ontario and Abitibi Railway Companv.


Motion agreed to, and Bill passed.
House again in committee on Bill (No. 158) to incorporate Revillon Freres Trading Company, Limited.-Mr. Devlin.
On section 8: description of property and assets transferred.
Mr. Chairman, you have some amendments to the Bill, have you not?


There do not appear to be any proposed amendments to this section.


I understand that the objection has been met by a recital which has been placed on the notice paper to make the matter clearer. With that recital, section 8, I understand, will be quite clear.
On section 10,
The majority of the directors of the company need not be residents of Canada nor subjects of His Majesty, provided, however, that at least two of such directors shall have these qualifications and a minority of the directors, being non-residents and not more than two in number, may vote by proxy at meetings of the directors.


There are some proposed amendments. The law clerk has attached to the Bill a memorandum in regard to section 10 which I will read:
Section 127 of the Company's Act, which requires that the majority of directors of the company shall be residents in Canada and subjects of His Majesty, does not apply to this company. (See clause 12). In the third line of clause 10, the words 'of such' are ambiguous. Probably any two directors are meant, and the words 'of such' should be struck out. The last two lines of the clause as amended are either ambiguous or not what is intended. The matter has been explained to Mr. Miller, chairman of the Banking Committee. I would suggest the following as clause 10 of the Bill as covering what is apparently intended :
10. At least two directors shall be residents of Canada and subjects of His Majesty. Two non-resident directors may vote by proxy at meetings of directors.
(Sgd.) A. H. O'BRIEN,
Law Clerk.


Just what is the difference between this and the company's Act requirement?


Under the company's Act the majority must be British subjects. This is a company with an organization already established in Paris, and probably it would not be possible to apply the company's Act to it. This firm has been established in Paris and has been operating throughout the world for a long time, but it is a French firm.


It seems to require a pretty good reason why the company's Act should be departed .from. I do not quite understand from what the Minister of Finance says why it could not be so arranged that the majority would be British subjects.


The proprietary interest in this company is really in France. Re-villon Bros, are a French firm who started a company here to carry on business in Canada. By some- mistake made in the chartering they found that they could not really incorporate themselves and the business has been going on for some years. This Act is intended to properly constitute and organize the company, it being thoroughly well known that the proprietary interest is in old France. But they propose to have an incorporation here with at least two directors resident in the province of Quebec. I would suggest, however, that if there is no danger of interfering with the Bill, we allow it to stand for another day. I was asked by the committee to take some part in revising the Bill and I did so, but since then there have been other words introduced by the law clerk and I would like, if I am to have any responsibility in regard to it, to have an opportunity of looking at them. It is very important that this Bill should be free from blunders. They have twice attempted to put themselves right, and while no doubt the law clerk may be perfectly correct in his wording, I would prefer to let it stand until the next meeting.


We have tried, to follow as closely as possible the wording of section 9 of the Act to incorporate the Alberta Railway and Coal Company. As the hon. member for Hamilton (Mr. Barker) has pointed out, this Bill presently arises through a misunderstanding in the incorporation of the company in the first instance. Revillon Brothers sought incorporation by letters patent, and were incorporated as Revi'llon Brothers, Limited, and in the letters patent they are also called Revillon Freres a Responsabilite Limitee. They were also incorporated by Act of Parliament under their letters patent, but they could not organize in any shape or form, so the attorneys in charge of the present Bill have made out the Act which is now before parliament in order to regulate the whole thing, and I think that if Mr. FOSTER.
possible it would be well for the committee to leave the clause as originally suggested, as it would save a great deal more trouble than trying to right matters here.


I think my hon. friend
may accept the suggestion of the hon. member for Hamilton (Mr. Barker). The words added by the law clerk are probably correct, but I know that words added without much consultation in that way are sometimes found to be otherwise. * This firm is of world wide fame and of the highest reputation and standing, and I am sure there is nothing in the Bill but what is there for good purposes.


I do not think there is any objection to the matter being made satisfactory. It was the desire of the committee to meet the wishes of the promoters.
Section 10 allowed to stand.
Progress reported.


_ House in committee on Bill (No. 196) to incorporate the Continental Fire (Insurance Company of Canada.-Mr. Molloy.
On section 7,
How far has the government control over the rates of insurance?


There is no such control-competition.


I think this question of rates should receive some consideration by the Finance Department. We are chartering companies every day giving them the right to insure plate glass. The government should have some general control over the rates.


The suggestion of my hon. friend is worthy of consideration; but I do not think that up to the present time abuses have been brought to our notice that would call for the intervention of the government.


I would suggest to the promoter of the Bill that before the word * subscribed ' in this section the words 'bona fide' be inserted.


Does that add anything to it?


I think so. At least, the Finance Minister (Mr. Fielding) thought it added so much that in his outline of the new Banking Bill the word 'bona fide' was placed. The subscription might be a fake subscription, as was actually the case in the Farmers' Bank.


I have no objection to the insertion of the words. They would not do any harm.


Amendment agreed to. .
Section 7 as amended agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
House in committee on Bill (No. 192) to provide for increasing the capital stock of the Kichelieu and Ontario Navigation Company.-Mr. Bickerdike.
On motion to report the Bill.
This is in preparation for a large merger?


Yes.


I thought mergers were tabooed under the present regime.


Only the name. 3
wJ*y this legislation is necessary. We snoukl like to know that he approves it.

hui Li	o 1 cannot gJve the details,
but before the Senate Committee the deputy commissioner appeared and went into the matter, and he reported to me that there was no objection to it.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


nouse m committee on Bill (No. 188) to confer on the commissioner of patents certain powers for the relief of the Trussed Concrete Steel Company of Canada, Limited.-Mr. Clarke (Essex)
The reasons for this Bill are set out in the preamble. The case is peculiar. This concern has a company in Michigan and also one in Canada. They obtained a patent in the United States. The head office in Michigan thought the Canadian office was looking after the patent in Canada and the Canadian office thought the Michigan office was attending to the matter. The time expired during which they had a right to obtain a patent. The* Bill was before the Senate Committee, the deputy commissioner reported to me that there was no objection.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


Has the promoter of tbe Bill made any investigation to see whether or not we are likely to have a repetition of such results as those of the cement merger?


This is not at all on the same line. The Richelieu and Ontario Navigation Company are taking over the Northern Navigation Company and the Inland Navigation Company and are about to acquire other companies as well. They have not sufficient capital stock to take them all over and simply ask for authority to make new issues.
House in committee on Bill (No. 203) respecting certain patents of Munderloli and Company, Limited.-Mr. Rivet.	]


What is the explanation of this?


The same as that of the Boiler Flue Cleaner and Supply Company, The first term of the patent expired and they desire to have it extended for a second term. The matter has been before the Senate.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


All right, we will take your word for it.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


House in committee on Bill (No. 187) respecting a patent of the Boiler Flue Cleaner and Supply Company, Limited.- Mr. Clarke (Essex).
['1.\tYes.\n; 2. (a) Frame building; (b) $15,609.75.\n3.\tYes, plans are now being prepared.']
We ought to have from the Minister of Agriculture an explanation


House in committee on Bill (No. 206) respecting the Chatham, Wallaoeburg and Lake Erie Railway Company.-Mr Gordon (Kent).
On the preamble,
What is the extension of time granted to this company?


The said company may, within two years after the passing of this Act, commence the

construction of its railway and expend fifteen per cent of the amount of its capital stock thereon, and may, within five years after the passing of this Act, complete the said railway and put it in operation; and if, within the said periods respectively, the said railway is not commenced and such expenditure is not so made, or the said railway is not completed and put in operation, the powers of construction conferred upon the said company by parliament shall cease and be null and void as respects so much of the said railway as then remains uncompleted. .


Is the promoter of the Bill present? Could he give us any assurance that they are going on with it? My reason for asking is that there is another company that is considering extending in that direction, and I merely want to get an assurance from the promoters of the Bill that they intend to carry out the instructions contained in that clause.


I would say to my hon. friend (Mr. Armstrong) that the promoter of the Bill will not be back again before the adjournment, and, therefore, I do not think there is any one who could give the assurance which the hon. gentleman asks. From my knowledge of the road I know they are very desirous of making the extension, but beyond that I cannot go. This is a road which, I am sure, my hon. friend will be very glad to get. They have a line running from Wallaceburg to Lake Erie and it is well equipped.


I may say that in so far as Petrolea is concerned, the people there are interested in this road and anxious to have it. But, there is another company that is extending in the same direction. I was anxious to know whether these men intended to proceed with the work that would be necessary.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
At one o'clock, the House took recess.
House resumed at three o'clock.


Bill (No. 200) for the relief of Gertrude Mary Grantham.-Mr. Martin (Regina).
Mr. Chairman, I do not consider that I am charged with any greater responsibility than each other member of this House in respect to Bills for divorce, though I generally look over the evidence when these Bills come to this House. In the case of this particular Bill my attention was specially drawn to the circumstances from the fact that, as I understood it, the Private Bills Committee felt considerable hesitation as to reporting the Mr. DEPUTY SPEAKER
Bill. At the first sitting, at any rate, when it was considered by that committee, the decision to hold it over for further consideration was made instead of the usual course of reporting it being followed. On reading the evidence, I must say that I was not astonished that the Private Bills Committee should have felt considerable hesitation in the matter, because, speaking for myself, after having read the evidence, I think this case is certainly going as far in the w'ay of granting a divorce without there being any distinct evidence of any particular or specific act of adultery as any case that has ever come under my notice. I want to call the attention of the members of the committee to what the evidence exactly is, and to all that there is in the way of evidence. The application was not opposed by the husband. It is the wife's application based on the usual grounds. The evidence in support of the application consists of the testimony of three witnesses-the wife, the family doctor and the wife's father; that is all. No one of them speaks of anything within his or her own knowledge, but each speaks of occasions when the husband made to him or her certain admissions or statements in regard to his conduct. Without further preface I want to read to the committee exactly what each one of these witnesses says, and that is all the evidence presented here, upon whioh this Bill is supported. The wife was the first witness examined. She w'as not cros.s-examined at all, but was merely examined by her own counsel; and in reading the evidence I ask the attention of the committee to the form in which the questions are put, that the committee may consider to wrhat extent these statements were the statements of the witness, the wife herself, and to what extent they were suggestions made to her by her own counsel. After the usual preliminary inquiries and the establishing of the marriage, which took place in 1898, and the statement that the husband and wife had lived for some years in the city of Newr York, the counsel says:
Q. You lived with your husband in Toronto tor some time?-A. Yes.
Q. Did you continue to hear stories about his infidelity?-A. Yes.
Q. His going about with other women and cohabiting with them?-A. Yes.
Q. Did you finally challenge him about it?- A. Yes, he told me.
Q. What did he tell you?-A. He told me about a certain woman living in Buffalo.
Q. Do you know her name ?-A. No, I do not quite remember her name.
Q. What did he tell vou?-A. He said he met her at hotels.
Q. Slept with her, do you mean?-A. Yes.
Q. Cohabiting with her?-A. Yes.
That is the wife's testimony. The next is the family doctor:
Q. Did you attend Mr. Grantham at his home while he was living with his wife or

while they were living in the same house together?-A. Yes, on Balmoral avenue.
Q. Are you able to state to the chairman and members of the committee what his habits were as to sexual relations with women?-A. Yes. I think he had very free sexual relations with other women than his wife.
By Hon. Mr. Tones:
Q. You think that?-A. I know it from his own statements to me.
Q. He said so to you?-A. Yes, many times.
Finally, the evidence of the wife's father:
Q. Hid you have any talks with Grantham about his faithfulness or unfaithfulness towards his wife?-A. In the course of conversation he admitted to me at one time that he was not.
Q. What did he say?-A. That lie was not and did not propose to be.
Q. That is, that he would cohabit with other women?-A. That is the meaning I took from it.
Then, a little further down:
Q. Can you tell us his language when he said he proposed to continue that method of living?-A. He said that men were different from women, that they were polygamous in their habits.
A little further:
Q. It was at that time that he referred to his past infidelity and his intention to continue those infidelities?-A. It was just a general conversation, and he said that a man was constituted differently from a woman.
That is the whole of the evidence. Now, if this were a legal proceeding, an ordinary suit between two parties, in which the one sued to collect a debt from the other, I fully concede that it would be not merely prima facie evidence of the debt, but conclusive, if witnesses deposed to the court that the defendant had admitted to them on different occasions that he owed the money. Any court, any jury, or any man would be quite justified in acting upon such an admission. But it seems to me that it is a different state of things altogether when you are considering whether or not there is evidence upon which a divorce ought to he granted by parliament. A proceeding for divorce is not in the nature of a mere private proceeding in which the parties themselves are alone interested. There is a large public interest in preserving the sanctity of marriage relations. In the old country that interest is recognized by the appointment of an officer known as the King's Proctor, who frequently intervenes under direction of the court in cases where there is any reason to suspect that the husband and the wife may each wish to be free of their marriage obligations, to that extent concurring if not actually colluding in promoting the effort to separate them. Apply that idea to the situation here. Speaking for myself, I think it is very likely that this lady is entitled in fact to be
divorced, that her husband has in fact committed adultery, probably done so repeatedly ; but the question for us, it seems to me, is, has that been here proved? It may be that the evidence exists, and that with a little difficulty it could be found and produced. If that Is the fact, there will be but little hardship upon the parties if this measure is not passed, and they are left to apply at the next session of parliament, and then to produce the evidence which might have been, I venture to think, obtained if there had been the proper effort to secure it before the present application was made. Everything here rests upon what the husband stated to his wife, his wife's father, and the doctor. I do not question for a moment the exact truth of what these witnesses have said that he said; but if one may suppose that this husband is as anxious to be free from his wife as his wife is to be free from him, may it not have been that he said these things for the very purpose of inducing her to make the application which she has made. His statements were not made under oath. He may have been boasting-that is the language of counsel. not my language-of his exploits.
I think our experience is that a man who would boast of such a thing is not one upon whose word much reliance is to be placed, but rather a man desirous of furnishing evidence upon which his wife might procure a divorce. However that may be, here at any rate is an instance in which the House is asked to decree divorce without any pretense of being able to conclude that at a certain time, with a certain woman, the offence of adultery was committed. We are asked to give judgment simply because this husband is a man of such moral character as his statements to his father-in-law would indicate, a man who would not hesitate, upon the opportunity offering, to commit adultery, but who, even upon his own statement, in the evidence we have, is not shown to have at any particular time or with any particular woman, or at any particular place, committed the offence with which he is charged.
Mr. BARKER I have not read the evidence very carefully, but I did read it, and it appears to me that, in the absence of any probability of collusion between the husband and the wife, there was here made as strong a case against the husband as it is possible to make, unless you can get eye-witnesses. The argument of the Minister of Justice goes almost as far as to say that unless you can get eye-witnesses of the offence, you cannot get a divorce. What are the facts here? We have three witnesses. First of all, we have the wife, who swears-and there is no reason to doubt her testimony-that her husband confessed to her misconduct and cohabita-

tion with a woman in Buffalo at a hotel. She did not recollect the woman's name, but there is nothing very strange about that. Probably she never asked. The husband admitted to her cohabitation with this woman more than once in a Buffalo hotel. Then we have the evidence of the private doctor of the husband, who has been treating him and his family and a brother for a considerable period. Of the character and standing of this doctor there is not the slightest question, and he says that this man confessed to him-and confessed not merely on one occasion-that he had frequently given way to the commission of adultery. Any one who reads the testimony cannot fail to come to the conclusion that it was a frequent habit of this Mr. Grantham to cohabit with women in such a way that the doctor said it was impossible for his wife to live with him. Then we have Sir William McKenzie, the father of the complaining wife, who says that he spoke to his son-in-law about this, and the son-in-law not only admitted it, but claimed that as a male he had a right to do so. He distinguished the right of the husband from the right of the wife, and held the theory that what would be wrong in a wife was right on the part of a husband. He not only admitted this to the father of the wife, but he refused to say that he would reform. He boasted of his right as a man to go on and sin. So we have the wife who swears that her husband told her that he was in the habit of cohabiting with this woman in Buffalo, and we have the husband's doctor declaring that he had been treating him and his brother for some sexual or mental trouble, saying that his conduct had come to be ai disease, that the man admitted again and again his offences, and made no pretense of concealing them. Then the father-in-law approached the husband to see whether there was any possibility of reform on the part of the latter, and the husband said 'No, as one of the male sex, I consider that is my right; we have our rights, and I intend to exercise them. I would think a good deal of the argument of the Minister of Justice if there were on the face of this case anything to create the suspicion of collusion between the husband and wife, but there is not. I do no see, therefore, why the evidence of eye-witnesses should be indispensable.


I had the opportunity of being before the Private Bills Committee when the evidence given before the Senate Committee was fully considered and discussed, and I cannot agree with the Minister of Justice in the conclusion he has arrived at. While it is no doubt the right of the Committee of this House, to which these Bills are referred, to reverse the decision of the Senate Committee, that power is one which is rarely Mr. BARKER.
exercised. I only know of one case in a long period of years when the House of Commons did interfere in a decision at which the Senate arrived. In this matter we _ are very largely in the position in which a court of appeal would be in reviewing the action of a subordinate court, which has seen all the parties connected with the matter, has heard their evidence, and has arrived at the conclusion with all the advantages furnished the court in the first instance. I think that this House should not lightly overturn or interfere with a decision arrived at by the Senate Committee under these circumstances. There can be no doubt about the integrity of the tribunal which determined this matter in the first instance, and there can be no doubt that they gave it every attention in order to arrive at a conclusion in the interests of justice. The Minister of Justice frankly admitted that, in an ordinary (case, the evidence submitted would be sufficiently strong to result in a judgment for the plaintiff on the question of fact, but he thinks there should be additional evidence in order to enable a finding to be arrived at. But there is a point in connection with this matter which we are apt to overlook.
The question as to the weight of evidence has nothing to do-as the Minister of Justice knows full well, and will readily appreciate what I say in that regard-with the matter of collusion. If, as to the matter of fact, we have proof here-and we have the finding on that point of the competent tribunal appointed to deal with the matter -there is evidence sufficient to warrant a separation of the parties. With the evidence that is submitted and the statement of my hon. friend, we are bound to believe we have that evidence. If that is so there is no use in theorizing as to what is possible in regard to collusion. Besides, it is shown that, after the admission of the facts made that there "was cohabitation and relation with other parties, the wife never lived with her husband; and consequently there could not be that collusion (between them which might exist and which if it did exist would destroy the full effect of the admission. On page 8 of the evidence given by the wife is the following:
Q. You have never lived with him since he really admitted that