On the orders of the day being called:
I would like an explanation from the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier), or the Minister of Customs (Mr. Paterson) in regard to a very important question of construction of the tariff arrangement recently made. The construction put upon it in some quarters seems to be quite different from that conveyed to this House. In the New York ' Herald ' of Saturday last appears a despatch from Washington, from which I read a few sentences in order to explain what I desire to know:-
The American Newspaper Publishers' Association insists that paper and wood pulp will be free as soon as the agreement becomes law. The official announcement issued by the State Department yesterday said regarding this matter: 'Printing paper is to

become free on the removal of all restrictions of the exportation of pulpwood.'
This would mean that unless the restrictions in the way of the provincial charge were removed paper would continue to come in at the Payne rate of $3.75 a ton, plus $2 a ton countervailing duty.
The agreement made by Mr. Knox and Messrs. Fielding and Paterson makes paper, paper board and pulp free with a provision which, stripped of all verbiage, says free paper and pulp provided no export tax of any form or device should be imposed by Canada on paper or wood pulp or the wood used in the manufacture of 'such paper.'
It is felt here that if this means wood used in the manufacture of 'such paper' for export it does mean free paper, because no tax is imposed by any of the Canadian provinces on pulp wood cut from Crown lands which enters into the manufacture of paper made in Canada, whether for home consumption or for exportation to the United States. Should this be true, then the real issue has been waived and the purpose attained by the use of an ambiguous expression deliberately framed.
There is the statement, in effect, that a proposition deliberately framed-^and with the implication to deceive-will allow free paper under the agreement. I would like to hear from the Minister of Customs an interpretation of that clause of the agreement.


The Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) is not here. I have only to say that the agreement is exactly as set forth in the correspondence between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Customs and Mr. Knox, and already laid on the table of the House.


I
wish to make reference to a few lines in an article in the press. I refer to the ' News,' a paper published ini my own city-


Does the hon. gentleman (Mr. Knowles) wish to put a question?


I wish to speak to a question of privilege-is it not in order?


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Knowles) did not say what he was going to do, and I wished to know.


I quote a few lines from this newspaper, the ' Morning News,' of Moosejaw,.dated 27th inst.:

For four years a Liberal member, Knowles of Moosejaw, has set himself down for practically the same resolution, hut never proceeded further than having it printed again and again iu the programme.
And the closing paragraph contains these words:-
That Mr. Knowles had used his annual low tariff resolution as a means for blocking the Mr. MACLEAN.
real discussion of the matter in the House of Commons is now pretty well known.
I would not take up even the minute or two of the time of the House I wish to occupy were it not that I find that it seems to be taken for granted in this House, and even more so outside the House, that I had such a motion and that such a motion was used for the purpose of blocking the discussion with regard to the matter of lowering the tariff duties. I find that such papers as the Montreal ' Gazette,' the Ottawa ' Citizen,' the Winnipeg ' Telegram,' the Toronto ' News,' and even the Toronto * Globe,' which is supposed to be an organ friendly to Liberal members, take more or less this view of it. This motion of mine was on the Order Paper for two sessions. It was first placed on the Order Paper on the 15th of February, 1909. Newspapers, or persons, who say that this notice of motion has been before the House for four years are absolutely in error. As the date when it was first given notice of was comparatively near the close of the session, the last private members' day being the last Monday in March, the motion was never called during that session. So that, for the purpose of criticism, there is eliminated entirely the session before last, because my motion was never reached that session, and there remains for me to account to the public, to my constituents and to hon. members of this House, only that notice on the Order Paper last session. It was placed by me on the Order Paper with the full intention of bringing it before the House. Even taking the very worst view of the matter, that worst view would be that I had the notice upon the Order Paper for one session, and it was not gone on with. That is by no means unusual. I dare to make the statement that every session dozens of motions go by the board on the taking away of the last day for the discussion of private members' business in the same way as my motion was taken away last session.
With regard to this motion, I had intended to proceed with it. I was asked by different hon. members on the other side who wished to be advised as to the day when I intended to proceed with the motion. I told them of a certain day when I had made up my mind to proceed. I recall having told my hon. friend from Dauphin (Mr. Campbell) of the date and also my hon. friend from Souris (Mr. Schaffner). Upon my telling the hon. member for Souris, as he had asked me as a matter of courtesy when I intended to bring on the discussion, he, for the first time, informed me that he understood an arrangement had been made between the chief whin of the other side, the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Taylor), and the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) that a motion of the hon. member for North Renfrew (Mr. White) in connec-

tion with the Georgian Bay canal should be taken up. I went to see the hon. member for North Renfrew, and he said he had been informed by his chief whip that it was so. Though my motion had priority, yet, as a matter of courtesy-as, I think, the hon. member will bear me out in saying- I decided to defer bringing on my motion. It turned out that this was the last private members' day. Of this, so far as I know, notice had not been given, and I was not aware of it. Had I been aware of it, I would have hesitated to give up the place of priority which I held. The hon. member for North Renfrew took the day and afterwards the House resolved that po more motions from private members should be heard that session. Therefore, I wish to say this motion never was used to block discussion. During the first session, when it was on the Order Paper, I could not discuss it, even though I wished to do so, because it was never called, and last session, after I had decided to proceed with it on a certain day, it was because of my desire to show courtesy to an hon. gentleman on the other side that the-matter was not brought up for discussion on that day.


Since the hon. member for Moosejaw (Mr. Knowles) has referred to me, I think it is but right that I should make a statement to the House. Last session I well remember that when I had a motion on the Order Paper, I spoke^ to the hon. member, who had a motion in precedence of mine, and he was good enough at that time to give way to me. The facts as stated by him with reference to me are perfectly correct.


I desire to ask the Minister of Labour (Mr. King) as to the present position of the strike at Springhill, N.S., which was commenced, I think, in 1909. And may I ask him, also, if any of the Canadian militia are in attendance to keep order there?


I understand that at the present time about 600 men are employed in Springhill. The men who went out on strike about a year and a half ago are still out-or a large number of them are; some of them have left for other places. I am not aware as to there being any Canadian militia at Springhill at the present time, though I could not speak definitely on that point.


Will my hon. friend answer that at some other time?


Yes, I will find out.


Before the orders of the day are called, I would like to put a question to the government based upon an editorial which I see in the Manitoba * Free Press,of Saturday, January 28, which paper is I believe the government organ in the province of Manitoba. It reads as follows:


The Minister of Finance in connection with his announcement of the tariff arrangement with the United States, treated the newspapers and the public very shabbily in failing to see to it that the moment he rose in his place in the House at Ottawa to make his statement, there were furnished to the representatives of the newspapers of Canada in the press. gallery copies _ of the new schedules, and a summary resume of the whole arrangement.
In making his statement, the minister was speaking not only to the House, but to the country. In listening to that important statement, the men in the press gallery were the representatives of the people of Canada-decidedly more so, in that special sense, than the members of the House. The people of the whole Dominion were keenly expectant in regard to that statement. At Washington the government was guilty of no such failure to discharge the duty, it in like manner owed to the eagerly waiting public of the United States.
At the time agreed upon between the two governments for the announcement of the tariff arrangement, the new schedules were handed to the press correspondents at the capital of the United States, together with a comprehensive summary, containing about a thousand words setting forth the substance and meaning of the arrangement. The afternoon papers throughout the United States were thus able to lay before the public the main facts in regard to the tariff arrangement, its scope, and its bearings. It was from Washington that the first comprehensive news of the tariff arrangement came to Canadian papers, hours before a word of information came from Ottawa.
At Ottawa it was not until after Mr. Fielding had come to the end of his speech, about six o'clock, that there was furnished to the press correspondents one copy of the undigested schedules-a great mass of figures, requiring to be studied carefully, before it could be dealt with. There was no summary available, such as at Washington was furnished before four o'clock in the afternoon to the press correspondents.
I would like to ask if the grievance complained of in this editorial is justified, and if so, why it was that the newspaper press ' of Canada had to get its first information from Washington. I would ask also if that was the practice followed one year ago when the Minister of Finance was at Washington?
If my hon. friend wants us to follow the American method we will



have to adopt the American constitution. The methods of procedure in regard to these matters are so different in the United States from those which have been established in Canada that it is rather difficult to make comparisons. Answering the latter part of my hon. friend's question first; a year ago, at the last session of the House when a certain arrangement was made at Washington, the understanding was that this should be made public at or after a certain hour. Our American friends have a practice of issuing these things in advance under seal, to be released at a given hour. That did not form the subject of any discussion then, but what happened was that when, soon after three o'clock, I rose in the House to present the result of the negotiations, at that very hour there was I believe in the telegraph offices in Ottawa a full report of the whole matter, having been kept, as they say, under seal from Washington, and having been given out in advance according to the American method. In the present instance, it was distinctly understood that no communication should be made of the agreement itself, or of any part thereof, until after four o'clock in the afternoon. Now the American method is that the President of the United States and the Secretary of State of the United States, having no seats in the Congressional bodies, either in the Senate or House of Representatives, their method is to send a message to these bodies, and the moment the message is delivered, it is available to the public. Our method of dealing with such things is different. The practice is that in all matters of tariff changes the House of Commons is first informed; therefore, I did not feel at liberty to give out the details of this arrangement until I had informed the House of Commons thereof, and this necessarily occupied a little time. It is the different method of procedure in the two countries that accounts for the delay my hon. friend has complained of.


I quite agree with what the hon. gentleman says. But if, when he were at the finish of his speech he had had several copies, or a summary of the agreement, to hand to the press, it would have been a great convenience, and would have helped the newspaper men in making up their report that evening, instead of having to depend upon the only one copy that was given out.


I cannot understand how the Canadian constitution, or the British constitution, or anything else that we value, would have been greatly violated if the Minister of Finance had handed out these schedules when he began his speech. We on this side of the House would very much have appreciated a copy at the commencement of his speech instead of at the end of it, and I think it would Mr. FIELDING.
have been perhaps no more than ordinary courtesy to have given it to us then instead of at the conclusion of his speech. He will realize, as every hon. gentleman will realize, that it is very difficult to pick out the substance of comprehensive proposals such as these were, only having them under one's hand just as he rises to speak. The same is true of the men in the press gallery. When the Minister of Finance was about to announce the proposals, and had actually stood upon his feet, then it seems to me some summary of these schedules, or something of^ that kind, could have been given out without violating any principle of the constitution; and it would have been a great convenience, and would have saved a great amount of labour, not only to the men in the press gallery but to others.


Besides that, it doesn't seem to me that any rule or practice would have been violated. Do I understand the Minister of Finance to say that these schedules which he laid on the table giving the duties for certain articles, are to-day in effect, and that entries are being made on them?


Nothing of the sort.


There is no reason in the world for this secrecy, except in a case where you are bringing down tariff duties where the very moment the Finance Minister lays these changes on the table of the House they become actually operative, and duties are paid in accordance therewith. No duties are paid in accordance with these schedules, and no practice or any rule of this House, so long as I have known anything about it, would have been violated if, forty hours before the Finance Minister got up' to speak, he -had given those schedules to the members of parliament, and to the members of the press. There was nothing bindin-g upon him except, as _ I understand it, his pact with the administration of the United States, and that would have been satisfied if, at the time he rose this information had been put into the -hands of the House, and the public. What I mean to protest against is that the Finance Minister tries to shelter himself behind a rule or practice of this House regarding tariff changes going into effect instantly, and that therefore, there must be no knowledge given of them until they have been announced in the House. These did not fall under the category, they were simply possible things that may come into operation, and may not ; and if they do come into operation, it will not be at the present time, but upon proclamation and certain things being previously done by the United States.


I am sorry that our method of procedure in this matter has

not met with the favour of our hon. friends opposite. But I cannot see that there is any ground for complaint. It is a fact that in the United States the moment a document dealing with a matter of this kind is delivered to congress it becomes accessible to the public. Our method is different. Whenever anything of that nature is to be propounded it is explained in the House of Commons first by the Minister of Finance, and until he has done that, the document is not delivered to anybody. My hon. friend the leader of the opposition suggests that it would have been courteous if he had -been furnished with a copy in advance. I cannot agree with him at all.


I say when the minister began his statement.


That was in advance.


I would not call that in advance.


There were several copies of every document that I brought down. There may not have been enough to give one to each member of the press, but these were our busy days, and ,we could not prepare a large number of copies for distribution. Although I am not as communicative sometimes as the gentlemen of the press would like me to be, I think they cannot dispute the fact that whenever there is_ any information that I can give to them in the way of printed or any other documents I am' always willing to oblige them. I think that really in the time at our disposal every effort was made to satisfy the gentlemen of the press, and 844
I do not think that there is any general complaint from them in that regard.


I would like to renew' a request that I made in the absence of the-hon. Alinister of Finance (Air. Fielding). Perhaps the Finance Minister has been made acquainted with it. It is that just as soon as possible the statistics of trade bearing upon the arrangement which the Finance Minister laid before the House on Thursday should be put into the possession of members of the House. That statement would include not only the trade between ourselves and the United States, but also a list of any articles of common trade between us and the countries with whom we do that common trade; that is, Great Britain, the most favoured nation treaty nations and the overseas dominions. Aly hon. friend the Minister of Finance, of course, has that all made up, because he gave the result of it,, and he could not have done so if the information had not been available. It is well that we should have that before the House goes on with the discussion of the subject.


I shall endeavour, as far as possible, to comply with the hon gentleman's request.


Now that the hon. Alinister of Finance (Air. Fielding) is in his place, I would like to press for an answer to the question that I nut before he came in. The New York Publishers' Association say, in a report issued from Washington, that the arrangement, as it now stands, will be interpreted to mean the admission of free paper in the United States. I would like to ask if that is the minister's view of it?


I am afraid we will have to leave to our American friends the interpretation of their own item. AVhat we are clear about is the interpretation on our own side. They make a condition respecting the terms upon which they will admit free paper. There may be some room for dispute as to their own interpretation of this condition; we must leave that to them. But on our side of the line we have a clear and distinct understanding that until they admit, paper of the kind specified from all parts of Canada we will not give them the reciprocal advantage of free paper in Canada.


Air. A1EDERIC A1ARTIN (St. Alary, Alontreal). (Translation.) Mr. Speaker,
before the orders of the day are taken I wish to inquire from the Postmaster Genera], if he cannot see his way clear to give an additional number of letter carriers for the city of Montreal. For a long time I have had occasion to observe that the letter carriers are overloaded with postal matters of all description. Even this morning, in going down town, I met at least a dozen letter carriers getting out of the street cars, on their way to the streets where the distribution is to be done. They had to -carry on one arm such a load of *newspapers and other postal matters, that "they could not see in front of themselves, and besides, they had to carry a mail bag for letters in their other hand. If, under such conditions, it happens that a letter is lost, no blame can attach to the letter -carriers. I hope that before long an additional number of letter carriers will be appointed for the city of Montreal.
Hon.RODOLPHE LEMIEUX (Postmaster General). (Translation.) In answer to my hon. friend I may say that I will get information as to these facts from the post office secretary, at Montreal, and if there is any necessity to put on a greater number of letter carriers, I shall make my hon. friend aware of it.
My hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Borden, Halifax), in my absence the other day, made an inquiry of my right hon. 'friend the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid LaurieT) concerning dock accommodation at Halifax:. The situation is this :	Some
few months ago the Board -of Management of the Intercolonial railway visited Halifax and decided that spme improvements in the way of additional accommodation should be made there. The department authorized the engagement of Mr. Kennedy, of Montreal, who is an expert in harbour matters to go to Halifax, make an investigation and report as to what was needed. His report has not come in yet and it is too late to do anything this season. In the meantime some temporary arrangements were made to handle the traffic as well as possible this year. We hope in a few days to receive Mr. Kennedy's report and to take into consideration the much needed improvements with regard to wharf accommodation at Halifax during the coming year.


I would like to press upon the minister somewhat strongly the feeling of the board of trade and citizens generally that there will be more or less congestion in Halifax this year on account of the very marked increase of shipping business that is expected.


I know nothing of this matter -personally.


I think there is some reason for that belief.


I know nothing
of it personally but an increase in the -business is very confidently expected this year and there will be a great congestion of traffic. I would like to suggest that whatever temporary arrangements are to be made should be made as promptly and effectively as possible.


The work, I think has been completed; whatever it is, I am not in a position to say.


I would like to bring the attention of the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Pugsley) to an item that I
read in the Almonte * Gazette ' copied from the Brockville * Recorder ' and which is as follows:
An order was received at the post office today from the Public Works Department at Ottawa saying that the Union Jack must be hoisted over the post office every day in the week from sunrise and remain in that position until sunset The order is general throughout the Dominion.
I wish to say to the minister that I am not referring to this matter from any desire to find fault, but the very reverse, for if I had my way I would like to see the Union Jack fly over every public building in the Dominion of Canada. The only reason I refer to it is to know from the Minister of Public Works if the statement is correct and if it is to be general. If so I hope it will be thoroughly enforced, for up to the present time I h-ave not seen the Union Jack flying o^r the post office in Almonte except on public holidays.


I may say to my hon. friend (Mr. Thoburn) that the matter has been under consideration, but no such general order has been given as is stated in the paper. I will make further inquiry and see what foundation there is for the statement contained in the paper, but I feel quite sure that the order is not so general in its character as has been intimated there.


Is there any flag other than the British flag ordered to be flown on public buildings.


No, none but the British and Canadian flags.


House in Committee on Bill (No. 32) to incorporate the Security Trust Corporation. -Mr. Martin (Regina).
[DOT]2649

On section 5,
5. The company shall not commence business until at least one hundred thousand dollars of stock have been subscribed and thirty-five thousand dollars paid thereon in cash into the funds of the company to be appropriated only for the purposes of the company under this Act.
It would not be a bad idea to insert the word ' bona fide ' before the word ' subscribed ' in this section. It cannot militate against the Bill, and it may serve a useful purpose.


I have no particular objection to that, but I do not see why it should be inserted in this Bill when it is not in any other similar Bill to my knowledge.


Certain recent developments show that the insertion of these words may serve a very useful purpose. I suppose the promoters of a company of this kind would have no other object in view than that it should be bona fide, and therefore there can be no objection. I would advocate the same for every like Bill.


I do not think it makes any difference whether the words are in or not; I have no objection to them.


If you insert the words ' bona fide ' it will suggest that there is something wrong and I do not think there is any necessity for them any way.


These words serve a very useful purpose in the Bank Act, if proper care is taken.
Mr.-NESBITT. I do not see that they serve any useful purpose in the Bank Act according to the hon. gentleman's own statement the other evening. If there are any subscriptions at all why should they not be bona fide?


Even although the Bank Act calls for bona fide subscriptions, the subscriptions in a certain case were not bona fide. If the words bona fide be inserted here, and if there should be any doubt, it makes it very easy for the minister to ask for adidtional proof.


What occurred in the Farmers' Bank was that the subscriptions were made by the notes of the subscribers which were discounted and these were called bona fide subscriptions, which, of course they were not.


There having been objection raised, then under rule 112 no important amendment can be proposed without notice.


It is admitted that the intention of the Bill is that the subscriptions should be bona fide, and I would ask you, Sir, do you rule that the insertion of words to better carry out the intention of the Act is an important amendment,


The insertion of the words is a superfluity. The minister has just as much right to inquire into the nature of the subscriptions if these words are not in as he has if they are in the Act.


That may be all true, but if you insert these words it advertises to those who are getting up the concern and to those who are subscribing that there are not to be any fake subscriptions. The hon. member (Mr. Nesbitt) could have made the same argument before the Farmers' Bank got its incorporation, but there is not the slightest shadow of a doubt that in that case there -were both fake subscriptions and fake payments on subscriptions, and if I mistake not the excuse for the action of the government was that they did not suppose it was necessary to go back of the usual form of subscription and the affidavit thereto. That incident ought at least, make this House not unwilling to insert words which cannot in any way be detrimental to the institution, which .are undoubtedly significant in calling attention to the fact, and which would also afford a good standing ground for the minister to make inquiry.


It is important we should have these words inserted in the Bill even if only to call attention to the matter. Recent developments have shown that subscriptions are not always bona fide. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Nesibitt) complains that their insertion suggests a possible impropriety, but we have good reason to think that there have been improprieties and there may toe improprieties again. It is quite common in legislation to use words of this character, and it is perfectly right and exceedingly important at this time, when we have had such startling evidence of attempts to get around the clear provision of the law, that parties in cases of this kind shall be given clearly to understand that the subscription must not be a sham or nominal one, but a bona fide subscription. This is so important that if objection is taken, I think the matter ought to stand over until the notice can be given of this necessary amendment. All along the line of our banking institutions it will be necessary for us to take stock of the situation exactly as it is to-day. and make very careful and important amendments to the legislation governing banking. I move that the committee rise, report progress and ask leave to sit again.


I give notice, then, that when the Bill comes up again I will move that as an amendment.


If the chairman rules that it is an important amendment, I have nothing more to say.


I do not wish to take too technical a view of the matter; but the mover of the Bill himself is entitled to notice of any amendment. The actual debate seems to lend force to the view that it is of some consequence, and for that reason I think my wisest course is to stand by the rule and to state that such an amendment should have one day's notice.


In that case, may I suggest that we be permitted to take up the other sections of the Bill, so that if it stands over it will stand only with reference to this one point.


I presume that as the mover of the Bill, I would be at liberty to waive any objection as to, notice of the amendment. I do not consider the proposed amendment such as I would ask a day's notice of, because I am perfectly willing that the words 1 bona fide ' should be inserted; and, taking that position, I do not think it necessary that the Bill should stand over. It seems to me, however, that in the section the public is fully protected, for $200,000 of stock must be subscribed and $70,000 paid in cash, and that being the case, surely the subscriptions must be bona fide.


I understood that that was agreed to by the hon. gentleman who had the Bill in charge; but the hon. member for North Oxford (Mr. Nesbitt) seemed to have such a strong and vital objection, and his objection was urged with such force, that it brought the House up standing, and here we are.


I am willing to withdraw my motion in order that we may consider the other provisions of the Bill, after which I will renew the motion.


If the mover of the Bill thinks he can mollify his colleague from Oxford, we might put in the words ' bona fide ' and go on.


I do not wish to take up the time of the committee. I am willing to let this section stand if any member of the committee wishes that to be done.


If the mover of the Bill does not object, I am sure I do not.


Amendment agreed to, and section, as -amended, agreed to.
On section 6-directors.
What was the hon. gentleman's object in raising the number of directors to 21?





I may say that when this Bill was before the Banking and Commerce Committee, that question was raised, and it was pointed out that charters had been granted to other companies doing a similar business, and having 25 directors.


So far as I have any knowledge of companies, a large directorate is not conducive to good business management. It is impossible to get the directors together.


It was argued that it is a good thing (for a company obtaining business to have a pretty fair representation on its directorate, and this company is to have power to do business in several provinces.
On section 6: resolutions may be signed by all directors without calling meeting.


This is one of the points to which attention was drawn when the Bill was brought before the House. I find that this provision has been inserted in several Bills, the argument for it being that which was so forcibly presented by the hon. member for Halton (Mr. Henderson) the other night, that is to say that a memorandum signed by all the directors would be much more likely to represent the wish of the body, than a resolution passed by a board quorum at a formal meeting. If a quorum were allowed to sign the memorandum there would be more objection, but as all must sign the memorandum it was thought iby the committee that that was sufficient protection. I confess I do not like the method of legislation, but it is found in several other Bills ; I have no very strong opinion about it, there is a precedent for it and we try, as far as possible, to have uniformity of legislation in these matters.


Is the effect of the resolution that they need not call a meeting of directors, but if they get a memorandum signed by all the directors that will be equivalent to a resolution of the board of directors?


Yes.


I think that is a very bad thing. You have no consultation, and the man who is very intelligent and experienced is in no better position than the man who has little intelligence and no experience. The document is put before each one separately and there is no chance for that consultation which is really the object for which a board of directors exists. And if there is anything that will tend to laxity in business and bad results, if actually carried out, I think it will be that system by which some one having an interest in the subject could go around and button-hole each director separately, put

his own views before the director and get his signature. In that way you might get resolutions passed which, if a meeting was called, would never be considered.


I objected to this in the committee for very much the same reasons as have been advanced. I did so because I had seen and actually knew the baneful effects of such a system. When a paper of that kind is sent around it is accompanied by all the arguments in favour of doing it and doing it quickly and the directors are urged that unless they do it, some danger or loss will arise. All the arguments in favour of it are presented but none of the arguments against the proposition, whereas if the board were called together they might take a directly opposite view after consultation and hearing' officials of the company. I move that section 6 be struck out.


I would ask the mover of the Bill if he persists in this end and if so what his reasons for doing so are?


One of the main reasons for asking this power is the distances that prevail in our province, which are much greater, for instance, than in Ontario. A trust company may be formed in Ontario and possibly all the directors will reside in Toronto so that you can get them together very easily but in our province it is difficult to get together say twenty-one members of the board of directors of a company. As to the argument of the hon. member for East Grey (Mr. Sproule) if we have twenty-one directors a quorum will consist of eleven members, and eleven directors could pass any resolution they liked providing they agreed on it at any particular meeting of the board. The section says :
The company may. by by-law, provide that a resolution in writing signed by all the directors.
The whole twenty-one. It seems to me that the shareholders or people interested in the company are better protected by a resolution signed by twenty-one directors than they would be at a meeting where possibly only eleven were present.


Would the hon. member not rather have the reasoned opinion and decision of eleven men meeting and canvassing the whole thing than the unreasoned decision of twenty-one or twenty-two scattered all over? I have seen a board of directors come together with a proposition before them unanimously, in favour of the proposition at the beginning of the discussion but after questioning the officials and discussing the matter the board absolutely changed its mind. You always have at a meeting of the board of directors, some one who is like a permanent head and understands the history of the company and the
matter under discussion much better than any individual director and it is by having an opportunity to avail themselves of the knowledge, experience and information of that person that the directors form their best decisions. To make this board nondeliberative would be equivalent to electing members to this parliament and then saying to them that they need not come and sit in parliament, that a memoranda would be sent to them on each piece of legislation, and that if the majority agreed to it, it would become law. You take away ' the really valuable thing, deliberation.


The hon. gentleman takes it for granted that if any resolution is put before a director at any particular place for his signature, he will not consider it, but will sign it. It must be remembered that he may have the advice of the very man who is the head of the company and knows about its business and he lias before him the reasons why the resolution should be signed. I am not sure whether this power has been granted to all companies I am about to mention, but I was informed in the Banking and Commerce Committee that it had been granted to the Northwestern Trust Company, Chapter 113, Dominion Statutes, 1907 ; the Western Trust Company, chapter 180, Dominion Statutes, 1906; Prairie Provinces Trust Company, chapter 121, Dominion Statutes, 1909, and the Prudential Trust Company, chapter 124 of the Acts of 1909, on which the Bill we are now considering is exactly modelled, and as I said a few moments ago the very strongest argument I can advance for the written resolution signed by the directors-all the directors and not a part of them-is the great distances we have in the western provinces. Some of these directors will be in the province of Saskatchewan, but some will probably be in Alberta, or Manitoba, or perhaps British Columbia. It may be impossible to get all these directors together. This is not like a trust company confined to the province of Ontario or the province of Quebec.


There is a wider reason for this change. What is this company doing? It is administering trust funds. If we are to insist upon the law of trusteeship, if we are to recognize the importance of trusteeship, how can we say that a man can discharge his duty as trustee by signing a document presented to him as director and with no opportunity for full consultation with his fellow directors? If we are to uphold the idea of trusteeship, it is imperative that trust funds controlled by a board of directors should be administered by that board in consultation. And, while I am on my feet, I would suggest to the Minister of Finance that it is time we should have a uniform law in the formation 1 of trust companies as for the banks. Also,

it is high time that the returns of the trust companies should be published, as the returns of the banks, more or less, are published. The government gets returns from the trust companies, but, they are not published so far as I know. As to the point immediately before the committee, I think that the administering of trust funds by signing documents received by the directors individually through the post or otherwise is a violation of the first principle of trusteeship.
Subsection 3 agreed to-Yeas 35, Nays 29.
On section 8, business of the company.


Subsection (j) of this section provides as to the real estate to be held by the company. It says:
-but the company shall sell any real estate acquired in satisfaction of any debt due to itself, other than as trustee or in an official capacity, within seven years after such acquisition, unless such time is extended by order of the Governor in Council, otherwise such real estate shall revert to His Majesty for the use of Canada.
I am not quite sure what is meant by ' shall revert to His Majesty,' It would rather imply that some time or other the property had belonged to His Majesty, and after having been vested in a company, was now to revert to His Majesty for the use of Canada. I call attention to that. I do not see why real estate in provinces which were provinces before confederation, and which was Crown property, should revert to His Majesty in right of the Dominion of Canada. It might be all very well in the western provinces, but certainly in the old provinces it should go to the provincial government.
On section 15,


A question arose on this clause the other day in apprehension of a conflict between the federal and provincial authorities. I find the clause is in a number of charters, and the explanation is that which I gave at a venture the other evening, that inasmuch as the laws of the provinces deal with trusteeships, and as all we do is to create a company for the management of the business, what is really contemplated by these words is that the company incorporated toy the Dominion in the management of trustee business must operate under the laws of the province, and not do anything in conflict therewith. That I think is all that is intended. I find it has been in a number of Acts. I do not know whether the Minister of Public Works will regard that as a sufficient explanation ; tout at all events, that is the theory upon which this clause has been put into a number of Bills.


I do not think the fact of there toeing similar provisions in char-Mr. MACLEAN.
ters of a number of other companies, carries so much weight, because the custom is for the draftsman to copy the charters which have been previously obtained. No doubt that has been the case in the third subsection of section 6. I would have no objection to section 15 reading as follows :
The powers and authority hereby granted to the company shall be exercised in any province subject to the laws of such province in that behalf, so far as they are not inconsistent herewith.
But it does seem to me that to make a statute of this parliament entirely subject to the laws of the provincial legislature, and then to go further and declare that whatever may toe enacted in this chapter should have no force or effect if it is inconsistent with the laws of the province, not only laws which now exist but laws that may be passed in future, is I think to subordinate the powers of this parliament to the powers of the provincial legislatures, and I do not think that is proper legislation.


But suppose provincial laws were inconsistent with this Act, if the provincial legislature were within their own jurisdiction, their laws would prevail.


No, because when parliament incorporates a company with power to do business throughout Canada, then the authority of parliament is supreme.


Only within certain limits.	.


I would not like to differ with my hon. friend, but it has always been my view that the moment parliament gives authority to incorporate a company for purposes which are of a general character, Canadian in their character, giving a company power to do business throughout Canada, then parliament must be the judge of what power should be vested in the company, parliament is the sole judge of that. For instance, when parliament creates a railway company with power to build railways throughout Canada, parliament can give powers of expropriation. No provincial legislature could alter this charter because parliament is supreme, and so, if it is a fact that this parliament has power to incorporate the company at all it has authority to vest it with the powers deemed necessary to enable it to carry on its business. It seems to me that the section ought to be read that it should be subject to the laws of the provinces in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.


I know that already the provinces have intervened in cases like this and even if the Bill were drawn as

suggested toy the Minister of Public Works they would still claim the right. In the case of insurance companies some of the provinces have refused to allow them to do (business in the province unless they complied with certain provincial statutes, one of which was the payment of a fee, and the other registration in the province. I know that such is the case at the present time. British Columbia has, I understand, challenged the authority of corporations doing business under federal charters, so has Manitoba, and in both cases these companies were obliged to comply with the requirements of the law or otherwise refrain from doing business in these provinces though they had their charter from the federal parliament. That is*the way I think this would work ; if you said that they might exercise such powers in so far as they were not inconsistent with the Act that would not cover it all.


I do not know whether the question has much sense in it at all, but there is an authority granted to a company to be exercised in any province subject to the laws of that province. It is situated, we will say, in Regina under the laws of Saskatchewan. A trust has been put into the hands of the company by the province of Alberta. The Alberta laws are different from those of Saskatchewan. Does the trust make it necessary that the laws in accordance with that trust should follow the origin of the trust? They may be greatly different. Would this company have to carry out each trust according to the laws of the province from which it originated? What do the solons of the House say about that not including the Minister of Finance because he is not a solon.


He does not claim to be a solon.


If the Minister of the Interior were here I would appeal to him.


I think there is a great deal in what the hon. member for North Toronto (Mr. Foster) says, but if you pass this section as it is, each province could legislate as to this particular trust company. Alberta could legislate in one way, Saskatchewan in another, Ontario in another, Quebec in another, and each province might have different provisions which this company would be 'bound to obey because parliament has said : It is true, we give you certain powers, it is true we state what you shall do, it is true we make provision for the holding of the meetings of the board of directors, and the Way in which you shall handle trust moneys, but in every province you must comply with the laws that the provincial legislature may *pass, and any Act at all which is inconsistent with this would override this statute.
I think this parliament ought not to declare that any charter which it gives to a company may be overridden by the legislature of any province. The hon. member for East Grey spoke of provincial legislatures claiming the right to prevent a company incorporated by this parliament from doing business without paying a tax and taking out a license. I admit that, and I think that the Privy Council held that they had that power in the case of Parsons v. Citizens Insurance Company, that power being based on the right of the provincial legislature to impose taxation for the purpose of raising a provincial revenue. That is under a clause of the British North America Act. Therefore, I am not prepared to dispute that if this company is incorporated by parliament it may be required to pay a tax or a fee and to take out a license. But that is altogether a different provision. In this case parliament is abdicating its functions, and saying that whatever the provincial legislature shall do with regard to this company shall be the paramount law, and shall override whatever this parliament has done with regard to this company. That is why I object to it.


If my hon. friend (Mr. Pugsley) thinks this point important I would rather he should draft an amendment, and let the Bill stand because on a question of a possible conflict between the provinces, and the Dominion, even if it affects only this one particular charter, I should like to have the advice of the Department of Justice. It is really a very important question, and it has an effect upon other things. I know the purpose of the clause, and it is a good purpose. It is important to draw a distinction between the powers of a company created as a man with authority to do business, and the nature of the business which is governed not by the Dominion but by the provinces. That is what those who drafted the clause had in mind. Whether it is adequately expressed in this clause is a matter for our legal friends to determine, and I would like to have the advice of the Minister of Justice with regard to it.


I would suggest that if the promoter would simply drop out the latter half of the section because the laws of the different provinces have to prevail whether we want them to or not it would meet the case. I could give an illustration. This company is authorized to loan money on mortgages and it becomes a matter of civil contract. The legislature of .each province has a perfect right to pass any laws it chooses regarding these contracts. For instance, we had the matter discussed only a few days ago on the Bill introduced by the hon. member for South Grey (Mr. Miller) being an amendment to the In-

terest Act. We held, and I believe rightly, that this parliament has no right to say to a company:	You must cancel the mortgage. All we can say is: You must not charge any more interest after a certain time. The legislature of the province, however, can say that the company, after the payment of a certain amount of money, must discharge the mortgage from the records. It is the law of the province which has to prevail. I think that if all after the word ' behalf ' were omitted we will have accomplished all we can accomplish and there will be no conflict between the federal and provincial authorities.


That would meet myi
views.


I think that what the hon. member for Carleton, N.B., (Mr. Car-veil) says would accomplish what was suggested, but I entirely concur with the hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) that this is a matter of sufficient importance to justify us in getting the advice of the Minister "of Justice so