Mr. Speaker, if I might be allowed, I would like to refer to a question asked me the other day by the hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Borden, Halifax), in reference to a complaint of the hon. member for Colchester (Mr. Stanfield) in reference to an error made in the Intercolonial railway office at Moncton concerning cheap rates for a Conservative picnic that was held in Nova Scotia. The hon. leader of the opposition asked me to ascertain what happened to the junior clerk who had made the mistake-was he promoted for making it or was he reprimanded? As a matter of fact, the young man was fined and placed in a less responsible position, for the time at least, for the error he had made.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. I notice in the Montreal ' Gazette,' in the account of the proceedings of this House yesterday, that I am put down as having voted with the government on the amendment. That is a mistake. I voted for the amendment, but I did not notice that my pair was absent. When that fact was brought to my notice I asked to have Mr. FOSTER
my name erased. At the same time, I said that had I voted, I would have voted for the amendment, because I was of the same opinion as the mover of the amendment, that we should have a little more time to talk this matter over with our constituents before being asked to vote upon it.


Mr. FIELDING moved that the House go into- Committee of Supply.
['I would call the attention of the hon. gentleman in charge of this Bill to the provisions of section 3:\nThe conversion of fifty thousand shares of the capital stock of the company from common stock into five per cent non-cumulative preferred stock, and the issue of such shares as such preferred stock, is declared to be valid and binding upon the company and the shareholders thereof, according to the terms of such conversion and issue.\nI would like to know if the committee had information that that was agreed to by all the holders of common stock. This section makes valid a priority which is given to 50,000 shares of the common stock. That of course is unusual, and would I think, be improper unless all the holders of common stock were parties to it. I would suggest that progress be reported on this Bill so that we can get information on that point.\nProgress reported.']
I wish to direct the attention of the government to an incomplete return laid on the table the other day. The return ordered by the House was as follows:	'
How many appointments have been made by the government from the constituency of South Grey since 1904, what are the names, to what positions appointed, and the salary or remuneration in each case?
The government have brought down a return showing something like 26 appointments. It is fair to say that the most of them are very minor appointments, chiefly from the Post Office Department to country post offices worth a few dollars a year. The larger departments have not responded at all. There is no reply from the Public Works Department, none from the Interior Department, none from the Department of Railways and Canals, and none from the Marine and Fisheries Department, the four important spending departments of the government. I cannot understand how this could have been overlooked. One department says it keeps1 no record of that; another says something of the same kind. It seems to me that it would not be a very diflicult task on the part of any department, by consultation with the sitting member for the county, to learn how many appointments had been made from the constituency from all departments of the government since 1904. That is a very reasonable request. I am not going to criticise particularly my hon. frienu who represents the county, as he is not in his seat; but I am informed on very good authority that he makes it a pretty common plank of his platform for re-election that he has been so successful in representing the county having been able to get so many appointments for liis county made in the different departments of the government. As these offices are in the gift of the government, and the salaries come out of the public treasury, the government should be able to say who have been appointed, and where they come from. I did not include the hon. Minister of Finance with the departments that have not been heard from. It may be that my hon. friend from South Grey has been influential with the Minister of Finance.


He would be.


I would think so. My hon. friend is always ready to respond without much persuasion, particuarly to requests coming from that side of the House. 'I would ask the government to obey their own order and to lay on the table of the House a list of these appointments from every department. I suppose my hon. friends will answer that this is an impossible proposition. Everybody in this House knows that it is not. If any department has not a record of the constituency from which each person appointed comes, surely that could be ascertained by consultation with the sitting member who in the main would recommend the persons for the different positions. Then they could lay a complete return on the table of the House, from which the public could understand whether or not my hon. friend was using the proper election method in stating that his constituency was honoured because he was so influential with the government being able to get so many of his electors on the Civil Service pay-roll of the country.


I should think that the Secretary of State would be able to collect from all the different departments the necessary matter for a complete returiT such as is asked for by the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Blain). Another matter which I wish to bring up is this. The other day, when the Prime Minister was absent, I appealed to the government, instead of taking the estimates of the Public Works Department day after day, to vary them with those of some of the other departments. Probably two-thirds of the session have now gone by, and the only department whose estimates we have yet considered in Supply is the Department of Public Works. There are a great many Items for that department, and if we discussed each item fully it would probably take the whole session to deal with that department alone. There are important matters to be considered in the Marine and Fisheries Department, and in the Department of Agriculture which is one of the most important of the government as the Prime Minister will admit, judging by the deputation which was heTe to-day. In the past we have had different departments under consideration from time to time, but this rule is now violated, and I think when we appeal in person to the Prime Minister he will give our appeal attention.


Are we to understand there have been no appointments made in the Department of Public Works from the constituency of South Grey since 1904?


Will my hon. friend send me over the return?


The motion to adj'ourn was for the purpose of obtaining what information is actually on record in the department, and if my hon. friend (Mr. Blain) has received that I do not know that he can complain.


I assume that no man is appointed to office by this government unless the government have a record of that appointment?


The record of the appointment might not necessarily give the locality the appointee came from.


These appointments are not usually made at the request of the appointee, but at the request of the sitting member and the government can easily inquire from the sitting member where the man came from. The ministers or their officials can find out from the member for South Grey what persons from his constituency have been appointed since 1904.	[DOT]


I do not think it is the duty of the officers of my department to go round to the different members and find out where in former years was the place of residence of certain officials. There is no record kept, as I understand, of the place whence an appointee originally came, and I take it for granted that the return gives all the information in the department.


If the minister states there have been no appointments to his department from the constituency of South Grey since 1904, I will accept his statement.


There may be dozens of officials in my department who originally came from South Grey, but we do not keep a record of where they came from.


I do not think this a fair answer. The order of the House asks that the government shall lay on the table all the appointments that have been made from the important constituency of South Grey, and the minister answers saying there is nothing in the department to show whence the appointees came Surely that answer will not be accepted by the House. If the information is not given we must assume that it is not given because they wish to keep this secret. If the Minister of Railways, or the Alinister of Marine, or the Minister of Finance will stand up and say there has been no appointment made since 1904, I will accept the statement at once. I regret that my hon. friend (Mr. Miller) is not in his place, but I am informed on very good authority, that when the hon. gentleman goes back to South Grey from the House, each and every time he congratulates himself and his people upon the fact that he has been



so powerful with this government that he has had so many men appointed to the different departments. That is using an unfair weapon in party politics by a supporter of the government. I am not suggesting that there is anything wrong, but it is quite easy for the government to clear the matter up.


I believe there is a duty upon the government to inform the House as to the matters which my hon. friend (Mr. Blain) has moved for. All that the Minister of Public Works or any other minister has to do, is to go to the member for South Grey and get a list-and I understand it would be a long list-of the gentlemen who were appointed at his instance. I venture to say that the public will think it necessary that the government should know from what district an appointee comes, so that they may be able to ascertain something of the character of the person they are appointing. It is altogether too much a habit of the ministers of the Crown to keep back information which the people of the country have a right to get. Does the leader of the government forget that it was brought to the attention of the House the other day that the hon. member for South Grey is trading upon the influence he has with the government, that he is indeavouring to influence his constituency by the statement that he is able to control the government in the matter of appointments to the public service. In view of that, it comes with very bad grace from the Minister of Public Works and from the government to refuse to make a simple inquiry, which would result in a full disclosure of the names of these parties, so that we may know whether or not the hon. member for South Grey is justified in the boasts he is said to be making.


May I be permitted to ask my hon. friend the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) whether there have been any appointments made in the Finance Department since 1904 from the constituency of South Grey?


If I had the information I would be very happy to give it, but I do not think there is -a record kept in the department of the places from which the appointees come, but even of that I would not be quite positive. It may be possible that some of the parties appointed did come from South Grey, but I could not say from memory.	t


It is a rather large draft on our credulity to ask us to believe that there is no record kept in any of the departments of the localities from which the appointees come. One would naturally suppose that whenever a person is appointed to an important position in Mr. BLAIN.
any department, there would be, in the order of council appointing him, some addition to his name. I do not suppose that a motion is made and carried that John Brown, for instance, be appointed to a certain position in any department, without giving his residence and profession, as for instance John Brown of the city of St. Thomas or Toronto, merchant.


I have just come into the House, and do not know exactly what has been said, but I understand that there has been a discussion as to the appointments made from the constituency of South Grey, and that the statement has been made that I have boasted of the number of these appointments. To this I give the most emphatic denial. I challenge any one to name any place or occasion in which I made such boast. No such boast has been made by me for three reasons. First, because I am not in the habit of boasting about such things at all ; second, because I have had no occasion to make any such boast, as the number of appointments from my constituency has been very small ; and third, I have no need to make any such boast to carry South Grey, and I expect to be able to carry it again withoujj resorting to any such method. If my hon. friends opposite desire any information from me, as to appointments made from my constituency, I shall be glad to give them all the details.


Might I ask another question? Might I ask the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Graham) if there have been any appointments made frojn the constituency of South Grey since, 1904 in his department?


It is evident that my hon. friend is not really very keen to get the information because my hon. friend from South Grey (Mr. Miller) has just offered to give it to him and he did not accept that offer. Why, if it is the information he is after, there is the source from which he can get it, and from which he intimated a few minutes ago the government might get it. My hon. friend has as much right to ask the hon. member for South Grey (Mr. Miller) as he has to ask a member of the government. ,


Are we to understand that when an order of the House has been passed unanimously, that order would be complied with by the hon. member for South Grey giving the information?


My hon. friend himself suggested that the information could be got from the hon. member for South Grey and got very easily, and the hon. member for South Grey is ready to give it, but my hon. friend refuses to take that information when it is offered to him. As far as the Railway Department is concerned, I

have no recollection of any one having been appointed in my time from South Grey or of the hon. member for South Grey having importuned me for any appointment But if I wanted to get a good official, there is no man in this House whose advice I would take more quickly than that of my hon. friend from -South -Grey.


I think we are getting entirely away from the question. This House has ordered that certain information shall be given, and I would like to know why we have not got that information. It is no answer to say that we can get it from the hon. member for South Grey, or that the appointments were very few or that the minister has not the names or the residences. The minister can get these. When the government allow an order of this House to pass, they ought to have some regard for the decency of procedure, and see that it is complied with.


The Minister of Railways has directed my -attention from the government to the hon. member for South Grey.


The hon. gentleman made that suggestion himself.


He said that if I wanted the information, I could get it from the -hon. member for South Grey.


Mv hon. friend himself said it could be got from that hon. gentleman, and that hon. gentleman offered to give it.


Does this document contain the full number of appointments from the^ constituency of South Grey since


I do not think it does. I do not think any appointment was made n the Railway Department on my recommendation or that any appointment has been made in the Department of Agriculture. I think that there are two in the Department of the Interior, not mentioned in this list.


Can the hon. gentleman give the names and salaries?


I can give the names but n0j	- ;.n'ie,s. One is Frank Wenger
and the other is Daniel MacDougall. These are the only ones principally that do not appear m the return. The' hon. member lor Peel made the statement that I have been boasting of these appointments. I ask him to produce the evidence. It has been suggested that I should ask the hon. gentleman to withdraw, but I shall not do that. He may make, so far as I am concerned, any statement he chooses.


I did not make the statement myself. I said it was currently re-106i
ported in the hon. gentleman's constituency-and I repeated that a number of times and at another time I shall be very glad to give the information my hon. friend asks for.	[DOT]


Did my hon. friend not hear the member immediately in front of him follow up his remarks -by the statement that the hon. member for South Grey had -been boasting?	J


No, nor did the hon. Minister of Public Works hear me -make any such statement.


We all heard it.


The minister prides himself upon his memory. I would as soon trust his memory as his statements on many occasions, but I would not want to be forced to trust either very much. I did not make the statement that the hon. -member for South Grey boasted, but I said that it had been stated in this House that he had been in the habit of boasting of the appointments he had made. I referred simply to what had been said on a former occasion, and it does seem rather peculiar that it took so long for the hon. member for South Grey to summon up his courage to contradict that statement. Personally, I know nothing about it. I accept the statement of the hon. member for South Grey with regard to the matter. It took some time for him to tell us. But he does revise his statements occasionally, as I have some reason to recollect. I think he revised the statement he made to the returning officer of his election expenses if I remember rightly


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Lennox) is speaking on a point of personal explanation, I understand.


I will not follow that up, Mr. Speaker, but I was only going to say, as the matter has become personal to some extent, that I am glad that the hon. member for South Grey has, after mature consideration, after thinking over it for some time, been able to come to the House and say that he has not boasted, and to tell us that he is not in the habit of boasting. I wish to pay my compliments more particularly to the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Pugsley). If, as a young member of this House-young in years as well as in my time in this House-I might presume to give that hon. gentleman advice it would be this: To be a little more particular about contradicting hon. gentlemen on this side of the House, and to be a little n ore sure of his facts before he makes statements concerning hon. members on this side. _ It is not many weeks since I had occasion to call attention to a very significant-


I would _ not like the debate to open up on that line. I understand the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lennox) is speaking of a matter concerning which he was misunderstood. Having already spoken, he is limited to that. Of course, if he proceeds on the line he is now taking the minister (Mr. Pugsley) will have to be allowed to answer.


I would very much like to hear him.


If the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lennox) has been misunderstood or misquoted he has the right to explain.


I was only going to say in reference to it-of course, I bow to your decision, Mr. Speaker-that this is not the first time that the hon. gentleman has given us occasion to call attention to the .fact that his memory is short and likely to be at fault.


I will not ask the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lennox) to do more than look at ' Hansard ' to-morrow, and he will see what he stated, and I am sure he will then be satisfied that the remark I made is absolutely correct.


Well, it will be the first time.


I would like, also, to make an explanation. The hon. member for South Simcoe (Mr. Lennox) I regard as a personal friend, with whom I have r.o quarrel, and do not expect to have any quarrel. The hon. gentleman says it has taken me a long time to get up my courage to deny the statement made in this House Some time ago. I do not want the hon. gentleman, or any other hon. member on that side, to think that it is lack of courage that makes me ignore a good deal of what they have to say; it is rather lack of interest. It was also said a few days ago that I was, day after day, asking favours of certain ministers I might have denied that and might have briefly stated that I have never, since I came to this House, made a request of any minister' of the Crown for any personal favour to myself. The hon. gentleman has made reference to a supposed revision of my statement of election expenses._ That is a matter I have never thought it worth while to meet before, but I can say without hesitation that I have never revised my statement of election expenses, and never made a statement of election expenses that was not absolutely correct. And I would remind the hon. gentleman that it would be better if he did revise his statements, particularly as to the amount the ' Globe ' gets from this government year by year-


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Miller) cannot cover these points- Mr. LENNOX.


I bow to your ruling, Mr. Speaker. I have reminded the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lennox) of his duty in this matter.


Mr. Speaker, now that this episode has been cleared up, and we find that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Miller) has not been getting so many appointments in his riding, I shall take up a matter, which, possibly, may be of very little concern to the House, but of considerable concern to myself and to others immediately affected. As I have pointed out before, for many long years I have been specially interested in the closer union of Great Britain and her colonies, and it has been my endeavour not only to encourage the closer union of Great Britain and her colonies, but also to place obstacles in the way of any movement that might tend in the direction of disintegrating the empire. Therefore, I looked with a great deal of suspicion on the movement made a year ago, initiated by Rev. Mr. Macdonald, then editor, now part editor, of the ' Globe,' in his peregrinations to Washington to bring about reciprocal arrangements in regard to the maximum tariff of the United States of America and some changes that we made in our tariff to prevent the imposition of that maximum tariff against the Dominion of Canada. So far as I am concerned, I would have welcomed the imposition of the maximum tariff on the part of the United States of America against Canada, and I condemned then, as I condemn to-day, the action of this government in bringing about the reciprocal changes which were then made. That was followed up bv the agitation wdiich has brought about the proposition, which I am not at liberty, under the rules of the House, to discuss to-day, in regard to the reciprocal trade relations which are now proposed between the two countries.


But later.


Yes, with the help of goodness, I purpose having my say, or, at all events, my vote, later on. And I hope, knowing the open mind of the Prime Minister (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) to be able to give him, on that occasion, good and sufficient reasons why he should change his mind and seek some means of having the proposition thrown overboard. However, Sir, while I was making my researches in connection with this movement of a year ago, I ascertained beyond peradventure, from the city of Boston, that Rev. Mr. Macdonald, then editor, now part editor, of the ' Globe,' was in receipt of moneys from the American Peace Society from a

fund headed by Mr. Ginn, of the well-known firm of Ginn, Heath & Co., of Boston, to advocate the claims of this peace society. I was asked to make that statement in the House. I declined to do so, because, as I said a week or so ago, I knew that some petty friend of Rev! Mr. Macdonald, some gentleman of small calibre occupying a pulpit, or having access to the public platform in some part of the country, would charge me with taking advantage of the privilege of parliament and refusing, or failing, to stand out openly before the public and make these statements. I went to St. Catharines and made the statement frankly and squarely on the public platform, that the Rev. Mr. Mac-donaid had, a year ago, undertaken to conduct these reciprocal negotiations between Canada and the United States regarding the maximum tariff and some changes to be made here. I pointed out that this had been carried out, and was being followed up by the present reciprocal negotiations. I pointed out, also, that it was a strange position of affairs, in a country like Canada, to have a man carry ing on this agitation, receiving money from an American concern, and at the same time receiving part of his pay from the Toronto ' Glebe.'
These statements have never been contradicted by the ' Globe ' or by Mr. Macdonald. Never, they cannot contradict them truthfully, they are the facts. Then I went on to say that it struck me that-this Peace Society movement, in practice at all events, was merely a movement to bring about closer union between Canada and the United States. That was the ground I took then. Sir, I have no reason to change my position, it is the ground I take to-day. We had an illustration of it here. We w'ere told that this gentleman was in association with President Starr-Jordan-*with a hyphen between the Starr and the Jordan-president of Leland Stanford University of California, and Mr. John R. Mott and others for the propagation of peace. We had an opportunity of hearing President Starr-Jordan in the city of Ottawa and he was also heard in Montreal and Toronto. He spoke under the auspices of the Peace Society, the subject being this Peace Propaganda, and the keynote of Professor Starr-Jordan's sermon or lecture was an insidious argument in favour of the union of Canada and the United States. He came out openly in favour of removing the customs officers between Canada and the United States, after approaching it most beautifully. If that is not preaching reciprocity, if that is not moving towards annexation then I would like to know what it is. Does any man mean to tell me that if the custom officers were removed, along the borders between Canada and the United States and kept on the outer borders of
those countries against the rest of the world, that would not be annexation pure and simple? On the following Sunday Professor Starr-Jordan went into the pulpit of one of the churches of this city, and as I pointed out in my former address on this subject, as reported in the ' Free Press ' of this city, he enunciated the identical views, that we wanted the removal of customs officers between the two countries. Was I or was I not justified in taking the stand I did upon this question? And when I was slandered by the ' Globe '-let me say I appreciate the slander from that source, I value it very highly-when I was slandered -by the ' Globe ' in this matter I replied to them in the House of Commons. On the following Sunday evening a parson in the city of Ottawa in -his pulpit delivered an oration. This parson is an intimate friend of this Rev. Macdonald of the ' Globe '-with a capital ' R '-and this gentleman made use of words which I shall read to the House. Members of his congregation on that evening thought, and said that the words applied to me. I was told by a gentleman in the city of Ottawa that night that I had got slated by one of these great divines in the city of Ottawa, and he told me of this sermon. When I opened the ' Citizen ' the next morning, I saw a report of the sermon in which he spoke of the rights of members of parliament. I read it. As I came up the Street every other man I met drew my attention to the fact that I had been slated by this parson. Well, Sir, it is a free country. So far as I am concerned I have not the slightest objection to every parson in the country being free to use his pulpit for the propagation of any idea, politics or any other subject-I never hear them preaching the Gospel very much, some of them-that they choose to discuss. I believe in the utmost freedom in that regard, -but I -also believe in this aspect of the ease also : Let those for whom they are lecturing pay the -piper, and in the county I have the honour to represent I have taught the gentry of the Liberal faith that if they choose to use the pulpit and sermons in disseminating Grit principles, if we cannot convert them by prayer we will do it by fasting, or, as the poet Whittier says beautifully: ' By dint of fasting if we fail by prayer.' I now come to the article, -and it is strange that it is in quotation marks. How did this article so suddenly get into the Ottawa ' Citizen ' on the morning immediately after it was delivered? Was there a shorthand reporter there who took it down? I understand not. I will not charge the reverend gentleman with any more offences than possibly he is guilty of, but I understand that this was furnished to the Ottawa ' Citizen ' from some source, possibly the reverend gentleman did not compose it but

it was furnished to the Ottawa ' Citizen ' in order that members of parliament might toe taught where they belonged, and if they dared transgress the dictum of this gentleman and others like him, they might know what the future held in store for them. Here is the article :


He might as well have printed Rev. James Macdonald, D.D., of the Toronto * Globe.'
-any man against whom he may have a grudge, on mere pretext of suspicion. Any man may have his name brought before the House, by any member. He may be maligned by inuendos. He may, although innocent, have suspicion cast on his character, yet have no means of redress.
This may be called the right of parliament, but it is not in harmony with the spirit of Christian civilization.
This is the same gentleman who a week ago assisted in passing one of the most disgraceful, unchristian and bedeviled motions that has ever disgraced any body of public men in the Dominion of Cn ada. Yet he uses the words ' Christian civilization.'
No civilized community would tolerate the highwayman who would jump from an ambush and steal the purse of a respectable citizen, and yet we permit political highwaymen to stand up in the House and rob sincere, earnest citizens of their character. There must eventually be some means provided which will prevent such public outrages.	,
I leave it to the First Minister, I leave it to you, Mr. Speaker, if in your experi-Mr. HUGHES.
ence you have ever seen in this parliament any conduct which will justify such words as these from a minister of the Gospel. I have never seen it. Sir. I stand here today the best of friends with every man in the House of Commons on both sides. When I hit, the First Minister and every other man knows that I hit above the belt, fairly and squarely and manfully.


Hear, hear.


I am told that our good friend who uttered these words now says that he did not refer to me.
He referred to me. I am not perhaps taking his own words because he says that he referred to all the members. But. if he did not refer to me. personally he must have referred to me as one of the members of parliament and in that instance I have a perfect right to defend my honour against this slander that this gentleman uttered from his pulpit in the city of Ottawa. But what do we now hear that his excuse is?- that * I did not mean to refer to Hughes but to the member for Algoma (Mr. Boyce).' But he did not speak until two days afterwards, showing the very weak subterfuges of these gentlemen and the extremes to which they will resort when they want to cover up their tracks. It was to defend the honour of the Minister of Finance that this was done! No, Sir, he might as well come out in the open and frankly admit that he referred to me. There is no equivocation on my part; I referred to him; make no mistake about that. I did not try to hide myself behind any subterfuge and I am satisfied the public would respect him much more if he would come out manfully and say-he might resort to a little white fib, but I am not going to quibble as to that-I made a mistake ; I did refer to Hughes and I am now ready to take my medicine.' But, he does not do that, he squirms around and says:	'No, I meant
the members altogether; ' and in that he is endorsed by some hon. gentlemen occupying seats in this House who should be ashamed of themselves. He has gotten back at me in the Ministerial Association and I will deal with' that organization in due time.
Now, Sir, valuing my good name as I do, valuing the honour of this House and valuing more than that the liberties of the people of this country and desiring to preserve them from ecclesiastical encroachment or tyranny whether coming from the Roman church or from any Protestant church, I shall have a word to say with regard to the action of these gentlemen. Ecclesiastical tyranny has in all ages, in all lands and at all periods of the world's history coerced humanity. I hesitate not to say so, I have said it before and I am endorsed in that by the best men in all

churches. I know that most people hesitate when they are attacked by these gentlemen wearing-I said five cent white neckties-but, I must apologize to the House; I find that an ordinary batch can be got for 25 cents a dozen, but the style that most of them wear now comes a little higher. They are adopting what is called the Roman stole, a descendant of paganism, and this comes a little higher, or costs a little more money. But I know that the people dread running up against these gentlemen. Mark you, in any thing that I utter here to-day I am not saying one word with reference to those godly and good men that are found in all churches. I excepted them in my utterances upon another occasion and I will again except them from what I say here-men who are a credit to the churches with which they are connected, who are found among the ranks of the ministers of the gospel and there are no men who despise these weaklings more than those splendid fellows who are found in the ranks of Christian ministry up and down the country, but who cannot very well get rid of these others. They have to put up with them. The tendency is for humanity to bow before these gentlemen who pose as representing the church, and as being ministers of the gospel. Well, it is not my intention, at all events, to be so suppressed. I have had the privilege of meeting these gentlemen on other occasions. In my own county we had a very godly, Christian soul who, on the eve of an election, found it to be his duty to go from house to house-Tory house to house-and have a prayer for the success of the G. W. Ross government. A number of the gentlemen there were very much annoyed and I wanted to know why they were annoyed. They said:	We are
going to leave the Methodist church, but I said: Not at all, this fellow is only an excrescence on the church; what you should do, if you cannot reform him by prayer is to reform him by fasting; that will bring him around. So, when the next pay day came around, there was a very small stipend put up, the result being that he got out at the end of the year and balanced up by using some of the missionary funds.
On another occasion another gentleman, who did not belong to the Methodist church, thank fortune, but unfortunately belonged to the Presbyterian church, went from door to door. We found his trail, we saw that his buggy only turned into the Tory doors and he went from house to house, and although he was not a voter, he told them how disgusted he was with politics and that he would under no consideration think of voting for either candidate. The Tory party seemed to be a good deal the worst, but he would not vote for either. In that way he endeavoured to
keep a great many of ths honest Conservative voters from voting. But the boys in the country are instructed. They listened to this gentleman when he preached the gospel, even then taking only what suited them, but in politics they used their own judgment. I got wind of this and I brought it up in this gentleman's presence, as I usually do in dealing with such things, on the public platform in the village of Min-den. I gave him an opportunity of stepping uo on the platform and making good his position. Well, Sir, strange to say, the boys applied the fasting game there also, and that gentleman sought fields and pastures new. That is the way we treat political parsons in our country.
Now, Sir, I shall come to the resolution which these gentlemen have seen fit to pass. Let me say before I deal with it that the Ministerial Association in Ottawa should be and, as a rule is, a respectable body of men when they are all there. It is made up of a number of very good men, but I want to point out that on this occasion the big men in the church, possibly with one exception, and he is an innocent, dear old soul, they say-I do not know him at all-who could easily be misled, were absent. However, the gentleman who engineered the show was named Ramsay; I do not know that his name has ever got far through the length and breadth of the land; I never heard of him, but I notice that he is the gentleman who. on a certain occasion came to the assistance of Hon. G. W. Ross in the city of Ottawa, and that he attended his meeting here in order to impress the people with the idea that this man Ross after all was not as bad a fellow as he had been painted. This motion was moved by Rev. Dr. Ramsay. This is the gentleman who is reported by the Ottawa ' Citizen ' of January 21, 1905, page 12, as being at the G. W. Ross meeting in the Russell Theatre. It says that on the platform at that meeting were Rev-Dr. Ramsay, Rev. Mr. Reynolds, Rev. Wm. McIntosh and Rev. Mr. Milne. These gentlemen were on the platform at that meeting and one of these is the gentleman who got back at me the other day The resolution was moved by Rev. Dr. Ramsay, and seconded by Rev. Mr. Deeprose. I understand that Mr. Deeprose is a very respectable gentleman, but quite unsophisticated and not up to the arts of these gentlemen who were engineering this afiair to suit their little purpose. The resolution was passed unanimously. But at this point I may interject the remark that the leading ministers of the city were not present.
Dr. Herridge, a gentleman whose name is held in high respect, was not there. If Dr. Herridge had joined in condemning me, or if the Rev. Dr. Henderson had joined in passing a resolution condemning me, I would have sat up and hesitated to

ask if I had not done sofnething wrong. These are gentlemen whose names carry weight; they are gentlemen of Christian standing, they are gentlemen whose actions as well as utterances are never voiced along the line of politics in the pulpit. I do not know what their political inclinations may be, but these are gentlemen whose names stand high in the Christian world throughout the length and breadth of the land. Neither was Archbishop Hamilton present, or the Eev. Canon Kittson, nor Eev. Mr. Peever, and I submit that not one of these present but Eev. Mr. Deeprose, has any standing. That is the statement furnished me, I am not vouching for it, by authorities in the city. The resolution goes on:
The Ministerial Association of Ottawa, made up of members of various religious denominations, takes this first opportunity to express the surprise and pain

I will endeavour to give them some balm for their pain:
-with which it has learned of the attack recently made by a member of parliament upon one of our own number.
Now, I don't mind any crowd standing altogether. You all heard the story of the lawyer-I do not know whether it was the member for Pictou in his first case or not-who, when he was addressing the jury passed up and down amongst their ranks and muttered something to them, and the jury, without leaving the box, stood up and said: 'Not guilty.' After it was all over the judge said to him: How did you manage to hypnotize that jury, and he replied: I just muttered to each man as I went along that now is the time for a crowd of fellows like us to stand together.


Tell the rest of it.


There may be a little of that spirit abroad among these gentlemen. I do not know whether there was or not, but if so, I do not blame them much:
-upon one of our own number, Eev. J. W. H. Milne. Some years ago Mr. Milne served as our secretary with great efficiency.
He has evidently been always on the job:
He also filled at one time the office of president with tact and dignity. After these many years he is honoured by us all for his geniality and integrity

In this case it may be something like the darky who was brought before a magistrate, and the magistrate said: This is the first time you were ever up before me, and the darky replied : Yes, Massa, please the Lawd, in his infinite goodness'.


and mercy, this is the first time this here: darky has ever been cotched:
[DOT]-bis faithfulness as a pastor and power as a preacher, his breadth of mind and fervor of zeal in the advancement of Christ's Kingdom-
Well, so far as I can find out he has! been doing all this chiefly along Grit political lines in the city of Ottawa, and I never knew there was a department of Christ's kingdom for that organization. There may be, but we will inquire into it.
-and we esteemed it a privilege to possess his personal friendship.
I do not blame them in the slightest degree for that. Here it refers to the ' Hansard ' report,' and while I do not wish to reflect on the gentlemen who report for ' Hansard,' that report of my address on that occasion by some mischance, contained two of the most outrageous misprints or mistakes that has ever fallen to the lot of any man to have credited to him. However, you would naturally suppose that these gentlemen would have got a corrected copy of ' Hansard ' and that they would have done me or done themselves the honour of asking for a corrected copy. Oh, no, they were going it blind:
We have listened to the ' Hansard ' report of the speech of which Mr. Milne was assailed.
I stand here to say that Mr. Milne was not assailed, Mr. Milne was exposed, as I am going to expose him a little more to-day:
Together with the ' Citizen's ' summary of that part of the sermon which gave an excuse for the hon. gentleman's denunciations.
Now, I ask the Ministerial Association how they knew I referred to Mr. Milne? They take his word that he did not refer to me. How do they know? Surely, if my description of this gentleman is so terrible it cannot apply to any one of them. How do they know it referred to him? They might as well come out in the open. I referred to Mr. Milne, and I admit it, and Mr. Milne referred to me and he won't admit it. There is the difference between us.
It seems to us remarkable that a single member of parliament should apply to himself alone remarks of quite a general nature.
If the remarks were not applied to an individual then it is doubly cowardly on the part of this man to stand in the pulpit and slander 220 odd innocent men for the sake of getting at one man. If he refers t<>
me let him have the manhood to say so. The excuse is now given, I am told, that he referred to the member for Algoma. That is a subterfuge, the member for

Algoma did not speak for two days afterwards.
We feel humiliated-
It would take a good deal to humiliate the gentlemen who drew up this resolution :
-that any man should pollute the atmosphere of our national parliament with language so abusive.
Pollute the atmosphere-why, ' eau de Cologne ' compared with a polecat would not be in it with my remarks compared to theirs.
-so abusive as seems to have been used on this occasion.
They seem to think that my statement and the narrative of facts I gave have been a little hard, but what I did give was a narrative of facts, plain straight facts, not one of which can be successfully contradicted. Before I am through I will show whether they can be proven or not, if the Ministerial Association is anxious to follow it up:
Not less deplorable do we think it that the representative of a Canadian constituency should unrebuked have publicly repeated to the detriment of a fellow citizen assertions of some irresponsible tale bearer which he does not pretend to have verified.
I verified every statement that was made to me. Members df Mr. Milne's congregation and gentlemen in the city of Ottawa will verify every statement I made. The only one upon which there can be any possible doubt is whether he referred to me or not. If he referred to me individually, then I have accepted it, and if he referred to me as one of the 200 odd members of parliament, I have accepted it as one of these. In the first instance, if he referred to me specifically he would be more manly, but if he referred generically then his statement is utterly cowardly from any point of view you like to take it. Then, the resolution goes on:
We accept without reserve Mr. Milne's assurance, corroborated by the members of his congregation that these assertions are absolutely false.
We will see about that. They go on:
With him, moreover, we regret that there are members of parliament so venomous as to be ready to suggest or say anything that will leave a stain on the character of an opponent, and affirm that such conduct is not in harmony with the spirit of Christian civilization.
Well, Sir, if anything more slanderous and cowardly than that can be produced I want to see it. Now, what are the facts? They have no evidence to back them, not a tittle of evidence for one assertion they
made. They didn't even get a correct copy of the 1 Hansard '; they did not even ask me to go before 'them, and justify the statement I made concerning one of their members. They showed no Christian spirit in the matter from start to finish. Why, a set of desperadoes, the commonest political hacks I ever saw, could not formulate a resolution under conditions more degrading than these gentlemen who have formulated that. They followed no rules' of evidence whatever, they simply took Mr. Milne's statement. And, Sir, the report was prepared, I understand, before they ever went to the meeting. Now, I stated that Mr. Milne, previous to the elections some years ago-the time the Ross government was beaten-had expressed himself as antagonistic to, or at least regretted the actions of the Ross government and condemned them in general terms. There was nothing wrong in that. Lots of Liberals did that and lots of them afterwards fell back intp the ranks, and that is not a serious offence. I rather appreciate his manhood if he did condemn them. Then the next statement I _ made was (and I want to point out this is one of the statements the Ministerial Association says is absolutely untrue), the' next statement I made was that he ap-t peared on the Ross platform. The Minis-i terial Association declares that is untrue.i In the Otttwa ' Citizen,' January 21, 1905, page 12, will be found the report of a meeting in the city of Ottawa, and the four clergymen, Dr. Ramsay, Mr. Reynolds* Mr. McIntosh and Mr. Milne are reported as being present. And, when some of the congregation objected to the active part Mr. Milne was taking in that election-I have this from the particular gentleman who was spoken to in the matter, and I will be glad to give the evidence to the Ministerial Association if they^ choose to act as gentlemen and Christian judges, but if they are going to act as Grit heelers I will have nothing to do with them. One of these gentlemen remonstrated with Mr. Milne for the active part he was taking in the matter, and Mr. Milne said to him:
' Why, you are as bad as Russia in the city of Ottawa, if a man cannot take part in these matters.'
The next statement I made was, that he had arranged with the Rev. Mr. Macdonald. (with a capital R), of the Toronto ' Globe ' to come down and address the electors in his church on either the Sunday immediately before the election or the Sunday before that; and I stated that this was opposed by certain members of the Session. I will now go further, and say that the Session took the matter up, and that two gentlemen were deputed to wait on Mr. Milne and arrange with him that Mr. Macdonald should not come here. This

is one of the statements which the Ministerial Association declare is absolutely without foundation. I repeat that statement to-day, and I will go further and say that Mr. Milne afterwards stated that Mr. Macdonald could not come. That was the reason he did not come. I can give the names of the members of the church Session who were deputed to see Mr. Milne, and have Mr. Macdonald called off from preaching. And yet, I am branded before the Dominion of Canada by this outfit in the city of Ottawa as having stated what was false and untrue.
The only other statement which I made, which it is necessary to refer to, was this, that the Eev. Mr. Milne had furnished, in one way or another, to the Grit leaders a list of the members of his congregation, marked as to how they would vote and how they could be influenced. I stand here ready to produce an affidavit of a gentleman in the city of Ottawa, who will swear that that is true. A gentleman who subsequently tackled Mr. Milne about the matter, arranged to go with him and meet the gentlemen referred to, but when the time came, Mr. Milne did not appearl' But the gentleman found out that in the meantime, Mr. Milne had gone to this man privately, and arranged that the difficulty should be smoothed over; and when he denied this, ho was told a word of four letters, which I will not repeat here, by the member of his congregation, but a word which comes with very bad grace to one who poses as a minister of the Gospel. It is an old and well recognized principle that:
Of all the ills with which mankind is curst,
Ecclesiastical tyranny is the worst.
I wish to point out that not one word that I have uttered has reference to t