Graham, member elect for the electoral district of South Renfrew was introduced by the Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier and Mr. Duncan Ross.


Bill (No. 125) to incorporate the Western Dominion Railway Company.-Mr. Martin (Regina).
Bill (No. 126) to incorporate the Universal Eyesight Insurance Company.-Mr. McLean (Queens).
Bill (No. 127) to incorporate the Canadian Public Health Association. - Mr. Schaffner.
Bill (No. 128) to incorporate the Montreal Transcontinental Railway Company.- Mr. Coderre.
Bill (No. 129) respecting the Aliberta, Peace River and Eastern Railway Company.-Mr. Chabot.
Bill (No. 130) respecting the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada.-Mr. Currie.
Bill (No. 131) for the relief of Isobell Isaac.-Mr. MacNutt.
Bill (No. 132) respecting Mexican Interurban Electric Traction Company, Limited, Mr. OLIVER.
and to change its name to ' Mexican Interurban Electric Railway Company, Limited.' -Mr. Macdonell.
Before the orders of the day are called I would like to direct the attention of the Secretary of State, and that of also the Postmaster General, to a number of returns that are in arrears.
I would like pai'ticularly to have a return relating to the Po-st Office Department brought down, the order for which was passed on the 12th of February. It stood" in the name of the hon. member for Miss-isquoi (Mr. Kay), relating to .certain contracts and orders given out by the Post Office Department, and asked for the names of companies, firms and individuals to whom payments had been made.


I will make a note of it.


On the order:	Third reading of Bill (No.
115) to provide for the extension of the boundaries of the province of Manitoba.- Mr. Borden.
My hon. friend the member for St. John (Mr. Pugsley), when the Bill was in committee the other day, pointed out to me what he understood to be an uncertainty about the description of the boundaries in one respect. I brought the matter to the attention of the Dominion geographer and also to the attention of the Dominion astronomer. They looked into the matter very carefully, and while they are inclined to think that the description as at present contained in the Bill is free from ambiguity, they have nevertheless suggested an alteration which, I think, will remove any possible doubt. For that reason I propose to send the Bill back to the committee for the purpose of making that correction. I desire to have it sent back for the purpose also of striking out section 7, which, after looking at the matter somewhat carefully, I believe to be unnecessary I will explain my reasons when we are in committee. I move:
That the order for the third reading of Bill (No. 115) be discharged and that the said Bill be referred back to Committee of the AVhole House with power to amend the description of the boundaries set forth in the third section and with power to strike out the seventh section.


Motion agreed to, and House went again into committee on the Bill.
If my hon. friend from St. John (Mr. Pugsley) will direct his attention to section 3 and lines 19 and 20, he
4R37

will observe the words to which he alluded the other day ' to a certain monument thereon.' The hon. gentleman made the suggestion, to which I attached importance, that the monument was not in any way described. I find on consultation with the Dominion astronomer that the boundary at that point may be changed somewhat by the commission of which Dr. King is a member, to the advantage and convenience of both countries. My hon. friend will observe from the map I have sent him, that the boundary runs north, but it is not by any means in a straight line through the lake. I do not know for what reason that is, but I understand from the Dominion astronomer that the monument to which allusion has been made in the description may eventually, after the commission has reported, be placed at another point. Therefore, I move that the words to a certain monument thereon,' in the 19th and 20th lines be struck out and the words ' to the most northerly point thereof,' be substituted. With that amendment, according1 to the written report I have from the Dominion astronomer, the Section will not be capable of misinterpretation.


If I understand the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Borden) this would make that point the most northerly point of the boundary line?


The international boundary-yes.


Yes, I think that will be sufficient.


We all underfed what is meant by the language of the Bill which is to make the international boundary line the boundary of Manitoba. After having conferred with my right hon. friend and reading the Bill, it seems to me that it would have been quite easy to fix the point by a certain monument placed by a certain authority. But we agree upon mea,bt and I think the language is sufficient.


I think the words shout disappear, because that monument may b changed and located in another place o; . account of the slight rectification of th boundary line which, if it is made, I undei stand, will be of advantage and conveni enoe to both countries. The map I hande, to my hon. friend from St. John, indicate how the international boundary line rum The point referred to is the most norther! point on the international boundary line It seems to me that by continuing the lim due north that is the western boundary o Ontario and the eastern boundary of Mani toba we cannot possibly have any con fusion or misinterpretation.


Motion agreed to.
1 p	>
On section 7:
7. Nothing in this Aot ehaJU in any way prejudice or affect the rights or properties of the Hudson's Bay Company as contained in the conditions under which that company surrendered Rupert's Land to the Crown.
I beg to move that section 7 be struck out. The reason is that there is already included in the Manitoba Act, section 34, exactly the same words. I have looked into the question very carefully, and I find that on the three occasions on which the boundaries of a province have been extended, this section has never been introduced. In the Manitoba Act of 1877, which slightly extended the boundaries of the province, in the Manitoba Act of 1881 which extended the boundaries of the province, and in the Act of 1898, which extended the boundaries of the province of Quebec, no such provision was introduced; doubtless for the reason that I have already alluded to. Therefore, I move that the section be struck out.


I think the amendment is well designed. There was no necessity to include that section at all, because, I believe the rights of the Hudson's Bay Company are reserved by Imperial statute. Therefore, this is surplusage. My right hon. friend (Mr. Borden) is not anxious to load his Bill with surplusage, and especially in view of certain other amendments to come later on.


Nothing unnecessary should be introduced in the Bill.


Amendment agreed to.
Bill as amended reported.
Mr. BORDEN moved third reading of the Bill.	B
Some days ago, when we were in committee, I drew the attention of the government to the case of Prince Edward Island, as regards this Bill, and I did so, relying on the business judgment and good sense of the Minister of Finance (Mr. White) and I hope also of the Prime Minister, that my representations would be heeded. But I have not yet received any assurance to that effect, and therefore, I beg to present my case again. Manitoba, under this Bill, is getting a large sum of money in lieu of her public lands, because she has no public lands, that amount is based upon the population of Manitoba, and will be increased from time to time as her population increases. Now Prince Edward Island stands on exactly the same basis in regard to that matter. That province has no public lands, and never had. This statement can be proved by referring to the statutes of 1873, and to the agreement under which that province came into con-



federation. Because s'he had no public lands, she was given a subsidy of $45,000 a year, which is less than 50 cents per head of the population of that province, while Manitoba is to get about $1.25 per head of her population. Therefore, I say in all fairness, the province of Prince Edward Island should be treated in the same way as any other province in the Dominion of Canada., which has no public lands. She stands on exactly the same basis as the three prairie provinces. It seems to me the case is so clear that it only needs to be stated to receive the consideration of the government and of parliament. If Prince Edward Island were treated on the same basis as Manitoba, instead of $45,000, she should receive $120,000. And inasmuch as Manitoba's subsidy is dated back to 1908, I claim in all fairness that the same treatment should be accorded to Prince Edward Island, and that she be given a subsidy dating back to 1908, in which case she would receive in arrears about $300,000. Now I would like to ask the government if they will deal with the case of Prince Edward Island during the present session. There is no reason in the world why her case should be postponed, and why it should not be dealt with at the same time as that of Manitoba. The fact that Manitoba is some 3,000 .miles distant affords no reason why she should be dealt with immediately, and the case of Prince Edward Island should be postponed. I should be pleased indeed if the Prime Minister would give me an assurance that he will deal with the case of Prince Edward Island this session, and give her the same treatment that
he is giving to Manitoba._And if not, why
not?


I beg to move the following amendment, of which notice has been given:
That Bill (No. 115) be not now read a third time, but be referred back to the Committee of the Whole House in order that the following olause be inserted therein, after clause 7 of the said Bill:-
7a. Section 22 of the Manitoba Act, 1870, 33 Vic., chapter 3, shall apply to the territory added to the province under the provisions of this Act, with the substitution for paragraph 1 of said section 22, of the following paragraph:-	. .
1. Nothing in any such law shall prejudicially affect any right or privilege with respect to denominational or separate schools, which any class or persons have, at the date of the passing of this Act, by law or practice, in the territory added to the province under the provisions of this Act.


I ask that the amendment be read in French.
(The assistant clerk read the amendment in French).	.





(Translation.) Mr. Speaker, in moving this amendment, I don't intend to address the House at any length. The other evening I had the occasion in Committee of the Whole to make such remarks as in my opinion would justify this amendment. I now deem it preferable to allow a free discussion and to await the verdict of the House upon the amendment which it is my privilege to offer, hoping that the hon. members will acknowledge its importance and give it their approval.


(Translation.) Mr. .Speaker, there is a principle as to which I think every member of the House must agree; that is that we are in duty bound to see that the constitution of Manitoba shall apply not only to Manitoba as it is now, but to the whole province, including the new territory which is to be annexed.
The amendment which the hon. member from Yamaska has just moved proposes to render operative clause 22 of the constitution of Manitoba respecting the protection of educational rights.
The first objection in the part of some hon. members of this House will probably be that the constitution of Manitoba, as a whole, would be operative even in the absence of any clause to that effect.
As a principle, I grant that the very fact of annexing this new territory to Manitoba should put it under the constitution of 1870, and that all constitutional clauses applying to Manitoba should apply as well to the new territory to be added.
But, in this case, the operation of this principle becomes completely inefficient for the protection of educational rights, because subsection 1 of section 22 safeguarding the minority's rights acknowledges only those rights which existed at the time cf confederation and within the proper limits of Manitoba. That section reads as follows:
Nothing in any such law shall prejudicially affect any right or privilege with respect to denominational schools which any dlass of persons have by law or practice in the province at the union.
Consequently, there is in that section two restrictions which render it impossible to enforce this statute in an efficient manner in the new territory which is to be added to the province.
The amendment offered by my hon. friend the member from Yamaska alters that section without changing its nature or meaning, so as to remedy those _ deficiencies, thus permitting the constitution of Manitoba to become operative in the new territory. Were it not for that necessary change, a resident of that part of Kee-watin annexed to Manitoba would later on

come here and ask for the schools of that district the protection afforded by subsection 1 of section 22, and we would answer him: Section 22 affords you 'protection, because you had no rights at the time of the union nor in the former territory of Manitoba.
I may be asked whether the government of Canada is authorized to change or alter the constitution of Manitoba. Section 6 of the British North America Act, 1871, reads as follows:
Except as provided iby the third section of this Act, it Shall not be competent for the parliament of Canada to alter the pro-visions of the last mentioned Act of the said parliament of Canada, in so far as it relates to the province of Manitoba, or of any other Act hereafter establishing new provinces in the said Dominion, subject always to the right of the legislature of the province of Manitoba to alter from time to time the provisions of any law respecting the qualification of electors and member of the Legislative Assembly, and to make laws respecting elections in the said province.
There is no doubt that by that section the federal government is debarred from altering in any way the constitution of Manitoba. However, there is a restriction provided by the words ' except as provided by the third section of this Act.' Now the third section exactly covers the case with which we are dealing to-day, that is the increase in the area of a province and the operation of any such increase. -Section 3-reads as follows:
3. The parliament of Canada may from time to time, with the consent of the legislature o-f any province o-f the said Dominion, increase, diminish, or otherwise alter the limits of such province, upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed bo by the said legislature, and may, with the like consent, make provision respecting the effect and operation of any such increase, diminution or alteration o-f territory in relation to any province affected thereby.
S-o we have, Mr. Speaker, in section 3 which restricts section 6, the authority residing in the federal government of adding such a saving clause as my hon. friend from Yamaska suggests in his amendment; subject, however to the subsequent acceptation of the whole thing by the legislature of Manitoba.
It may be said that such a provision would be inconsistent with section 92 of the British North America Act, whose purpose is to determine the exclusive powers of provincial legislatures.
That objection would be well founded if what the present motion proposes was inconsistent with any provision of section 92 of the British North America Act. But there is nothing inconsistent with the powers of the province of Manitoba in the
154J
amendment of my hon. friend from Yamaska. The amendment embodies no new legislation. It merely renders legally operative a section of the constitution of Manitoba safeguarding the right to separate schools. Moreover, the right is acknowledged in the same manner and to the same extent by section 10 of the Northwest Territories Act which is now in force in the district of Keewatin.
The Canadian constitution itself, the British North America Act, also acknowledges the same principle by section 93. Consequently, there is no invasion upon the powers of the province of Manitoba. The laws of Manitoba are merely made operative to the furthest limits of its new territory.
The amendment of my hon. friend from Yamaska is only the legal chain necessary in order that those who live in the present territory of Keewatin shall not, at the same moment, be deprived of the protection given in section 10 of the Northwest Territories Act, which will no more exist when the annexation takes place, and shall not be deprived either of the protection mentioned in section 22 of the Manitoba Act. We must not place the population of this new territory between two legislations, one which is disappearing and the other which, without this amendment will be absolutely ineffective and useless.
It is claimed also that the federal law which governs recently the territories, will exist up to the time when a provincial law will be enacted in its place, and then, if the legislature of Manitoba, in this new legislation, does not respect section 22 of the constitution of the province, recourse might be had to the remedial bill.
To begin with, I do not admit that the present laws of Keewatin could contihue to exist after the annexation. This principle is true according to the international law, when we deal with a conquered country; then the existing laws remain in force up to the time the new legislator enacts a positive law. But in the present case we must look at the constitutional theory. The laws that we have just discussed, the Keewatin laws, just as the Manitoba laws, are all territorial laws; and if we annex a portion of one territory to another, we at the same time free that portion from the legislative authority under which it was before to put it, without reservation, under the laws of the territory to which we annex it and which becomes thus the competent authority ' ratione loci.'
If it is true that this annexed portion of territory should continue to have the same laws as before the annexation, there would be thus two legislations in force in the same country; it would be a legal anomaly.

But even supposing that this theory is true, and that provincial legislation would be necessary to change the existing law, this provincial legislation would not in any way permit the remedial bill to apply to the annexed portion, for the good reason that without the present amendment, the constitution of Manitoba does not protect any minority rights in the new country, as already mentioned; and the Manitoba government would not be bound to protect the educational rights of the minorities in the Keewatin, because they are not included in the rights mention in section 22, as we find it presently in the statute.
The principle which is contained in the amendment of my hon. friend is not a new one. It has always been respected and protected 'by restrictive enactments since the confederation inclusively, up to the present time, when new territories were created or annexed. Let us read the first subsection of section 93 of the British North America Act:
(I) Nothing in any such laws shall prejudicially effect any right or privilege with respect to denominational schools which any class of persons have by law in the province at the union.
We find the same principle in section 22 of the Manitoba Act, when this province was created. It reads thus:
(I) Nothing in any such laws shall prejudicially effect any right or privilege with respect to denominational schools which any class of persons have by law in the province at the union.
We find the same principle in section 17 of the constitution of Alberta:
(17) Nothing in any such law shall prejudicially effect any right or privilege with Te-spect to separate schools which any class of persons have at the date of the passing of this Act, under the terms of chapters 29 and 30 of the Ordinances of the Northwest Territories, passed in the year 1901, or with respect to religious instruction in any public or separate school as provided for in the said ordinances.
The same enactment is found also in article 17 of the constitution of the Saskatchewan:
(17) Nothing in any such law shall prejudicially effect any right or privilege with respect to separate schools which any class of persons have at the date of the passing of this Act, under the terms of chapters 29 and 30 of the Ordinances of the Northwest Territories, passed in the year 1901, or with respect to religious instruction in any public or separate school as provided for in the said ordinances.
The same principle is also enacted, though the terms differ in section 14 of the Yukon Act:


Mr. Speaker, replying first to the question put to me by the hon. member for Pictou (Mr. Macdonald), I think I may say that I quite concur in his suggestion that the amendment moved
is superfluous. Of course, if there do not to-day exist rights in the annexed territory susceptible of being protected by article 22 of the Manitoba Act, then the amendment can serve no practical purpose. If, on the other hand, there be rights in existence in the territory sought to be added to the province of Manitoba at the time of the coming into force of this Act, as described in article 22 of the Manitoba Act, for myself I would have no doubt that these rights would be protected by section 22 of the Manitoba Act. It is quite true that section 22 of the Manitoba Act, when it spoke of the time of the union, necessarily had in view the territory that constituted the province of Manitoba as then formed, and in speaking of the date of the union it was necessarily speaking of the day at which that new province of Manitoba as then formed became a member of the confederation. I do not think that it is susceptible of doubt that the Manitoba Act, the Act that creates and governs Manitoba to-day, will govern the Manitoba that shall he composed of the old territory, and of the added territory just as it governed the original territory. I do not think there can be any doubt that it will have application in the new territory as it had in the old and1, that being so, you could only apply it, so far as the new territory is concerned, as the facts permit of its application. It manifestly is applied to this additional territory as from the passing of the Act for section 22 could have no possible application at the period of the original union, except to the originally constituted province to the territory comprised in it, at the original entry of the province into the Dominion. It, therefore, must either have no application throughout the territory of the extended province, the territory added to the province by its becoming extended, or it must apply to it as from the date when the extended or enlarged province comes into the union. The Bill which is submitted hereafter defining the limits of the extended territory of the province, adds:
AH the land embraced by the said description not now within the province of Manitoba, shall, from and after the commencement of this Act, be added thereto and the whole shall, from and after the said commencement, form and be the province of Manitoba.
So that we have a starting point from which this increased territory embodied in the province of Manitoba first comes into the union, and, that being so, if there be rights in that portion of the territory such as are contemplated by section 22 of the statute-and it is only such rights that can be preserved! as I understand it-those rights would 'be protected under section 22 just as fully and effectively as they

possibly could be protected under the amendment which is proposed. I think this fully answers the question of the hon. member for Pictou. It, moreover, affords in my judgment sufficient reason why the amendment of the hon. member for Yamaska should be rejected.
It is perhaps, however, proper that I should deal	more fully	with the	questionwhich that	amendment	raises.I shall not weary the House by going over statutes that have already been cited. After all the question that presents itself in connection with this amendment and with the measure as a whole, so far as the existence of school rights are concerned in	it, is purely and	simplya question	of law.	Personally,	I am
in full and entire sympathy with the sentiment that stands behind the action of the gentlemen who have felt it their duty to move this amendment and to express themselves in connection with the school matter as opposed to the action of the government. Eights are very sacred things; they are sacred1 things when they are the rights of a majority, they are sacred things when they are the rights of a minority, they are sacred things when they are the rights of an individual. My hon. friend from Rouville (Mr. Lemieux) the other evening in a more or less sneering way attributed the action of my hon. friend the member for Nicolet, to some extent to promises which he suggested I had made that gentleman. I have made no promises to that gentleman or to anybody else, but with or without promises I would feel it just as much my duty to stand up here to speak in defence of rights of any class, be it large or small, of the people of this country as if I had pledged myself in the most emphatic way. The action of the government in this matter is not taken because the government does not recognize as incumbent on it the duty of protecting the constitutional rights of every class of people in this country. It is not a wise policy on the part of any class of people to raise an outcry for the protection of rights which they represent to be attacked without first ascertaining whether there are such rights and whether in consequence it is possible that there be such an attack, to be repelled. I know that many men in dealing with this subject have not been chary of expressing their most unqualified judgments on the motives of other men by reason of the course they took with regard to this particular question. I do not judge the motives of any man, I recognize the absolute sincerity of men who take very strong ground that there is a duty upon this government in this regard. I recognize their absolute sincerity even when I cannot admire the violence of their language. My own experience is that strong cases do not Mr. DOHERTY.
need strong language to support them and that weak cases never gather strength from it.	.
I have said that it is not good policy for any class in the community to start an outcry against an alleged attack on rights without first verifying the existence of the rights and the fact of their being attacked and put in danger. I have said that whether there are or are not rights to be protected in this territory is a pure question of law, because I quite understand that nobody is contending that unless there be constitutional rights vested by law in some portion of these territories, there is anything to be discussed. We are not here to discuss what may be our respective views with regard to the rights of people as an abstract question concerning the education of their children. If we were, I have no disguise to make of what my views are. I believe it is the natural, absolute right of every man to have his children educated in the method his conscience prescribes to him as the right method, and I have no doubt in my mind that there is a violation of natural right every time any man is hindered in the exercise of that right. I entertain the very strongest belief that wherever a man is taxed to support schools which his conscience forbids him to use, a grave injustice is done. But I am not here to discuss that, I do not want to open any discussion as to whether I am right or wrong in that regard. I know there are people who entertain the opinion that it is better that the state itself should establish one system of schools and that all children should follow that system of instruction. But that question does not arise in this connection in the slightest degree. The question that does arise, which has been the source of a very great deal of strong feeling and which has given to many of us who have a sense of responsibility much matter for careful thought is the question whether in this territory that is going to be annexed to Manitoba there are existing rights established by law and which would require for their protection the inclusion of some special provision in this legislation. To my mind there is an absolute misapprehension on the part of those who censure the course that this government has taken because of its failure to act in connection with the alleged constitutional rights existing in that territory as to the real effect of the statute, upon the dispositions of which they base their claim. Now, when one feels called upon to do a duty to the whole people of this country, or a duty to any particular class of the people who may have special claims upon him for in connection with their rights-[DOT]


A message was received from His Honour the Deputy of His Eoyal Highness the Governor General by the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod as follows:-
Mr. Speaker, His Honour the Deputy of His Royal Highness the Governor General, desires the immediate attendance of your hon. House in the Chamber of the hon. the Senate.
Accordingly, Mr. Speaker, with the House, went up to the Senate Chamber.
And having returned,
Mr. SPEAKER informed the House that His Honour the Deputy of His Royal Highness the Governor General had been pleased to give, in His Majesty's name, the Royal Assent to the following Bills:-
An Act to amend the Quebec Harbour Commissioners' Act, 1899.
An Act to correct certain clerical errors in the French Version of the Revised Statutes, 1906.
An Act respecting the British Colonial Fire Insurance Company.
An Act to amend the Juvenile Delinquents Act, 1908.
An Act to amend the Senate and House of Commons Act.
An Act respecting the Erie, London and Tilsonburg Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Cape de la Madeleine Railway Company.
An Act respecting La Compagnie du Chemin de fer de Colonisation du Nord.
An Act respecting the Dominion Atlantic Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Ottawa, Northern and Western Railway Company.
An Act respecting the West Ontario Pacific Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Alberta Electric Railway Company, and to change its name to * The Alberta Interurban Railway Company.'
An Act respecting the Algoma Eastern Rail-wav Company.
An Act respecting the Calgary and Fernie Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Pacific and Atlantic Railway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Liverpool-Mani-toba Assurance Company.
An Act to incorporate the Vancouver Life Insurance Company of Vancouver, B.C.
An Act to incorporate the Saskatchewan Life Insurance Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Birkbeck Investment and Savings Company, and to change its name to the Canadian Mortgage Investment Company.
An Act respecting the Union Bank of Canada.
An Aot respecting the Public Archives.
An Act respecting patents of Edmund F. Piper.
An Act respecting a patent of the Spirella Company of Canada, Limited.
An Aot respecting the Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Quebec Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Hamilton, Waterloo and Guelph Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Kootenay and Alberta Railway Company.
An Act respecting the National Transcontinental Railway.
An Act for the relief of Edna Wells.
An Act respecting the Dominion Guarantee Company, Limited, and to change its name to ' The Dominion Gresham Guarantee and Casualty Company.'	.	.
An Act to incorporate the Premier Life Insurance Company.
An Act to incorporate the Sterling Life Assurance Company of Canada.
An Act to incorporate the Bank of Saskatchewan.
An Act to amend the Post Office Act.
An Act respecting Patents of Thomas Wadge.
An Act respecting certain patents of Thos. D. Rambaut.
An Act respecting The Trust and Loan Company of Canada,
An Aot to -amend the National Transcontinental Railway Aot.
An Aot to amend the Government Works Tolls Aot.
An Act to provide for further advances to the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal.
An Act -to -authorize the payment of a subsidy to the Collingwood Shipbuilding Company, Limited.
An Act respecting the Security Life Insurance Company of Canada.	[DOT]
An Act respecting the South Ontario Pacific Railway Company.
An Act to incorporate the Northern Territorial Railway Company.
An Act respecting -the Interprovincial and James Bay Railway Company.
An Act respecting the Barcelona Traction, Light and Power Company, Limited.
An Act respecting -the Alberta Railway and Irrigation Company.
An Aot to incorporate the High River, Saskatchewan and Hudson Bay Railway Company.
An Aot respecting the Vancouver Island and Eastern Railway Company.
An Act for the relief of Herbert Horsfall.
An Act for the relief of Kenneth Molson.
An Act for the relief of James Denny.
An Act to change the name of Ezra Butler Eddy Bessey.
An Act to amend the Inquiries Aot.
House resumed on motion for third reading -of Bill (No. 115) to provide for the extension of the boundaries of the province of Manitoba.
I was about to say when I was interrupted by the summons of a higher authority, that when one is called upon, or is expected and feels it his duty, to especially interest himself in the protection of the rights or the interests of any particular class of his fellow

countrymen, or feels a special call to protect some special general interest possibly of all his countrymen, he owes to them more than zeal and more than readiness to devote himself to those rights or interests, and more than willingness to make sacrifices if it be necessary. He owes to those fellow countrymen also the exercise of his very best judgment as to what is the best course to be pursued for the protection of the rights or the interests that may have been entrusted or confided to him. He owes to them likewise- whenever it may have happened that his own particular training may have put him in a position where he ought at all events to be able to form a sound judgment upon any particular question, by reason of its nature being such as to make the training he has received of some use perhaps in aiding a man to arrive at a just conclusion-that he should not shirk his duty, and should not draw back in the face of the conclusions that the exercise of that best judgment of his, aided by the training I have referred to, may lead him to upon that particular question. And he is not doing his duty to those who look to him to specially protect their rights or interests, if he thinks first of saying the thing that will please them, of saying the thing that he would be glad and happy if he were able to truthfully say. He owes it to those people to honestly tell them the result of his inquiries as to the nature or existence of the rights to which they lay claim, and he owes it to them, whether it pleases them at the moment or not, to adopt the course that his judgment tells him, in view of the conclusions that he has so reached, is the best and the wisest for the ultimate protection of those rights. I have endeavoured, Mr. Speaker, to remember those things in my dealing with this particular question. As I have said this is a question of law: Whether there are, or are not, the rights that are claimed to exist. We have the answer to that question to seek, not in the inspiration of our sentiments, but in the pages of our statute-books, and we have' got to guard ourselves, in interpreting what those statute-books tell us, against allowing the wish to be father to the thought. I am afraid there are too many men expounding the law in the newspapers, and upon the public platforms of this country, to whom I have no greater reproach to make than that they have allowed their wish to be father to their thought. I have said that I would not worry this House by quoting all	the statutes that	bear upon
this question. Most of them have been already dealt with, and dealt with in a manner that I think, to any fair-minded Mr. DOHERTY.
person, would justify the conclusion that they So not establish the existence of the legal rights which are claimed to exist. I cannot, however, refrain from making some mention of them. I will ask this House, and I will ask those who may do me the honour of reading what I have to say, to trust me in that 1 am not going to misrepresent them, and I am quite willing that any one, who feels sufficient interest, should verify whether I have or have not done so. We are told that there are rights in this particular territory, because by a statute of 1875 in an Act regarding the Northwest Territories, it was provided' that when a system of taxation should be established in the Territories a3 governed by that Act, that then an officer to whom the government of that territory was committed, could, acting with a council, which the Governor in Council here might give to him, and which council, it was provided, should gradually, as the country grew, come to be an elective legislative assembly, make laws regarding education, and that in all of those laws it should in substance be provided that there should be recognized to any religious minority the right to establish a system of schools of its own, and that when it did so it should not be liable to be taxed for any general system. I am not pretending to give the precise words of the statute-I have no hesitation in saying I am giving the sense-but we are told in the first place that because of that provision there are rights to-day to separate schools in the territory that is about to be annexed. With regard to that I have nothing to say except that as concerns by far the larger portion of the territory to be annexed-some 128,000 square miles, I think, out of a total of 178,000 square miles -that statute never had any application. I am speaking now of that statute as originally enacted. Before that statute came into force another Act was passed providing for and setting aside ' as a separate district what was called the District of Keewatin. This Act refrained from enacting, as regards that district, any of the provisions of the Act applicable to the Northwest Territories generally, the Act of 1875, which contemplated there ever coming into existence representative institutions or contained any enactment regarding schools. This second Act, so far as this large portion of the territory to be annexed is concerned, remained in force without doubt and without possible question until 1905. I have no doubt that it remained in force until the 1st January, 1907, but I do not want to enter into discussion about debatable things; it is not necessary. To my mind the conclusion which I have not sought to reach but which has been forced upon me, is too clear to make it worth while to stop for possible debatable points

on the way-this Aet so remaining in effect.
The statute of 1875, as I have said, never was in force in this portion of the territory. It certainly is not susceptible of being suggested that any portion of it had any force therein before the summer of 1905; and for my part, as I say, I have no doubt that no portion of it had any force therein at any time. I say that for this reason: That statute, save so much of it as was left in chap. 62 of the Revised Statutes of 1906, was repealed by the Act concerning the Revised Statutes of 1906, precisely in the same manner as stated by my hon. friend from Nicolet (Mr. Lamarche)-was repealed by the other Act I have mentioned, the Keewatin Act. He is quite right in that respect. That Act did repeal the Keewatin Act; and from the coming into force of the Revised Statutes in 1907, neither the Keewatin Act nor the Northwest Territories Act, as originally enacted in 1875, had the force of law anywhere.
But it is contended-and, I understand some weight ought to be attached to it as making some difference in the purpose of this amendment-that an order in council of July, 1905, annexed this territory of Keewatin to the Northwest Territories and thereby brought into force in Keewatin all the laws that were in force in the Northwest Territories at that time, this statute of 1875, so far as the law was concerned, and the ordinances enacted in the Northwest Territories under that law of 1875. Now, I quite agree with what was pointed out the other evening by the hon. iMinister of Public Works (Mr. Monk), that that order was on its face ultra vires. If you read it, you will see that it sets forth that whereas by a proviso in this Keewatin Act permission was given to the Governor in Council to detach a portion of Keewatin and annex it to the Northwest .Territories, therefore the Governor in Council annexes the whole of Keewatin to the Northwest Territories. Now, I have seen it said since, as a triumphant answer on this point, that when the Governor in Council said he annexed the whole of Keewatin, it was entirely a mistake,-he was only annexing a portion * of it. And the triumphant answer is this, -that the Governor in Council first, in 1886, under that power, did detach a portion of Keewatin and annexed it to the Northwest Territory; and therefore it is said, when he came in 1905 to annex- not to detach; you cannot detach a thing from itself-to annex the whole of Keewatin, he was only annexing a portion of Keewatin; it was annexed in two portions, and this was the second and remaining portion. 6o, we are told, the thing that the Governor in Council could not have done if he had done it at one
stroke, was perfectly valid,-because he had made two bites of the cherry; he had annexed this territory bit by bit. To state that is a sufficient answer. But there is more. When this first portion was cut off the balance was the whole of Keewatin. In statutes afterwards enacted we have the Keewatin Act reproduced, still containing this proviso, that portions of the existing Keewatin might be cut off. But you will not find anywhere in any of these statutes authority by order in council to destroy Keewatin. So that, to my mind, it is perfectly clear that the only portion of this Northwest Territories Act which ever came into force in Keewatin, is the portion that remains to us in chapter 62 of the revised statutes of 1906. Because Keewatin, and what remained of the Northwest Territories were no doubt grouped together by that chapter, as constituting the Northwest Territories.
But by that time there hadi come a great change in this Act of 1875, a moist noteworthy change, and particularly in this section about education. The original provision was that when there should be established a system of taxation in the Northwest Territories, then the Commissioner in Council, or the commissioner with the advice of the legislative assembly (when it grew to be a legislative assembly), might make these laws with regard to education, and these should be subject to the restriction provided. By 1880 that system of taxation had been established; and consequently, by the statute of 1885, parliament amended that section 11 by striking out the portion which said * when a system of taxation shall be established,'-because that had been accomplished. And, because it had been accomplished already in 1880, parliament made that amendment take effect back in 1880. So that the law as it then stood was that the commissioner or the Lieutenant Governor, as it was then-the Lieutenant Governor in Council, or with the advice of the legislative assembly, could make these laws, or should make these laws, and they should be subject to the restriction I have referred to. That condition of affairs remained in the Northwest Territories practically until 1905, when out of the Northwest Territories were carved the two provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta. That left the residue of what had formerly been the territories and left standing Keewatin. In 1905, after the two new provinces had been carved out of the territory, then parliament did enact a law amending the Northwest Territories Act, and in that statute it altered the provisions with regard to education and altered them so as to limit the power of the commissioner to make laws about education at all to the case where he should be authorized to do it, that authorization to come from

the Governor in Council here. That provision was reproduced in the Northwest Territories Act, as it was reproduced in the revised statutes of 1906. And in 1906 Kee-watin was taken into what constituted, under the statute of 1906, the Northwest Territories and was subject to that law which contained that provision. And that is the whole law-subject to the amendment of 1907, which is not material to the purpose of this question,-that is the whole law in which one can find what is called the constitution of what is to-day the Northwest Territories, including Keewatin, and including the entire territory which is to be annexed to Manitoba.
Now what is that law? There is one substantive, operative clause in that law, and only one-I wish to be understood as regards the method of government of the Northwest Territories; there are other dispositions that produce their effect, but we are concerned with the method of government and the laws to be made in the Northwest Territories. This is found in section 4, and that was amended by the statute of 1907:
The executive powers vested by the Northwest Territories Act and amendments thereto in the [Lieutenant Governor of the Northwest Territories, or in the Lieutenant Governor of the Northwest Territories in Council, on the 31st day of August 1905, shall be exercised by the commisionser, and the commissioner shall administer the government of the territories under instructions from time to time given him by the Governor in Council, or by the minister.
There are a number of other provisions, among them the provision to which I have already referred. All those provisions deal with powers which may be exercised by this commissioner who is to be named, with his council, when the Governor in Council shall have deemed it advisable to give him a council. Those powers extend to legislation with regard to such matters, roughly speaking, as are covered by provincial powers, and as may be designated to him by the Governor in Council; and there is the power to deal with this question of education when authorized so to do by the Governor in Council. Now I do not think that it requires any elaboration of argument to show that until the Governor in Council exercised that power of giving a council to this commissioner and authorizing him to legislate, there was no governing body with legislative power in existence in the territories. The commissioner was there, and he is there still; he was there with the executive powers which the original Northwest Territories Act had vested in the Lieutenant Governor, and that power, if one goes back to the Northwest Territories Act, was practically to act under instruc-1 Mr. DOHERTY.
tions of the Governor in Council. Now no council was ever given to this commissioner, no authority was ever given to him to legislate about education or about anything else; and where there was no legislative power to legislate about education, there could not be a restriction of that power. The amendment to be found in chapter 32 of the statutes of 1907, does not refer to any practical question here concerned. Now, there is the whole of the operative constitution of these territories. The Governor in Council could have created a constitution, not a constitution providing for representative institutions, but a constitution under which these territories would have been legislated for and governed. The Governor in Council at^ no time did it. I am not saying that as criticising the action of past governments. If parliament contented itself by giving power to the Governor in Council to do this, and did not do it directly, it must have been simply because parliament felt that the time had not come to put that into operation; or whatever its reason was, it judged it wise not to put it into operation itself but simply to create this power in the Governor in Council.
If one looks back to the things that were said at the very beginning when the Act of 1875 and the Act of 1876 were enacted, I think one finds the explanation. We were referred the other evening to some remarks of the Hon. Edward Blake explanatory of what this legislation of 1875 was going to do, for the purpose of basing a claim that this was legislation to be of a perpetual character, and once for all settled' the school question. Now, if one goes back to the debates on the Act of 1875, and the debates on the Act of 1876, he will find, I think, the explanation why parliament, in 1906, acted the way it did. It is to be found in the reasons given for the enactment of the Keewatin Act. The Hon. Edward Blake, in dealing with that Act, and explaining the differences between it and the Northwest Territories Act, pointed out-and' this is important-that this educational clause in the Northwest Territories Act never could be effective until there was a system of taxation established. He went on to say that that of course implies a system of representative institutions, and that, therefore, they had given to the Northwest Territories a rudimentary system of representative institutions. As explaining the Keewatin Act, he went on to say that for the few people outside of these territories they did not deem it necessary to provide a constitution at present; and he added that the purpose of this legislation with regard to Keewatin was to preserve the status quo till she should come to have provincial rights. Now, there is 1 no doubt tlhat at that time it was believed

that in a very short time this very annexation would take place. That appears to be evident from the discussion which took place at that time. But I refer to that because I think there was the reason in 1905 or 1906, after the provinces had been carved out of