On the orders of the day being called.
I think the hon. gentleman (Mr. Proulx) is scarcely in order in entering upon a discussion at this stage of the sitting. If he desires to ask a question and simply wishes to make himself understood, he would be in order, tout not otherwise.


I do not intend to discuss the matter. I only wish to draw the attention of the government to the situation which exists and I would like the government to bring the matter to the attention of the Railway Commission and have the railway companies try to .solve the difficulty. In some parts of my county I know that they have hay awaiting -shipment, and if it is not shipped before the spring freshets come on they will not be able to Ship it for many months. In other parts of eastern Ontario the situation is the same, and I hope the government will do their utmost to help the farmers and shippers to ship their hay. One of the reasons of the difficulty seems to toe that most of the hay is going to the United States; there is a lack of foreign cars and our railway companies are reluctant to send their cars across the border. I hope that the government will take the matter up with the railway companies.


This is the first I have heard of the matter excepting what I saw in this morning's paper. No complaint has been laid before me, but now that the matter has been called to my attention I certainly shall be glad to bring it to the notice of the commissioners', and I have no doubt that they will deal with it promptly.


May I ask the right hon. leader of the government if he has read the despatch published in, yesterday's paper about the international boundary line in British Columbia? I read in, the ' Witness ' of last night the following despatch :


Vancouver, B.C., Feb. 8.-A story which reached New Westminster this morning from the Canadian side of the international boundary line has aroused tremendous interest here. It states that the boundary line between Canada and the United States, in the coal district, will be shifted two miles south and that two growing towns and coming cities
which are now reckoned, without protest from this side of the line to form part of the United States are really part of Canada.
Then the despatch goes on to give further details. Has my right hon. friend learned anything about that?
My attention has not been called to the article, and I have heard nothing of the statement except what the hon. gentleman has just mentioned. I shall direct the attention of the proper department to the matter.


I wish to -ask the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Borden) if he has received any correspondence from the French people of the maritime provinces in -connection with the -appointment of a senator to fil-1 the place left vacant by the late -Senator Comeau. There are -actually in the maritime provinces -about 165,000 French people; they have only one senator and I believe that -they ar-e entitled to three or four according to population.


The -appointments to new senatorshi-ps are now under consideration.


House -again in committee on Bill (No. 32) respecting grain.-Mr. Foster (North Toronto).
On section 80-Grain shipped from public elevators, re-inspection.
It will be remembered that I proposed to insert after the word ' quality ' in subsection 2, the words- ' or is manifestly not of the grade called for by the certificate.' This is to provide for what occasionally takes place where a lot of grain turns out to be manifestly of a different grade from that shown on the certificate. There is no recourse so far as the Act is concerned in such a case and this simply proposes that in such a case the grain shall not be regraded but that the inspector shall endorse across the face of the original certificate a statement of the facts as he does in respect of the other two conditions mentioned in the section, where the grain has deteriorated or has gone out of condition.


My hon. friend will agree that there is always grave danger in attempting to provide for special cases by general legislation. The amendment is intended to provide for a case that should not arise. If the inspection and transportation of the grain has been carried on in accordance with the Act the condition


would not arise, and this is particularly an instance where general legislation should not- be invoked to cover a special case.


We have already tried to cure two special cases by general legislation, the cases of grain going out of condition and deteriorating in quality. These are not normal conditions, they are abnormal, and so they are special cases. If general legislation is invoked to cure two cases like that which do not occur frequently what objection can there be to caring a third condition which occasionally occurs where, through neglect or mistake or any circumstance not referable to the owner of the grain, this condition arises so that the owner of the grain would not he prejudicially affected thereby. There is no regrading, the inspector simply makes a statement of fact upon the certificate as in the two preceding cases.


The two cases -already provided for in the section as it stands arise m the natural course of events and cannot possibly be prevented from arising, but the case now being provided for can only arise through mistake or lapse of some kind for which it is true the owner is not responsible, but for which the interests handling the grain are undoubtedly responsible, and I say that such a case is not a proper one to be met by general legislation. My hon. friend -says there is to be no regrading, but as a matter of fact the endorsation by the inspector upon the certificate that the grain is' of such and such a character is to all intents and purposes a regrading. It is true that the certificate is not withdrawn and another issued, but across the face of the certificate is written the responsible statement of tire inspector that the grain is of such and such a grade, and I take it that the statement by the inspector is as good as a grade in the world's market; it is for all practical purposes a regrading.
The owner of the grain is not likely to call attention to the fact that it is of less value than when it was graded. That is the situation which is provided for already in the Act. It is where the grain has deteriorated, and the owner of it, to save himself from the consequences of the supposition that it has deteriorated more greatly than it has, calls for an inspection. But in the proposed amendment, it is not a question of the grain having deteriorated, because if it has, the owner is the last man to call attention to it. It is the shipper or the man who is interested in the grain who will draw attention to it. Let me emphasize this point, that in the carriage of the grain from the head of the lakes to the

mill in eastern Canada or to Montreal there are several occasions when bulk is broken, and when there are opportunities to mix the grades, and the provision that my hon. friend proposes to introduce would give the man at the eastern transfer elevator an opportunity to mix the grades to his own satisfaction, and to get the benefit of that mixing. That is objectionable from every point of view. It is true, as my hon. friend says, that the grain is not re-graded. In one way it may be said not to be; but the grain has the inspector's certificate that instead of being No. 2 it is No. 1, and I take it that carries the full weight which the owner of the grain would get the benefit of. The proposed amendment is of a most serious character, and the reasons which have been offered for the change do not appear to me sufficient to warrant a provision which would open the door to mixing, in order to meet a case which in the nature of things cannot arise if every part of the business is transacted as it should be. It does not arise in the course of nature, but only in the course of administration. Deterioration is provided for already. I want the clause left as it is. I think it is the only safe thing. The clause is dangerous as it is, but it goes as far as it is safe to go, and any further change in that direction would be much more dangerous.


My hon. friend's argument has not convinced me that we are opening the door to any troublesome results in the administration of the Act. The simple case is this. Here is a man in the east who has his car of wheat, and he has paid on the grade at Fort William, we will say No. 2. It comes to him and is about to be delivered. When he opens it and sees it, he says: That is not No. 2; that is No. 3 or No. 4; it is not the grade I bought. He calls in an inspector, and the inspector views the grain, and if he thinks it is manifestly not of the grade certified, he writes that fact. He does not say that it is No. 1, No. 2, No. 3, or No. 4. The Act expressely provides that it cannot be re-graded. He simply writes the fact on the certificate that in his view the grain is manifestly not of the grade it purports to be. What damage is done to anybody or anything by that? But you have made it possible for a man to be relieved and to right himself in the transaction between himself and the original shipper. My hon. friend seems to think that because that is not natural it should not be provided for. The truth is, we do not have to provide so many safeguards against things that are natural as against mistakes that arise out of human fallibility and human frailty. We provide for all the inspection and control that we think is necessary, but these
are all instruments that are fallible and may make mistakes, and it is against any case of that kind that we want to provide some sort of direct remedy. This places the man who receives the grain in a position to obtain his rights. Blow it lends itself to mixing is something I have not been convinced of by my hon. friend's argument.


Suppose a cargo is shipped from Fort William as No. 3. It arrives at the eastern elevator and is taken in as No. 3. If it should happen to be a very strong No. 3, would there not be a possibility of an inspector thinking that it should be No. 2?


It is not the inspector, but the person interested in the grain, who calls attention to it.


The person interested in it might think it was stronger than No. 3, and might easily get a certificate as No. 2. He could go to an inspector at an eastern elevator and point out to him that that was a better wheat than No. 3, that it had been manifestly -wrongly graded, and he would secure from the inspector a certificate that it was not No. 3, which would practically make it No. 2.


He anight imake it No. 4.


He might, but if it were very much out of line so that the owner wanted a change of grade, it would not be at a grade lower.


Wliat is the object of that amendment anyway?


Representation was made to me by the Dominion Millers' Association in eastern Canada that
sometimes lots of grain, came down, which were manifestly kwer than the grade given before shipment. Two or three concrete instances were given of grain shipments in carload lots which wrere purchased as No. 2 but which were manifestly lower than No. 2. The purchaser buys a carload of No. 2 at a price but the grain is manifestly not that grade. It is a mixed grain and worthless to him for milling. The buyer calls the attention of the Inspector to it, and if the inspector agrees that the grain is obviously not of the grade at which it was sold, he writes that across the certificate. Then the man who bought No. 2 and finds a car at his door which is No. 4 or no grade, has the written statement of the inspector to that effect. I have had this clause looked over by my inspecting officers and they agree that it is a provision which may be helpful in certain special instances and they cannot see that it will lead to any dangerous results.


Why is it necessary to write across the certificates? Could you not get a declaration from your inspector in writing and not tamper with the certificate?


In the two preceding instances, where there has ' been a loss of condition or deterioration in quality, that is the course thought best to adopt, namely, to write on the back of the certificate the facts and have the inspector sign that writing. Then the matter is referable to the chief inspector at Winnipeg, and if necessary samples can be taken and the thing be readjusted.


The object is simply to protect the buyer? I do not see why that could not be done by calling in an inspector and have him make a declaration of the facts instead of tampering with the certificate. In that way the same protection could be afforded.


The certificate is the document which starts at the source and accompanies the lot until its disposal. It is not quite right to say that the certificate is tampered with because under the law a plain statement is written *across it, signed by the inspector. I cannot isee that any one can be injured by that.


As I understand it now, the amendment comes from the suggestion of the millers, and the only thing they contemplated was that the grain would be of a lower grade than mentioned in the certificate. That the grain might be raised from No. 3 to No. 2 did not enter the minds of the millers.


With all due respect to the milling fraternity^-and no one has more respect for them than I-I think it was the other suggestion that occurred to them. I want to bring to the attention of the committee the fact that a principle of the Grain Act has always been that the inspection made at Winnipeg shall be final with the exceptions mentioned, and the proposal of my hon. friend is an absolute departure from that principle. If a miller finds himself defrauded 'in the grain he receives, there is no necessity to provide a remedy for him in the Grain Act. The law courts are open to him as to any other man. I can see no reason, therefore, why we should in any way tamper with the important principle of the Grain Act to which I have referred. With regard to the suggestion of the hon. member for Macdonald that the inspector should be bound to make a declaration at the demand of the owner of the grain, he must remember that this does not say it is only the owner who will have the right to demand reinspection. Anybody interested can do so. While the
Mr. FOSTER (N. Toronto.)
miller might not want the grain to be graded higher, the man who sold it might. I want to be very strong on this point that the principle of a single inspection is the very foundation principle of the Grain Act, and the maintenance of standard grades. My hon. friend will notice in going through the Act that there are many places where a little latitude might be given but where it is not, just because it was necessary to stick to that principle. Here is however, a proposal to depart from it, which is most objectionable from every point of view. I notice that these sections are headed ' Eastern inspection division ' >as though they applied only to the grain grown in that division. But clearly, from what the minister has said, it is intended that these provisions shall apply to grain coming from the west, inspected at Winnipeg as western grain and arriving at the mill in the east. But on the way the bulk is broken as different places where there has been every opportunity to mix the grain. Under this amendment, there would be an open door for the mixer to get the benefit of his work.


My hon. friend (Mr. Oliver) starts out with the statement that the bed rock principle of the Bill is that there shall be the inspection, and that the grades shall not be meddled with after that. And then he immediately makes exceptions.


Certainly.


Why does he make these exceptions?
Mr. OLIVER Because they were neces-ary.


Of course, because they were reasonable. But why? For the protection of the buyer. Having made two exceptions to the principle, surely it is not for him to raise an unreasoning outcry against exceptions, but to show where this exception will be disadvantageous. We have shown where it will be helpful in protecting the buyer. Why should a carload of grain, which has been inspected as No. 2 or No. 1, but which by some neglect, change, metamorphosis, turns out to be a car of feed go further under the false grading of No. 1 or No. 2? Are we so blindly attached to a principle that we will not permit the rectification of a wrong to an individual?-and in the case I have mentioned must the wrong be permitted against the whole grading system of a profligate car of feed sailing through a civilized country under the certificate of No.
1 or No. 2? The first opportunity to-right the wrong should be availed of, it seems to me. I give my hon. friend credit for his stern adherence to principle; but we do not live long in this world without

knowing that every principle has its exception.


Whilst we must admit that every rule has its exceptions, and every principle must have exceptions, I think my hon. friend (Mr. Foster, North Toronto) will agree that the fewer exceptions the better.


Quite so.


I think that the two exceptions made are no precedent for the exception the hon. gentleman proposes to make, because they arise out of entirely different circumstances. These exceptions arise out of conditions which are unavoi^: able, while the exception he proposes to make arises out of avoidable conditions. IE this grain becomes metamorphosed, if it is changed, as it should not be changed, in its course from the inspection to the consumer, the system of inspection is at fault, or the system of transport is at fault; and if there is a fault, it should be brought to attention and cured as quickly as possible.


Hear, hear.


If the miller who receives that grain has to seek redress at law, there is no doubt that attention will be drawn to the fact that the transportation system is not working in accordance with the terms of the Act and means will have to be found to remedy that wrong. But if, when the miller receives the changed grain, all that is necessary is for the inspector to write across the certificate and the miller will suffer no loss, there will be no reason for particular inquiry into the method of transportation and the abuse will go on. Provision is made in the Act to practically sanction, yes to actually sanction, deviation from the terms of the Act. I think that most remarkable legislation, and objectionable in proportion as it is remarkable.


As war is the last recourse between nations, so law is the last recourse between individuals. If there is any way in getting a wrong righted between individuals without going to law, by all means have it taken advantage of; settle the matter before you get into the hands of the lawyers and before the judges. I see a lawyer on the other side of the House shaking his head. He sees possible advantages disappearing if a theory of that kind be generally acted upon. But I think that the commission generally, including the lawyers, will say that this is right. If you are against mixing, seize the mixed or metamorphosed grain as quickly as you can. Trace the wrong back to its source. If it is a bad officer, chuck him, if a bad method, have it changed. In this case, it -would be referred to the chief inspector with a sample of the grain. The chief inspector has means of tracing the matter_and quickly detecting where the mixing or wrongdoing took place. But my hon. friend would give his allegiance to principle, and that on a mere basis of numerals,-a principle with two exceptions is all right, but a principle with three exceptions cannot be allowed at all. That does not seem to me reasonable.


There is a good deal of force in what the minister (Mr. Foster) has said. But when he comes to handle the men in charge of the terminal elevators and the receiving elevators for a few years, he will find that there is no class of men so well able to take, advantage of the leeway that he gives and so get around the main intent of the Act. And they wall mix that wheat to their advantage whenever they can get a regrading of it.


They
cannot get a regrading; the law absolutely forbids it.


It is practically a regrading.	.


Under no circumstances shall such grain be mixed or regraded.


It is practically a regrading.


I take only the common sense view of it and leave my officers to give me the official view of it. I talked over the matter with Mr. Gibbs, our chief inspector, who is present, and I would not have proposed it if it could have been shown me by the opinion of my chief officer where it would work out wrongfully. In fact, if I had been shown to be mistaken in the assertion I make that this would be the means of tracing out and actually preventing mixing or other wrong things, I would not have brought it down.


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster, North Toronto) is very insistent on the point that this will not be a regrading. Now he has said that his purpose is to avoid litigation. Speaking of grain that is of a lower grade, it must be assumed from what he has isaid, that the inspector's notation on the certificate will be a sufficient protection to the receiver or purchaser of that grain.


It will be an evidence.


Unless it is a sufficient protection it will not avoid litigation. If it is a sufficient protection in the case of degraded grain to avoid litigation, I presume it would be just as sufficient a pro-

tection in the case of grain that was found, at the instance of one of the parties concerned, to be of a higher grade; in other words, that it would for practical purposes be a regrading of that grain. Now, I want t-o deal with this question of the effect upon the operations of the department as two propositions, one the accepting of the notation of the inspector as a settlement of the question, and the other, the leaving the miller to the recourse of law. In the case of accepting the notation of the inspector as a settlement of the question, whose interest is it to go through the department and the operations of the trade, and find where the fault was? It is nobody's interest. The miller has got what he wants, the inspector has got the trouble off his hands, and the department never hears about it, and the officials of the department are encouraged then to think that the next time such a thing occurs they will get away just as well; whereas, if every man in the department knows that if that grain goes through and is not as it ought to be, the man who receives it is going to take recourse, and the department is going to be informed, and then somebody will lose his head. That is the view I take of the matter. For the sake of the administration of the Act itself it is necessary that that which is a fault on the part of those who are operating under the Act, should not in any way be condoned by the mere notation of the inspector.


I wish to ask the minister if a record will be kept of all the wheat that may be changed in that way, and a return made to the department, so that we will know a year afterwards just how it has worked out?


Undoubtedly. My hon. friend said that what he feared was that the department would not be notified, and would not be kept alive to it, To my mind, this is just what will keep the department alive to it. So long as the department is under my charge I intend to know everything that ' is going on, and if anything goes wrong, whose fault it is.


And a report made?


Yes.


Section agreed to.
On section 90,
t The proposal is to drop out the words ' eas.t of Winnipeg.' That leaves no exception in the city of Winnipeg, or in St. Boniface, or anywhere else. All grain in public or terminal elevators is to be subject to inspection, both in and out.


Would the minister explain the purpose of the amendment?


It is to make the principle of the Act dominant in all cases. At present it is possible to have elevators in Winnipeg or St. Boniface that are not subject to this. There are, I think, two elevators in St. Boniface at the present time, and I see no reason why an elevator in St Boniface, public or terminal, should have privileges otherwise than an elevator which is a mile away, and just outside the district of Winnipeg.


I presume there is a prohibition of the mixing of grades in all public and terminal elevators.


Grain
goes into the elevator in St. Boniface of all grades and all kinds, and it stays there. Then it can be sent out irom that to Fort William or Port Arthur, and can be there inspected and given its grades.	What
takes place in the elevator no man knows.


I wish to know whether there is some specific provision in the Act as it stands that grain stored in a public or terminal elevator shall not be mixed?


There is a general clause against mixing.


I would like to read that clause in connection with the proposed amendment. Unless there is a prohibition of mixing, it would be possible, under this amended provision, to put grain of a number of different grades into an elevator, and take out a number of entirely different grades.


At present that is what is done.


That is what we wish to avoid and we would not wish to have that done under the amendment.


The amendment is . to prevent that. In section 126, subsection 8, you have the clause that:
In no case, whether in a terminal elevator in the western inspection division or in a public elevator in the eastern inspection division shall grain of different grades be mixed together while in store.
That takes in all of the western division.


And all the public elevators in the eastern division.


But the public elevators in the western division are not included in that.


I would like to ask the
Minister of Trade and Commerce if he would prevent the mixing of two grades in the hold of a vessel. Would it prevent running No. 2 and No. 3 wheat simultaneously into a vessel and mixing them?


When grain is inspected out at Port Arthur into a vessel all grains of the same grade are to be put into one hold unless the owner of the different grades of grains wants them to be put into a hold together. That is his own business, but in that ease, he only gets the grade of the mixed grain with the quantities or the weights of each.


The minister will, perhaps appreciate my curiosity in regard to this section when he reads the first subsection of section 91, where it states that all grain grown west of Winnipeg, shall be inspected at Winnipeg or at a point within the district, and that the inspection shall be final, that is to say that there shall be one inspection. Do the words ' shall be subject to inspection, both inwards and outwards in section 905 mean an inspection to verify the original inspection, or would it be considered possible, to constitute one of these as a reinspection? It would perhaps be just as well, if we are going to stand by the principle contained in subsection 91, to be a little more specific in section 90, in regard to that matter.


Let us see how it reads:
90.	All grain placed in public or terminal elevators east of Winnipeg, in the division, shall be subject to inspection both inwards and outwards.
That is plain.


Yes.


When it goes into the elevator it is inspected in; when it goes out it is inspected out. Then,
91.	All grain produced in the provinces of
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta and in the Northwest Territories, passing through the Winnipeg district en route to points to the east thereof shall be inspected at Winnipeg or a point within the district

The car shall be inspected.
-and, on all grain so inspected, the inspection shall be final as between the western farmer or dealer and the Winnipeg dealer.
Section 90 refers to public and terminal elevators and to grain in passage from the Winnipeg district in cars.
In the case of grain which is shipped east from an elevator in Winnipeg or St. Boniface, the sample for inspection shall not be di'awn from any car until the car has been hilled for shipment by the railway company.
It goes into the elevator in different grades and it may be kept there for two, three, four, five or six months. They then draw a car up and fill it. They get the bill of lading for that car before it can be inspected; otherwise they might return it to the elevator, but, having the bill of lading, they call for inspection ;and that car goes forward under that inspection grade. Then, in subsection 4 of section 91, there is another one of these exceptions:
When, owing to extreme pressure of business, the. railway company, or other transportation company, finds that cars containing grain are being unduly delayed for inspection purposes in Winnipeg, then the company, upon notification to, and with the consent or, the chief inspector, or, in his absence, the inspector, may remove a special number or cars to Fort'William without inspection at Winnipeg.	,
Arrived at Fort William they have to be inspected there, and a grade given to them. Any grain inspected at Winnipeg, or other western point, may be reinspected at Fort William or other terminal elevator in the division without additional charge. That is to provide for an appeal in case of difference as to the grade. Whilst the car is en route to Fort William, or when it arrives at Fort William a sample may be drawn to be brought back to the inspector at Winnipeg to settle a dispute, and that is done without additional charge. But any grain not inspected west of Fort William shall be inspected at that point, and a certificate shall be issued on payment of the usual fee which catches the last possible residue of grain coming through in these different ways. It looks to be all sealed up.


Is the inspection of grain out of the elevator a commanding inspection, or a verifying inspection?


By a verifying inspection my hon. friend means is it to make sure that the same grade goes out as comes in. That is what it is for.


The words in section 1 hardly express that idea.


That is what we understaand them to mean.


If ten cars were inspected in as No. 1 Hard, and were in-pected out on a different grade that would be evidence that there had been mixing going on. Then you would follow and prosecute under the Act.


I wanted to find out if the two inspections were to prevent mixing.


The second inspection is for the purpose of verifying the first inspection and preventing mixing.
On section 91, inspection,


Would it not be better to say that the inspection is final, subject to certain provisions of the Act when the intention of the Act is that it shall be absolutely final. The words following the word ' final ' in the second last line in the first subsection seem to me .to limit the authority of the inspection for no reason.
.Section 105,-qualities of grain,


I propose to add tire following as subdause (a) ;
All changes in the designations or weights [DOT]of grades made in this section shall only apply and have effect on and after September L 1912, and until the said dates the grades of grain shall hare effect as previously defined in the Inspection and -Sale Act and the Manitoba Grain Act as on January 1, 1912.
That is to prevent any interference with contracts made on the old grades.


Should .there not be some words .at the beginning .of this section stating that these grades >aipply only to the eastern inspection division, and not generally?	6


The inspector states that whilst these have so far been applicable only to the east, if might occur that in the west some of these grades might be grown; and, if so, this clause should be .applicable in the west, while the clauses applying to .the western section would hold for the west as well.


I cannot understand how this section, worded as it is, will hold with the section, regarding western grain. If this section were amended to make it apply generally, with the exception of those provisions relating to western grain, there would be no conflict.


When this matter was under discussion in the House the other day, I referred to section 115 dealing with rejected grain. This- section defines rejected grain as follows:
Rejected grain shall comprise all spring wheat for warehousing, but too low in weight or otherwise unfit to he graded as No. 3. This includes seed dirty grain, also screenings from elevators.
I wish to draw the attention of the minister to the importance of regulating the disposal of this rejected grain. One lion, gentleman the .other day said he thought it was covered by the Act for the Inspec-Mr. STAPLES.
tion and Sale of Seeds. I find, on looking over the Act, that it does not cover it. The report of 'the Minister of Agriculture for 1910 deals particularly with rejected grain, in the following terms:
Noxious weed seeds in ground feeding stuffs and screenings from commercial grain, which are distributed for the purpose of stock feeding, have been the cause for some serious complaints during the past year. Investigation thus far would seem to indicate that the causes for these complaints are restricted, quite largely to the province of Ontario, where the screenings from the cereal grains grown in the prairie provinces after being ,recleaned at the large elevators on Lake Superior and elsewhere are marketed.
Again, in his report for 1911, the Minister of Agriculture alludes- to the same cause of complaint, and there states :
I, therefore, instructed my seed commissioner to continue the investigation into the condition of ground feeding stuffs distributed for sale to farmers, and, by collecting and examining samples and by inquiry, to ascertain what practical means, if any, may he adopted to prevent the distribution of vital weed seeds in ground mill feeds. The investigation has shown that, as in previous years bran manufactured by the larger flour mills is comparatively free from weed seeds; but the forty-eight samples of bran collected had an average of two hundred and forty-six weed seeds .per pound. Crushed or ground meals were often found to be in a worse condition, sometimes containing more than eighteen hundred weed seeds par .pound.
These statements 'are enough to convince every one of the importance of careful supervision of this rejected grain which is to be dealt with by the commissioners to be appointed under this Bill. The Minister of Agriculture indicates that Ontario is the greatest sufferer from the purchase of this rejected the weed infested grain from western Canada. Even this year, while the field .crop of Ontario was not as large as those of previous years, the value of that crop almost equalled the fi-eld crop of the three western provinces. These commissioners, dealing as they do with the grading of the grain not only of western Canada, but of the whole of Canada, have, ot ought to have, under their control the disposal of noxious weeds that comprise a large portion of many shipments of grain to the elevators. I believe that there are to-<d)ay in Ontario farms that 'are harder to reclaim from the weeds that have taken possession of them than they were when covered by ' the original forest. The importance of some one in authority having power to deal with this matter cannot, I think, be too strongly impressed on this House. I have not studied the Bill as carefully .as no doubt many members from western Canada have done.

But this particular evil has been so patent to every one in Ontario during the past few years that something has to be done. I believe that in the Inland Revenue . Act provision is made for looking after the seeds contained in feedstuff by inspectors, but such inspectors are altogether too few in number to attend to this. But there is no provision whatever as far as I can And for preventing the sale or distribution of weed seeds in screenings or unground grains. There is scarcely a town or city in which there are not many people who keep a number of fowl and who buy screenings from the elevators in western Canada. The manure from this source is frequently hauled to the farms and distributed in that way to an extent most people hardly realize. I would, therefore, strongly urge on the hon. minister that some provision be made in this Bill which would enable the commissioners to regulate and control this evil, they are in a better position to do so than anybody else. I am satisfied that the time has arrived when so drastic measure must be adopted in order to prevent this evil from spreading throughout the country.


There is no doubt at all about the importance ol tlm subject to which my hon. friend nas alluded, but the means of remedying ^e evil is a little more difficult. I doubt whether the machinery provided by this Bill is the best means for that purpose. I am told that the province of Manitoba absolutely prohibits the sale of these screenings, either from the elevators in the province or the terminal elevators, and has done so the last five years. That would seem to be an effective method of getting rid of the evil in the province of Ontario as well.


What becomes of these screenings?


90 to 95 per cent of them go to the American market. They are ground into feed and sold into the United States at from $5 to $12 per ton, and the value of the screenings turned out at the terminals would be from $300,000 to $500,000. They are fed to hogs and stock and poultry.


Would not the value of these screenings be largely enhanced by separating the weed seeds from the broken wheat? I think that could be done by putting the screenings through a finer mesh. I have it on good authority that a great many of those weed seeds ground up into bran and shorts are not only unfit for stock but are actually poisonous. I believe that by more careful screening, a larger proportion of these weed seeds could be extracted.	t
Mr. FOSTER (North Toronto) moved that the words ' shall weigh not less than 64 pounds to the bushel1 be added to the section defining the grade of No. 1 peas.


Amendment agreed to.
Mr. FOSTER (North Toronto) moved that the words ' shail weigh not less than 62 pounds to the bushel be added to the definition of No. 2 peas, so that these clauses shall read as follow:
No. 1 peas shall be white, clean and sound, not worm eaten and free from bugs, and weigh not less than 64 pounds to the bushel.
Vo. 2 peas shall be reasonably clean and sound, and reasonably free from worm eaten and buggy peas and weigh not less than 62 pounds to the bushel.
No. 3 peas shall be such as are too dirty as to be graded No. 2, or are worm-eaten or huggy, and weigh not less than sixty pounds to the bushel.
Where does the Minister get those weights?


From the inspectors divisions in Montreal and Toronto.	.


I do not know why the minister is changing the established standard for the weight of peas.


I am not changing the standard; I am putting into an enactment .what are now standard grades in the east. That is all.


As a matter of fact, the farmer has been getting the benefit in all grades ,,of peas in the sixty pound bushel. The minister is raising the standard so far ar. weight is concerned, so that the purchaser of the peas is going to get the advantage of this extra weight. No matter what customs may prevail, no matter what private standards may exist, the legal standard has been 60 pounds to the bushel. It looks to me as if the minister were making a concession to the man who buys and not to the man who raises.


How will these weights of eastern Canada affect western Canada?
j Mr- NEELY. My hon. friend from Brandon (Mr. Aikins) as I understand him, is one who deprecates invidious distinctions 'between east and west. This legislation is for the whole of Canada and not for any particular section. We are to legislate for all Canada and not for any particular part of it, and, even though these weights were applied only in the east, yet, as a member of this House, I am as much interested in the farmers of Ontario as in the farmers of the west.


The hon. member for Brandon (Mr. Aikins), is mistaken if he thinks that these grades apply only to the



east; they apply all over Canada, as the minister has said, and it is generally admitted. There are other grades that we shall come to, that apply only to the west.


The minister is well aware that there are tew peas to be obtained in the country, in Ontario especially, which used to be the great pea section. What weights are proposed?


1, 2 and 3 grades, 64, 62 and 60 pounds respectively. And the inspector says that in a'll these cases the actual weights are from one to two pounds above that. So, there is plenty of room.	,
Now, with reference to the question ol nomenclature for grades in the western inspection division I proposed to change the name in all these wheat grades from ' Manitoba ' to ' Canada.' It will then read ' No. 1, Canada, Hard Wheat.' This is in pursuance of the discussion we had the other day which was pretty full and in which the view was expressed that the name should be broadened from the sectional to the national. It is proposed^ to carry that through these grades of spring wheat, winter wheat and barley. In reference to flax, I propose instead of the word ' Northwestern ' to insert ' Canada.


I took exception to this the other day. I was fairly in earnest then, but I am much more in earnest now.
I am more in earnest because I was speaking before without opportunity to consult anybody and, as the saying is, off my own bat. But since then I have talked with many men engaged in business, who understand the importance of a trade-mark better than I do, and perhaps better than many other members of this House. It is an exceedingly important matter, this change of the name from ' Manitoba Hard ' by which our wheat and flour have been known all over the world, and known as surpassing any grade grown elsewhere. I do not wish to detain the House with a long discussion, but I would like the minister to think that over. I cannot see that this change will be of much advantage to my hon. friends from Saskatchewan and Alberta; I cannot see that it makes much difference to them. Another name is to be adopted which is neither that of Saskatchewan nor Alberta. I do not see any advantage in the making the change that would compensate for the disadvantage incurred. It will take a long time for buyers in Europe to understand that this change is made.
The Minister of Trade and Commerce suggests that we should place in brackets the word ' Manitoba '. Well, that would help us out a little. But I cannot agree to use the word * Canada ' alone in designating this grain. If you are going to change Mr. OLIVER.
the word from ' Manitoba ' to some other name, then make it signify the country in which this grain is grown. It certainly does not grow in eastern Canada. I think the name should be either ' Canada Western ' or ' Western Canada ' grain. I suggested ' Western Canada ' the other day, but I will agree to ' Canada Western '. But I do say there must be some further designation than merely to call it ' Canada ' wheat. I would much prefer, and I believe that all commercial men who know the feeling on the English market or where-ever our flour or wheat has been sold, would still prefer to retain the name ' Manitoba '. But if we are going to change it, let us take some name that will designate the wheat properly, and leave no doubt that it is grown in western Canada.


I cannot agree with the hon. gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. Schaffner) that the name ' Manitoba ' should be retained. I think the minister's contention that the broader term should be used is only just and fair to those other provinces of Canada, where wheat is grown similar to the wheat grown in Manitoba. More than that, I think the country generally would derive much more benefit from the production of its grain if the national name of ' Canada ' were used. It would have more effect in advertising this country than the designation by which this hard wheat has been known for so many years in the markets of the world. On the other hand, I do agree with the hon. member for Souris when he says that if the change is to be made there should be another word added to the word ' Canada '. We are not a selfish people in the west, we do not claim to be able to grow apples as they can grow them in Ontario, Quebec and Nova Scotia; but we do claim that our soil and our climatic conditions are the only soil and climatic conditions adapted to the growing of hard wheat, and we are jealous of the reputation of this grain, and of the reputation of that section of the country where the grain is grown. So I consider that the minister might very well add the word ' West ' without any detriment whatever to the rest of Canada. We would still use the national name, but would designate that particular section of Canada in which the grain was grown, and which I think is justly entitled to the credit that belongs to that part of the country from any advertisement there may be in the name itself.


I cannot say that I admire the assurance of the hon. gentleman who has just spoken (Mr. Neely) in appropriating to ' Western Canadian ' the
credit of being the only place where No. 1 Hard wheat can be grown in Canada. I

want to say that in Ontario we can grow No. 1 Hard wheat, that even in competition with wheat from all over the world, at the Paris International Exhibition in 1900 was awarded the gold medal. This wheat was grown in northern Ontario near New Lxslseard. I believe that in northern Ontario there is a country that will yet be growing millions and millions of bushels of wheat, therefore, I consider the minister is right in changing the word ' Manitoba ' to ' Canadian . I do not think it should he ' Western Canada.' That distinction should be left out. We are all one people here, we have a country of whose possibilities we have as yet no conception. I may say that in the province of Quebec also there is unoccupied land that will in future years be producing immense quantities of wheat, land, both in northern Quebec and in northern Ontario, that is now being opened up by the Transcontinental railway. There is no finer section of land in Canada than that through which that road passes in northern Ontario. The word ' Canadian ' I believe is the proper word to use, because it will do justice to the whole of Canada. It will show that we do not claim that there is only one part of Canada that can grow No. 1 Hard Wheat, and that no other section can. I quite approve the change the minister proposes to make.


The reason for the change I think is sentimental. If it was going to be productive of any benefit to the wheat producer, then I certainly would support the change. But it is going to be productive of loss to the wheat producer. The Manitoba Wheat has a reputation that has been acquired by years of care and trouble and expense, and if that name is changed, I venture to say that the wheat produced in western Canada will not bring within a few cents at all events the price at which it now sells in the European markets. Therefore, it seems to me we will be getting the benefit of a sentiment at a sacrifice of the price of wheat. The provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta producing the same kind of wheat will get the advantage of the name of ' Manitoba ' as well as that province itself; they produce the same class of wheat and they will get the benefit of that trade name. I have known trade names sometimes to be so valuable that they were stolen and the courts had to intervene to prevent it. It seems rather singular that people would be quite willing to give away a trade name that has such advantages as the trade name ' Manitoba Wheat, Neither can I agree with the last speaker (Mr. Sutherland) that we should adopt the name ' Canadian.' If the same class of wheat was produced all over Canada, then perhaps 88i
there might be some ground for it. But that wheat is not produced in all parts of Canada, and the name would be misleading; it is produced mainly in western Canada. I do not suppose it is produced in British Columbia, but it is produced in the three wheat growing provinces, and that is an additional reason why it would be better to restrict the name to ' Manitoba Wheat,' than to call it * Western Canada Wheat,' because to call it ' Western Canada Wheat ' would include provinces which do not produce that class of wheat. I would much prefer, therefore, to have the name left as it is. But if the majority insist on a change, I certainly would prefer the words ' Western Canada '' to the -word ' Canada.'


I do not think either the member for Brandon (Mr Aikins), or the member for South Oxford (Mr. Sutherland), have very good grounds for the line of. argument they have taken. I do not think that dropping the name ' Manitoba ' will affect the price of wheat to any considerable extent. It is a very poor compliment to the English wheat buyers, and the Canadian millers to say that they buy wheat on the name instead of on its intrinsic quality. If the wheat is called ' Western Canada Wheat,' and the old designation is bracketed for the next year or two, as suggested by the minister, you will guard against any loss whatever, and you will protect everybody. I am sure my hon. friends from Manitoba will realize that owing to the actual condition of things, of the total amount of wheat produced on the prairies in future, only a very moderate proportion can be produced in the province of Manitoba.
It would not be fair to the other provinces which will be in the future producing the great bujk of the hard wheat, that it should be named for that one province, which is producing the smaller portion of it, especially when you can give it a name that will be fair to Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, and yet designate it as wheat produced in the western part of Canada. As to wheat produced in British Columbia, there will never be any considerable quantity grown there. With reference to the remarks of the hon. member for South Oxford (Mr. Sutherland), there will no greater objection to calling the wheat ' Western Canadian ' than calling it, as it is at the present time ' Manitob