Mr. WHITE (Leeds) moved that tire House go into committee tomorrow to consider the following proposed resolution: Resolved, that it is expedient to provide that the aid and assistance whioli, under the Canadian Northern Alberta Act, 1910, the Governor in Council was authorized to give to the Canadian Northern Alberta Railway Company in respect of the construction of the one hundred and fifty miles of railway therein described may, notwithstanding anything in the said Act, be applied to the first one hundred and fifty miles of the said company's railway at present constructed or located from St. Albert, in the province of Alberta, in a generally westerly direction toward the Yel-lowhead Pass.
I suppose my hon. friend will bring down the correspondence on the subject ?


I will do so. Motion agreed to.


I have had the report of the investigator tor -a few days, but I have not had time to go fully into it or to take any action respecting those against whom there was no evidence; but I propose doing so as soon as possible.


Mr. COCHRANE moved the third reading of Bill (No. 77) to encourage and assist the improvement of highways.
Certain hon. gentlemen want to leave this afternoon and therefore I will move this amendment without any discussion. I beg to move:
That the said Bill be not now read a third time, hut that it be re-committed to a Committee of the Whole House, with instructions to amend it by inserting the following words as subsection 2 of section 3:-
The sum of money voted in any year to be expended under this Act, shall he apportioned among the different provinces of the Dominion according to the population of said provinces as established by the last census for for the time being.
Bill (No. 117) to change the name of Ezra House divided on the amendment (Sir Butler Eddy Bessey.-Mr. Pripp.	Wilfrid Laurier).


YEAS:
*	Messieurs
Boivin,	Maclean (Halifax),
Bourassa,	MacNutt,
Brown,	McCrnney,
Buchanan,	McCoig,
Bureau,	McKenzie,
Carvell,	McLean (Sunbury),
Cash,	McMillan,
Chisholm (Antigonish),Marcil (Bonaventure), Chisholm (Inverness), Michaud,
Molloy,
Neebitt,,
Neely,
Oliver,
Pacaud,
1'roulx,
Pugsley,
lleid (Restigouche), Robb,
Ross,
Sinclair,
Thomson (Qu'Appelle), Turgeon,
Clark (Red. Deer),
Cruise,
Ilelisle,
Demers,
Devlin,
Douglas,
Fortier,
Guthrie,
Hughes
(King's, P.E.I.),
Knowles,
Kyte,
Lachance,	_
Laurier (Sir Wilfrid),Turriff,
Law,	Warnock and
Loggie,	White
Lovell,	(Victoria, Alta).-
NAYS:
-50.
Ministerial.
White (Leeds),
Pelletier,
Perley,
Kemp,
Rogers,
Stanfield,
Haggart,
Bristol,
Rhodes,
Mondou,
Barrette,
Rainville,
Lamarche,
Boll,
Aikins,
Boyce,
Baker,
Tvemain,
Lancaster,
Wilcox.
PAIRS:
Opposition.
Messieurs
Emmerson,
Lemieux,
Murphy,
German,
Ethier,
Pardee,
Gordon,
Charlton,
Macdonald,
Papineau,
Seguin,
Gauthier (St. Hyaeinthe),. Lapointe (Kamonraska), Martin (Regina),. Bickerdike, Richards,
Kay,
Carroll,
Power,
Clarke (Essex).
Amendment negatived.


The hon. member for Kamonraska has not voted.
Messieurs
Alguire,	Lennox,
Armstrong (Lambton),Leeperance,
Barker,	i
Barnard,
Beattie,
Bennett (Simcoe), Blondin,
Borden,
Brabazon,
Bradbury,
Broder,
Burnham,
Burrell,
Chabot,
Clare,
Clark (Bruce),
Clarke (Wellington), Clements,.
Ccclirane,
Cockshutt,
Crocket,
Crothers,
Doherty,
Donnelly,
Elliot, '
Elson,
Fisher,
Foster (Kings, N.S.), Poster (Toronto, N.), Fowler,
Gcodeve,
Guilbault,
Bartt,
Hazen,
Henderson,
Hepburn,
*Jameson,
Kidd,
Lalor,
Lavallde,
Lewis,
McCurdy,
McKay-,
Marshall,	i
Meighen,
Middlebro,
Monk,
Munson,
Nantel,
Nicholson,
Nickle,
Paquet,
Paul,
Reid i(Grenville), Robidoux,
Roche,
Sevigny,
Sexsmith,
Sharpe (Lisgar), Shepherd,
Smith,
Staples,
Steele,
Stevens,
Stewart (Hamilton), Stewart (Lunenburg), Sutherland,
Taylor,
Thoburn,
Thompson (Yukon), Thornton,
Walker,
Wallace,
Webster,
White. (Renfrew), Wilson
(Wentworth) and Wright.-79.


I am paired with the hon. member for Nicolet (Mr. Lamarche), had I voted I would have voted for the amendment.


I beg leave to move that the said Bill be not now read a third time, but that it be re-committed to a Committee of the Whole House, with instructions to amend the same by striking out clause six.
House divided on amendment (Mr. Macdonald, Pictou).
YEAS:
Messieurs
Boivin,
Bourassa,
Brown,
Buchanan,
Bureau,
Carvel],
Cash,
Chisholm (Autigonisli), Chi9holm (Inverness) Clark (Red Deer), Cruise,
Delisle,
Demers,
Devlin,
Douglas,
Fortier,
Guthrie,
Hughes
Kings, P.E.I.), Knowles,
Kyte,
Lachance,
Laurier (Sir Wilfri
Maclean (Halifax),. MacNutt,
McCraney,
McCoig,
McKenzie,
McLean (Sunbury). McMillan,
Marcil (Bonaventure), .Michaud,
Molloy,
Murphy,
Nesbitt,
Neely,
Oliver,
Pacaud,
Proulx,
Pugsley,
Reid (Restigouche), Robb,
Ross,
Sinclair,
Thomson (Qu'Appelle) ,Turgeon,

Law,
Loggia,
Lovell,
Macdonald,
Turriff,
Warnock and White (Victoria, Alta.-52.
Baker,
Tremain,
Lancaster,
Wilcox.
Kay,
Carroll,
Power,
Clarke (Essex).
NAYS:
Amendment negatived.
Messieurs
Alguire,
Armstrong (Lamhton) Barker,
Barnard,
Beattie,
Bennett (Simcoe), Blondin,
Borden,
Boulay,
Brabazon,
Bradbury,
Broder,
Burnham,
Burrell,
Chabot,
Clare,
Clark (Bruce),
Clarke (Wellington), Clemen ta,
Cochrane,
Cockshutt,
Crocket,
Cr others,
Doherty,
Donnelly,
Elliot,
Elson,
Fisher,
Foster (Kings, N.S.), Foster (Toronto, N.), Fowler,
Fripp,
Goodeve,
Guilbault,
Hartt,
Hazen,
Henderson,
Hepburn,
Hughes (Victoria, O.) Jameson,
Kidd,
Lalor,
Lavallee,
Lennox,
Lesperance,
Lewis,
McCurdy,
McKay,
Marshall,
Meighen,
Middlebro,
Monk,
Munson,
Nantel,
Nicholson,
Nickle,
Northrup,
Paquet,
Paul,
Reid (Grenville), Robidoux,
Roche,
Schaffner,
Sevigny,
Sexsmith,
Sharpe (Lisgar), Shepherd,
Smith,
Staples,
Steele,
Stevens,
Stewart (Hamilton), Stewart (Lunenburg) Sutherland,
Taylor,
Thoburn,
Thompson (Yukon), Thornton,
Walker,
Wallace,
Webster,
.Weichel,
White (Renfrew), Wilson
(Wentworth) and Wright.-85.
PAIRS:
Ministerial.	Opposition. Messieurs
White (Leeds),	Emmerson,
Pelletier,	Lemieux,
Ferley,	Wilson (Laval),
Kemp,	German,
Rogers,	Ethier,
Stanfield,	Paruee,
Haggart,	Gordon,
Bristol,	Charlton,
Rhodes,	Macdonald,
Mondou,	Papineau,
Barette,	Seguin,
Raiuville,	Gauthier (St. Hvaciuthe),
Lamarche,	Lapointe (Kamouraska),
Ball,	Martin (Regina),
Aikins,	Bickerdike,
Boyce,	Richards,





Motion agreed to, Bill read a third time, and passed.
WHITE (Minister of Finance) moved the third reading of Bill (No. 88) to provide for the appointment of a Tariff Commission.


Hear, hear.


My hon. friends applaud the sentiment. The sentiment is embodied in the amendment, and yet they propose to vote down that amendment.


Come again.


There is no difficulty about that. This principle seems to require a few -words from myself because the opposite position, which has been so well established through the mouth of the hon. member for Montreal, St. Antoine (Mr. Ames), was perhaps given more definite expression to by the hon. member for Brantford (Mr. Cockshutt) in the speech which he made and in which he referred to some remarks of my own. But, I should like to point out before referring specifically to that speech what is the origin of this whole commission, and what is the bearing of the amendment upon the efficiency of the commission. The country ought to appreciate the fact that the proposition for this commission originated some years ago with the Manufacturers' Association of Canada. They carried a resolution at one of their meetings in favour of this very thing, and they used in regard to it-and this is very significant language-that we ought to take the tariff out of politics. That means, as I have proved at previous stages of the debates upon this Bill, taking the taxing power out of the hands of the people if it means anything at all. It reminds me of the story of a deacon in a darky church within the poultry belt who went to the pastor of the church after^ he had preached a sermon, and said to him: We wish you to understand that what we want you to do is to preach religion pure and undefiled and keep out of the chicken
coop business. _ Our friends opposite are voting on politics pure and undefiled, and they do not want us to give any attention to a commission which is outside of the ordinary parliamentary procedure altogether. The hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. White) said in the later stages of the_ debate upon this measure that he believed that this measure would be very favourable to the farmers and consumers.
I am sure he will not contradict me if I quote his language to that effect. I want the House to connect that language of my hon. friend the Minister of Finance with the language of my hon. friend the member for Brantford. I was mentioned playfully, of course, as a possible candidate for membership on the Tariff Commission. I need not say that I was not an applicant nor do I consider myself in line for any appointment under this government. What my hon. friend objects to is the very thought that any free trader should be upon the Tariff Commission, because, forsooth, he said that he was a gun which would not go off. My hon. friend, who has had an intimate connection with the Manufacturers' Association, wants to shoot somebody. While I may have been a gun of some kind, was my hon. friend not afraid that if I did by any chance go off I would possibly shoot into the ranks of the manufacturers? He was not concerned about the gun going off or not going off if I were a member of the commission, but he was afraid that I would possibly like to shoot into the manufacturers ranks. Was not that the legitimate inference from that language, was not that the meaning behind the words of my hon. friend? Was it not that this commission is by no means expected to touch the sacrosanct manufacturers, but if it does not touch them my hon. friend might shoot some one. Is he going to shoot the farmers and consumers of this country on behalf of the Manufacturers' Association? I invite the Minister of Finance to reconcile his language about this being a benefit to the farmers and consumers with the evident intention of one of his followers that this proposition should not benefit them but that it may possibly have the effect of shooting into the ranks of a large body of the people of this country. I apologize for detaining the House at this stage of the [DOT] business, but 1 think that these words used by the hon. gentleman are of sufficient importance to justify me in rising even if I have delayed the debate for a few moments.


I would like to ask the hon. gentleman (Mr. Clark, Red Deer) what he means by saying that I was very closely associated with the Manufacturers' Association.


If there was any offence in those words I gladly withdraw them. I understand my hon. friend has been a manufacturer, and the probability is that he had a close connection with that association.


The statement of the hon. gentleman is that I was very closely associated with the Manufacturers' Association. The imputation is that I was an officer or member of the association. Does he say that now?


Oh, no, I gladly withdraw it if it is an offence.


There is nothing to withdraw if the hon. gentleman did not make the- statement.


I withdraw it if it is in the least degree offensive to my [DOT] hon. friend.


Motion agreed to, Bill .read the third time, and passed.
On the order being called for the third reading of Bill (No. 32) respecting grain, Mr. Foster (North Toronto).
I hope my hon. friend will not take up that Bill today. Several amendments have been made and1 I think the Bill should be reprinted before the third reading.


I do not want to press the Bill if my right hon. friend thinks it should be left over. I had a conversation with my hon. friend from Edmonton (Mr. Oliver), last night, and we arranged that these amendments should be taken to-day. I am anxious to get it up to the Senate as soon as possible.


I simply put it to my hon. friend that this is a very important Bill, some important amendments have been made, and' it would be well to have it reprinted before taking up the third reading.


There was no arrangement between the minister and myself. I asked him if he intended to have the third reading to-day, and he said he did. That was the only discussion. [DOT]


I understood my hon. friend to say he would have his amendments ready. If he has not his amendments ready of course we will postpone it.	'	[DOT]


As I understand the right hon. gentleman presses to have it stand over.


I think it would be only fair that such an important Bill with so many amendments, should be reprinted before being read a third time.


If my hon. friend wishes it to be reprinted before the third reading, wfhich will take
some time, I move that instead of reading the Bill the third time we go into committee on it again for the purpose of filling in the blanks in clause 3.
Motion agreed, to, and House went again into committee on the Bill.
On clause 3, subsection 6-salaries of commissioners,


I move that the first blank be filled with the figure 6,500 and the second with the figure 6,000. That fixes the salary of the chief commissioner at $6,500, and those of the other commissioners at $6,000 each.
Mr. OLIVER, Would the minister state the reasons that have led him to fix the salaries at these amounts. They are good salaries, $1,000, and $1,500 higher than the salaries of deputy ministers at Ottawa. .


What are the salaries paid to the Railway Commission, and to be paid to the Tariff Commission?


The Railway Commission, I think, get $7,000, $8,000, and $10,000. The Waterways Commission lately appointed receive $7,000, and $7,500. The Tariff Commissioners will receive $7,500 and $7,000.


In view of the salaries paid to the Tariff Commission the salaries proposed are moderate.


I am glad my 'bon. friend thinks 1 have not been extravagant.
Amendment 'agreed to.


Is it the minister's intention to have the Bill reprinted before it comes up for its final reading ?


Yea.


My attention has been called to the first subclause of section 107 under tire heading of ' Spring Wheat/ which says:
No. 1 Manitoba Hard wheat shall he sound and well cleaned, weighing not less than 60 pounds to the bushel, and ehall he composed of at least 75 per cent of hard Red Fife wheat.
I have before me a resolution, a copy of which was'sent to the hon. minister, in which it was pointed out that the wordis ' well cleaned ' are a hardship, because dockage is now put upon those who sell grain, which is not well cleaned, so that a person who is selling hard wheat which might otherwise grade as No. 1, if it is not cleaned as required by the Act, suffers a double loss-a loss both in grade and in dockage. This resolution points out that justice would be done if the same wording were used as is used with regard to No. 2 Manitoba Northern wheat, and if we used the words "reasonably cleaned ' instead of the words ' well cleaned.' It is pointed out that farmers have not facilities for cleaning well, and that all that they can be expected to do is to clean reasonably. I hope the minister will consider that point.


The matter was considered when we were passing over these grades. Not only was it considered in conjunction with the deputation from the northwest who were here, but it has been considered later in conjunction with the inspector himself. There are objections urged against the suggested change in the quality of this grade. The words ' reasonably cleaned ' involve a doubt. A man who is inspecting knows when a grade is well 'Cleaned; that is easily apparent. To say that he must see that it is reasonably well cleaned leaves it open to the interpretation of various inspectors in a different way 'from what it would be if the actual definition were made. That is with reference to the best quality of our wheat, and if any grade of wheat should he raised and kept to a. high standard, it is that grade. The same words are used with reference to No. 1 Hard Fife and No. 1 Manitoba Northern, and it is not until you come to the lower grade of wheat that the words ' reasonably cleaned ' are used instead of the words ' well cleaned.' I can see the point that my hon. friend makes; but this grade should be high, and when it passes out from inspection, it should be well Mr. OLIVER.
cleaned. If there are variations in the wheat itself, as to what is mixed with it, the dockage will always be in proportion to the lamoumt of material for which dockage is allowed. If the wheat is reasonably clean, more dockage will toe taken than if it is well cleaned. I do not see where the [DOT]seller stands to lose in that respect. He does not want to get a price for the grain unless it is up to a certain standard and unless it is well cleaned. There will be a heavier dockage for wheat which is partially cleaned and a lighter dockage for that which is better cleaned.


I do not like to press this matter on the minister under, the circumstances, but I think really it is important to have some change made at the present stage. In the province of Saskatchewan, at least in that part where I reside, we have experimented for some time with wheat. I myself have been growing Preston for a number of years, and as a matter of fact the Act as *it stands now is a dead letter so far as shutting out that wheat is concerned. I sell it year by year and it passes just the same as Red Fife.


A twin sister to it.


I think that so far as quality is concerned we suffer no injury.


Do you sell on sample?


Not on sample, we sell on grade, and I have had it repeatedly graded as No. 1 and 2 Northern, that is pure Preston with not a bit of Red Fife in it as far as I could tell, and bearded wheat too. That is done in actual practice without much damage resulting, but it does not look quite right to my mind that there should be a provision in bur Act which the inspectors either wink at, or are unable to carry out. Preston and Marquis are the varieties of grain which I am more accustomed to. I fancy that an expert can tell at almost any time the difference between Preston and Red Fife more by the shape of the grain than anything else. But still they ipass it continually as No. 1 and No. 2 Northern, and it is quite just that they should do so I think. I do not know tliat the tests have shown the Preston to be quite as good a wheat as the Red Fife, but it is so very near it that! there is not a material difference. The Marquis also can be distinguished from the Red Fife, while the Preston is a longer and thinner grain than the Red Fife I think the Marquis on the other hand is a little thicker, and possibly a little shorter and of a deeper red. But the tests so far as they have been applied

show the Marquis to be as good a grain as the Red Fife, or a little better from a flour-making standpoint. I do not wish to press this matter too far but I thought it necessary to tell the minister what I have seen myself; and while, as I say, there may be no very great injury to the farmer, I a?n not sure that to have a law which is virtually ignored is a very good thing. We either ought not to permit our officials to wink at and ignore the Act, or we ought to change the law.
I have grown the Stanley and have found n,o difficulty in selling it, though I think I only grew it one year. But I know that the Stanley is continually being passed as Red Fife. I presume the same applies to the Marquis.


Can the grain buyers tell the difference?


I think if I were a grain buyer I could tell the difference between the Preston and Red Fife.


Could tlhe average grain buyers in the West detect the difference?


I think so. The, Preston is longer and a somewhat thinner grain than the Red Fife. But I think it is practically as hard. There is a marked difference between the Maxquid and the Red Fife, at least a difference that can be seen.


How many years have they been experimenting with the Marquis ?


It cannot have been for very long, seeing that it is being sold at $12 a bushel. That may not be true with regard to the Marquis just now, but, even though frozen it is sold at $2, $3, and $4 a bushel. So, there is no danger, at present because none of it will be sold in the ordinary way.


It will practically all be sold for seed ?


Yes. No one who has Marquis will sell it except for seed, unless it is altogether too dirty.
Bill, as amended, reported and amendments concurred in.


Mr. FOSTER (North Toronto) moved that the House go into Committee of Supply.
Before you leave the Chair, Mr. Speaker, I wish to call the attention of the House to the Marconigraph service that has been Mr. THOMSON (Qu'Appelle).
established between the mainland and the Magdalen Islands. I have on two occasions asked the Postmaster General (Mr. Pelletier) if it was true that news was being supplied by the government to the Magdalen Islands during the season when navigation is closed. And I was answered yesterday that tlhe Postmaster General had established a news service and that this service had begun last week.
Some years ago, I obtained from the Minister of Public Works a condensed cable news service for the fishermen and1 merchants of the Magdalen Islands, giving them the state of the fish-markets and of staples generally at Halifax and Pictou. That news was cabled from Meat Cove to the islands. But I never asked for the supply of political news to the islands. The service of the cable was also given to the islanders at a cheap rate in order to give them the necessary facilities for communicating with their relatives on the mainland. This year when the estimates of the Public Works Department came before the House, on the item of telegraph lines in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, I called the attention of the Minister of Public Works to that service established through my instrumentality a few years ago. To my astonishment I learned the other day that a more extended' service of news had been granted by the government to the islands. I immediately suspected something, and my suspicions were right. I asked the Postmaster General (Mr. Pelletier), and the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Hazen), what was the nature of this service, and was answered yesterday by the Postmaster General' (Mr. Pelletier), that that service was non-political. Well, Sir, I hold1 in my hand the first instalment of news which was sent by the political editor in Quebec to the Magdalen Islands. And I must protest against it. No political leader has the right to use the moneys of the people to supply partisan news to one section of the country at the expense of the whole country. This first instalment is to be followed by weekly letters to the Magdalen Islands. I shall not worry the House by reading these despatches, but I see one paragraph here which deals with the G.T.P. contract which was interpreted by the Privy Council the other day. And the whole statement is biased, and is given from the Conservative point of view only. I need1 hardly mention other paragraphs in which eulogies and encomiums are heaped upon the head of the Postmaster General and the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Monk), in connection with Quebec public expenditures. I call the attention of the acting leader of the House (Mr. Foster), to this state of affairs. The question will be brought up again in the House, but, meantime, he should warn

his colleagues that they must not expect the country to pay for partisan news wired to the Magdalen Islands under the excuse of giving to the islanders something of the news of the ou'tside world.


Would the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lemieux), give us a specimen of this partisanship?


Just before my hon. friend read's, would he kindly state from what he is reading?


From the Toronto Daily ' Star,' which publishes the first instalment of news sent to the Magdalen Islands. It has been published1 in .other newspapers, but I happen to have the Toronto 4 Star ' in my hands, and from this I read.	,


My hon. friend is certain that that is the pure, undiluted news that was sent to the Magdalen Islands?


I am morally convinced that these are the items of news sent to the islands.


It is very important to know that it is really so.


Very well. I will take the hint of my hon. friend (Mr. Foster). I will put a 'question in the order paper or move a motion asking the Postmaster General to give the House an exact copy of the news which was sent from Quebec to the Magdalen Islands. And I shall defer my remarks to another day. But I again state that if the facts are as mentioned in the Toronto 4 Star,' it is simply an abuse of the confidence of parliament, and it is a gross abuse of the privileges enjoyed by a minister of the Crown. He has
no right to use the money of the people to supply partisan news to one section of the country.


I would suggest to my hon. friend that he look up the report of the Kingston penitentiary a few years ago, where he will find that the greater part of several pages was taken up in an argument on binder twine to contradict speeches of members in this House.


Motion agreed to, and House went into Committee of Supply.
Campbellton-to increase accommodation at, $160,000.
["I stated last evening exacly what the contract was, and I will repeat after the recess what I said.\nAt six o'clock, House took recess.\nAfter Recess.\nHouse resumed at eight o'clock."]
The committee will remember that a very disastrous fire occurred there last year, and this vote is necessary to replace the buildings then burnt down.


Does that refer to the stations and buildings alone?


It covers station, platforms, engine house, rest-room, roundhouse, turntable, conduits for pipes, heating, gas and electric plant, wiring and installation, machinery, grading and ballasting, freight sheds, ice house, temporary buildings, engineering expenses, land and legal expenses. The work was started last year.
, Mr. MACDONALD. The minister was to give us some information with regard to financial results.


have not yet decided what to_ do with it, or how much of it to apply in the same way.


There are complaints throughout the lower provinces that the rolling stock is not up to the standard, either in quantity or quality. It is said that in order to get a surplus these considerations are being neglected. Has the minister looked into that question?


As I said last night, we are taking stock to arrive at a conclusion. Later on we will find in the estimates an item for cars and rolling stock.


I would like to ask the minister if he will take into consideration the advisability of retaining this surplus in some way for a special fund, and using it towards renewing rolling stock, bridges and whatever else is necessary. I know I am opening up a big question. I am not finding any fault, because my own party friends have erred to the same extent that his friends did when they were in power, and I am afraid that my hon. friend may err in the future. There is a wide difference between the Intercolonial railway and any ordinary railway company. I realize that railway companies are in the habit of charging many items to capital, and justly. If this method of bookkeeping has been adopted on the Intercolonial in the past, to some extent we are following the principles of railway companies. But there is a vast difference between the two. The Intercolonial is an asset of Canada, and it is a necessity to the maritime provinces. It is a great advantage, not only to the maritime provinces but to Quebec and Ontario as well; because while it is true that we have a reasonable freight rate and passenger rate, yet the great part of that advantage inures to the benefit I think of the manufacturers and producers of Ontario and Quebec, certainly to a much greater extent than to the consumers of the maritime provinces. Now the trouble comes in that when we have a surplus of $600,000 or $700,000, as we are to have this year, that goes into the ordinary fund of Canada, and the people of the maritime provinces, or the Intercolonial railway, get no credit for it whatever. It simply swells the revenue of Canada, and it is taken to be used in other portions of Canada-I am not saying it is not properly used, but the difficulty comes in that if unfortunately there comes a year when there is a deficit, then there is a great cry goes up from the rest of Canada that the Intercolonial is a burden, it is something that ought not to be allowed. Several times since I have been in parliament I have heard this cry go up: The Intercolonial is not paying its way; therefore it is going Mr. COCHRANE.
to be sold, or given away to some company, or something of that kind.
If this money were placed in a special fund, out of which betterments could be paid for, we would at least have the satisfaction of knowing whether the Intercolonial railway is paying its way or not. I submit that there has been hardly a year since the Intercolonial railway has been in existence when the people of Canada have been able to tell by reading the report of the minister, or the blue-books, whether the Intercolonial railway has paid its way or not. Possibly I am breaking in on new ground; I know that I am voicing something which has been opposed to the policy of my friends, but I think I am talking common sense, and I am appealing to the minister, not to give me his decision now, but to take this matter into his consideration. Take the figures which the minister gave me last evening; he says that we have a surplus this year of something like $600,000 or $700,000, but that we spent last year a million and a half on capital account. If that be true we have no actual revenue returned to the people. I would like to see the Intercolonial railway put upon a business basis. I am a maritime province man, but I have no connection with the Intercolonial railway. It does not affect my constituency, but I hope that it will in the luture, because I believe that the minister is going to effect some arrangement by which a branch of the Intercolonial railway will come through my part of the country. I am anxious to see the freight and passenger rates brought down to the minimum so long as they pay expenses, but I do not like to see a railway run except on business principles, and I would like to see the bookkeeping carried' on in such a way that we would know exactly what the road is costing us each year and whether we have a deficit or a surplus. The hon. minister made a statement last night with regard to the board of management, but I do not think that he gave us as much information as we desired. I am not going to ask him here to declare his policy, because evidently the minister does not want to do that now. From the figures given this afternoon, I see that since the inauguration of this board of management there has been a great improvement in the balance sheet at the end of the year. We have had a continuation of surpluses since this board1 of management was inaugurated, whereas very frequently prior to that we had deficits, I think that the minister would do well to consider carefully the question as to the advisability of doing away with this board of management. I know that there has been a feeling in many parts of the maritime provinces that tire board of management per-

haps has not played the game to the extent that somebody would like it to.


The political game?


The political game, but I do think that they have played the business game and that is the game that the country wants to-d'ay. I am not lecturing my hon. friend, but I am trying to talk common sense, and I hope that he will give some consideration to what I propose before coming to his decision as to the question of policy.


I remember very well the late Minister of Railways explaining to the House what had been done with the surplus earnings in the way of betterments to rolling stock and betterments to the railway.


I explained that.


Yes, and the late minister always made that explanation.


I did it this morning.


Yes, I had not the opportunity of hearing my hon. friend. It was affirmed by the late Minister that all reasonable improvements which were required and which any ordinary railway company would charge to operating expenses were charged by the Intercolonial railway, and that no improvements had been charged to capital account except such as a railway company would charge to capital account. It seems to me that where entirely new rolling stock is obtained, additional locomotives and cars, it is proper to charge the cost of these to capital account. Where rolling stock has been worn out and new cars are obtained to take their place then it is proper to charge the cost of the new cars to revenue or operating expenses. I understand that where a bridge has been replaced by a heavier bridge, owing to the necessity of providing for heavier locomotives, the difference between what would have been the fair value of the bridge that was replaced and the cost of the new bridge has been charged to capital account. Every railway company does that. I have been told by a gentleman connected with the Canadian Pacific railway that since that road wa3 supposed to be entirely constructed and completed the Canadian Pacific railway has expended more on capital account, in rebuilding, improving grades, laying heavier rails and rebuilding bridges than the original cost of the road. That has been charged to capital account and it would be very improper and upfair to the shareholders to charge it to operating expenses. In order to deal justly with the Intercolonial railway and give the public a proper idea of whether it is paying expenses or not it is very proper that these 133


should be charged against operating expenses and the overplus should be shown as a surplus. It seems to me that that is only reasonable and fair.
I am sorry to differ from my hon. friend from St. John (Mr. Pugs-ley) although I quite agree with him that the method which he has described is the method followed by the ordinary railway company. I am sure that if we were to keep on following that method we would never know what the Intercolonial railway was costing us, or whether it was paying it3 way or not. There ought to be a time at which the Intercolonial railway should be considered as being finished except you are adding new mileage. Of course, if new mileage is being added that is another thing. But, there should be a finality to it at some time. Most of us are business men to some extent and if, in my business, or in any of the enterprises with which I am connected, I kept taking money out of earnings and paying it out in the form of dividends, and if I was issuing new stock to keep the thing going, possibly I myself might get some money out of the dividend, but I would not be creating very much of a property to hand down to my successors.


Is not that what the Pennsylvania and Canadian Pacific Tailway are doing?


That may be so as far as these railways are concerned, but the business of the country is not done in that way. This is a case, I contend, of running this road in such a manner as to enable it to pay its way. When we have a railway running for forty years surely the time has come when it ought to pay its way or we should know why. Possibly I am talking against the policy of both my friends and my friends opposite, but I hope the minister will give the question some consideration and bring forward some definite proposition.


saw them. We knew that on the morning of the election, September 21, a number of carloads of rails were brought to Salisbury, the junction point of the Intercolonial railway and the Albert railway. These carloads of rails- were never put upon the Albert road, they were never brought away from Salisbury, and shortly after the election they were returned to Moncton. The natural inference was that it was never the intention of the government to hand over these rails to the Albert road -for the purpose of repairing its lines. We 'had no access to these telegrams, and so, 'as- I say, the natural and only inference was that it was merely an election trick and w-e would be quite justified in drawing that inference, because we knew who was behind .it, the hon. member for St. John, who was [DOT]celebrated for these little election dodges and manipulations. Consequently we were confirmed and fortified in our opinion and in the inference we drew from the position of affairs as We saw it. These rails were returned to Moncton, and I had to come to Ottawa and interview the department before any of them were made use of upon the road.
My horn, friend has quoted certain telegrams which passed beweem himself and Mr. Raymond. The condition of affairs was just as I stated in the remarks I made in Albert county subsequent to the election, to which I have already referred. No agreement had been executed' between the railway company and the government, and consequently the officers of the department in Moncton declined to allow those rails to go for the use of the Albert railway.
My hon. friend quoted a telegram which shows that this agreement had not been executed and so the quotation which he makes from my remarks- iat Albert is -amply borne out. I -said: ' The people -of Albert county were fooled about the railway.' Surely they were fooled, they were told they were to get these rails, that the arrangement was all nr-ad-e and these agents of the Liberal party were chasing about the county, were going to the various halls and schoolhouises throughout the county, telling what the government had done and were proposing to do 'and they were reading telegram-s by the score -from Mr. Pugs-ley showing the wonderful, strenuous efforts he was -making in order to get this road in running order -again. But it was all hot air, simply wind, and nothing was done, and nothing had been- done until after September 21, or in fact until October 26. Anybody who has- anything to do with these government departments', and I think I speak to a sympathetic audience, knows that it takes some time to get them to move and so it is no wonder that it was not until October 26, with all the force I was able to bring to bear upon the department that I was able to get these rails. I did get th-e-m Mr. FOWLER.
and the road was running on the 1-st of December, the very day I told the people it would 'start. I told the people of Albert they were fooled about the railway. Surely in the face o-f -everything said by the hon. member for St. John (Mr. Pugsley), and his emissaries through-out the county, when they were still without the railway, and suffering great loss of business 'and distress, I was justified din drawing the inference that the people were fooled about the railway. Promises were made that were not intended to be fulfilled. The only way to judge of a man's intention is by the circumstances surrounding his acts, be-causie you cannot pry into his brain and find inscribed there what he really means; you must judge of this intention by the outward evidence of his acts, and with these carloads of rails going down to Salisbury and remaining 'there instead -of going into the county as w-as expected, to be used on tire road, it was the most natural thing in the world for us to draw the inference that they were never intended to go any further.
Did not my hon. friend
the Minister of Railways, after he became minister, cause the cars to remain there up to the 26th day of October when the agreement was delivered at Ottawa?


No, the cars went back to Moncton and were unloaded.


No.


I know a number of cars were unloaded, I tried to prevent them being unloaded.


That was after the new government came in.
)Mr. FOWLER. Possibly it would have been great presumption on my part to attempt to interfere before. I said:
There had been no authority for these rails to be loaded or removed from Moncton.
Is that statement correct? My hon. friend has shown by the telegram that there was no authority. He said that on information he had received, he wired that the contract was signed and executed. If it was signed it certainly was not filed at Ottawa and that would not authorize the department to send the rails. I am not finding fault with the department but with the manner in which this was done. It was 'done in such a way as to throw the strongest possible suspicion upon the bona fides of those carrying on the negotiations, and it is no wonder the people of that country think that they were fooled and I said what I thought because that was the only possible inference one could draw. I said:

There had been no authority for these rails to be loaded or removed from Moncton, and as soon as the elections were over and the government was defeated, arrangements were made to withdraw these rails.


That is quite incorrect.


I say that the rails that were loaded in Moncton yard to be shipped to the Albert railway were after the elections, unloaded from the cars in which they had been placed. I say that because I saw that done and tried to stop it.


On what date?


After the elections.


Was it after or before rbhe present Minister of Railways came into office?


Possibly it was shortly after. There was no contract and therefore the minister would not have been justified in -allowing -these rails to go. I said:
I found out that there had been no contract signed or executed in regard to rails for the Salisbury and Albert railway.
As far -as the department was concerned, it had not been signed or executed. I do not know what document may have been signed outside of the department, certainly there was none there.
Then there was trouble about the bridges. 1 again went to Ottawa and got the bridges, and I have the authority for saying to you that one of these bridges is now on the line and on the 1st of December the road will again be in full operation its entire length.


Were these rails subsequently obtained for the branch line?


Yes, they were bought by the company under an agreement with the department that they were to pay, I think, $27 per ton, which I think was an excessive price for them. The rails were sold to the company under the condition that if the branch line were taken over by the government-, an allowance would be made for the rails, and if the branch lines were not taken over, the company would pay $27 a ton for them.


But in the meantime they are not to pay for them?


They are not to pay for them until it is determined what interest is to he charged against them. My desire was to have this railway operated through its entire length, hut it was shut do\tfn, by the late government, which was charged with the duty of conserving the rights of the people and looking after their inter-1331
es-ts. However, after the present administration came in, I found the department sympathetic, although slow, and the result was that on the 1st day of December the railway was operated throughout its entire length, and it has been operated daily ever since, to the great comfort and joy of the people; and of course everybody along the lime of the railway is very strongly in favour of the present administration, whereas the other people had only made promises, which, as usual, had a string to them. They remind me of a trick that we used to play when boys-. We would take a ten-cent piece, put a hole through it, tie a string through the hole, put the ten-cent piece on the sidewalk, hide in a doorway, and, when any one went to pick up the ten-cent piece, jerk it back. So with the late government: They always made their promises with a string to them, and, as soon as people were ready to grasp them, pulled them back. The hon. member for St. John assured us as a member of this House that he was acting in good faith, and I am bound to accept his statement. I am simply justifying the statement that I made at Albert, and I will leave it to the fair opinion of any member of this House if I was not justified in all the circumstances.


What I complain of is not so much that my hon. friend, in his ignorance of the facts, made the-statements that he did, but that when he has acquired a knowledge of the real facts, he should still persist in. stating that the people were fooled, and that there was- no bona fide intention to supply the rails for this railway.


The hon. gentleman has missed the point of what I said. I said that I was justified in drawing the inference which I did, and I say so still. But if the hon-. gen-leman makes the statement as a member of this House that he was acting in good faith throughout this affair, I am bound by the rules of the House to accept it.


That is a course which usually does not commend itself to gentlemen. That is not a generous mode of accepting the statement I made. I do not ask my hon. friend to rely on my statement, but I ask him to take the correspondence which appears on the record, and any man reading it, with a disposition to- deal fairly and honourably with his political opponents, would say that everything was done bona fide and in a proper and businesslike manner; and there is no ground for my hon. friend, with the knowledge of the facts as disclosed by the record, stating that there was any disposition to humbug the peo-

pie or to do anything that was not fair and businesslike.


Was the contract in' the hands of the Railway Department before the 21st of September?


I stated last evening exacly what the contract was, and I will repeat after the recess what I said.
At six o'clock, House took recess.
After Recess.
House resumed at eight o'clock.


Bill (No. 99) respecting the Ottawa, Montreal and Eastern Railway Company. -Mr. Bickerdike.
Bill (No. 94) respecting the Windsor, Chatham and London Railway Company.
Mr. Wilcox.
Bill (No. 54) .to incorporate the Quinze River and Ottawa Railway Company.- Mr. Brabazon.
Bill (No. 114) to incorporate Revillon Frferes Trading Company, Limited.-Mr. Barker.
House again in Committee of Supply.
Campbellton-to increase accommodation, at, $150,000.
['I understand that the Boundary Bill will be discussed on Monday, and then estimates.']
My hon. friend for [DOT]Kings and Albert (Mr. Fowler), who is not now in his place, asked me just before recess if the contract was signed prior to the 21st of September. I may say for the information of my hon. friend that the telegram from Mr. Raymond to me was prior to the 21st of September, stating that the contract had been signed, and it was understood that it would be forwarded immediately to the Deputy Minister ,0f Railways and Canals at Ottawa. I observe that in the copy of agreement which is included in the return to the House, and which was signed by the Minister of Railways, the date is given as the 19th of September. Of course that was not the date when my hon. friend signed it, he signed it afterwards, and that evidently was the day when it was signed in New York by the president of the company.
Now my hon. friend for Kings and Albert has been a little disagreeable in the remarks which he made to the committee, and among other things he said as an excuse for not believing that the government was acting bona fide in reference to the supply of rails for this railway, that he was aware of tricks which I have played Mr. PUGSLEY.
in the past, presuming, I suppose, political tricks, and therefore he was justified in giving the worst construction possible to what had taken place. I do not propose to follow my hon. friend and say any disagreeable things with regard to him. I think it does no good to import language or insinuations of that kind into the discussion of an important matter such as this. I am not aware however that ever in my political life I gave any assurance to the public which was not given with the utmost sincerity, or that I ever failed to carry out, so far as I was able, any promises which I had made. Perhaps I may say this-and I hope my hon. friend will not take it offensively-I think that if he has any weakness at all it is a desire, when he gets upon his feet, to say things which are disagreeable, and for which I have no doubt he is exceedingly sorry afterwards. I have no doubt my hon. friend has many uneasy moments after he makes a speech in going over the mistakes which he makes, and he promises himself to do better next time. I only hope that my hon. friend will avoid future errors of that kind, because, underneath what appears to be the disagreeable side of my hon. friend's character, he has a kindly heart; you have to search for it oftenj but still when you do make diligent search, you find it is still there all the same. I should be very sorry indeed to say anything of an unkind nature towards my hon. friend. My only reason for bringing this matter up was to show that whether the hon. gentleman was endeavouring to give a fair and proper impression to the people of Albert county or not, he certainly led them astray when he led1 them to believe that there was any want of good faith on the part of the late government in this very important matter.


I was not here when the hon. gentleman began his remarks. Would he repeat what his answer was to my question?


I said that the telegram from Mr. Raymond to me, stating that the agreement had been signed' in New York, was prior to the 21st of September. I said also that that was further confirmed by the fact that the agreement which is on file, and which is executed by the present Minister of Railways, is dated the 19th of September, two days before the election, and of course in the vicinity of three weeks before the present Minister of Railways assumed office. I take it for granted that he signed the agreement with the date in it which had been put in by the company. It was signed by Mr. Swan, the president of the company.


I asked1 if there was any agreement between the Salisbury-Albert

Railway Company and the government on tile in the department at Ottawa or anywhere else, an executed agreement with Tegard ' to selling rails and transferring rails from the Intercolonial to the Albert road?


I stated the full circumstances last evening. What I said then I am happy to repeat 'now, bec