TAYLOR (New Westminster) moved the adoption of the- first report of the Select Standing Committee to supervise the debates of the House, which reads as follows:
Your committee have had under consideration the subject of the organization of the office of the official reporters, and, with a view to promoting efficiency and economy, would recommend:-
(1)	That the official heretofore styled the
chief reporter be henceforth designated editor of debates, and be given the direction and supervision of the reporting and of all other matters connected with the preparation and publication of the official report other than the translating; and that he be exempted from the work of reporting except in cases of emergency.	,	.
(2)	That one of the reporters be designated associate editor of debates, and, in the absence of the editor, discharge his duties and

have his authority, but when not so acting continue as at present to take his turn at reporting.
(3)	That the official, at present styled assistant to the chief reporter, be designated assistant editor.
(4)	That, to enable this arrangement to be carried out, it is advisable that an additional English reporter be appointed.
(5)	That, with a view of attaining greater efficiency in connection with the reporting, the proper authorities be requested to give effect to the application of two members of the reporting staff who are applying for supex

annuation.
(6)	That the analytical index to the English and French editions of the official .report of the debates of this House be discontinued forthwith.


I would like to have a word of explanation on this report.


There are three recommendations in this report. The first deals with the organization of the ' Hansard ' staff and it is precisely the same as contained in ia report presented to this House last year by the Debates Committee and which stood over because exception was taken to it in that the committee thought tit to recommend certain of the reporters by name, it being considered that in that respect the committee was exceeding its *authority. The report is presented again this year and there is omitted from it anything that seemed to be in excess of the authority of the committee. The first recommendation is that the chief reporter, as he has been called, shall be relieved from duty on the floor of the House and assigned to duty in the ' Hansard ' office as editor and controller of ' Hansard.'
The next recommendation is that another member of the staff shall be known as associate editor, who will take the place of the editor in case the latter is absent; the associate editor to do duty as usual on the floor of the House. In place of the editor an additional member is to be added to the reporting staff. The next division of the report deals with the application for superannuation made by two very old members of the ' Hansard ' staff who have rendered faithful service in their time. They were the very best men in the country, but they are no longer equal to the arduous duties imposed on them, and after . long years of -service they ask to be retired. The committee recommends that the proper authority should give effect to these two applications for superannuation. The last section of -the report d-e-ails with what is known -as the -analytical index. This index was discussed in the House not long ago by the hon. member for North Toronto (Mir. Foster), who stated he -had examined it -and found it was of no use. He -appealed to the Minister of Finance for an opinion and Mr. Fielding replied ias reported in ' Hansard V ' If it is not held against me, I -must s-ay that I have never seen it.' Upon inquiry we have found that this analytical index is some years behind and that the last copy for the session before last was -only delivered in the office of the King's Printer in January of thi-s year. The fact -that no person has noticed that the index i-s two years behind seems . to show that no interest whatever is taken in it. Upon finding that this index cost $4,600 l-ast year to -prepare and print, the committee thought they were performing their duty iu recommending that the index be discontinued. Summarized, the report recommends: the superannuation of tw-o reporters well entitled to superannuation, the -addition of one member to the staff and the abolishing of the index which cost $4,600 a ye-aa: and which is of no use.


May I -ask the hon. gentleman who are the reporters who are recommended for superannuation?


Mr. Duggan and Mr. Abbott.


I think nobody will object to the superannuation of Mr. Abbott and Mr. Duggan. They were very good reporters, as everybody knows, and the House will regret that they have been obliged to ask for superannuation, but of course, as with everybody else, the years of service have told upon them, and they feel they are no longer equal to the arduous task of reporting on the floor of this House. May I ask, if the analytical index is discontinued, whose services will be dispensed with?


I am sorry to say that I cannot tell upon whom this will fall, because, as nearly as I understand it, the persons who have done the work are not the persons to whom the cheques issue.
I think I can tell the persons who have done the work, but I do not know in whose name the cheques issue.


May I ask a question with regard to the appointment of officials upon the ' Hansard ' staff. As I understand it there are now some vacancies, and I noticed in the last issue of the ' Gazette ' an advertisement to which I would call the attention of the House. It is headed ' Civil Service Commission ' and it gives notice to the public that there are vacancies on the ' Hansard ' staff, and it states the requirements for the position of a ' Hansard ' reporter. Some of it is rather amusing. In the first place I had always supposed that vacancies on the ' Hansard ' -staff were to be filled from class ' B ' of the second division, which includes the gentlemen who ere now acting as reporters for the various

committees of the House. There are three gentlemen acting in that capacity, and they are very competent. I think any person who has had experience in the committees of this House for a number of years will bear me out in saying that these gentlemen are most competent. I always supposed that the reporting of the committees was a sort of training school for reporting on the floor of the House, but I find that the Civi'l Service Commission has advertised far and wide throughout the country for persons to come forward and pass the examination. There is no doubt but that some of the questions specified by the Civil Service Commission are necessary, and perhaps the one to which I am going to call attention is necessary too, but it does seem to me that the Civil Service Commission might have been more sparing of the feelings of the members of the House and left this requirement out:
4. Sufficient literary skill to reconstruct in correct and concise form, with proper paragraphing and punctuation, passages containing awkward or ungrammatical expressions, or words inaccurately used.
The Civil Service Commission possibly from practical experience in listening to the debates in this House, seem to think it necessary that a high degree of skill along the lines of reconstruction of sentences should be possessed by any person appointed a ' Hansard ' reporter.


Hear, hear.


However much the Civil Service Commission may be impressed by that idea, it would perhaps have been just as well to have said nothing about it in the advertisement, but to have examined the candidates upon it when they presented themselves for examination.
There are many other things in connection with these examinations which seem peculiar. It is laill very well to pass these examinations, and you may ask what objection would the gentlemen who are now' in Subdivision ' B ' have to pres*enting themselves for examination for promotion to Subdivision ' A ' as ' Hansard ' reporters, but when one comes to look over the list of subjects of which a knowledge must be possessed by candidates, one is not surprised that these gentlemen would rather not present themselves for examination, however well equipped for the general duties of ' Hansard ' reporters they might be. For instance here are some of the subjects:	They are to
write an essay on: * The Follies of Fashion.' Now what in the world 'that has to do with any qualification for a ' Hansard ' reporter I do not know. Some of the members of the ' Hansard ' staff we know are of the ' glass of fashion, and the mould of form.' I have one in my mind's eye at the pre-Mr. FOWLER.
sent time, but 1 think we can leave that to the individual preference of the gentleman himself rather than ask him to be proficient and efficient along those lines. Then also they are to w'rite an, essay on the ' Boy Scouts ' or ' My Favourite Recreation ', w'hether that be at the Golf Club or at the bar, or w'here. Bicycling is another subject. The great snow storm is another.
I suppose, as my hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries suggests, that was on the 21st of September. The ' First Money I Ever Earned ' is another that the examiners may see whether or not the candidate is economical in his business affairs.
It does seem to me that this promotion should be by merit and should be made from the service. I am sure I will be supported by every member of this House who has knowledge of the subject in the statement that the gentlemen who now occupy the positions in Subdivision ' B ' are thoroughly competent and efficient in every way and they have had experience as ' Hansard ' reporters. I think it might very w'ell be left to the chief of the ' Han-. sard ' staff to say whether or not these gentlemen are competent. He would be a better judge of the subject than would be the Civil Service Commission, because he has had a far greater practical experience along these lines than has any gentleman who is an examiner for the Civil Service Commission. The gentlemen now in Class ' B ' have had the very best possible experience to qualify them as ' Hansard ' reporters. They have sat for years in the press gallery of this House. They have gone around the country reporting the speeches of members and the long experience they have had has given them an insight into the political history of this country which it is most essential to any ' Hansard ' reporter to have in order that he may do his work correctly, intelligently and well. It is important, I suppose, that the ' Hansard ' reporters should have the ability to reconstruct sentences because many of us are apt to make errors in hasty extempore speech, but the great essential, it seems to me, is to have a close and in tiraate knowledge of the political history of the country. I hope that the government who have charge of this matter will allow these examinations to go on as the Civil Service Commission have advertised them, but that they will be for men to take the place of the gentlemen now in Subdivision ' B ', who will be promoted to Subdivision ' A '.


I noticed this advertisement in the ' Gazette,' and my attention was brought to this matter in another way. Without wishing to at all interfere with the functions of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners, I must say that, to my

mind, an examination such as appears to be aimed at there, is not the best means of getting the proper men to discharge the important duties of ' Hansard * reporters for this House. I realize, as probably most of the older members realize, that our sentences at times require to be reconstructed, and that a mere slavish report of the proceedings of the House would be very unsatisfactory, particularly to the members who have been guilty of the utterances, and for that reason, I think that a mere competitive examination is not the best means of securing just the men we require as ' Hansard ' reporters. I have a good deal of experience with the three gentlemen who have already been alluded to, Mr. Dickson, Mr. Matthews and Mr. Blue. I know that one or two of these gentlemen received a very bad early education upon ' The Globe 3 reporting staff, but I had experience of them since, and I have great pleasure in certifying to the splendid character of the work they do in the committees where they report. With the experience they have had, I would be very sorry indeed, to see them passed over at this time, when we have an opportunity of placing them upon our regular ' Hansard 3 staff. I believe that the training in the press gallery here, a practical experience of these inaccuracies committed by some of the other members, I am not speaking of myself, and their experience of public life, fit them in the highest degree for ' Hansard 3 work, and I believe that we will be wise in getting from the ranks of those who report our speeches in the gallery, the men to report them on the floor of the House. We have had a happy experience of the aippointment of men from the press gallery to the 'Hansard3 staff, the men thus recruited to that staff have been most efficient reporters, and the three gentlemen to whom I have alluded, are men of that class. I think I am expressing the feeling of a good many members, when I say that I hope no system will be pursued which will compel men who have had that amount of experience and have given such proof of efficiency as they have given, to enter the lists upon a competitive examination, which may be a fairly good test of rapidity and slavish exactitude, but which is not a test of the editorial skill and judgment which is required in a ' Hansard3 reporter.


I am sorry to hear that the committee have decided to discontinue the analytical index. I have found the index very useful myself. It gives a short synopsis of the speeches. _
And it is much easier to refer to it than wade through so many volumes of ' Hansard '. I was surprised to find, on looking through the index, that tlhere were only three or four years in which the English edition was printed at all. I thought at
first that it was continued right from the time the analytical index started, but I find that the English edition was printed one or two years, then discontinued, then started again and kept up a couple of years and then again discontinued. 1 do not know what other hon. gentlemen may-think, but I have found the analytical index very useful, and I trust that it will be continued. I would suggest therefore that the committee should reconsider their report. I think it would be well worth their while to devote some further consideration to this matter, look over it again before coming to the conclusion that this index should be abolished.


I have before me a copy of the analytical index, and I must say it is a most useful compendium of the proceedings of the House. For my part I shall certainly be at a loss in hunting up statements made by minis-terfe and others should this recommendation to abolish the index be adopted. Take, for instance, the second session in 1906 when the policy of constructing the National Transcontinental was being discussed and when the Minister of Railways (Mr. Graham) had, as was naturally to be expected to answer a great many questions, how could one turn up any of these without this index? Do away with it and if you want to refer to any statement made on any subject, you will have to look through three or four volumes of ' Hansard 3. Why should any hon. gentleman he obliged to attempt this if he wanted to find out what was said on any particular occasion or subject? With the aid of an analytical index however he can find without any trouble the particular page where the statement is printed to which he wishes to refer. Take again the naval policy of the late government. The right hon. the leader of the opposition (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) answered a great many queries on that subject, which are to be found scattered through hundreds* of pages of ' Hansard Without the aid of this index, it would be impossible to discover any particular one of these without going to the almost impossible labour of wading through every page of the reports. This index costs about $4,000, and possibly that cost might be cut down by judicious condensation and some of the time be saved that is now taken in making it, but I think the expenditure serves a most useful purpose. If any hon. gentleman wishes to refresh his memory at any time in regard to any debate, he has in the analytical index the most ready adjunct for that purpose. As regards the filling of vacancies on the reporting staff, I think it would be grossly unfair to the gentlemen who are now on the reporting staff of the House of Commons that they should not be given the preference and

the promotion to which they are entitled. Messrs. Dickson, Matthews and Blue have had long experience in this House, they are well known to the members of this House, and have proved themselves most competent at their work. Every hon. gentlemen, particularly from the province of Ontario, who has had anything to do with politics in the past 20 years will know that these gentlemen have attended all the large political meetings in that province and consequently should be more at home in reporting the debates than any new man could possibly be.
I hope the committee will be pleased to withdraw their report, consider the matter and bring down another report, leaving the matter as it was, namely, that the Debates Committee shall consider any applications submitted to them, and then let the House adopt that report as they see fit, and leave out the recommendation to do away with the analytical index.


That portion of the notice in the official ' Gazette,' which deals with the examination of candidates for the position vacant on the ' Hansard ' staff, has nothing to do with the report of the Debates Committee at all. The Civil Service law provides that these vacancies have to be filled in a certain way. In pursuance of that law, I asked the commission to find three men competent to do the work, leaving the competition open to all. Names have been mentioned, no doubt, from their experience as newspaper men and as reporting the proceedings of this House and its committees, they will be more likely to distance their competitors. I have simply taken that which the Act provides should be taken. As regards the other portion of the report, that- is altogether another matter with which the Civil Service Commission have nothing to do, but which [DOT] is entirely in the hands of this House.


I would like to give the opinion to the House of the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Foster), and the late Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding), with reference to the utility of this analytical index. Discussing that subject in the session of 1907-8, the Minister of Trade' and Commerce used these words:
If there is one-useless thing that comes to a member after it is two years old, it is that analytical index to ' Hansard/ which is almost as large as ' Hansard ' itself. I do not know whether anybody ever looks at it. I have looked at it only to wonder how the ingenuity of man could devise anything that could possibly be so useless. You open it and think you are going to get something, but you get a mere fragment, and you have to go to the ' Hansard.' But it comes out some two years after ' Hansard ' and is of no earthly use. It is a large volume, pretty Mr. BENNETT (East Simcoe).
nearly as large as the Trade and Navigation reports. What it pretends to do is to give a digest of what everybody says on every subject, and as it is impossible to do that to any extent or with any accuracy, it defeats the very purpose for which it was intended. It is a perfectly useless piece of mechanism, and I do not see why it is kept on. Other members may find some use for it, hut it has never been of any earthly use to me. Might I ask the Minister of Finance if he ever used it?
Mr. Fielding then said:
If it could not he held up against me, I have never seen it.
I have taken the trouble to inquire of lion, members around me, and have not found one who would say that he had ever used this analytical index. Some of them have never seen it. I certainly never did, and it seems to me perfectly useless that we should spend $4,000 a year on something that nobody ever makes any use of.


I would ask the chairman of the committee to adopt the suggestion of the hon. member for Simcoe (Mr. Bennett), and withdraw the report for the present. The analytical index is certainly a most valuable adjunct to ' Hansard.' In reply to the hon. member for Grey (Mr. Middlebro), it seems to me, speaking from memory, that the hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. FostiCr), on the occasion to which the hon. gentleman refers, afterwards corrected his opinion and withdrew his opposition to the continuation of this index. I speak of course, subject to correction. Now with regard to the appointments on the reporting staff, the Civil Service Commissioners have only followed the law. These appointments have to be made, under the law,' by the members of the Civil Service Commission. I think, however, the commissioners would have shown better judgment if they had asked competitors to write an essay on folly and fashion, and how I earned my first money, or a snowstorm, than have asked them to give us something of the contemporary history of Canada. Messrs. Dickson, Blue and Matthews, who are at present in the employ of the House on the reporting staff of the committee, are very competent men. They are quite familiar with the. political history of Canada, and I think they should come out ahead of anybody else in any competition as regards fitness for work of this kind.


I would suggest that it might be advisable to adopt all of this report except the paragraph relating to the analytical index. As regards the new appointments, the Civil Service Commissioners have to follow the law and cannot take any other course. I entirely concur in the

opinion that the gentlemen on the staff of the committees have been doing excellent work, and should have every consideration possible.


I wish to say that the Debates Committee are entirely in the hands of the House. We had no other idea except to serve the purpose of the House in procuring an efficient report of the debates and in eliminating what we thought to be entirely useless.
We attempted last year to influence the course of things so far as the appointment of the staff is concerned, and found to our regret that we had no power in that connection. It was only because we felt that we would be exceeding our power that we did not make r-~ suggestion this year as to the persons who should be appointed to the debates staff. Speaking for myself, I know very well the three gentlemen mentioned and should be pleased indeed to have authority to recommend their appointment, because I do not think we could get three better men. However, as to the portion of the report which deals with the analytical index, I am quite sure that no member of the Debates Committee wishes to force that on the attention of the House; therefore, _ with the permission of the House, and in deference to the wishes of the right hon. leader of the opposition (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) I ask permission to withdraw that recommendation.


Is it the pleasure of the House that that report be concurred in, with the exception of paragraph 6, which deals with the analytical index?
Report, amended as proposed, concurred in.


Mr. MARTIN BURRELL (Minister of Agriculture) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 100) for the aid and encouragement of agriculture. He said:
Mr. Speaker, in asking leave to introduce the Bill which stands in my name I trust the House will permit a reference to matters which, though not directly explanatory of the Bill, do in a very real sense refer to the reason for introducing a measure of such a character. It will be recalled that, in the speech from the Throne the following passage occurred:
It is essential to recognize that, in a country possessing so great an area of fertile land as that with which this Dominion is happily endowed, the great basic industry is agriculture. My advisers are convinced that the time has come when greater aid and encouragement should be given to those who are engaged in the cultivation of the land. To
this end, a measure will he introduced under which it is hoped that there may be co-operation between the Dominion and the various provinces, for the purpose of assisting and encouraging our farmers to secure the best results in production, and at the same time preserve the fertility of the soil.
This paragraph may be instanced as an implementing of the promise made during the recent elections by the right hon. gentleman, the leader of the House.
Since assuming office as Minister of Agriculture, I have endeavoured to give the question of aid to agriculture in Canada the serious consideration which the importance of the matter warrants. The more closely the subject was studied, however, the more clear it became that a policy of co-operation with the provinces for the betterment of agricultural conditions throughout Canada could not be worked out in any intelligent or satisfactory manner without a thorough examination of the actual agricultural conditions of the country and exhaustive survey of the work being performed by the governments of the various provinces, and without a definite conception of the aims ui the provinces along the lines of agricultural expansion.
Co-operation means something more than mere expenditure of money by federal or provincial authorities. It is true that criticism, perhaps not altogether undeserved, has been directed at governments in this country for not spending enough money in aid of agriculture-. It is not always easy to get the money for such a purpose and we shall agree that, even when obtained, it is not less difficult to spend it wisely. Financial assistance given to provinces, associations or individuals, which results in the tendency to look entirely for external help in the solution of agricultural problems, is certainly not wise assistance. The only justification for increased governmental aid-the very meaning of the word cooperation-is that assistance, while making for the healthy expansion of agriculture, should stimulate individual energy and better enable provinces, associations and individuals to help themselves.
We have been faced with the same difficulties in Canada that have faced the people of other countries. Many of those countries have revolutionized their agricultural methods in recent years and have organized their Departments of Agriculture in such a way that' all branches are directly related to, or closely associated wub, this industry.
Co-operation in its broadest sense has been fairly systematized, working along lines of co-ordination of work with the provinces and with the associations. This is not the time to touch that phase of the subject which is concerned with agricultural co-operative societies though it might be said in passing that the principle has been
adopted to an increasing extent in Europe, and that to-day in Germany alone there is an imperial federation of co-operative societies, which represents externally and officially the interests of more than 19,000 co-operative societies, comprising nearly two million members. There is much to learn from other nations. We are young. The potentialities of our country are of a magnitude not yet grasped by any of us. We have already accomplished much, and if mistakes have been made, or injudicious courses embarked on, there is ample time to rectify the mistakes and direct our energies to better purpose.
As there has been a lack of full co-ordination of practical agricultural work in the past in this -country, between the provincial and federal governments, so also there has been a lack of legislative co-ordination. The British North America Act, article 95, states as follows:
In each province the legislature may make laws in relation to agriculture in the province and to immigration into the province, and it is hereby declared that the parliament of Canada may, from time to time, make laws in relation to agriculture in all or any of the provinces, and in relation to immigration into all or any of the provinces, and any law of the legislature of a province relative to agriculture or immigration shall have effect in and for the province as long as and -as far only as it is not repugnant to any Act of the parliament of Canada.
In respect to this, Lord Carnarvon in a debate in "the House of Lords at the time when the British North America Act was passed remarked:
The real object which we have in view is to give to the central government those high functions and almost sovereign power by which general principles and uniformity of legislation may be secured in these questions that are of common import to all the provinces, and at the same time to retain for each province so ample a measure of municipal liberty and self-government as will allow, and indeed compel them, to exercise those legal powers which they could exercise with great advantage to the community.
He further pointed out that:
There is concurrent power of legislation to he exercised by the central and the local parliaments. It extends over three separate subjects-immigration, agriculture and public works. Of these the two first will in most cases probably be treated by the provincial authorities. They are subjects which in their ordinary character are local, but it is possible that they may have under the changed circumstances of a young country a more general power and therefore a discretionary power of interference is wisely reserved to the central parliament.
Now, Sir, it was having in view these matters which I have touched upon that I became more and more convinced that Mr. BURRELL.
legislation this session designed to embody provisions which would make for a maximum of harmonious co-operation and a minimum of friction between the various parts of Canada was impossible. It seemed clear that it was the duty of the government tq lay a sound foundation for any permanent constructive legislation. Various ways suggested themselves. It might be done-imperfectly I think-through the ordinary channels of the department, involving correspondence with the different provinces. It might be done, also I think imperfectly, by conferences with the various governments of the country. It appeared to me, however, that the purpose the government had in view might better be accomplished by securing the services, if possible, of a man whose practical experience with agricultural problems, and whose broad grasp of agricultural questions should specially qualify him for the performance of this work. It would be his duty to become thoroughly conversant with the conditions, and with the methods carried on in the different provinces; to find out on what lines the educative, legislative and practical agricultural work was- being conducted, and thus put the government in a position which would make for action of a truly co-operative -and stimulative character, and which would tend to the excision of unnecessary duplication, and promote efficiency and progress all round. It was not easy to find such a man, but we believe we have done so, and arrangements are being made by which Mr. C. 0. James of Toronto will devote homself to the task, the nature of which I have outlined. I need hardly state what the House well knows that Mr. James has qualifications peculiarly fitting him for this work; he has been for more than a quarter of a century the deputy Minister of Agriculture for the Province of Ontario-in that capacity he has had much to do with the notable advance that Ontario has made in agriculture; his reputation is more than a provincial one, and I think that the House will agree that substantial benefit will accrue to the country as a result Oif appointing Mr. James as a special commissioner for this work.
This, of course, will involve a severance of Mr. James' relations with the Ontario government, and here I may read to the House what Mr. Duff, Minister of Agriculture, says of Mr. James:
I repeat that you could not do better from the standpoint of Canadian agriculture than to secure the services of Mr. James, and I trust the plan you will evolve will redound very largely to the benefit of the country.
Now, Mr. Speaker, to come directly to the present Bill, it has been felt by the government that, though the general policy in respect to co-operation with the provin-

ces cannot well be worked out under the present conditions, yet it would only be keeping faith to do at least something in the way of aid this year. Accordingly, although I do not want to be understood as necessarily accepting the principle of cash contributions for this purpose as a permanent policy, the Bill which I am asking leave to introduce provides for powers to assist the provinces by means of direct grants of money under agreement between this government and the provincial governments, it being understood, of course, that such moneys will be expended purely for agricultural purposes
The principle upon which grants will be apportioned will be that of division based on population, the census of 1911 governing. The government has given a good deal of consideration to this phase of the matter, and has arrived at the conclusion that the population basis is one which is open to the fewest objections. The question of whether aid of this kind should be given to agriculture need hardly, I think, be debated. We are expending, and have expended, large sums in various public works; we have always liberally assisted railways, have given large subsidies to shipping companies and in various ways contributed financial assistance to the industries of the country. An attempt by more generous financial support to place our great agricultural industry on a better footing is one that I believe will have the cordial support of this House. I may add that there is no desire in this matter to favour this or that of the various provincial governments. We recognize that in every province a government has been placed there by the people, and I am voicing the sentiments of the Prime Minister and his colleagues in saying that the sole purport of this measure is to do what the title declares it is designed for, viz.: to aid and encourage agriculture.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Before the orders of the day are called, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the report in the morning press that a commission is to be appointed to investigate the Farmers' Bank, is correct. Might I ask whether or not the Prime Minister is in a position to make an announcement to the House on the question?


Not in a position to-day; probably to-morrow.


I would like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister whether any decision has been reached to place a sum in
the supplementary estimates for the securing of elevators by lease, purchase, or expropriation.


That question has not yet been formally considered. An announcement will be made in connection with the supplementary estimates.


Might. I ask the right hon. gentleman if he sent the following telegram to Mr. F. W. G. Hauftain:-
F.. W. G. Haultain,
Regina. -
Telegram received. The statement you bring to my attention is utterly untrue. Bill noiw before the House includes power for purchase, lease or expropriation of terminal elevators; an appropriation to be placed in the supplementary estimates for this purpose.
(Sgd.) R. L. BORDEN.


Yes, I sent that, but it is quite true that the supplementary estimates have not yet been formally considered, and that an announcement to the House will be made when that takes place.


Bill (No. 89) to incorporate the Bank of Saskatchewan.-Mr. Knowles.
House in committee on Bill (No. 16) respecting patents of Thomas Wadge.-Mr. Aikins.
Mr. Chairman, before we proceed further with this Bill, I desire to say that this is a measure of very great importance to the public, and especially to the farming community. Unfortunately,
I am not a member of the Private Bills Committee, but perhaps some members of the committee who are here can enlighten the House as to the merits of the proposal contained in this Bill. I understand that this Bill deals with a patent on windstack-ers, that the patent is about to expire and that the Bill is for the purpose of renewing the patent for a further term of years.
I would like to know if that is so, because, if it is, it will add about $100 to the cost of every thresher that our western farmers and our Ontario farmers buy. I understand that every manufacturer of threshing machines in Canada is now making these windstackers, and if we put this Bill through, royalties will continue to be collected to the extent of from $50 t-o $100 on every thresher, Which does not seem to be desirable. I may be wrong, but I am given-to understand that such is the case. I would like some enlightment from a member of the Private Bills Committee.


Under the circumstances mentioned by the hon. member for Sim-

eoe (Mr. Currie), and particularly in the absence of the hon. promoter of the Bill, (Mr. Aikins), I think it well that this Bill should stand.
Progress reported.


House in committee on Bill (No. 84) respecting certain patents of Thomas D. Rambaut.-Mr. Amek.
What are the patents on?


As the member promoting the Bill (Mr. Ames), is not here, you might let it stand.
Progress reported.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Is it the intention of the honourable the Minister of Justice to introduce legislation during the present session with a view to add to the number of judges in the circuit court of Montreal?
2.	Has the minister received petitions from the Montreal Bar on the subject?


The matter is under consideration. Different communications have been interchanged between the minister and representatives of t'he Montreal Bar with regard to it.


1.	Has the postmaster at Whitehead, N.S., been dismissed? If so, for what reason and at whose request ?
2.	Was there an investigation? If so, when and where, and what was the result of the investigation ?
3.	By whom was he replaced, and who recommended his successor?


1.	(a) Yes. (b) For ipolitical partisanship, on recommendation of Mr. G. A. R. Rowlings.
2.	No. The postmaster was asked twice what he had to say in regard to the charge of partisanship, but he evidently could not deny the charge since he twice evaded giving a straight answer.
3.	Mr. G. H. Munroe, on recommendation of Mr. G. A. R. Rowlings.


1.	Has the attention of the Minister of Justice been called to the case of the Attorney Mr. MEIGHEN.
General of Ontario, appellant, and the Hamilton Street Railway Company, respondent, as reported in appeal case 1913, page 521, in which it was decided that ' It is not the practice of their lordships to give speculative opinions on hypothetical questions admitted. The questions must arise in concrete cases and involve private rights.'	,
2.	In view of this decision, does the minister consider he will obtain from the Judicial Councillors of the Privy Council answers to the proposed questions of the right honourable Premier with reference to the issue raised by Bill (No. 3) intituled, 'An Act to amend the Marriage Act? '


1.	Yes.
2.	The minister believes that the questions to be submitted in connection with the proposed amendment to the Marriage Act; will be analogous to those which the court in the case referred to answered, and not to those which it declined to answer.


1.	How many employees, permanent and temporary, in the riding of South Renfrew have been dismissed from the public service since the 21st of September last?
2.	What are their names and when were they dismissed?
3.	Who were appointed in their places and when were such appointments made?
i.	What emolument or salary do the said employees receive?


1.	Department of Marine and Fisheries. One in the Fisheries Branch, who had jurisdiction over the whole county of Renfrew.
2.	Paul Lassman.
3.	No. one.
4.	Answered by No. 3.


1.	What contracts were awarded by the various departments of the government in the riding of South Renfrew since the 21st of September last?
2.	When were such contracts awarded and to whom, for what service and for what amount?


1 and 2. Post Office Department. On October 6, 1911, a contract for rural mail service starting from Arnprior, was awarded to Mr. D. K. Cunningham, at $375 per annum.


1.	How many employees, permanent or temporary, in the riding of North Renfrew have

been dismissed from the public service since the 21st of September last?
2.	What are their names and when were they dismissed?
3.	Who were appointed in their places and when were such appointments made?
4.	What emolument or salary do the said employees receive?


1.	Department of Marine and Fisheries. One in the Fisheries Branch, who had jurisdiction over the whole county of Renfrew.
2.	Paul Lassman, November 7, 1911.
3.	No one.
4.	Answered by No. 3.


1.	-What contracts have been awarded by the various departments of the government since the 21st of September last for services on works in the riding of North Renfrew?
2.	When, and to whom were such contracts awarded, and for what services and amounts, respectively?


1 and 2. Post Office Department. Three mail contracts have been awarded, viz.: Lapasse and Westmeath; on October 9, 1911, a contract for rural mail service between these points was awarded to Mr. Wm. H. Cavanagh at $260 per annum.
Perretton and Government Road Crossing-On November 23 a contract for rural mail service on this route was awarded to Mr. M. Thrasher at $399 per annum.
Lake Dore and Micksburg-On September 22, 1911, a contract for ordinary mail service wa3 awarded to Mr. M. Dick at $200 per annum.


1.	Has the government the right of inspection of joint stock companies incorporated under the law of Canada?
2.	If so, has the government the right to know the names of the shareholders incorporated under the said laws, and will the government give to the House the names of the shareholders of the Canadian Vickers, Limited, Company?


1.	No.
2.	There is no means by which the government may demand from a company incorporated under the Companies Act the names of its shareholders.


1. Has Patrick Conway, lightkeeper at White Head Island, been dismissed? If so,
for what reason and at whose instance?
2.	Was there an investigation?
3.	Was Mr. Conway appointed by order in
council ?	'
4.	Was he dismissed by order in council? If so, on what evidence ?
5.	Who was appointed as his successor?
6.	On whose recommendation was his successor appointed? .


-
1.	(a) Yes. (b) Active political partisanship. (e) G. A. R. Rowlings, Esq.
2.	No.
3.	Yes.
4.	(a) Yes. (b) On the statement of Mr. G. A. R. Rowlings.
5.	Almon Munroe.
6.	G. A. R. Rowlings, Esq.


1.	On what date was the order in council passed appointing Mr. Franpois Octave Dugas, Advocate of Joliette, a judge of the Superior Court for the province of Quebec?
2.	On wliat da*te did) the said Franpois Octave Dugas, receive notice of the order in council or of his appointment.
3.	What is the date of the commission of the said Franpois Octave Dugas, as judge of the Superior Court for the province of Quebec?


1.	September 6, 1909.
2.	September 9, 1909.
3.	September 6, 1909.


1.	Has a charge been laid against J. C. Robitaille, Inland Revenue Officer of Joliette, Quebec?
2.	If so, what is the nature of said charge and by whom was it made?
3.	Has an investigation been held? If so, what was the result of same?


1.	Yes.
2.	Of having, during the last Federal election, acted as a political partisan. The charge has been laid by the. member for the constituency of Joliette.
3.	No investigation has been made as the evidence before the department renders such unnecessary.


1.	Has the government been informed that a tidal wave devasted the Gaspe shore in January last, carrying away several houses, destroying many vessels, fishing tackle, etc?
2.	Does the government intend to aid the fishermen of the Gaspe coast who have been ruined by. this tidal wave?


1.	The Department of Marine and Fisheries has received no information in regard to this matter.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


*	Mr. DEVLIN:
1.	Is it the intention of the government to sell the ' Niobe' and the 'Rainbow?'
2.	If so, what steps have been taken to effect such sale?
1.	The intention of the government will be made known in due course, when its policy in connection with the Naval Service is announced.
2.	Answered by (1).


*	Mr. DEVLIN:
1.	Have any contracts been made since October, 1, 1911, for provisioning the ' Niobe ' and the 'Rainbow'?
2.	If so, with whom, when, and for what length of time?
1.	No.
2.	Answered by (1).


1.	Who were and who are now contractors for the government for the wharfs in deep water at Sorel?
2.	What was the contract price, and what is the balance still due the contractors?


1.	J. E. Beauchemin, Sorel, Quebec. Contract transferred to Messrs. Geo. Mag-nan and A. E. Pontbriand.
2.	(a) Original contract, $125,000; extension authorized by order in council, $37,889.20. Total, $162,889.20.
_ (b) Amount paid to date, $157,660, leaving a balance to be paid, on completion of contract of $5,220.20.


*	Mr. WHITE (Alberta):
1.	How many clocks have been installed at the Printing Bureau, and what was the total cost of each installation?
2.	In what departments or rooms are the
said time clocks used?	.
1.	Fourteen time-recording clocks. Total cost of installation, $2,557.50.
2.	Ground floor: 3 glocks in hallway; 1 in press room.
First floor: 1 clock in general office; 1 in proof-reading room; 1 in linotype room Mr. LEMIEUX
Second floor: 1 clock in bindery, east wing; 1 clock in bindery, centre; 1 clock in parliamentary room, No. 2.
Third floor: 1 clock in bindery, east wingr 1 clock in bindery, centre; 2 clocks in parliamentary room, No. 1.


1.	Has Mr. J. M. Hurley, Dominion Fishery-Inspector, of Belleville, been dismissed? If so, when, by whom at whose request, for what reasons, and on what grounds?
2.	Has the government or any of the ministers received any resolution passed by the Board of Trade of Belleville about Mr. J. M. Hurley since his dismissal? If so, what are the contents thereof and who were the proposers seconders and signatories of said resolution ?
3.	Does the government intend taking any action on above resolutions?


1.	Yes; by Order-in-CounciL 16th December, 1911, at the request of E. Guss Porter, M.P., on the ground of offensive (political partisanship.
2.	The secretary of the Belleville Board of Trade on January 17th ultimo, forwarded a copy of a resolution passed by the Board on motion of Mr. C. M. Reid, seconded by Mr. H. Sneyd. The resolution passed, expressed appreciation of the public spirited services of Mr. J. M. Hurley, and states his co-operation in all matters had always been cheerfully given, and especially in connection with the armouries, railways and the proposed new government docks.
3.	The resolution does not call for any further action.


1.	When was Mr. Napoleon Garceau, advocate of Drummondville, appointed commissioner to hold inquiries against public employees ?
2.	Who recommended his appointment?
3.	What is his salary and how -much does he receive for travelling expenses?
4.	Has he been appointed for a fixed territory and what is the territory?
5.	Does he perform his services for all the departments? If not, for what departments does he act?


1.	16th December, 1911.
2.	Minister of Inland Revenue.
3.	Fifteen dollars per day and actual travelling expenses.
4.	Province of Quebec.
5.	No. Department of Inland Revenue only.


1.	What was the salary paid to waiters m the restaurant of parliament during last session ?
2.	What is the salary paid to waiters this session ?
1896, of H. St. Amour, postmaster, at St. Amour, county of Prescott, and the appointment of his successor.-Mr. Proulx.





For a copy of all letters, petitions, memorials or other documents received by the Prime Minister or any other member of the government, relating to the passage of a federal marriage law or legislation in regard to the so-called effect of the Ne Temere Decree - Mr. Macdonald.
For a copy of all orders in council passed during the last ten years relating to the abolition or regulation of tolls on canals.- Mr. Sinclair.
lor a copy of all letters, telegrams, petitions, charges, complaints, reports and other documents relating to the dismissal of Luke Day, Public Works Department, of North Sydney, C.B.-Mr. McKenzie.
lor a copy of all letters, telegrams petitions, charges, complaints, reports and other documents relating to the dismissal of D.
4ff^na dr'	of the Indian
Affairs, of Baddeck, C.B.-Mr. McKenzie.
ior a copy of all letters, telegrams, petitions, charges, complaints, orders in council, reports or other documents in the possesssion ot the Department of Customs relating to the dismissal of Lyman C. Smith from the customs collectorship at Oshawa, Ontario.-Mr Sinclair..
For a copy of all petitions, letters and memorials received by the Minister of Marine and 1* isheries since the first day of October 1911 protesting against the issuing of a fish trap license to Captain John H. Tliorbum, Sand 1 omt, Shelburne county, Nova Scotia.-Mr Law.
F°r a copy of all orders in council, petitions and memorials, passed or received by the government of Canada, respectively, since July 1, 1908, relating to foreign shipping engaged m the coastwise trade in Canada; and also a copy of all correspondence between the government or any department thereof and any person, company ot corporation relating to the same.-Mr. Kyte.
For a. copy of all documents, reports, letters, complaints, &c., relating to the dismissal in
Resolved, that it is expedient to amend the Civil Service Amendment Act, 1908, by providing for the appointment of an add