WHITE presented the following message from His Royal Highness the Governor General as follows:
The Governor General transmits to the House of Commons Supplementary Estimates of sums required for the service of the Dominion for the year ending on the 31st of March, 1912, and, in accordance with the provisions of the British North America Act, 1867, the Governor General recommends these estimates to the House of Commons.


, moved that His Royal Highness' message together with the estimates be referred to the Committee of Supply.


Motion agreed to.
Hon. ROBERT ROGERS (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill (No. 137) to amend the Volunteer Bounty Act, 1908. He said:	When the original
Volunteer Bounty Act was passed in the month of July, 1908, the limit of time within which to locate land certificates issued thereunder was fixed as the 31at December, 1910. This was considered amply sufficient as it gave the claimants a period of eighteen months within which to exercise their rights of location. A very large number of the claimants complied with the requirements of the law in this regard, but in the spring of 1910 it was felt that those who had not been able to make proper selections should be given a further oppor-
tunity to do so, and with that end in view the Act 9-10 Edward VII., chapter 60, was passed, extending to the 31st December, 1911, the time within which certificates could be located. Evidently, moist of the claimants realized that they had thus been liberally treated by the government, because it is found now that when the time expired on the 31st December last, 250 certificates only, out of a total of 7,258, had not been redeemed by the department in exchange for land. Of these 250 certificates 188 are held presumably by the original volunteers themselves, the remaining 62 having been transferred to substitutes prior to the 31st December last.
The object of the present Bill is to afford an opportunity, until the 31st day of December next, to the original volunteers to exercise their right of location, provided they are willing to remain on the land themselves and earn title thereto. The right of appointing a substitute, as provided under the original Act, will not apply to these volunteers, because it is considered that it would not be fair to the rest of the claimants who -have made their selections within the required time, if the government were to extend more favourable treatment to those who have been dilatory in this regard.
The Act further provides that as regards the outstanding certificates, whether held by the original volunteers themselves, or by their substitutes, the government will undertake to redeem the same by a cash payment of $500 in each case. While it is quite true that in the case of scrip issued to the volunteers of the Rebellion of 1885 extensions for location were granted by parliament from time to time till the year 1908, such a policy would not appear to be in the public interest, as instead of protecting the interests -of the volunteers originally concerned the action of the government has rather been to stimulate speculation in favour of persons who had no direct interest in the settlement of the public domain. It is true that the redemption of the outstanding certificates may involve an expenditure of perhaps $125,000, if all these certificates are exchanged in this way, but the lands that will thus remain vested in the -government will more than compensate for the expenditure.
Is provision made in this Bill for the recognition of the -services of the volunteers who served in repelling the Fenian Raid of 1866? .


The Bill does not contain anything in that regard.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Bill (No. 133) respecting the Methodist Church.-Mr. Aikins.
Bill (No. 134) respecting the British Columbia and Dawson Railway Company. -Mr. Goodeve.
Bill (No. 135) respecting the Vancouver Fraser Valley and Southern Railway Company.-Mr. Stevens.
Bill (No. 136) to incorporate the Prince Edward and Hastings Railway Company. -Mr. Hepburn. '
Bill (No. 138) to incorporate the Winnipeg and St. Boniface Harbour Commissioners.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has Lawrence Braine, Esq., M.D., medical attendant for Indians at Chester, N.S., been dismissed from office?
2.	If so, upon what grounds was such dismissal made?


1.	Yes.
2.	Active political partisanship.


1.	Has S. W. Hagerty been dismissed from
the position of inspector of the new railway station which is being erected at Mulgrave, N.S.? If so, w-hy?	_	_	_
2.	At whose -instance -was this dismissal made?
3.	Will an investigation be granted?
4.	Has any one been appointed in his place? If so, who and on whose recommendation?


1.	Yes. For participation in revision of voters' list, Mulgrave, February 20, 1912.
2.	G. A. R. Rowlings and Edgar L. Hadley.
3.	It is not considered necessary.
4.	No. No inspector is required as the work is practically completed.


Was Alderic Gauthier, employed as a painter on the Soulanges Canal, dismissed? If so, who requested his dismissal, and who has replaced him?


Alderic Gauthier, painter, on the Soulanges Canal, was suspended by the overseer, for repeatedly absenting himself from his work without leave. He was temporarily replaced by Stanislas Houle.


1.	Is Doctor E. Montpetit the dispenser of patronage in Vaudreuil?
2.	Has he sent to the Postmaster General a petition signed by the residents of the

municipality of Point Fortune, praying the minister not to dismiss William Brown, the postmaster of that place?


1.	In the Post Office Department as well as in the other departments, appointments in the County of Vaudreuil and elsewhere are made by the minister.
2.	No such petition has been received.


Wa3 Henry Fritz, fisheries overseer in Annapolis, removed from office? If so, for what cause and at whose request was the dismissal made?


Yes. For offensive political partisanship, at the request of and on the complaint of Mr. A. L. Davidson, M.P.


1. Has Wesley Goucher lightkeeper of Margaretsvilie, Annapolis county, N.S., been removed from his position? If so, what was the ground of dismissal and upon whose complaint?


1.	(a) Yes.
(b)	Owing to age, and very violent political partisanship.
(c)	A. L. Davidson, M.P.


1 Were repair shops to be erected at Quebec and Winnipeg for the National Transcontinental railway by the late government?
2.	If so, were they to be erected at the public expense?
3.	Were such repair shops intended to be for the use and benefit of the Grand Trunk Pacific and the Grand Trunk railway?


1.	Yes. The erection of shops near Winnipeg was commenced in 1909. No shops have been erected at Quebec, but a site near that city is now in course of preparation.
2.	Yes.
3.	Yes.


1.	Does the government intend to grant a subsidy to assist in the construction of the St. John Valley Railway to Grand Falls?
2.	If so, will the government require that the contract be signed so that it will be built to Grand Falls before any subsidy is granted to help out any portion of said" railway?


1.	A subsidy was granted in 1910 for a line of railway from Grand Falls to St. John, New Brunswick.
2.	Any subsidy granted by the Governor in Council must be in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidy Act.


What quantities of rails are on loan or have been advanced from the Intercolonial railway to the Hillsborough Branch railway or the Albert ^Manufacturing Company of Hillsborough, N.B.?


1.	Two thousand and ninety-five decimal four (2,095-4) tons of rails and plates and fifteen thousand five hundred and ten pounds (15,510) second-hand bolts were delivered to the Salisbury and Albert railway, under an agreement by which they were to pay at the usual rates, or in the event of the government taking over the railway as a branch line, the amount to be deducted from the purchase of the railway.
No rails were loaned or advanced to the Albert Manufacturing company, of Hillsborough; they paid for the rails delivered to them, at the usual price.


, l-.What rural mail routes have been established by the present government?
2.	How many requests have been received by ithe Post Office Department for the establishment of rural mail routes?
3.	Have all applications been granted? If not. what is the reason?


This question had better take the form of a motion for a return.


* Mr. MURPHY:
1.	Is there any record of the naturalization of Frederick Passmore Gutelius in any department of the government?
2.	If so, what is the date of such naturalization and of the departmental record thereof?
3.	Did the Minister of Railways and Canal9 obtain in the Department of Railways and Canals the information contained in his answer to question No. 6 on page 4323 of Unrevised ' Hansard/ 1912?
4.	On what date did Messrs. Gutelius and Lynch Staunton begin their investigation of the affairs of the National Transcontinental railway ?
1. No.

49SO
2. Answered by No. 1.
3- Yes.	.	.	.	.4.	Mr. Gutelius began his investigation on February 1,	1912, and Mr. Lynch
Staunton on February 5, 1912.


Has the government considered the advisability of introducing vote by ballot during divisions in the House or otherwise, instead of open voting as at present?


No.


* Mr. MACDONALD:
1.	Has the Minister of Railways received any resolution or memorial from the Montreal Board of Trade asking that the Intercolonial railway be placed, as regards its freight and passengers, under the control of the Railway Commission?
2.	Does the minister intend to introduce any legislation for this purpose?
1.	Yes.
2.	Not at the present session.


Has Mr. Guillaume Narcisse Ducharme tendered his resignation to the hon. the Minister of Public Works as a member of the Commission of Inquiry? If so, at what date and was it accepted?


No. There is nothing in departmental records.


Has the Returning Officer of the county of Joliette in the election of 21st September last, received full payment of his account? If not, when will this account be paid?


The returning officer for the county of Joliette has not received full payment of his account. A payment of $629.72 was made on the 22nd of November last, and items amounting to $99.25 were placed in suspense. Upon explanations received from the returning officer, a further payment of $63.20 was made on March 12.
An amount of $32.40 still remains in suspense, and if satisfactory explanations are received from the returning officer, part of this amount may be paid.





For a copy of all papers, correspondence, telegrams, &c., concerning the dismissal of Joachim Godbout, lighthouse keeper at St. Laurent, Isle of Orleans, county of Montmorency.-Mr. Lemieux.
For a copy of all papers, letters, telegrams, &c., concerning the appointment of Guillaume Narcisse Ducharme as a member of the Commission of Inquiry?-Mr. Lemieux.
For a copy of all letters, papers, documents, memoranda, telegrams and correspondence relating to the resignation of Donald E. McLean, late postmaster at Inverness, N.S.- Mr. Chisholm (Inverness).
Rt. hon. R. L. BORDEN (Prime Minister) moved:
That on and from Thursday, the 14th instant, and until the end of the session, the House shall meet at 11 o'clock in the morning, and that in addition to the usual intermission at 6 o'clock, p.m., there shall also be an intermission every day from one to three o'clock, p.m.; and that the House shall meet on Saturdays, on and after the 16th instant to the end of the session, subject to the same rules; and that the order of business on Saturdays shall be the same as on Thursday.
He said: I propose to amend this motion by striking out all the words after ' Three o'clock p.m.' It is found that there might be some inconvenience from taking next Saturday.
Mr. Speaker, I would suggest to my right hon. friend (Mr. Borden) that it would perhaps be inconvenient to many members if morning sittings were commenced to-morrow. Generally, there is more notice given to members so that those who leave for their homes on Saturday may make their preparations accordingly. If my right hon. friend would agree to it I would suggest that the morning sittings commence only on Monday. Before we pass the motion, if it suits the view of my right hon. friend, I would ask him if we have now before the House all the measures which are to be brought down by the government. I understand that there is, on the part of the government, a desire to prorogue at an early date and we have no desire at all on our side to interfere with that laudable intention. At the same time, it would be more satisfactory to all on both sides of the House if we knew whether the government had anything more to bring down. I understand that supplementary estimates for this year are to be brought down. I would ask my right hon. friend if there are to be supplementary estimates for the coming year ?

Mr.. BORDEN. There will be supplementary estimates for the coming year and they will be brought down as soon as possible. It is for that reason I am proposing not to take Saturday for the present.


That is the coming Saturday ?


Yes, we are omitting that. I would have liked to commence the forenoon sittings to-morrow, if it had been convenient. However, if my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) is really anxious that they shall not begin to-morrow, I will acquiesce in his proposal to postpone them until Monday. As far as measures are concerned, I think it is probable that one or two other measures will be introduced, but I do not think there will be anything of an important character. I hope to give my right hon. friend full information in regard to them not later than Monday. I beg to move the motion which may be amended by substituting ' Monday, the 18th ' for ' Thursday, the 14th.'
Motion as amended agreed to.


On the orders of the day being called.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw the attention of the hon. Postmaster General (Mr. Pelletier) to a certain return in connection with papers, etc., that have reference to the filling of the vacant post office inspectorate at Moosejaw. The House ordered this return on the 22nd of January last, almost two months ago now. A week ago last Monday, nine days ago, I called the attention of the minister to the return and he said he would try to expedite it. There was no word of it to-day, and I asked by telephone of the minister's private secretary at the minister's office about it, and that gentleman, after consultation with the Postmaster General, said that all that was left for me to do was to bring it up in the House again. That is all I do now, but if it is not brought down very soon I shall speak about it at greater length and in a more effective manner.


Oh, don't.


That is a promise, not a threat.


The papers will be brought down as soon as they are ready.


The Pustmaster General was courteous enough to answer my question by saying that the papers would be brought down when they are ready; a kind of answer that, speaking from an experience of a good many years in this House, I have never yet heard given by a minister to a member.


Order.


I have a question to ask; am I out of order, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. gentleman is mot putting a question; he is commenting on an answer which has just been given.


And I am not done commenting on it yet; some other day I will comment further on it. I want to ask the Postmaster General if he can give me any information as to when the papers will be ready to be brought down?


Order.
Mr.- SPEAKER. All that the rule provides is that it is the duty and the right of a minister of the Crown, or of a private member, to answer a question in his own way and according to his own judgment.


I have asked the Postmaster General a question now, Mr. Speaker, and if he has no wisdom and no judgment in the matter, he need not answer.


Order.


That statement is a reflection on a member of the House and is scarcely (permissible. I think the hon. member (Mr. Knowles) ought to retract.


Of course I bow to your ruling, Mr. Speaker. However, I do not understand the ruling; if I did understand it I would be


Order.


The rufe is that no member can reflect upon any act of the House, nor can he attribute improper motives to any member of the House in regard to what he does.


Very good then, Mr. Speaker, I would ask permission to say that I did not make a reflection. I understood you to say that a minister of the Crown might answer according to his judgment and wisdom a question asked. I asked the Postmaster General a certain question, which was not answered, and I say if he answers that in his wisdom and judgment well and good; and if he has no wisdom and judgment on it, well and good also.
Mr. (SPEAKER. The hon. member (Mr. Knowles) is not a young member of the House and he ought to know that he cannot evade the plain rules of the House in an indirect way, when he cannot do so in a direct way. It is not in accordance with the rules that an hon. member should take an indirect method of reflecting on the I conduct of another member of the House.


I would like to ask the hon. Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Burrell), if the census returns for Saskatchewan have yet been fully completed1, and if so, has any detailed or official information been given to any one in that province?


I will look into that question. I would like the hon. gentleman to have put it in the form of a question on the order paper, as I do not quite gather the drift of it. We have had some correspondence, but I believe it has all been finished, and that the returns giving every detail have been compiled up to date. I am not aware of any subsequent alterations, but if the hon. gentleman will ask me for it I will get all the information from the department.


I would1 draw the attention of the House to the fact that I have noticed during the present session a tendency to ask a great many questions which can only properly be asked, according to our rules, and the English rules, after they have been put on the notice paper. It is scarcely lair to expect that ministers of the Crown shall be prepared on the spur of the moment, without previous notice, to answer any question that may be asked. Therefore, I think it would be advisable if hon. members on both sides would observe that good rule as far as possible.


Mr. Speaker, I think it is only right that I should call your attention to the record1 contained in * Hansard ' of last night's vote. I see by the official report of the debates that the hon. member for Montreal, St. James (Mr. Lapointe), voted ' yea ' on the amendment moved by the hon. member for Yamaska (Mr. Lamarche), while on the same page- 5038-he is set down as being paired. In the list of pairs the name of Mr. Lapointe appears opposite that of Mr. Carrick. It is apparent that there is a mistake. I do not intend to blame anybody, but if t(he hon. member for Montreal, St. James, voted * yea ' he could not be paired with the hon. member for Rainy River and) Thunder Bay (Mr. Carrick), so, I think, in the absence of my non. friend from Montreal, St. James, that I should1 ask to have this corrected. There is another question. On the same page I see:
Amendment negatived, and Bill read the third time and passed.
For myself, I understood-and I think a great many other hon. members on this Mr. SPEAKER.
side of the House, perhaps not on the other side, also understood-that the third reading of the Bill concerning the Kee-watin boundary was passed on the same division as that of the amendment. Yet it appears in the ' Hansard ' that the Bill was read1 a third time and passed. I understood it was passed on the same division as that of the amendment. I wished to record my vote, and had I understood the contrary I would have asked that the division be taken in order that hon. mem-bens who voted* on the Bill might have had an opportunity of recording their votes, and thu3 showing their own ideas on the question.


In reference to that, I think the question was asked whether it was the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion, and I did not hear any one request that it be adopted on the same division reversed. Therefore, I declared the motion carried.


I made that request.


It may have been made but in the confusion and excitement which usually prevail after the taking of a vote sometimes the Speaker cannot hear what is said, and I presume that this has been an example of it.


Well, it ought to bet corrected, Mr. Speaker.


I do not think it can be corrected now, unless by moving a formal motion.


I hope that the record of the vote of my hon. friend from Montreal, St. James, will be corrected.
' Mr. SPEAKER. I understand that the House takes no cognizance of pairs. That should be arranged between the whips and the ' Hansard* ' reporters.


The hon. gentleman (Mr. Ethier), will get satisfaction by the statement which he makes today.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to inquire from the hon. Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Burrell), if he has received a copy of a resolution adopted by
the Chamber of Commerce, of Beauceville, in the district of Quebec,' for the establishment of a quarantine for animals at that place. The reason I make the inquiry is that the letter which transmitted to me this resolution states that it was addressed to the Minister of Customs, and as it was

addressed the day before yesterday perhaps the minister has not yet received the copy.


I cannot recall the receiving of such a letter, but I will make inquiry in the department.


I have a copy of it, and if the minister does not receive it to-day or to-morrow I shall be very glad to send it to him. '


['The debate will continue to-morrow, ard the arrangement is to close it.']
WHITE (Minister of Finance) moved that the House go into Committee of Ways and Means. He said: Mr. Speaker, for the first time it becomes my privilege to present the annual statement of the financial affairs of the Dominion commonly known as the budget speech, and I trust, Sir, that standing as I do in the place of so many distinguished and experienced predecesors, myself a new member of the House and with but .a limited experience in office, it may not de deemed unfitting if I request a reasonable degree of indulgence in the discharge of the important and responsible duty which now devolves upon me. And, at the outset, I desire to congratulate the House and the country upon the abundant prosperity, which, under Providence, this great Dominion continues to enjoy in ever-increasing measure. In these congratulations, I am sure that all the members of this House, irrespective of party affiliations, will heartily join ais loyal and patriotic Canadians rejoicing in the welfare of our common country. Under	the	circumstances
of the present session, it is necessary in considering the	finances of the
Dominion, to cover three periods, namely,


Aotual.
Revenue	$117,780,409 78
Expenditure	
87,774,198	32Surplus	
30,006,211	46
the fiscal year 1910-11, the fiscal year 1911-12 and the fiscal year 1912-13. As the accounts for the year 1910-11 were not finally closed when the budget speech of 1911 was delivered by my predecessor on April 4 last, an estimate of the result was placed before the House. Since then the accounts have been completed and issued and have been made public for some time, so that a review need not be of an extensive character. The fiscal year 1911-12 nominally closes on the 31st of March, but an extension of ak least a month is necessary to complete the payments for the services of that year. It will be some time after that before the accounts are finally closed, and the ultimate outcome is a matter of estimate, based upon experience and a knowledge of the characteristics of the various services for the period yet to elapse. The estimates for the fiscal year 1912-13 have been placed before the House and supplementary estimates have yet to be brought down. It will be obvious- that with regard to a year not yet begun there can be no such reasonable certainty of approximate calculation as exists in the case of the current year. Reviewing now more particularly the several periods under consideration, and beginning with the year 1910-11, it will be found that the general financial results for that year did not materially differ from the anticipations of the last budget speech. Dealing, in the first place with what is known as Consolidated Fund, or what might be regarded as the ordinary revenue and ordinary expenditure of the country, it will be found that the -actual revenue for 1910-11 amounted to $177,780,409.78 against an estimate of $117,500,000 and the expenditure to $87,774,198.32 against ian estimate of $87,000,500. The following tabulated -statement shows the result r
Estimated.	Greater Less than
than Estimated. Estimated. $117,560,000	$280,409 78
87,000,000	774,198 32
30,500,000		 $493,788 54
I should like to point out to the House that the revenue for the year 1910-11 was a record figure, and it may assist us to some extent to appreciate the increase in the revenue in recent years to say that this revenue of $117,780,409.78 is more than double the revenue received in 1901-02.
The difference between the ordinary .revenue and ordinary expenditure-$30,006,211.-
Custoims	
Excise	
Post Office	
Railways	
Miscellaneous	
46 was available for what have been known as Capital and Special .charges.
The expenditure of $87,774,198.32 is more than double that of the year 1899-1900. The sources from which the revenue of the year was derived and the amount irom each respectively and their comparison with the preceding year were as follows :
1909-16.
It will appear from this that of the total consolidated revenue fund 62 per cent was derived from customs and 14 per cent from excise, that is to say these two services accounted for over three-fourths of the revenue. In the case of customs the increase over the previous year was. at the rate of over 21J per cent. Excise and postoffice revenue increased at the rate of 10i per cent and 15 per cent respectively. On the total revenue the rata of increase was 16 per cent. The increase in the customs revenue of course arose from the increased importations for the year.
The total imports entered for consumption in 1910-11 were $461,951,318. The amount of increase over the previous year was $86,118,302. The average rate of duty on these imports, both dutiable and free, was 16 '145 per cent. The average rate of duty on dutiable goods entered for consumption in 1910-11 was 25-797 per cent. I may say that very little change has taken place in these average rates in recent years.
The revenues from excise are mainly derived from spirits, tobacco and malt. In the case of each of these there was an appreciable increase over the revenues derived in 1909-10. Although the total consumption has increased to some extent it does not appear that the per capita consumption has increased materially.
With regard to post-office and railways the revenue shows a substantial increase due, to the general increase in business throughout the country.
We turn now to the expenditure for the year. On account of consolidated fund it reached -the sum of $87,774,108.32. That was an increase of $8,362,451.20 over the expenditure for the previous fiosal year. This is a fairly large increase but I think it only fair to say that in 1910-11 there were included in consolidated fund expenditure certain items which in preceding years had been made a charge against capital. These items were: militia, $1,372,405.09; Dominion lands, $976,024.94. To these may be added expenditure upon naval service, which was of a new character, and amounted to $1,790,017.16. In addition to the expenditures which I have mentioned and which are called consolidated fund _ expenditures, that is the ordinary running expenditures of the country, there w-ere very large and substantial outlays charged to capital and special accounts. In detail these were as follows:
$23,487,986 19 Other railways, canals and ipublio
works	
7,364,977	19Railway subsidies	
1,284.892	04Bounties	
1,597,663	48Various miscellaneous items, including cost	of	loans	
1,286,911	39Total	$35,022,430 29
Mr. WHITE (Leeds'
| I do not propose to criticise any of these amounts that have been charged to special account, but I wish ' to make the observation-aind I am glad to learn that my predecessor was finally led to come to the same conclusion-that bounties in my judgment should have been charged to consolidated fund expenditure.
There is another item to which exception might be taken, but I do not take exception to it now because, to be frank, I am not quite clear in my own mind with regard to it, that is the item of railway subsidies. I am aware that not only with the late government, but with preceding governments, there has been a practice of charging to special accounts, in the nature of capital accounts, railway subsidies, I suppose upon the theory that these subsidies are a benefit to railways and railways benefit the country for years to come, and that consequently railway subsidies might be looked upon as, in a sense, a contribution to what might be deemed national assets. There is very much to be said for that view and there is a clear distinction not only in private but in company and, I believe, in national finance between capital expenditure and ordinary expenditure. I believe that sometimes that has been disputed, but I think it can hardly be seriously disputed. In national finance we have to expend very large sums of money upon great undertakings, such as government railways, canals and terminals, public buildings of a costly character for national use which may be truly designated and described as permanent assets, and which will remain for the benefit of the nation practically for all time, or at all events for a great number of years. Now it would seem to me very unreasonable that out of the revenues for the year we should expect to meet the expenditures upon national undertakings such as I have described. and1, therefore, so far as my judgment goes it is	proper	that thereshould be a distinction observed -between capital expenditure and consolidated fund expenditure.	That	distinction has beenobserved, I think, not only by the late government, but 'by practically every government since confederation. Coming back to the fiscal year under consideration it will be necessary in order to arrive at the net result of its operations to set off against the capital and special expenditures	which	I have	mentionedamounting to $35,022,430.29, the excess of revenue	over	running	expenses,
commonly called surplus, amounting as above stated to $30,006,211.46, also the expenditure on account of the investments for sinking funds which represents an outlay for the purchase of securities

to be retained practically in our own hands. The expenditures for sinking fund are made from the consolidated fund account, and amount to the sum of $1,203,416.40. Then there were sundry refunds to the amount of $39,296.73, making a total of $31,248,924.59. Now deducting this amount from the total oapital and special expenditures, which I have given of $35,022,430.29, it will be found that the net debt of the Dominion was increased as the result of the year's operations, that is to say the operations of the year 1910-11, by the sum of $3,773,505.70. I must say that I regard that from the financial standpoint as a satisfactory condition: it shows how the very large capital and special expenditures were substantially met by the revenues of the year. The increase of debt, namely, $3,773,505.70 is certainly not large. It may be properly described, I think, as comparatively small. I come now to the revenues for the year 1911-12. Nominally the year will end on the 31st March current, hut under the provisions of the law a period of three months is allowed for finally closing up the year's business, which period, I understand, has been gradually cut down in practice to about a month, so that it will be over two months before the books are finally closed. I will, however, endeavour to give an estimate, or to indicate my anticipations, with regard to the outcome of the year. Up to the end of February we received by way of revenue the sum of $120,645,616.85. To this must be added the revenues of the current month, and also the revenues attributable to the current year, which will be received after the 31st March and during the period which I have mentioned, because it takes some time to finally close the accounts in a country of such large distances as we have. Now basing my estimate upon what was received for the corresponding period of last year, with a proportionate increase in keeping with the increases of the past few months, I anticipate that for the current fiscal year, when the books are finally closed, the revenue will reach a total of $136,000,000.


Hear, hear.


I am very glad indeed to hear hon. gentlemen on both sides express their appreciation of this estimate of $136,000,000.' If the estimate is correct, and I believe it will be found to be substantially so, it is a matter of congratulation to both sides of this House and to the public, that the abounding revenues of this country have kept up as they have. As I say, we must drop party affiliations in connection with the budget and rejoice in the welfare of our common country. Up to the end of February 1912, there has been
an expenditure of $77,145,824.97, an increase of $6,557,953.20 over the corresponding expenditure at the end of February of last year. The supplementary estimates have been laid to-day on the table of the House, and taking them into account, and the requirements for the balance of the fiscal year, I think it will be found when the books are closed that the payments on account of the consolidated fund will approximate the sum of $97,000,000. The estimated revenue for the current year, with which I am now dealing, being $136,000,000, there will therefore be a surplus of consolidated fund revenue over consolidated fund expendture of $39,000,000 available for capital and special outlays; I am sure I can congratulate both the House and the country upon what is undoubtedly a record year for the Dominion. I do not know how to quite share that congratulation up, but as my right hon. friend (Mr. Borden) came into power on the 6th of October, and my right hon. friend the leader of the opposition was in power prior to that date, there is probably glory enough to go round, and it would be the judgment of Solomon that each be entitled to one-half, at all events to a part of the credit for the return which I am now presenting to the House.


Let .us say one-tenth.


Of course we must not forget that we must give due credit to Providence, to our great natural resources, to the rich fertility of this wonderful country, to our vast stretches of agricultural land, to our mines, our forests and our fisheries, and we must not overlook the people of this country and their character and energy, and enterprise and ability. Having done that, whatever glory may be left, whatever credit may be attributable in any measure to legislative agency, let us apportion, as I have suggested, let us divide it up half and half. The capital outlay for 1911-12 have been extensive on account of the large undertakings now being carried on. It is estimated that the capital and special outlays for the Transcontinental railway for the different railways, canals, and public works, for railway subsidies and for the various other items in this category will total $34,000,000.
To this must be added whatever is paid to the credit of the Receiver General on trust account by way of implementing in cash the guarantees under the terms of the National Transcontinental Railway Act and the Act of this session in this regard. Assuming that amount to be in round figures $5,000,000, the total will be increased to $39,000,000.
Now let me say with regard to this large amount of $5,000,000 which, as I say, will be paid into the credit of the Receiver

General in trust, that I considered very carefully whether we would be justified in deducting that from the consolidated revenue fund, that is to say, in paying it out from the running expenses of the year as distinguished from capital and special charges, and I came to the conclusion that it would not be quite fair to do so. True, it is in the nature of a loss., a loss that the country must pay; on the other hand, it may be regarded as analogous in some measure to a railway subsidy; and as I desire to be absolutely fair in the presentation of the budget, I came to the conclusion that it would be better to treat the $5,000,000 as a special account, as if it were analogous, so to speak, to a railway subsidy. Therefore, I add the $5,000,000 which will be paid to the credit of the Receiver General in trust, to the $34,000,000 of capital and special expenditure which I have mentioned, and I reach a total of $39,000,000. Now, taking the revenue of the year, which I have mentioned, and taking this capital and special expenditure of $39,000,000 into consideration, on this basis the net outcome of the year would be a reduction of the debt by $1,150,000, on the following computation :
Revenue	 $136,000,000
Add sinking fund	 1,150,000

Consolidated Fund expenditure	$97,000,000
Capital and special expenditure	 39,000,000

 136,000,000
Reduction of debt	$ 1,150,000
Now, Mr. Speaker, what does this mean? It means that out of the abounding revenues of this country, we shall provide for the ordinary current expenditures of the *Dominion, for all those large capital outlays which I have mentioned, and which this growing country has required during the year for services of every kind, and at 'the same time that we shall be able to 'make a reduction of the public debt to the extent of $1,150,000. That means, we have more than paid our way, and our surplus has been such that all capital and special charges have been extinguished. Now I am aware that exception may be taken to a statement of that kind. It may be said that the surplus is too large, that it is not proper that we should be able to pay off all the current expenses of the year, and at the same time take care of such a large capital expenditure as has been made during the past year. Personally I am in favour of a substantial surplus, and I give the House my reasons.
In the first place, we are not certain that we shall always have the present prosperity. I trust we shall, and every hon.


gentleman in the House trusts we shall; and I see no reason whatever to suppose that there will be any change in the immediate future, or even for some years ahead, so far as I can foresee. I see no reason for believing that the present prosperity will not continue. But at the same time there is always the possibility, and, therefore, I think it well that the country should have such a revenue in excess of the current expenditure that we may take care to some extent, and even in large measure, of the capital expenditures which are necessary in the constructive period of a country such as this. Now if we had to borrow for all such capital expenditures the national debt of this country would be greatly increased, and if the national debt were greatly increased it would follow, it seems to me, that our national credit might be to some extent impaired. None of us, I am sure, would like to see that. Not only so, but if there should come, by any chance, in the distant future an adverse period, when times are not as prosperous as they are at present, it would be well indeed if we should have the credit of the country at the highest possible standard in order that we then might be able to borrow. Because I believe in national finance, that we should provide for capital expenditures in times not only of prosperity, but in times that are not prosperous, when money is cheap, when great national undertakings may be carried on by the use of the credit of the country, because that helps us to tide over a period of depression; and if the money is widely 'expended you have national assets, you have the national undertakings from the money obtained upon the strength of the credit.
Now coming to the fiscal year 1912-13, which begins on the 1st day of April next, at this date, of course, it is impossible to do more than state in general terms the prospects as to the .revenues on the one hand and the expenditures on the other. With regard to the former, there appears to be every hope that during the fiscal year 1912-13 they will show an appreciable advance over the estimated amount of $136,000,000, for the current fiscal year. As to the expenditures, the main estimates for 1912-13 have been before the House for some time. They amount to $149,789,677.68, composed of $104,119,304.86 for consolidated fund service and $44,870,372.82 for capital outlay.
These expenditures will be increased, of course, by the supplementary estimates to be brought down. I expect to bring these down probably in the course of a couple of weeks. It is possible also, on the experience of the past, that further supplementary estimates may be brought down later in the year when parliament again meets,

but, of course, I have no certainty as to that. Between the total estimates for all services for 1912-13, therefore, and the anticipated revenue of the same year, there would be an appreciable, even a large, deficiency to be provided for. But it must be borne in mind there is a difference between estimated and actual expenditure. That is well illustrated in the case of the last fiscal year. Experience shows that of the total amount estimated, very considerable sums lapse. That is the experience of every year. In some years, of course there are more lapses than in others; variation takes place according to the closeness of the estimates and the ability to expend in the respective cases. For example, take the year 1911-12. The estimates already voted amount to $156,079,538.73. These were the estimates of the late government partially adopted by this government last fall. If we add the supplementary estimates which I have to-day laid on the table amounting to $2,600,000, we find the total-the appropriations for 1911-12-to amount to $158,679,538.73. The anticipated expenditure for consolidated fund services and all capital and special outlays, is as I estimated, $131,000,000, showing the very large amount of upwards of $27,000,000 which will remain unexpended, and will lapse. Therefore, notwithstanding that the total amount of the main estimates for 1912-13 is $149,789,688.68-which, I may say, is less by $8,000,000 than the total appropriation for the present fiscal year and which we shall have to supplement by estimates this session and by further estimates, as I have said, in the coming fall-I feel confident that at the end of the present fiscal year the revenues of the country will have proven sufficient to meet not onlv the current expenditures, but to provide at least a part, and, I believe, a substantial part of that class of expenditures which have been known as capital or special expenditures and for which, so far as the capital expenditures at least are concerned, the government would be justified in borrowing.
It will he observed in connection with the estimates for the coming fiscal year that very liberal expenditures have been provided for. We are in the growing period of the nation and the government must do its part. The increase of our transportation facilities, improvements of and extensions to our canal and railway systems, the deepening of our harbours and waterways, the continuation of adequate terminals at our great ports-all these with other necessary minor public works are the proper subject of public expenditure; and I believe that for these purposes generous appropriations will be approved by the people of Canada. The greatest
problem we have to-day, in my judgment, _ is the problem of transportation -to give our people access to the markets of the world. We have to-day a congested situation in the west. There was a late harvest. The railways have been overtaxed. Hon. gentlemen representing the west and indeed hon. gentlemen on both sides of the House are anxious that we should provide more railway accommodation for the west, more spouts-to use a common expression-for the western traffic. The government is committed to the project of building the Hudson Bay railway. The Canadian Northern Railway Company is extending its transcontinental line to Vancouver. The Grand Trunk Pacific Railway Company, part of the National Transcontinental system, is pushing on to Prince Rupert. In time, we shall have the opening of the Panama canal. Questions will arise as to moving the wheat to the west and providing terminal facilities for that traffic. Great capital expenditures will be required to provide facilities both on the Atlantic and on the Pacific. We must provide adequate expenditures for all these purposes. And if, as I have said, the money is expended wisely and economically, I believe that any government of Canada at this stage of the country's development will have the hearty support ,of the people in making those expenditures.
Now, I have dealt with the three fiscal years with which-it was necessary I should deal in presenting to the House the financial affairs of the Dominion. I come now to the question of the Dominion debt. The net debt of Canada, as at 31st of March, 1911, was $340,042,052.03. This, figure is arrived at by taking the gross debt which amounts to $474,941,487.42 and deducting therefrom the assets amounting to $134,899,435.39. These assets are as follows:
Sinking funds	$ 11,196,825 90
Sundry investments	
27,501,851	20Province accounts	
2,296,129	12Miscellaneous and banking accounts	
16,910.258	65Specie reserve	
71,172,977	17Cash	
2,191,093	35Total	$131,899,435 39
The estimated population of Canada on the 31st March, 1911, as revised by the census office was 7,158,000, that the debt per head at that date amounted to $47.51.
The sinking funds in this list represent, of course, purchases made of our own securities in the market in connection with the sinking fund attached to the several loans. They are held by trustees for the Dominion. Personally, I believe not only in connection with municipal or provincial finance, but also in connection


Will the minister state whether that 98 was net or not?


98 was the price at which the securities were underwritten and offered to the public. From that 98 must be deducted, as has been the case in connection with all our loans, the expenses of underwriting and all the other expenses 159
connected with the issue which will, without doubt, he considerable. The question is often raised as to whether loans should be underwritten at all, and I have heard the query on more than one occasion as to whether undue commissions are not paid in connection with underwriting. Let me say to the House, as most hon. members know, underwriting is simply insurance. It is absolutely necessary that loans should be met when they become due, and as we must have the money for this maturity on May 1st, if we had to rely only on public subscription for this loan we could never be certain that the money would be available at that date. No man,
I do not care who he is, can foretell the market. One man's opinion may be a little more valuable than that of another, but nobody can foretell whether the public will or will not take an issue of securities. Not only that, but conditions may intervene which may change the whole financial situation almost over night, and have a profound bearing upon the question of whether or not a loan will be taken by the public.


I do not at -all question the action of the Finance Minister in that respect.


I am very glad to have tlhe assurance of my hon. friend on that point. My own view is that underwriting-and I am glad my hon. friend (Mr. Nesbitt), agrees-is absolutely neces- * sary in order that the money will be available at the time it is required. Now, it is no doubt within the knowledge and observation of the House, that high grade, low interest bearing securities are not in the favour they once were. ' A few years ago only, the standard security of the Dominion was a three per cent security,, but now it is a three and a half per cent' security. Hon. gentlemen know what a great fall has taken place in the price of English consols, which are certainly among the best, if not the very best, securities in the world. What has been the cause? Is it that the credit of Great Britain is less high than it was; is it that the credit of the Dominion of Canada is less high than it was a few years ago? What is the cause for the increase in interest which nations must now pay in order to obtain the money required by them? My own opinion is that good times have a great deal to do with it.


What about bonused stock?


We will come to that in a lfiinute. Good times, the demand for money all over the world, the more general investment in industrial enterprises; these are the chief factors, I be-



lieve, in the increase in the rate of interest and in the fall that has taken place in the price of high-grade low interest bearing securities. Then, in addition to that, there is the matter referred to by my hon. friend from South York (Mr. Maclean), there are the opportunities for investment in many other fields, and notably, let us say, tramway companies, railway companies, electrical companies of various kinds, the bonds of which seem to, and as a matter of fact do, give first-class security at a higher rate of interest than can be obtained by investment in municipal, provincial, or government securities, while, at the same time, they afford a greater prospect for appreciation. I think too, that with the increase of wealth, people not only desire to obtain a higher rate of interest, 'but they are willing to take a little more 