Mr. BURNHAM moved that the third report of the Select Special Committee appointed to inquire into an Old Age Pension System for Canada be adopted.
What is the effect of this report?
Mr. WHITE (Leeds)


The committee present the result of their investigations, the evidence, and the communications sent out by the secretary, and the replies received, and they recommend that these be filed in the usual way and printed.


As the committee have taken the evidence of a large number of witnesses during this and the preceding sessions, I think it well that the tentative conclusions which have been drawn from the evidence should be placed in ' Hansard.'


My attention has been drawn to this report, and I think its adoption would be irregular at this time. The report would involve considerable printing, which can only be done after the report has been referred to the Printing Committee. It would be a violation of the rules to concur in the report in this way. Then, I would say to the hon. member for Digby (Mr. Jameson), that, as this is an interim report of the committee, not- a final report, it would scarcely be in order to discuss the whole question which has been referred to the committee. I therefore think that the hon. member would be premature in discussing it now.


I do not wish to question your ruling, but I had discussed this point with the hon. member for Pictou (Mr. Macdonald), who is a good parliamentarian, and he entertains the view that the question can be discussed now. If, however, you rule otherwise I shall bow to your ruling, although I think that the question is one that should be discussed.


The rule is well known, that it is not in order to discuss work that has been referred to a committee until there is a report from that committee.


I regret that you
think that the discussion should be postponed, but I bow to your ruling.


That is my ruling.
This report had better stand or be referred to the Committee on Printing.


I respectfully request
that the motion be allowed to stand for the time being.
Motion stands.


Bill No. 224, respecting the Western Trust Company.-Mr. Turriff.
Bill No. 225, respecting the Great West Permanent Loan Company-Mr. Meighen.
Bill No. 226, respecting the Alberta-Saskatchewan Life Insurance Company.- Mr. Meighen.

Bill No. 227, respecting the Western Canada Accident and Guarantee Insurance Company.-Mr. Maodonell.
. QUESTIONS.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has the Department of Public Works been asked to take over the wharf owned by Robins, Jones and Whitman, at Paspebiac, Quebec?
2.	If so, has any decision been reached, and on what conditions is the said wharf to be acquired?


1.	Yes.
2.	No.


1.	Has the Government received any request, and from whom, for a grant to continue the work of protecting the farms, roads and bridges from the damage caused by the Nou-velle River, Bonaventure county?
2.	If so, has the Government reached any decision in the matter and what is it?


1.	Yes; from the municipality of St. Jean l'Evangeliste.
2.	Matter under consideration.


1.	Has Simon Chapados, wharfinger of the Government wharf at Anse aux Gascons, Bonaventure county, been dismissed and on what grounds?
2.	If charges were made against him, what was their nature?
3.	Was Chapados informed of them and were they investigated?
4.	Who held the investigation, if any was held, and if none was held, why not?
5.	If Chapados has been dismissed, who succeeded him, on whose recommendation was he appointed, and at what salary?


1.	No. Mr. Chapados resigned the position.
2,	3 and 4. Answered by No. 1.
5.	Mr. S. A. Huard was, on the recommendation of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, appointed to the position. Remuneration twenty-five per cent of the wharfage collections.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
I would ask the Prime Minister if he has received from the Trades and Labour Council of Moosejaw a communication with regard to seventeen Russians who, as alleged by the Trades and Labour Council, were improperly im ported under the Alien Labour Act, kept in an iron car, improperly housed, and, on their escape, fired on by their guards, and ran away from their employment and have not yet been found. The resolution of the council directs that copies of their report be sent to the Premier of Canada, to the Minister of Justice, to the Minister of the Interior, and to the Minister of Labour. Has the Prime Minister any knowledge of it, and, if not, would he be good enough to give it his attention?


I never heard of the matter until this moment. If the resolution came to my office, it has not been placed before me. I do not think it could have come, because such matters are invariably placed before me. If the hon. gentleman has a copy of the resolution, and would be good enough to send it to me, I will have the matter inquired into without delay.


I am going away today, and I will leave this resolution with the Prime Minister, leaving in his- hands the whole matter, which is a very serious one.


Consideration of the proposed motion of Hon. W. T. White, (Minister of Finance), for the House to go into Committee of Ways and Means, resumed from May 21.
[u'I do not propose to\ngo into details at this hour, but I might remark that the food mentioned in scripture as a food for babes would be applicable to my hon. friend from Kings; I am not dealing with the question of food that is suitable to his infancy. My hon. friend the Finance Minister has been kind enough to come over and sit beside me as my deskmate, and I feel that he is now penitent enough for having resisted my request to defer the further consideration of this Bill until the next sitting of the House. I have a great deal of human sympathy, and I shall therefore, not impose further upon the members of the House, and least of all upon my esteemed friend the Minister of Finance, who has done me the honour to come and sit beside me while I am making this plea for what I consider the betterment of the conditions under which banking and commerce are conducted in this country.\nMotion agreed to and Bill read the third time and passed.\nOn motion of Mr. Rogers, House adjourned at 1.40 a.m., Friday.\ufeff10677\n\n1C673', 'Friday, May 23, 1913.']
Mr. Speaker, I desire to call the attention of the House for a very brief period to the important subject under discussion in this debate, probably the most important that can he brought before the House of Commons of Canada to-day. I am aware that the Minister of Finance does not propose any radical changes in the customs tariff. In fact, the changes which he does propose are of so little importance that practically no time has been taken up in discussing them, and the debate has proceeded entirely along the general lines of what the tariff of Canada should be and what it should not be, what we should do and what we should not do, in order to develop trade and industry in the country. Therefore, I shall devote the few moments I wish to take to discussions along the same lines that have been followed by hon. gentlemen who have preceded me. We all congratulate the Minister of Finance as well as ourselves on the great prosperity that exists in Canada and that has existed for the last two years, and I sincerely hope that it will continue. It does sound, however, a little strange to hear members like the hon. member for St. Antoine division (Mr. Ames) and the hon. member for Brantford

(Mr. Coekshutt) taking to themselves so much glory tor the splendid financial condition of the country. The hon. member for St. Antoine division even went so far as to give the financial returns on certain transactions for ten years prior to 1911 and for two years since 1911, and then to strike an average and say: Behold what this Government hath done. And yet in the same breath he has to admit that this Government has not done anything. If there has been any great advance in our trade in this last two years, certainly my hon. friends cannot take very much credit for it because they have done nothing either for or against it. So I think we may leave that as it is, and thank the legislation which has existed, and thank the Almighty, and thank the business instincts and ability of the people of Canada, and thank the immigrants who are pouring into the country, and thank ail those things which make a countrv great for the splendid financial conditions which exist to-day. The real question to be considered is, what shall we do in the future? Shall our trade relations with the rest of the world remain as they are, or shall they be changed? That is the great question that we have to consider, and that is the question to which I wish to devote my attention for a few moments.
My hon. friend the Minister of Finance was, I think, very modest in presenting his budget. He simply gave a statement of the facts as they are. He did not have sufficient egotism to take unto himself any particular glory for the facts as they are, and I give him credit for that. He did not prophesy or promise that he was going to do anything in order to change the conditions very much; but I am sorry to say I cannot give him so much credit for that as I can for the other part of his budget. The Minister of Finance has told us that we have had during the last year a surplus of $55,000,000 over and above the expenditure on consolidated revenue account; and, when he takes into considerar tion all expenditures, capital as well as revenue, he has reduced the national debt by $23,000,000. That is good so far as it goes. I am not one of those who find fault with the reduction of the national debt when it is done under proper conditions. I believe that a nation should carry on its business in the same way as an individual. If an individual can reduce his debts, he is doing the proper thing, and it is the same with a nation. The only question that arises in the case of a nation is: is it good policy in every respect so to adjust your tariff relations, that you will have sufficient money to pay your debts? I think that political economists the world over will admit that in every case it is good policy to reduce your national debt if you can do it without injuring your Mr. C.VRVRLL.
people; but if, on the other hand, you are injuring your people, making life not as pleasant as it would be otherwise, then I think political economists will admit that it is not good policy to so adjust your tariff that your national debt will be reduced. My hon. friend the Minister of Finance frankly admits that he takes advantage of the condition of affairs which was handed over to him by his predecessor, and which for the last financial year resulted in the splendid surplus of $55,000,000. For the year before, the financial conditions handed over to him by his predecessor produced a surplus of $32,000,000 or $33,000,000, and for the year before that, a surplus of something over $20,000,000. My hon. friend from St. Antoine (Mr. Ames) last evening went down the list as far as 1900, and gave the results of the financial operations during each year, showing that for the ten years prior to 1911 we produced an average surplus of $7,000,000 or $8,000,000; in one or two years it dropped to the vanishing point, while sometimes it was as much as $15,000,000. But, taking the average, the surplus under the late Government was $7,000,000 or $8,000,000. At the same time we were borrowing money on capital for the construction of the Transcontinental railway and other great works, so that during those ten years the national debt of Canada was increased, though not to a very great extent. Now, if the proper policy of Canada is to go on paying off the national debt, there may be some argument for these surpluses, but I do not think that is the argument put forward by my hon. friends opposite. If I can judge of the intention of the Government from the arguments of their exponents, I do not see any evidence of an intention to pay off the national debt. The sole object of the Government and of their followers seems to be to eat up these surpluses-to get as much money as they possibly can, and to spend it. I think it was my hon. friend from Brantford (Mr. Coekshutt) who stated that during the time the Liberals were in power the provinces of Ontario, Manitoba, and British Columbia were starved, and that this Government was going to see that the rights of these three provinces were restored to them. The result was that the Minister of Public Works had in the estimates for this year over $26,000,000 or $27,000,000 for public works, and, according to my hon. friend, he was going to do justice to the provinces of Ontario, Manitoba and British Columbia. It is the first time that I have heard that these provinces were ever starved. If my hon. friend will take the different estimates for the last ten years-I have not had time to compare them, and I do not know that any good would be accomplished by comparing them-he will find that these provinces got as much as any of the other

provinces, in proportion to their population. The principal ground of complaint on the part of my hon. friend from Brantford, was that the late Liberal Government gave so much to the province of Nova Scotia. While he was speaking I went over the supplementary estimates laid on the table of the House two days ago, and I find there are 125 items for harbour and river improvements in the province of Nova Scotia, amounting to nearly $1,000,000, in addition to, and above and beyond a similar amount in the main estimates.


There is nothing too good for the Maritime provinces.


Of course not, but I want to point out that when my hon. friend from Brantford talks about the province of Nova Scotia, he talks without the book.


He talks through
his hat.


I do not wish to use a slang expression. Either the hon. member has not taken the trouble to look into the estimates, or he is not treating the House fairly. The province of Nova Scotia, never got so much as it is getting this year. Some of my hon. friends from Nova Scotia will see no harm in that. I have no hesitation in admitting what is true, it is patent on the face of it. But if mv hon. friend from Brantford makes the argument that we spent money for political purposes, and not for real business purposes, surely we can throw back the argument to him with double energy, and say if we were wrong, you are wrong to double the extent. I am not arguing that there is a public work being advanced in the province of Nova Scotia that is not a necessary public work. I do not think there is a public work in Ontario that is not a necessary work. Unfortunately my hon. friends opposite have talked about everything else during this session except the estimates and business. We have never had a chance to get down to the public works supply, and we do not know what they are asking for. All we know is that they are asking for certain amounts for certain places, but the reasons so far remain blank. My hon. friends seem to be very anxious to draw this session to a close, and it seems to me that their intention, or hope, is to do so without giving us a chance to discuss those estimates to any extent. I am afraid we will not have a chance to discuss them to find out whether the proposed expenditures are fair or unfair. But we will have to do the best we can, and if my hon. friends do not apply the closure to us, I, for one, hope to find out something about the expenditures in the different provinces, and I know my friends around me have the same desire.
But it was not this that I, wished to discuss, and therefore, I will make no further reference to it. I do submit, however, that there has been an enormous increase in the expenditures in two years. My hon. friends opposite may be able to justify it, and I hope they will be able to justify it. If they can do so, no fault will be found on this side of the house. But even with the enormous expenditures which they propose during the present year, according to the hypothesis of the Minister of Finance, we will have an enormous surplus of revenue over expenditure. The condition which has existed during the past two years seems to have become almost chronic. It seems that even with the enormous expenditures which my hon. friends opposite are advocating, there is going to be a great surplus. My hon. friend from Halifax (Mr. Maclean) stated time and again yesterday that that surplus would be $80,000,000 or $85,000,000. If that be a fact, and I have no doubt it is, and if my hon. friends opposite, with all their extravagance, cannot find opportunities to expend this enormous surplus, is it just and right that that revenue should be taken from the people's pockets? That I think is the great question we have to consider in this debate. I had alwavs supposed that the true theory of government was that the people should be asked to contribute sufficient money to honestly and efficiently carry on the affairs of the country, to provide for the King's Government, and in Canada to provide for whatever necessary public works should be constructed. I admit that the science or	theory of
government in Canada is	very different from that in Great Britain. In Canada, a new country, it is necessary to develop the country by the construction of public works. It is necessary to assist railway companies, and other transportation companies, to develop our harbours, and to do everything possible to increase the output of the natural resources of the country and of the manufacturing resources as well. That would not be true in Great Britain, because there they have an old established country, transportation facilities are provided by private capital, and the Government are not required to assist. They expend the money which they have over and above what is required for the King's Government on the army and navy, and I ami afraid that if my hon. friends opposite are allowed to continue the mad course which they are pursuing to-day we will have the same condition of affairs in Canada. I for one sincerely hope that such a condition of affairs will not develop. I am not going into an analysis of the proposed expenditures of the different departments, but when I find this Government asking for between ten and twelve

million dollars for the militia, I say it is a useless and unwarranted waste of public money. Whan any man tells me it is necessary to spend ten or eleven million dollars on the militia of this country, my answer to him is that it is downright robbery of the people. If the money went to the people I would not care so much about it; but I do not suppose that out of the eleven million dollars, two million dollars will actually go to the men; the rest goes to the dudes and warlords who are running the show. My hon. friend from Brantford (Mr. Coekshutt) justifies this militia expenditure because there might (possibly be a war between Japan and the United States, and, if so, we must have our whole
100,000	men along the border line to see that nothing got out of Canada.


And they won't have a
navy in Vancouver.


No. The Minister of
Finance wants to build a tariff wall around the country and allow nothing to come in, and the member for Brantford wants to build a militia wall around the border and allow nothing to go out. Well, I don't think that idea is approved of by the ordinary Canadian business man. The Government admits, as they must admit, that under present conditions they are taking from the people of Canada enough to carry on the King's Government, enough to provide for all our public works, enough to provide for subsidies to railways and transportation companies, and fifty or sixty million dollars in addition. The proposition of the member for St, Antoine (Mr. Ames) is. not that we should take from the people sufficient to pay the expenses of Government, but that we should tax them all they can stand. His logic is:	are the people
taxed more than they can stand? and, in the second place, does the tariff take too much out of our people? Let us see about that. I give the hon. member for St. Antoine credit for being honest in his opinion and for never attempting to deceive the House as to his Teal views. The same remark will apply to the hon. member for Brantford-and I wish all hon. gentlemen opposite were as honest as they in expressing their thoughts. But the logic of the argument of the hon. member for St. Antoine is: we will so adjust our tariff -that we will make the people pay every dollar they can pay and live, and to sustain that theory the hon. member for Brantford comes forward and says: you don't want to let the people have too many privileges, because the more they have the more discontented they become, and so we will take away from them by means of taxation everything except enough to exist on. The hon. gentleman' told ns that years ago people had hut one suit of homespun a year;
Mr. CARVELL.
that they did not go to the theatre; that they did not drive carriages and motor cars, and that they were much happier than they are to-day. His argument is: do not allow the people to have these comforts of life and they will be more contented. That is good Tory doctrine and it is in line with about everything this Government is doing. Then, these hon. gentlemen opposite say: if this tariff is bad it is your tariff and you are responsible for it. But let it be remembered that what was good in 1900 may not toe good in 1913. I think it was the hon. member for Brantford who said that the Liberals took the Tory tariff and did not make many changes in it, and the member for St. Antoine sought to prove that the tariff was practi-callv the same as it was in 1896, because he showed that the total percentage of taxation to-day was very little less than then, his claim being that the actual reduction of taxation is on an average three or four per cent on the taxable goods. But these gentlemen opposite are not quite consistent in their statements. Sometimes they will say this is the old national policy of 1878, and if you tell them it is not, they will say it is the Liberal tariff, and if it is bad you must take the blame for it, and then if they are 'further cornered they will say it is the Toxv tariff wnich the Liberals adopted. In the first place it is not the old tariff of 1878, and possibly when the Liberals came into power in 1896 thev did not go as far as they should to reduce me burden upon the people.
I am not apologizing for them or attempting to palliate their conduct in any way, but I do say that the Liberal government did something for which they have received-credit all around, .they introduced the British preference which the first year it was in operation reduced taxation on British goods imported into Canada by twenty-five per cent, and which a few years afterwards reduced that taxation by thirty-three and one-third per cent. That has remained in force to the present day except that in a few cases they took away from the people some of the rights they had obtained by the British preference of earlier years, but on the whole the people of Canada are relieved from one-third of the taxation on British imported goods. The British preference very materially developed the trade between Great Britain and Canada, which went forward with leaps and bounds and which still continues to make marked progress. True, our trade with Great Britain has not grown as rapidly as our trade with the United States, even in the face of a higher tariff, and for the present I will not stop to discuss that, but not only did the preference increase our trade with Great Britain, but it reduced the cost of living to the people of Canada. The preference reduced the cost of living to our people in

two ways: it reduced the cost of every article consumed by the people of Canada which came from Great Britain, and in the second place it reduced the cost of similar articles imported from the United States, or produced in Canada. For instance, if you reduce the cost of a yard of cotton manufactured in Great Britain, the American manufacturer when he sends it into this country has to reduce his cost to meet the decreased price of the British article, and so has the Cana-adian manufacturer of cotton to reduce his price to meet the competition. If a Canadian manufacturer produces .cotton, he must sell it at a price not greater than the cost in Great Britain plus the duty under the preferential tariff. Therefore, any man can figure out what the saving to the people of Canada has been during the last thirteen or fourteen years by reason of the British preference. You can take the importations from Great Britain, calculate their value to a dollar, and say that you have saved so many million dollars by reason of the British preference. I do not believe, however, that half as many goods would have been imported from Great Britain if it had not been for the preference. But you cannot figure out how much the people of Canada have saved on the rest of the importations, because millions of dollars worth have been imported from the rest of the world, which have been sold to the people of Canada more cheaply by reason of the British preference. Then you have the third class. Millions and millions of dollars worth of manufactured products have been sold to the people more cheaply by reason of the preference. When my bon. friends opposite say that the Liberal party did nothing to ameliorate the conditions of the people through the tariff, they are not treating us fairly; they are not treating themselves fairly, and they are not stating the facts as they are.


The hon. gentleman seems to be very well informed on this question. Can he give us a statement of how much the duties were increased on goods coming from Great Britain before the British preference was applied?


No, I cannot. It seems to me that a year or two ago my hon. friend from Halton (Mr. Henderson) had a little altercation with the hon. member for Edmonton (Mr. Oliver) on that question. I think it had reference to rifles.


A great many more things.


There was one instance in the case of rifles, where the general tariff was increased; and the net result
was that, after the British preference was applied, it did not make very much difference in the duty paid. The number of rifles we import into this country is a mere bagatelle. A rifle is not something which the ordinary labouring man has to eat or wear; it is something which is used by the sportsman and the man who is able to spend money. If you must raise money by taxation, there is nothing you could tax better than rifles. So far as I am able to remember, that is the only article that is treated in that way.


The hon. gentleman knows about the increases on cotton goods and a host of other articles. I am not, however, going to interrupt him in his speech.


The hon. member for
Halton is always courteous and well informed, and I hope he will give us the benefit of his great store of information on these important questions before this debate is concluded.
Hon. friends opposite say:	When you
gave the Britisn preference, you stopped. We did stop for a time; we stopped because it seemed that we required all the money we were taking from the people in order to carry on the affairs of the country. It must be remembered that we were building great public works in those days; we were developing our transportation systems as they had never been developed before; we were building the great National Transcontinental railway which cost a lot of money. My hon. friends say that it cost too much. I do not think so; and I should like to discuss that question withjhe Minister oi Railways, if we ever have an opportunity of considering his estimates. After spending $50,000 in investigation, he has had to admit that it did not cost too much. That
is,	however, another matter. In 1910 and 1911, we found that we were taking from the people more than was required to carry on the government and the ordinary business affairs of the country. The late Government decided to ameliorate the conditions of the people to some extent by extending our trade and making it freer than it had been before. We went out of power upon that principle. So far as I am concerned, I have not a particle of regret on account of
it.	I do not mean to say that I would not rather be in power than in opposition, but I would rather be in opposition on a question of principle m reducing the cost of living to the people of this country, than remain on the other side of the House and tax them more than they are entitled to pay and more than is necessary in order to carry on the affairs of the country. My hon. friends know that we were right and they are afraid of the fact to-day.


Oh, oh.


My hon. friends laugh. What was the meaning of that most remarkably patronizing speech made last evening by the hon. member for St. Antoine (Mr. Ames)? He practically said to the hon. Minister of .Finance: We do not like you very much; we are afraid you are tinged with low protection ideas. We are afraid you are going to give in to men like the hon. member for Portage la Prairie (Mr. Meighen), who has been very quiet in .debates of this character during the last year or two. The hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Bradbury) bristled up last night a little when the hon. member for Brantford (Mr. Cookshutt) was sipeaking about agricultural machinery.


I have not changed a bit.


They were afraid that
my hon. friend would be affected by the argument of these people. Therefore they say to him: It is all right; we shall not find any fault with you, but you must not lower the tariff; you must leave it where it is. The country was told by the hon. member for St. Antoine: The hon. Minister of Finance will not lower the tariff; we shall see that he does not. My hon. friend has a very close friend, the president of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association, who made a speech in Montreal the other day, sending out a note of warning to the manufacturers, and saying:	Remember, we
manufacturers must stand together on this matter; I understand there is to be a revision of the tariff; we must see that our rights are protected. That is what my hon. friends are afraid of. We wanted to reduce the cost of living.


You say that you want to reduce the cost of living. What was the principal plank in the reciprocity platform if it was not that the farmers were to get a better price than they were getting? If so, how to what extent were you going to reduce the cost of living?


That is a very pertinent question, and I am glad my hon. friend has asked it. I shall try to show him how we were going to do it. So far as I am concerned, I never argued, either in this House or in the country, any other doctrine than that under the reciprocity agreement the farmer would get a better price for his products. I argue that now. I had not the slightest doubt then that I was right, and I believe I am right now. Seeing that the United States Government propose to take the duty off some of these articles, I prophesy that on every one of them the farmer will get a better price than he got before. The United States Government believe that, by remitting the duties on these foodstuffs, they will reduce the cost to the people. If they did not believe that, they Mr. CARVELL.
would not take off the duty. No one is in a position to tell exactly what will happen. My opinion is that in some cases it will not reduce the cost to the American consumer, and in that case the Canadian producer will get all the benefit. In other cases it will reduce the cost to the American consumer to some extent, and to that extent the Canadian producer will hot receive the benefit. It is purely a question of supply and demand. If the Canadian producer can produce enough to overstock the American market, he will put down the price; if he cannot do so, he will not. I believe the Canadian producer, after supplying the home demand, will not have enough to affect materially the price in the United States. If so, he will get the benefit of the tariff. I want my views to be thoroughly understood on this question. While the reciprocity agreement would, to a great extent, have increased the price to the Canadian farmer, that was a very small portion of the benefits which the Canadian farmer would have received by reason of it. He would have had ten times the market for his produce that he has to-day. He would have been able to plant his crop every year with a knowledge that he would have a market for it. It is the same with the manufacturer. If a manufacturer knows he has a market where he can sell 10,000 machines instead of 1,000, according to the evidence of my hon. friend from Brantford last evening, he can produce that machine more cheaply; he will extend his industry, buy more plant, employ more men, do more business and make more money.


And he will not be subject to the trusts.


I can give my hon. friends an illustration from my own constituency. One of the principal industries there is the cultivation of potatoes; in fact, that is the case throughout western and northern New Brunswick, in very many portions of Nova Scotia, in the Gaspe peninsula, and in the eastern portions of the province of Quebec. We produce a better quality of potatoes than is produced elsewhere in Canada or in the United States, except in the northern part of Maine. I believe it is due, to some extent, to the condition of the soil.


No.


My hon. friend says
'no.' I am not here to advertise the industry of myl constituents. If my hon. friend will look at the quotations in the Toronto Globe or the Daily Mail and Empire, he will find that New Brunswick potatoes are quoted at ten cents per bag more wholesale than the native potatoes. That is twenty cents a barrel, and therefore they must be of superior quality.


As good potatoes can be grown in my section of the country as in New Brunswick.


I do not want to enter into a controversy with my hon. friend from Muskoka upon the question of potatoes. I simply want to discuss this question from a business standpoint. A New Brunswick	farmer	does	not raiseon an	average	more	than five
acres of potatoes, the reason simply being that he is compelled to rely upon the Montreal and Toronto markets, which will not absorb more than that amount of potatoes per farm. Last year we could have sold twice as much as we produced, because there was a famine in potatoes on <the American continent, The previous year we could have sold more because there was a famine west of lake Superior. In the
Sear 1911, hundreds of carloads of New runswick potatoes were transported to
Calgary and even into British Columbia. That is not an ordinary condition of affairs. It is not reasonable that the people of that section of the country should be compelled to pay the cost of those potatoes plus the transportation charges. They have the right to get the potatoes at a much cheaper price.
We have a market within four or five hundred miles of the point of production, of probably fifteen or twenty million people. With the American duty on potatoes reduced, I prophesy that the average farmer in the province of New Brunswick during this year will probably have ten acres of potatoes, and next year twenty acres. How do I know that? I know, simply because of what is going on within ten miles of my own home. Right across the American boundary line from where I live, with the same soil, the same transportation conditions and the same market, farmers are raising on an average twenty acres of potatoes, in some cases thirty or forty acres, and are getting rich at it. This year our farmers have been compelled to sell their potatoes for seventy or eighty cents a barrel, that would be thirty-five to forty cents a bag. Why? Because there was a big crop of potatoes in the province of Ontario. The only men in Ontario who buy New Brunswick potatoes to-day are the men who want a superior article. The ordinary man buys an ordinary article. Thousands of bushels of potatoes in the county of Carleton in the province of New Brunswick have been thrown into the dump because the farmers could not get a market for them. At present there is a duty of seventy cents a barrel on potatoes imported into the United States, and there is a big crop in the United States. The price there has been around $1.15 to $1.20 a barrel, which has not been equal to the Canadian price plus the duty.


Does the hon. gentleman know that hundreds of carloads of 3334
potatoes have been sold at 25 cents a bushel in counties in the United States nearer New York than the hon. gentleman's county is? His confrere, the hon. member for Maison-neuve (Mr. Verville) yesterday proved, to his own satisfaction at least, that potatoes were sold eighty or a hundred per cent more cheaply in New York than in eastern Canadian cities.


My hon. friend from
Maisonneuve was speaking about potatoes produced in the month of June and July. We do not produce potatoes in Canada in those months; we import them from the States. That is the reason why they cost more in Montreal than in New York. You do not raise a bushel of potatoes in Canada in June and July.


Yes, you do.


No, you do not. My
hon. friend (Mr. Wright) asked me if I did not know that hundreds of carloads of potatoes were sold at 25 cents a bushel in counties in the United States nearer to New York than the Maritime provinces are. I do not.


I do.


What is more, I do
not'believe it, for this reason. If you go to northern Maine, which is the great potato producing country of the eastern portions of the United States, you will find that potatoes are worth to-day $1.25 a barrel, or fifty cents a bushel. They are worth that to the farmers along the line of railway. It is only 500 miles from there to New York. If the farmer in eastern Maine can get fifty cents a bushel for his potatoes, the man who has potatoes of equal quality elsewhere in the United States will not be compelled to sell them at 25 cents a bushel if he is equally near to New York. It is no use trying to get round the facts. If the New York consumer can buy the same quality of potatoes for 25 cents a bushel at points 500 miles west of New York, he will not go to northern Maine and pay fifty cents a bushel. There is no doubt about it, and my friend could argue until he was black in the face and he could not convince me or any other man who knows the transaction to the contrary of what I have said.


I am not trying to convince my hon. friend, I am only stating the facts.


Unless mv hon. friend
has personal knowledge, I cannot accept the statement he makes as a fact without proof, because I know it cannot be correct. I have given an illustration of what reciprocity would have done in the one item of potatoes. I would not have gone into this had I not been asked to do so by mv hon. friend from Muskoka. I do believe that the result of the reciprocity agreement would

have been not only to increase the price to the farmer in many cases, but to increase his market, - which would have been worth to him ten times the increased price of the article itself.


The hon. member stated that owing to the good crop of potatoes in the United States last vear thev were not. able to export their potatoes from New Brunswick. To my mind the same thing would apply under reciprocity. It will not be disputed that the United States export almost every article in the shape of farm produce that Canada does, and for that reason will you tell me why there is a market in the United States for Canadian farm products?


Mv hon. friend is trving to draw me from the point. I did not say that you could not send potatoes to the United States, because they had a big crop. I said that the price was so low that you could not do it commercially. I stated that the duty to-day is about sixty-seven cents a barrel, and if you send potatoes to the United States from Canada to-day, you have to pay that duty. That means ruination to the Canadian farmer. But it would be different if that duty were removed, then you would have a splendid price. If the farm, ers of the Maritime provinces can get $1.25 for their potatoes they will get wealthy; they will ride in automobiles in a few years. That is at the rate of fifty cents a bushel. But I am told: If what you say about the price to the farmer is true, what about the labouring man, what about the consumer? I am willing to admit, and I always did admit in my argument on the reciprocity question, that the consumer would pay more for the particular articles included in that agreement. It would not amount to very much, it would amount in the case of the ordinary household, which I suppose does not use more than three or four barrels of potatoes in a year, to a difference of $2 or $3 a year. It would be the same with a few other items. There is another side to this question that my friends do not take into consideration and that is the advantage that would accrue to the consumer in Canada had the reciprocity agreement become law. I wish to give some of the benefits that would have accrued. I have here the trade and navigations returns for the last year down to and including February, eleven months. I have not been able to procure the full returns, for the year and therefore, any figures that I have along this line will be for eleven months only. It is known by my hon. friends if they have taken the trouble to read the reciprocity agreement-but I am afraid that some of them did not read it verv carefully-practically all farm products were to be free. We know that many vegetables and fruits Mr. CARVELL
would have come into this country free of duty under the reciprocity agreement. I have here a list of the articles of consumption by the ordinary people of Canada that came into Canada for the first eleven months of the last fiscal vear. These articles would have come in free of duty had that arrangement gone through. I will read the list, giving the articles, the value of the imports and the duty paid. The list is as follows:
Vegetables and Fruits.		
Articles.	Value.	Duty.Melons	$113,412	$ 54,543Potatoes	428,898	92,780Sweet potatoes	56,248	5,390Tomatoes	273,617	82,085Vegetables, N.O.P	909,079	363,748Dried apples	
Green " 	16,185	6,474751,399	112,325Blackberries, strawber-	ries. &c	565,651	138,146Cherries	102,831	25,707Cranberries	129,888	32,470Grapes	279,685	100,833Peaches	330,5S5	145,770Quinces, &c	372,746	66,937Plums.. ..,	266,974	75,650$4,811,929	$1,302,841Eggs, 11,529,686 doz	2,456,832	345,890Butter, from all other countries under general	tariff	350,145	50,206Butter, from New Zealand and Great Bri-	tain	1,479,189	171,825$9,098,095	$1,870,762
In vegetables and fruit alone we imported last year in the eleven months $4,811,929 in value and on this we paid $1,302,341 in duty. In other words, the consumer, the labouring man, the man in the city, village and town, all over the country, would have saved $1,302,000 in duty if that agreement had become law.


Did the Canadian
farmer benefit by that?


He did not lose to the extent of a dollar, as I shall try to convince my hon. friend. At least what I say will convince any man who wants to be convinced that the farmer did not lose a dollar. Hon. gentlemen may say that the reciprocity agreement is ancient history. It is not ancient history so far as the people of this country are concerned. I am not saying that we will ever get the reciprocity treaty exactly as it was proposed to us, we never will while I live get anything from any country that will be worth as much to Canada as the reciprocity treaty would have been. But the principle for which we fought is not gone, the principle is there to-day as vital as it was two years ago, just as important to the consuming people of Canada as it was two years ago and the

people want it and will have it regardless of whether my hon. friends opposite are willing to give it or not. If my hon. friends opposite will not give it to them they will put in power a party that will give it to them, because I tell the manufacturers, the trusts and combines of this country that they cannot bleed the labouring people of Canada any longer, they will demand cheaper living and they will obtain it. It is only part of the story. It is well known that under the construction of our laws and the proposed agreement anything which came in from the States free of duty would also have come in free of duty from Great Britain or from any of the colonies of Great Britain enjoying our preferential tariff. That was not in the agreement, but it is the proper construction and interpretation of that agreement read in connection with our existing laws. That was one of the great arguments used by my hon. friends opposite with the farmers of Canada that, if they adopted reciprocity, butter would come from Australia and New Zealand, or from any part of the British Empire as well as from other nations with which Great Britain had trade treaties. Of butter last year we imported $350,145 from the United States and other countries excepting Great Britain and her colonies, on which we paid $50,260 in duty. We imported from New Zealand and Great Britain $1,479,189 worth of butter, on which we paid $171,825 of duty. That is a total of something like $1,800,000 worth of butter from the whole world and all that with the exception perhaps of $300 or .$400 worth came from the United States, New Zealand and Great Britain, and if the reciprocity agreement had gone ino effect every pound of that except a small quantity would have come free of duty and the people of this country would have avoided paying over $200,000 duty which they paid on butter alone in the first eleven months of last year.
Then we come to the question of eggs. It is most remarkable that the Canadian farmer will not produce the eggs which are required in Canada, but he does not. We cannot make him, we have no power over him. I have wondered at this fact many times. I admit that the Agricultural Department has been doing a great deal in trying to influence the farmers to engage more extensively in this business, but they do not become interested and do not prj-( duce the eggs. In the first eleven months of last year we imported $2,456,832 worth of eggs and nine-tenths of these eggs came from the United States of America. On these eggs we paid $345,890 in duty. Or, if you take fruit, vegetables, butter and eggs alone, just those four articles, we imported in eleven months $9,098,000 and paid $1,870,762 in duty, and for the
twelve months we imported $10,000,000 worth and the people of this country paid $2,000,000 in duty which they need not have paid and would not have paid if reciprocity had gone into effect. I want my hon. friends to state if it would not have been better for the people of this country, if it would not have been of benefit to the man in Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa and the manufacturing centres of Ontario, if he could have bought his eggs, . butter and fruit and saved that $2,000,000 because, Sir, he is the man who paid it. Out in the farming districts they probably produce enough eggs and butter for themselves; it is the labouring man in the manufacturing centres of Canada who purchases these articles, and who paid the $2,000,000 duty on these ordinary articles of food last year. Would my friend say that would have been of no benefit to him?


Would my hon. friend give me the privilege of answering that question? That was not the issue in the reciprocity question. You never advocated the cause of the workingman, it was the agricultural classes of the community that you professed to benefit.


I advocated it, and 1 went into my own town and met the labouring men and told them and preached to them this doctrine, and I got a bigger majority in my town than ever before in my life. I have had no trouble with the labouring men of my constituency, I have treated them honestly. I have told them that, I tell them that to-day and they stood for it and will stand for it again. I tell my hon. friends opposite that the labouring men all over Canada will respond to the call when it is made.


Still, the farmers did
not respond to the call.
Mr. CAEVELL; I am dealing with facts, and my hon. friend can deal with the matter in any way he chooses. The people of Canada did not respond, the people of Canada defeated the Government that proposed reciprocity. I think that everybody in the world who knows anything oi Canada knows that. We are not trying to get away from that, but I want my hon. friend now to answer my question. He tried to and did not. Does he think that it would have been any benefit to the ' labouring man of Canada?


Eeciprocity?


No, the remission ol
$2,000,000 of duty.


Possibly it would be of benefit to the consumer, but not to the agricultural classes. That is my contention.


Now we have a contribution of some value. We have possibly the greatest apostle of high protection, the man who has grown rich by making the poor little boy who runs in the street pay $35 on every $100 worth of clothing he buys in order to keep from freezing to death, admitting that it would have been some benefit to the labouring man of Canada if he had been remitted that $2,000,000 of duty. That is something we have gained in this debate.


I think that is a very
unjust statement of the hon. member for Carleton to make.


I shall stand by it
anyway.


OrdeT. The hon. member for Carleton has the floor.


I have pointed out the
other side of this picture. I have not drawn on my imagination, I have not asked anyone to admit my conclusions, but they are based on cold facts taken from the trade and navigation returns of Canada. I have given figures which my hon. friends cannot deny, and I will make the statement here that in my judgment it would have been worth moTe to the people of Canada than their possible loss by reason of the increase