Right Hon. R. L. BORDEN (Prime Minister) ; Wtih the consent of the House I desire to refer to the death of a highly respected member of this Parliament, Sir Richard Scott, who passed away yesterday afternoon. With his death there is removed from the public life of Canada a very distinguished figure. Sir Richard Scott entered the public life of this country as far back as 1857, more than half a century ago, and since that time his connection with and his activities in public life have, I think, been practically uninterrupted. As a member of Parliament, as a Minister of the Crown, and as leader of the Senate, he has played a very distinguished part in the public life of this country, and I am sure that all of us who had the privilege *of knowing him intimately received a certain inspiration from the perfection of his physical and mental strength and vigour, which ' in his case were carried into very advanced years. In all his public career he^ was characterized not only by great ability and energy, but by a very earnest and intense devotion to duty. I feel that the public life of this country has sustained a great loss by his death; and, speaking for members on this side of the House, and in this case I think I can do so for members on the other side, we all extend to his family and his relatives our very sincere sympathy in the loss which they have sustained by his death.
Mr. Speaker, personally I am very grateful indeed to my right hon. friend for the kind manner in which he has spoken of one with whom I was associated for a great .many years; in fact, almost since the day I entered this Parliament. The people of Canada knew in a certain way, but not wholly, the character of the man who has just departed from amongst us. He was above all things of a modest and retiring disposition; he never came very much in contact with the general public; but those
who knew him intimately, as I did, and the members of the other branch of the legislature, who were familiar with his parliamentary work, will bear testimony that he was not only a kind and amiable gentleman in private' life, but was endowed with eminent qualities and talents. In fact, as a legislator and an administrator he had few superiors in the public life of this country during his day and generation. He has left on the statute book many evidences of his ability as a legislator, which will carry his name far into future ages. But it was as a private man, if I may say so, that Sir Richard Scott was specially distinguished. He had, as was stated on a recent occasion, mens Sana in corpore sano. He had iby nature not a very strong constitution, but by a careful and abstemious life he managed to keep his health, his strength, and his vigour to a very old age. He was a man endowed with the broadest sympathies and a Christian disposition, and in this respect he was certainly a model to all of us who came info contact with him. The sympathies of the country are certainly extended to his family, and the words which have just been uttered by the Prime Minister, especially as coming from one who was not associated politically with him, will, be a great comfort to his family in their bereavement.


Mr. LANCASTER moved that Bill No. 98, respecting the Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company, and to ratify and confirm the purchase of a portion of the Carillon and Grenville Railway Company's property, be withdrawn, and that the fees paid thereon be refunded, less the cost of printing and translation, in accordance with the recommendation contained in the eleventh report of the Select Standing Committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph Lines.
As I understand it, this was a Bill about which there was a good deal of contention, and which referred to claims of a somewhat ancient character, made by other companies. I think it would be interesting if the chairman of the Railway Committee would give us some



explanation, before this motion is carried, as to when and why this action was taken.


The Bill to which
the hon. gentleman perhaps refers was a Bill brought by the Central Canada Railway Company involving the renewal or continuance of land grants. That Bill was thoroughly discussed by the Railway Committee, and the preamble was rejected. This Bill also was in relation to the Carillon and Grenville railway, and asked us to ratify and confirm the sale. Both companies claimed that they had bought the Carillon and Grenville railway, and the question is in court as to which company really has the signatures of the proper people. The committee did not spend much time on this Bill, because as soon as the situation was pointed out to the Canadian Northern Ontario Company,_ to whose Bill this motion relates, they realized that we could not confirm a sale, which is_ in the courts of Quebec, for decision as to which company really did buy the property. They, I think! very wisely, asked leave to withdraw their Bill, realizing that it could not pass the committee, and it was arranged to be withdrawn accordingly.


Motion agreed to.	„
Mr. HUGH CLARK (North Bruce) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 181, to amend the Dominion Elections Act.
Explain.


Section 275 of the Dominion Elections Act provides that any person Who. is guilty of illegally voting may be fined $100, which may be collected by any party who chooses to sue for the amount. I propose to repeal that clause, and to reenact it, with the addition that on default of payment the guilty party may be committed to prison for a term of not less than two months and not more than six months.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has the Post Office Department any printing contract with La Patrie, of Montreal?
2.	If so, to what amount per annum?
3.	How much ihas been paid to La Patrie hy the Post Office Department since 1st of November, 1912?


*
1.	As a matter of fact the departments of the Government make no contracts for Mr. GRAHAM.
printing, that being done under the law entirely by the Department of Printing and Stationery.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	La Patrie has been given a share of the printing of the money orders for the Post Office Department, the orders for which may be terminated at the pleasure of the King's Printer. The .money orders, till .the change of Government, were printed for many years by the Perreault Printing Company of Montreal, under the same arrangement and at .precisely the same price. As the cost of printing has advanced a great deal in the last few years, the figure .the department iis paying must be considered extremely reasonable. La Patrie has been paid from November, 1912, down to date, for the Post Office Department, the sum of $5,129.75, but some portion of this is for printing other than money orders.


What are the official statistics regarding Canadian moneys respectively, of gold, silver and copper, annually coined at Ottawa since the opening of the Mint?
Mr. WHITE. Canadian gold, silver, and bronze moneys coined at the Ottawa Mint from the 2nd January, 1908, to the 31st March, 1913:
Calendar
Year.	Gold.	Silver.	Bronze.1908 .. ..	$ 3.13,338 35	$23,290 951909 .. ..	673,043 65	39,441 681910 .. ..	1,979,571 10	51.619 251911 .. ..	985,678 50	46,599 471912 .. ..	.. 1,4.77,710	1,383,832 95	51,095 99*1913.. ..	375,480 00	10,754 36$1,800,730	$5,710,944, 55	$222,801 70
* To March 31.
Worn silver and bronze coin recoined during the same period, the .amount of such recoinages being included in the figures
given in the table	above:	
Calender Year.	Silver.	Bronze.
1908		. ..$ 22,397 60	
1909		. .. 207,202 90	
1910		. .. 294,394 60	
1911	. .. 45,486 95	$175 041912	. .. 83,503 80	26 401913 (to March	31). 59,417 30	$712,403 15	$201 44


1.	Has Doctor DuVernet, of Digby, N.S., been appointed to any office by the present Government?
2.	If so, what is the position and what are his duties?
3.	What salary is he paid for same?


1.	Yes.

2.	Quarantine officer of the port, to fill the duties of that office, namely, to inspect incoming vessels and satisfy himself, under the quarantine regulations, as to the presence or absence of quarantinable diseases and aLj other contagious or infectious disease, and to act, as quarantine officer, according to his findings.
3.	$600 per annum.


1.	What rate per ton is payable from the fishery bounty fund to the owners of the fishing vessels engaged in the deep sea fishing for the year 1913?
2.	How much is payable to each fisherman composing the crew of such vessel for said year ?
3.	How much is payable out of said fund to the owner of each fishing boat?
4.	What is the amount of the bounty payable to each boat fisherman for each of the years, 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912?


1.	No rate per ton has been paid for 1913, as claims for the fishing season of 1913 will not be received before the end of the year. The rate per ton for the year 1912 was $1 per ton up to 80 tons.
2.	$6.90.
3.	$1.
4.	1908, $3.90; 1909, $4.25; 1910, $4.30; 1911, $4.10; 1912, $3.95.


1.	Was a contract entered into by the Government with Sir John Jackson & Co., for the construction of a breakwater at Victoria, B.C.?
2.	If so, what is the date of the cotract, the amount, and the date of completion?
3.	Was the plan changed after the contract was signed? If so, why and at whose request?
4.	What will the contract price be under the new plan if any?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Signed on 20th of December, 1912; (b) schedule of prices which will approximate $1,797,801.88; (c) 36 months from 20th of December, 1912.
3.	No.
4.	No.


1.	Are the plans for the proposed damming of the St. Charles river, Quebec, prepared? If so, when can they be seen?
2.	Will the Minister of Public Works leave them with the clerk of the House for the use of the members?


(a) Yes; (b) at any time, during office hours, in the draughting room of the chief engineer of public works, west block.


With the leave of the House, I would like to ask my hon. friend' if he would have any objection to leaving a copy of these plans with the clerk of the House, as it was agreed the other day with respect to the Quebec harbour plans, so that they could be examined together.


I will look into the matter, and, if it is possible, I will be very glad to do it.


1.	What is the cost of the 54 clocks ordered by the Public Works Department since the 1st November, 1911?
2.	What are the names of the firms from which tenders were invited?


1.	$49,424.
2.	Messrs. John Smith & Sons, Derby, England, and W. F. Evans & Sons, Hands-worth, England.


1.	How much was paid to Commissioner Duchemin in connection with the expenses of the investigation in the case of Richard Conroy, postmaster at Country Harbour, N.S.?
2.	What are the respective items, including witness fees, travelling and living expenses?


1. The inquiry at Country Harbour, N.S., was conducted at the same time as that of St. Francis Harbour, and the commissioner's account therefor for $63.10 covered both cases.
21 The respective items in the two above cases are:	Remuneration and living expenses, $54; fare, Mulgrave to Guys-borough, $1; witnesses, $3; stenographer, $3.75; stationery and postage, 35 cents, total, $63.10.


How much was paid to Commissioner Duchemin in connection with the investigation of the case of Parker Sangster, postmaster at New Harbour, N.S., and what are the items making up the total?


The inquiry at New
Harbour, N.S., was conducted at the same time as that of New Harbour West and the account rendered therefor by the commissioner, amounting to $46.10, covered the expenses of both inquiries. The different items are as follows: Remuneration and living expenses, $36; horse hire, $4; witnesses, $2.40; stenographers, $3.45; stationery and postage, 35 cents, total, $46.10.


1.	Was or is Maurice Arcand in the employ of the Department of Public Works in connection with the construction of the coal dock at the city of Three Rivers, Quebec?
2.	If so, what is or was the nature of his employment and what salary was or is he paid ?
3.	Is it the intention of the department to dispense with the services of the said Maurice Arcand? If so, has he been notified to that [DOT]effect ?
4.	If his services are dispensed with, will
his successor be one Edmond Michelin, of Three Rivers?	.
5.	If so, what is Michelin's age, and what has his former occupation or trade been?


I am unable to give the information at the moment. We telegraphed to the engineer in charge at Three Rivers but his reply has not yet been received.


I would ask that the
question stand until the reply has been received.
Question stands.


Tor a return showing what officers and men were employed on the dredge Northumberland at Pic'tou in the months of January, February and March, 1913, and what salaries and wages were paid to them respectively; what amounts were paid for repairs and supplies respectively, for said dredge during said months and to whom were they paid respectively.-Mr. Macdonald.
For a return showing the full names of *bc mail carriers in the county of Vandrenil and Soulanges; between what places they *perform the service; what the distance each *of these places is; what the amount of each carrier's contract is; what amount the '*Government paid for the carriage of the mail in these different places before September, 1911.-Mr. Boyer.
On the Orders of the Day being called :
Mr. Speaker, I would
dike to call your attention to the fact that itbe explanations supplied by hon. members who were present last night when **the vote was taken regarding their abstention from voting is not recorded in ' Hansard.' I would like to know if any instructions have been made to the reporters mot to enter these explanations. I see that on the 15th of March last on three different votes hon. members explained that they had refrained from voting because they were paired, and their [DOT]explanations were recorded. It is the only way in which members who exchange the favour of pairing with their fellow-*members can show that they were present *when the vote was taken, and I do not 'Mr. PELLETIER.
see why it should be omitted from ' Hansard.'


There is no rule with regard to pairs or pairing, but I think the general custom has been that when an announcement of a pair is made in the House it is taken note of by tfie ' Hansard ' reporter. So far as I know, there never have been any instructions given during my time as Speaker, regarding that matter. It has been the custom to publish in ' Hansard ' the announcement as to pairs.


The hon. member (Mr. Beland) is quite right. It always has been the custom to insert in 1 Hansard ' the explanation given by hon. members as to pairs, and I have no idea as to why it was omitted in this case. I did not know it had been omitted until the hon. gentleman brought it to the attention of the House.


I rise to a question of privilege. In this morning's Montreal Gazette, reporting the proceedings of yesterday, there is a statement as to which I desire to enter my most emphatic protest and denial. Speaking of the closure vote, the Montreal Gazette says:
All the Quebec members present voted with the Government.
As a Quebec member present, I want to deny most emphatically that I voted with the Government on that question.


Hear, hear.


In reference to the recent debate on the motion to amend the rules of the House, lest it might be at some time in the future quoted as a precedent, I wish to point out that Mr. Kay, who moved the adjournment of the debate on April 16, afterwards in the same speech moved the adjournment of tne House, which, of course, would not be regular or permissible; but it passed unnoticed at the time. I mention it so that there may be no misunderstanding in the future.


May I be permitted to say that the member who moved the adjournment of the debate, in my humble judgment, had afterwards the privilege of moving the adjournment of the House? 1 do not know that because he was speaking to one motion he could not move another.


An hon. member cannot make two motions in one speech, and when he moved the adjournment of the debate he would be considered as having spoken had he not availed himself of the privilege when the time came to speak. Had he not risen to speak after moving the adjournment of the debate, he would be listed as a member who had spoken on the question.


Undoubtedly, but he would have the privilege to speak.


The privilege of speaking was extended to him, but it was not permissible to him, after he had spoken, to move another motion in the same speech.


May I ask the Minister of Public Works as to a matter which is of special interest to the citizens of Ottawa. I have not been in Major's Hill park for some years, but 1 have been informed that it is insufficiently lighted. Is it the intention of the minister to have more lights placed in the park?


The matter was mentioned in the department the other day, and a report is to be made. I shall be glad to inform my right hon. friend what conclusion has been arrived at.


Can the minister tell me whether or not Major's Hill Park at the present time is reserved exclusively for pedestrians, or whether it is open to vehicular traffic?


I cannot answer that
question now; I will get the information.


I desire to renew my
request to the Minister of Public Works for information that would enable me to identify the files -from which he took certain information on Thursday last in the discussion on the Prince Albert homestead entry, with a view to asking for an order of the House to have these papers brought down.


File No. 726a.


That is the only one?


That is all.


Hon. FRANK OLIVER (Edmonton) asked for leave to move the adjournment of the House for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, being the purchase by the Government of British Columbia of the Kitsilano Indian Reserve, on Tuesday, April 8, and the removal of the Indians from that reserve on Thursday, April 10, without the knowledge or consent of the Dominion Government, as shown by the reply given on Monday last to an inquiry as to the same.
And leave having been granted:
He said:	In order that the House may
understand exactly the position I will read the question and answer as they appear in 'Hansard,' Monday, April 21:
Mr. Oliver:
1.	Does the Government take measures to
safeguard the rights of Indians to the land of their reserves in British Columbia when sales of such land are being made?	_
2.	Is the Government aware of steps being taken, as alleged, to acquire from the Indians of the Kitsilano reserve, Vancouver, B.C., their rights to the land of the reserve by the provincial Government- _ of British Columbia, or by other parties or interests?
3.	Is the Government a party to the proposals of purchase being made by or on behalf of the British Columbia Government?
Mr. Crothers:
1.	Yes.
2.	No.
3.	Answered -by No. 2.
In view of the importance of the matter, and in view of the fact that there have been very definite statements made in the public press wTith regard to the purchase of this reserve, it was entirely desirable that the facts as stated should be brought to the attention of the House, and the country, and the Government. Without criticising, it would seem to one that there is a width of difference between the answer to the question and the statements in the press-whieh certainly calls for consideration and: explanation. I find in the Daily Colonist, Victoria, B.C., Wednesday, April 9, a despatch from Vancouver dated April 8, the purport of which despatch is that Attorney-General Bowser at Astley's Hall, said that over a quarter of a million dollars, divided into twenty separate payments of eleven thousand dollars each, had been paid by the provincial Government to Indians for the purchase of the Kitsilano reserve of eighty acres; that the sale was made through the Bank of Commerce and the Indians were to vacate their reserve. In. the Daily News Advertiser of Vancouver, April 9, I find this statement:
This is a good purchase for the province-which acquires a complete title to eighty acres of land at moderate cost. But it is not a had sale for the Indians, whose title waa subject to a reversionary interest, and who could not have sold to private parties for the price of freehold property.
The article goes on to say:
This reserve lying in the heart of the city of Vancouver.
In the daily News-Advertiser of April 19, there is a statement that:
Indians left Kitsilano yesterday. Twenty families, sixty or seventy in all, left for Squamish, North Vancouver and Mission.
It would appear, therefore, that the transaction is not in progress but that it has been actually closed. The money has been paid, a matter of about a quarter of million of dollars; the Indians have left the reserve in accordance with the bargain made with them; and the Government of.
the Dominion, I should judge from this answer knows-or on Monday last knew- absolutely nothing of the transaction. Now, I do not wish to delay the House in discussing this matter, but I think it is desirable that the position should be understood; that is, that the responsibility that rests upon the Government of the Dominion in regard to the land in the Indian reserves, should be understood by the House. The Indians are the wards of the Dominion Government. That is one of the obligations especially placed upon the Dominion Government,1 being removed directly from the Imperial Government and placed upon the Government of the Dominion-a responsibility to care for the interests of the Indians and to protect them in their rights both as to person and property. And there is no right in which the Indians require protection more completely than in the ownership of the land which has been set apart for their use and benefit. I need not dwell at length on the recognized sacredness of the trust which is thus laid upon the Government of the Dominion in regard to the rights of the Indians. The Indian cannot alienate his land, nor can he alienate his interest in the land; that alienation can only take place, under the Indian Act, by and with the consent of the Department of Indian Affairs or of the Dominion Government. That is in line with the question I asked, and the responsibility is admitted in the answer.
In this case, the reserve in question is not of large area, in fact the Indian reserves in British Columbia are generally speaking, of very small area. This reserve is of about eighty acres, and I am given to understand that it is within the corporate limits of the city of Vancouver. It is situated on the south side of False Creek within the city limits and has value as city property. And besides, I am given, to understand, it has special value as offering possibilities for the location of a railway terminus. There can be no doubt that the land is valuable. It has an abnormal value. This land is, or was, occupied by some twenty families of Indians. According to our understanding of the Indian Act, that is, the understanding of the Indian Act which has prevailed since Canada was Canada, this property in the Indian reserves whatever its value is the property of the Indians who can establish their rights to them. So, whether there were twenty Indians or ten, or a hundred; or whether the property was worth $250,000 or was worth $1,000,000, it was their money; or it was worth $5,000,000, it was still their money. It appears however, that this property has been purchased from the Indians individually by the British Columbia Government paying the ' Indians $11,250 per Mr. OLIVER.
family, the Indians agreeing to vacate the land. This is a transaction, however, it would appear from the newspapers, that has been in progress for some time. It did not transpire only on the 8th or 10th of April. Negotiations were opened, as I read in the newspapers, in regard to the transfer of this land, some time in the month of March, and early in April a meeting was held between a magistrate of the provincial Government and the Indians with the view to considering the question of the surrender of these reserves. Perhaps I had better read an extract from the Vancouver Sun of Thursday April 3:
A number of the Kitsilano tribe states that a meeting was held on Tuesday
That is on the 1st of April-
-in the court room of magistrate H. O. Alexander between the male members of the Kitsilano tribe and Attorney General Bowser. Magistrate Alexander was present, according to the Indian informant of the Sun.
The Indians declare that there was a meeting at which Attorney General Bowser made the offer mentioned of $11,250 per man for the reserve. The Indians indignantly refused the offer, stating that an agent of the Chicago, Milwaukee and Puget Sound railway is offering them $50,000 per man. The eighty-six acres of the reserve are worth at least $7,000,000.
The paper goes on to report the transaction and says:
Suddenly Interrupted.
One of the Indians replied to this offer, saying, ' Mr. Bowser and Magistrate Alexander, listen to me: If you owned some property, and one man came and said he would give you $11,250 for it, and another man came and said he would give you $50,000 for it, which would you take ? _ I think it is best for us to wrait a little while until the Indian land commissioners are here.'
At this the Indian was suddenly interrupted by Mr. Bowser, who is declared to have exclaimed sharply, ' When the commissioners have gone you will get nothing at all for your land, not one cent. All you will get will be a portion of land somewhere in the Squamish valley in return for the Kitsilano reserve. Now which do you prefer, $11,250 or nothing? Here is your cheque. If you want it you can take it, and draw_ your money for the land, or you can leave it.
I think it would be pertinent to inquire if Attorney General Bowser, a member of the Government of British Columbia, who undoubtedly was present at this meeting, and who undoubtedly made this offer, was acting with the authority of the Department of Indian Affairs for the Dominion, on his own initiative, or with the authority of the Government of British Columbia.
It appears that Mr. Bowser or the Government of British Columbia were not alone in the market for this reserve. The Vancouver Sun of the following day, April

4,	publishes an interview with one Charles A. Calkins, who says:
Several months ago I made an offer to the Dominion Government for the reserve. I am in receipt of both telegraphic and written communications from the Indian Department acknowledging my offer and stating that it will have consideration after the Royal Commission, which has been appointed to .investigate the Indians' claims, shall have given its decision. My legal .agents ait Ottawa inform me that in addition to the formal acknowledgments which I have received from the department, the officials there take the view that no action will be taken to sell the reserve until the title is made Clear by the Royal Commission, and, more than that, that the highest offer will get the reserve when the title is clear.
It is evident, then, that there were offers for this reserve aside from the offer of the British Columbia Government. This man Calkins had placed his offer with the Dominion Government, and we have reason to believe, from the statements in the papers, with which I shall not bother the House, that his offer was much higher than the payments made by Attorney General Bowser. I find it hard to believe that these transactions were going on without the knowledge of the Government in Ottawa, and, if they were taking place without the knowledge of the Dominion Government, I take the liberty of asserting that the Government at Ottawa was not paying proper attention to its responsibilities in that regard. As to whether the Indians received full value for their rights, the Vancouver World of April 9 has this to say:
For the provincial Government to pay the Indians $300,000 for their lands when .a sum of a million and a half had been offered by another Teal estate dealer who could not claim the prestige 'belonging to the Government in enforcing acceptance of hi® terms is unjustifiable and immoral.
The article then goes on to say:
Yet if an individual in the community had carried through the deal for which the Government claims credit, he iwould have been in danger of a term in the penitentialy. The Indians are the wards of both governments, Dominion and Provincial, and for the provincial government to claim credit for a bargain in which the main factors were the trustfulness of the Indian, his ignorance of the situation, and the prestige which, in his eyes, belong to the Government, is scandalous. The Government did not come within a million or two of paying market price for the lands of its wards, and now it claims ciedit for carrying through a real estate deal of great advantage to the province.
I want to be understood not as criticising the provincial government in this matter; the responsibility is with the Dominion Government, and it is to them we look for the protection of. the Indians, who are especially and peculiarly the
wards of this Government and of this country. The matter is of especial importance when we look at it from the standpoint of keeping inviolate the good faith of Canada, or the good faith of Britain, if you will; it is important, I say, because of the number of reserves, especially in British Columbia, which _ are situated in very much the same position as this Kitsilano reserve. There is certainly one, and I am under the impression that there are two or three small reserves situated in North Vancouver, immediately on the north side of Bur-rard's Inlet, which have a real estate value favourably comparable with this Kitsilano reserve. There are other reserves scattered throughout the province of British Columbia and the Dominion of Canada, and, if the guiding principle of the British Empire and of the Dominion of Canada ever since those governments came to deal with the Indians in thi3 country, is not to be hereafter maintained, and if the change in principle is to take place under the administration of the Government of to-day, it is right and proper that the country should know it, and should know who is responsible for breaking faith and ignoring the responsibilities of the country towards its wards.
It may be suggested, as would seem to be indicated by this transaction, that if the Indians received good value for their land, that was the only matter of concern; that is to say, if the Indians had received from the province of British Columbia the full value for their property, this Government would have had no further responsibility in the matteT. But that is not the fact. The Government of Canada is charged not only with the protection of the property rights of the Indians, but with the supervision of their personal rights and the responsibility of overseeing, as far as possible, their personal welfare. When the rights of these Indians were bought out, and they weTe given the money for which they sold them, they had no guardianship or guidance in the control or management of that money, and the very reason why the Government of Canada assumed the control over these Indians that they do is because the Indian is not by temperament fitted to care properly .for his own personal interests. So I say, even if the British Columbia Government had paid full value for this land, the Dominion Government was not doing its full duty in allowing the Indians to accept that money, whilst taking no steps to provide for its control in the future. The older members of the House will perhaps remember that there was a similar undesirable consideration regarding an Indian reserve the Songhees, situated within in the city of Victoria. It was very desirable that that reserve should be elimi-
nated from the city and an arrangement was entered into between the Government of British Columbia, the Indian Department of the Dominion Government and the Indians whereby a payment of $10,000 per family in cash was made to the Indians and a reserve of approximately equal area was secured for their occupation to be vested in the Dominion Government in fee simple for the benefit of that particular band of Indians. In that case, as in this, the Indians were given the ownership of the cash that was paid to them, to dispose of as they pleased, but they were not given the ownership of the land of their new reserve which was to them a large part of the purchase price of the old reserve, so that the band had the guarantee of land of their own for ail time to come under the superintendence and management of the Department of Indian Affairs. They did get absolute control of the cash to the amount of $10,000 a family which was paid to them for the relinquishment of their rights. The Liberal Government was in power at the time and I was Superintendent General of Indian Affairs. I must assume my share of responsibility for that transaction but I will take the liberty to read to the House what I think will be acccepted as evidence that while there were strong reasons for this transaction being entered into there is also very strong evidence that it had very undesirable features, which features are accentuated in this sale of the Kitsilano reserve. The Vancouver Sun of April 4th says editorially:
When the Songhees reserve at Victoria was sold each head of a family received $11,000, about the same sum offered the Kitsilano people. The results of their coming into possession of so much money have been deplorable. In the brief two-years since the sale a large number of them have spent every cent of the purchase money they received; many of them have died from the immoderate use of liquor, which, in spite of the prohibitory law% they found no difficulty in procuring so long as their cash lasted, and one case is reported where an unlucky individual, while overcome with liquor, was literally roasted alive.
That was the experience resulting from the transaction in regard to the Songhees reserve where only one-half of the purchase price was paid in cash and the other half in land. In this case the whole purchase price is paid in cash and there has been no effort on the part of the Dominion Government to in any way protect the persona] welfare of the Indians who have made this sale. Not only that, but there has been apparently no effort to protect; the Government disclaims all knowledge of the transaction. In regard to the purchase price of this reserve, it is impossible to say just what the value is. There is, however, information that the price paid was Mr. OLIVER.
something less than one-quarter of a million dollars. We have information that there was at that time a standing offer to the Department of Indian Affairs in Ottawa of an amount very much larger and asssumed in these newspapers to be up to one and a half million dollars. One estimate of the value of the property is placed at seven million dollars. Now, let the property be worth a quarter of a million dollars, one million dollars, two ,three, four, five or seven millions dollars, the point I want to emphasize is that the property was exceptionally valuable and that the Government of this country was not keeping faith with the Indians on the one hand or the Imperial Government on the other when it allowed this transaction on the part of the provincial government to go through whereby that property becomes, according to the government papers of British Columbia, absolutely the property of the government of that province at a price paid to the Indians of less than a quarter of a million dollars. Comparisons are odious but I think that the transaction of my hon. friend the Minister of Public Works with his friend Mr. Donaldson pales into insignificance when compared with this transaction whereby the lands of this Kitsilano Indian reserve are placed at the disposal of the Government of British Columbia for a matter of a quarter of a million dollars.
I take the liberty of placing before the House the fact that when the transaction in regard to the Songhees reserve took place it was recognized by the Government of the day that this transaction or transactions of that nature had seriously objectionable features. It was considered to be a matter of urgency that this reserve should be got rid of. As far as possible at the time the exigencies of the case were met and the interest of the Indians was protected. But it was amply recognized that such a method of dealing with Indian reserves was undesirable, and, in view of the fact that there were many other reserves in almost identical positions in British Columbia and elsewhere, it was considered that a definite policy should he entered upon for the disposal of Indian lands so situated. Accordingly the Indian Act was amended to meet the case. An amendment of the Indian Act was assented to on May 19, 1911, and in that Act provision was made that where an Indian reserve
Adjoins or is situated wholly or partly within an incorporated town or city having a population of not less than eight thousand, and -which reserve has not been released or surrendered by the Indians, the Governor in Council may, upon the recommendation of the Superintendent General, refer to the judge of the Exchequer Court of Canada, for inquiry and report the question as to whether it is expedient, having regard to the interest

of the public and of the Indians of the band for whose use the reserve is held, that the Indians should be removed from the reserve or any part of it.
Other sub sections make provision for a full investigation of the merits of the case by a judge of the Exchequer Court, for the valuation, of the land of the reserve, and for the sale of that land by auction, the proceeds to be for the benefit of the Indians *solely. Provision is also made for securing another reserve for'the Indians, 'and in every way, so far as the judgment of the Government of the day and of Parliament was concerned, provision was made on the responsibility of the Government of the day, and by the administration of the Indian Department to meet exactly such cases as that of the Kitsilano reserve so as to secure the removal of the Indians, but also to secure that removal subject to the last Ihdian getting the benefit of the last cent that was in the property from which he was being removed. Provision is also made for safeguarding the personal rights of the Indians. It must be a matter of regret to the House and to the country that, having to meet a condition such as was contemplated when this amendment to the Indian Act was framed, the Government did n-ot see fit to avail itself of the provisions of that Act, but instead saw fit to allow the British Columbia Government to deal with the sacred rights of those Indians in that land as though it were an ordinary real estate speculation. Let me say, Mr. Speaker, that these provisions of the Indian Act received full consideration at the hands of Parliament before they became law, and they were not forced through by a government majority or by the use of provisions for closure, but by common consent of Parliament, as being necessary to meet cases such as we recognize to be in existence and as providing means whereby they could properly be met in consonance with the dignity of Canada and with the rights of the Indians.
This was the fruit of that amendment. That amendment should never have been made to the Indian Act in the interests of the Indians, and that was pointed out to my hon. friend when he was pressing that matter through.


I think my hon. friend
had something to say on the matter, but I do not think he pressed his objections to the point of voting against the Bill. He was in the same position as he occupied on many other occasions, and as many of his friends occupied, who talked to square themselves with the country, but who did not vote to back up their expressions. Be that as it may, a large number of his friends spoke on that subject and not only
supported the principle of the Bill, but declared it was not drastic enough, that it paid too much regard to the interest of the Indians. If my hon. friend thinks that this Act does not take proper care of the interests of the Indians, what has he to say to the action which has been taken by the Government of British Columbia either with the knowledge and consent of this Government, or 'without its knowledge and eonsente I ask him what he has to say? In that case we would be glad to hear from him.
I might say further, Mr. Speaker, that in connection with the transfer of the Songhees Indians from their reserve in the city of Victoria to a reserve outside, the arrangement made between the Dominion Department of Indian Affairs, the Government of British Columbia, and the Indians was sanctioned by a statute of this Parliament, came under the review of Parliament and received the endorsation of members of Parliament, a large number of whom spoke upon the subject. In view of the fact that the conditions surrounding that transfer were not in all particulars all that could be desired, in view of the fact that provision was specifically made to meet those conditions in future cases, and having regard especially to this very Kitsilano reserve, in connection with which the Government has seen fit to ignore the very existence of that statute, and so far as our information goes, to allow the rights of these Indians to be treated as though they were the rights of an ordinary real estate speculator, to be bought out on any terms or at any price that could be secured -and I have here statements as to the means that were taken to secure those rights-I think I would not be doing full justice if I did not inform the House in regard to them. The threat of the Attorney General of the province of British Columbia, with the authority of the Government to the Indians, the threat made by him on the evidence of the Indians themselves, thatt they must either take the price he was offering them, or take nothing, calls for more than explanation; it calls for investigation by the Department of Indian Affairs, and for investigation without delay. In my humble judgment these circumstances required that justice should be done between those Indians and the Government of Canada, standing with the good faith of Great Britain in its hands and that this transaction should not be allowed to stand. There is mo reason why the good faith which has been shown to the Indians of this country ever since the British Government undertook to control its affairs, should be less in evidence to-day than in the past. The mere fact that the Indians have ceased to be a serious factor in the

population and life of the country is all the greater reason why good faith should be kept with them.
There is another side to this question that I wish to refer to. It is this: The Government of British Columbia assert a claim to the land included in the reserves occupied by the Indians of that province. As they hold, the Indians are not the owners of the lands of their reserves. They hold that the province is the owner of these lands, that the Indians are only occupants and that the Indians have no right beyond that right of occupation. I need not say that no government of Canada up to the present time has ever been able to accept that view. Of course, it has been recognized that the British Columbia Government, being an important and responsible part of the system of government in this country, is entitled to hold such view as it may please in regard to matters that come within its sphere of influence and it must necessarily be recognized that, if the Government of British "Columbia claims to own the land that is in the Indian reserves, the Indians then do not hold a clear title to the land. That was a difficulty that the late Government had to face in dealing with the Indian question and with the question of reserve lands in British Columbia. It is a question that should be decided as soon as possible and it is a question that must necessarily go for decision, unless one party or the other gives up its contention, to the Imperial Privy Council. I am going to take the liberty of saying here and now that the late Government, during several years, used every endeavour to arrive at an arrangement with the Government of British Columbia whereby a case would be submitted to the Privy Council which would decide the ownership of these lands. It was distinctly because of the action of the British Columbia Government that the matter was not advanced towards a conclusion. Be that as it may, it must be evident that, if the Indians are to have value for the land that they occupy, the question of ownership must be settled before a price is fixed. It is evident that, if the Indian has not a good title to his land, he cannot get tne price for his rights that he would get if he had a complete title. Therefore, it is surely the duty of the Government that is charged with protecting the interests of the Indians to secure a settlement of the question of title as soon as possible and not allow the rights of the Indians to be set aside until the question of title has been settled. That is the view apparently that was taken by the Indian Department in their reply to Mr. Calkins. He was told that his offer would not be dealt with until the question of title had been settled. But, apparently, the Indian Department at Ottawa is that part of the machinery of government in Canada which has the least to say and which knows the least in regard to a matter which is most closely and ~Mr. OLIVER.
intimately under its jurisdiction. In view of-the importance of this transaction itself, the amount of money involved, the interest of the band of Indians concerned, the principle that is at stake, the far-reaching effect of that principle, if it is adopted, but more especially the necessity of keeping good faith with the Indians in discharge of the obligations and responsibilities laid upon this Government by the Imperial Government, I bring this matter to the attention of the House and I ask for the fullest and most complete statement that can be made in regard to it.


Mr. Speaker, we have had a rather extraordinary deliverance from the hon. member for Edmonton (Mr. Oliver), in which he has based serious charges against the British Columbia Government, and particularly against the Attorney General of that province, upon newspaper clippings without apparently taking any other means to ascertain whether or not his attack upon the attorney general of that province is in any way justified by the facts. The hon. gentleman's remarks are also very singular for another reason-that in this case, as well as in the Donaldson case, to which he alluded-he seemed more concerned in apologizing for his own action as Minister of the Interior and Superintendent General of Indian Affairs, than with respect to the particular matter to which he directed attention. He informed us, as the fact is, that in 1911 he became responsible to Parliament and the country for the passing of a special Act by which the Songhees reserve was placed under the *ownership and control of the provincial Government of British Columbia upon certain terms to which he has alluded. He informed us somewhat explicitly that the course which he took then was absolutely wrong and has been attended with the most deplorable results. That seems to be rather an extraordinary prelude to a demand that this Government shall pay better regard to those sacred rights of the Indians which we all recognize but which he was not so particular in recognizing when he had to do with the transfer of the St. Peter's reserve. My hon. friend, in the concluding portion of his remarks, stated that it was absolutely impossible to fix properly and definitely any price for the Indian reserves of British Columbia until a certain question had been determined by the Supreme Court of Canada or by the Privy Council. The attitude of the province of British Columbia on this matter was exactly the same in 1911 as it is to-day, and I ask the hon. gentleman how he was able to fix a price in 1911 for the Songhees Indian reserve, since the difficulty [DOT] was as manifest then as it is now. He has placed himself in a most unfortunate position by his statement in that respect.


I might add a word of
explanation. In the case of the Songhees reserve we maintained that the Indians had title in fee simple and for the purpose of the transaction the British Columbia Government practically admitted that in the exchange they made for the reserve they gave us title in fee simple.


I probably was wrong in making the comparison; my right hon. friend is right in his proportions but possibly not his amounts.


Well, of course that is
by the way; it does not much affect the principle we are discussing. I come to the situation as it is to-day. The hon. gentleman has brought to the attention of the Government the newspaper reports of what has been proceeding in the province of British Columbia. I want to point out to him that the rights of the Indians in the province of British Columbia or elsewhere are capable of being dealt with only under the provisions of the Indian Act and the amending Act of 1911 or by a

special Act of Parliament. There are three methods: In the first place, section 49 of the Indian Act provides for the surrender under certain conditions; in the second place, the amending Act of 1911 provides that where a surrender cannot be obtained although it is absolutely essential to the progress and development of great communities that the Indians should be removed to some other reservation, then the judge of the Exchequer Court of Canada is vested with certain duties and he is authorized to make a report on which the Governor in Council can act; and in the third place, there may be obtained a special Act of Parliament, which course was adopted b