Bill No. 183, respecting the city of Ottawa.-Mr. Fripp.
On the Orders of the Day being called:
I draw the attention of
the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs to the fact that the Vancouver papers report that Attorney General Bowser is taking the same or similar steps in regard to the Capilano Indian reserve at North Vancouver as he has already successfully taken in regard to the Kitsilano Indian reserve in Vancouver city.


(Questions to be answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Is D. Beyter in the employ of the Government as lighthouse keeper at Little Current ?
2.	If not, -when did he cease to be so employed ?
3.	Was he dismissed or did he resign?
4.	If the former, why?
5.	Who has been appointed to succeed him, and what is his age?


1.	No.
2.	April 19, 1913.
3.	Dismissed.
4.	Offensive partisanship.
5.	(a) Mr. Islam Allan; (b) No information with regard to his age is at present available, but will be obtained and supplied later.


1.	Since October, 191.1, up to iMay, 1912, how many day labourers or gangs were employed to work on the branch Tobin of the Intercolonial railway at the river of Trois Pistoles?
2.	How many were employed each year before 1911, 'by the chief of the road labourers, M. Desjardins, or the department, for the repair of the road?
3.	Is the department aware that a man had been dismissed from work on this branch in November, 1912, but after an interview with the chief of the Bleus of Trois Pistoles, this man was re-appointed?


1.	Twelve.
2.	The number of men employed each
year before 1911, was as follows:	1908,
sixteen; 1909, eleven; 1910, five.
3.	No.


1.	Who is now carrying the mail on the mail route from Pictou to West River, county of Pictou ?
2.	What amount is being paid for this service?


John Meagher, under a temporary arrangement for the month of April, until the rural mail routes from Salt Springs and West River are established. When this service has been arranged particulars can be given without inconvenience to the public interest.


1.	What contracts have been received by the Poison Iron Works of Toronto, from the Government in the last two years?
2.	What wages or schedule of wages has been paid on contracts that have or are being fulfilled by this firm?


1.	Department of the Naval Service.- Repairs to C.G.S. La Canadienne in June, 1912: Amount, $3,855.
Department of Public Works.-One 80-foot single screw steel tug, and machinery for a three and a half-yard dipper dredge.
Department of Railways and Canals.- Contract signed by Poison Iron Works, Limited, on August 19, 1912, for one steel tug for the Sault Ste. Marie canal.
. 2. Department of the Naval Service-No information in the department.	[DOT]
Department of Public Works.-No information; contracts did not contain fair wage schedule.
Department of Railways and Canals.- Per day of 10 hours: Boiler makers, $2.75; boiler makers' helpers, $1.75; rivetters, $2.75; blacksmiths, $3; blacksmiths' helpers, $2; pipe fitters, $3.75; machinists, $3; carpenters, $3; labourers, $2.


1.	Is it the intention of the Government to construct a dry-dock at Esquimau, B.C.?
2.	If so, will provision be made for same in the estimates this year?


Matter under consideration.


1.	Has the Department of Public Works determined what lands should be expropriated in view of the lockage of the river St. Charles at Quebec?
2.	If so, what is the approximate cost of such expropriation?
3.	Who are the proprietors of the said lands ?
4.	What is the extent of the lands expropriated ?
5.	When are the works to be commenced?


1.	Yes.
2.	No estimate made.
3.	Not known in the Department of Public Works.
4.	Land required, 2,619,565 square feet.
5.	17th March, 1913, contract was signed. Work to begin immediately after signing.


1.	When did Cote's band of Indians in Saskatchewan surrender a portion of their
reserve for sale?
2.	How many acres were surrendered?
3.	What were the terms as to the manner in which the land was to sold, as agreed! upon at the time of the surrender?
4.	What was the name of the official who secured the surrender ?
5.	How many acres were sold at public auction ?
6.	What was the highest price per acre obtained at public auction sale, and whait was the average price per acre at this sale?<
7.	What were the upset prices placed on the land offered for sale at public auction, and by whom?
8.	Were any of the lands unsold at the auction sale sold afterwards by private sale? If so, how many acres, to whom, when, at what price in each case, by whose authority, and was the land re-valued?
9.	Who made application to the department to have these lands sold by private sale?
10.	Was any protest made by any officer of the department against selling these lands m any other way than by public auction? It so, by whom and when?


1.	December 14, 1905, and June 20, 1907.
2.	Thirty-two sections in surrender of 1905 and 10,740 acres in surrender of 1907.
3.	Terms of surrender in 1905: 1. We are willing to exchange with the department certain areas of our reserve for that portion of country situated to the west and contiguous to our reserve described as situated in the forks between the Assiniboine and White Sand rivers, containing approximately some six thousand acres, more or less; (2) that portion of our reserve which may be in excess in acreage of that exchanged we desire to have sold by the department at the minimum price of $10 per acre; (3) that our equity, being one-tenth of the whole amount and being calculated on the above basis, be paid to us as follows: (a) five per cent or half of our equity as above stated, be paid to us within two days from the date of this surren-

der; (b) that the balance, being five per cent as above stated, be paid to us within thirty days after date of sale of said lands.
4.	That payment of ten per cent, as above stated in first and second instance, as above described, be paid to us on the per capita basis, each soul in our band sharing equally with the other in these payments.
5.	That the per capita payments described above both in regard to our equity in lands above described and the interest moneys thereon shall be made without withholding such from any of the members of our band resident on our reserve, or in any of the schools we may have the franchise of, excepting in the case of bona fide orphans, on whose behalf it is desired that the department continue as previously as guardians thereunto.
6.	That in case of any of our people having made or holding any improvements of any of the lands hereby surrendered, we feel justified in leaving the arrangement as to disposition thereof in the hands of the department.
7.	That the interest accruing from the remaining ninety per cent of the proceeds of the total sales to be apportioned amongst the Indians at each yearly treaty payment also in cash on a per capita basis, after deducting the usual proportion for expenses of management.
Terms in surrender of 1907:
1.	That payment shall be made at time of taking surrender of eighty-seven dollars, per head, being one-fifth of the purchase
price, more or less, estimated at the rate of ten dollars per acre.
2.	Owners of improved land to be compensated therefore at the rate of five dollars per acre on estimated areas, payment to be made within four months from date.
3.	Owners of buildings to be compensated therefore within four months from date, at values to be fixed by an officer of the department, provided that any Indian may, if he sees fit, remove his buildings.
4.	Indian children between the ages of twelve and eighteen to have their interest money funded for them.
5.	That the land shall be properly advertised and sold in due time by public auction in parcels of one quarter-section or under.
4.	Hon. David Laird and Rev. John Mc-Dougall secured the surrender of 1905, and W. M. Graham, inspector of Indian agencies, Balcarres, Sask., secured the surrender of 1907.
5.	12,239.38 acres were sold at public
auction:	On December, 19, 1906, 2,048 50
acres; on June 24, 1908, 8,759-88 acres; on June 7,	1911,	1,431 00 acres; total of
12,239-38.
6.	Forty-five dollars, highest price; ten dollars and sixty-seven cents, average price.
7.	An upset price was placed on each quarter section by J. Lestock Reid, the surveyor who surveyed and valued the land, ranging from five dollars to fifteen dollars per acre.
8.	Yes.
Purchaser.
Date of sale.
Land.
W. Simpson, Jr.... J. I. Wallace, M.D
D. A. Mawhinney
J. G. Hallson
Philippe Pinault Frank D. Craig. A. T. Kinnear.
E. C. Lawrence.
H. Harvey	
A. T. Kinnear.
W. McWhinney
J. R. Dickson... J no. Dickson.... Jesse Dickson...
Mrs. P. Pinault.
May 19, 1909	
II	It
Sept. 17, 1909	
Mar. 12. 1910	
Mar. 19, 1910....
Oct. 23, 1909....
May 27, 1910	
June 13,1910	
Aug. 4, 1910	
Aug. 4, 1910	
Sept. 12, 1910...
Oct. 10, 1910....
Nov. 2, 1910....
Nov. 2, 1910 ....
Mch. 17, 1911. ..
S.	E. + 2-30-32	
Fr. N.W. I 24 &1
Fr. N.E. i 23	V	
T. 29, R. 32	j N.E. 1 24-29-32 &1
N.W. J 29-29.31 }	
S.E. i 26-29-32 j
Pts. N.W. i 23 &


E. & N. of Assiniboine R.
S.	W. 4 28-29-31	
N.E. 126-29-32	
N.W. 28 &	1
Fr. N.E. J 28, >
T.	29, R. 31 J
N.W. J 7-30-31	
S.W. J 25-29-32	
S.E. 1 29-29-31	
Fr. N. i &	1
Fr. S. E. i 33 V
N. W. i 31-29-31	
N. W. I 32.29-31	
S.	E. 1 32-29-31	
Fr. S. E. i 28,1
T.	29, R. 31 ... /	
Acres.
Price.
1G0
960 00 80o 640
98
By ministerial authority : the land was not re-valued. Mr. CROTHERS.
88 8

9.	Dr. E. L. Cash.
10.	No.
1.	Was or is Maurice Areand in the employ of the Department of Public Works in connection with the construction of the coal dock at the city of Three Rivers, Quebec?
2.	If so, what is or was the nature of his
employment and what salary was or is he paid ?	*
3.	Is it the intention of the department to dispense with the services of the said Maurice Areand? If so, has he been notified to that effect ?
4	If his services are dispensed with, will his successor be one Edmond Michelin, of Three Rivers?
5	If so, what is Michelin's age, and what has his former occupation or trade been?


1.	Yes, was employed last season.
2.	(a) Inspector; (b) $100 a month.
3.	The services of Mr. Areand and others were dispensed with at the end of last season when the work closed down.
4.	Mr. Edmond Michelin is appointed as inspector of this season's work.
5.	(a) 76 years of age; (b) was freight checker on Richelieu and Ontario Navigation Company's wharf for twenty years.


1.	Why has J. A. Michaud, engineer employed on the Intercolonial railway at Rivifere du Loup, been suspended seven months after having been suspended once and put hack to work, for the same offence, in connection with an accident at Carrier ?
2.	Was he proved guilty? If so, who by?
3.	How many witnesses swore that the semaphore was down, and how many swore that it was up, after having seen it themselves?
4.	Has a regular train with a schedule time got to make tha,t time, and is the line supposed to he clear for him ? If so, how long before?
5.	Why was that man, as alleged, blamed for going too fast when he was not going fast enough to make that time?
6.	On whose recommendation was he punished the first and second time?
7.	When the main line is obstructed is the superior train or any other train leaving a terminal or any other station, supposed to be advised of it? If so, why was not this man advised of it?
8.	Is the minister prepared to go through the records of the accident at Carrier the 8th January, 1913, so that he may see for himself that the investigation was conducted according to the usual rule, and the punishment given such as conclusions would guarantee, in order that the poor employee with a family shall not stay seven months without employment?


1.	The first suspension was until his case had been decided; the suspension of seven
months is the punishment adjudged in his case. The whole time of his suspension including the first is counted in, as part of the seven months.
He was punished for approaching a semaphore at a rate of speed, so fast, that he could not stop within his vision, and for passing a semaphore standing at danger,, and for accepting a clearance order at Chaudiere Junction, not properly made out.
2.	Yes, by the investigation held by Superintendent McDonald and confirmed by the General Superintendent.
3.	Three swore it was down and eight, swore it was up.
4.	A regular train is expected to make its schedule time having due regard to weather and other conditions, and the engineer and others in charge of the train are expected to observe all the rules of the railway, made to insure the safe operation of trains. The line cannot always be kept clear and the rules of the railway provide that the engineer and others in charge of trains have to observe care and look out for signals, for obstructions which may be in the track. There is usuallv an interval of from ten to twenty minutes maintained between trains iollowing one another excepting when thev are closing up at stations. Rule 17 of the time table says ' Special ana working trains must be kept, at least, ten minutes clear of the time of all regular trains.'
5.	The engineer is ordered and expected to regulate the speed of his train according to the place and circumstances, and J. A. Michaud was shown to be going at too great a rate of speed, approaching Carrier Junction, so that he could not stop train but ran .past the semaphore which was standing at danger.
6.	J. A. Michaud was only punished once, his first suspension being pending decision [DOT] in his case, and the time being counted as part of the seven months' suspension. The punishment being decided by the General Superintendent, upon the evidence.
7.	Whenever it is possible trains are notified of an obstruction on the track, but the want of notice does not relieve the official of the train from keeping the proper lookout and running trains in accordance with the rules. J. A. Michaud ran past the semaphore, which was standing at danger, in violation of the rules. The clearance order, which he received at Chaudiere Junction, told him that the train he ran into had not reached Carrier Junction, and he should have ueen keeping a very careful lookout for it.
8.	The investigation was conducted according to the usual rules and the punishment given was such as the evidence and the circumstances and conditions required in 'the opinion of the officers of the railway, who are responsible for the train service.


1.	Is Arthur David Rosenfeldt, of Winnipeg, in the employment of the Government?
2.	If so, what is his salary, when was he appointed and what are his duties?


1.	Yes.
2.	$75 per month; appointed on August 18, 1912; clerk in Department of the Interior.


1.	Has the attention of the hon. the Minister of Labour, been called to the following despatch contained in the Ottawa Morning Citizen of the 23rd instant:-
' Hants County (Strike.	_
' Halifax, April 22.-Word was received here this morning that the quarry workers at Avondale, Sweet's Corner and Wentworth, Hants county, had gone on strike for an increase of about ten per cent. Between 300 and 400 men are affected, including engine drivers, blacksmiths, quarrymen and labourers.'	.
2.	Has the Department of Labour any infer mation regarding this strike?
3.	What steps, if any, does the department intend to take to enable the men to secure their demand for increased wages?
4.	Has the department any information as to the wages that are being received by the blacksmiths, engine drivers, quarrymen and laoburers in question?
5.	Has the department any information as to whether the men who are alleged to be on strike, are members of a trade union? If so, to what trade union do (they belong?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
3.	The department is taking the customary steps to learn the precise situation. The action taken will depend on the information received.
4.	The department has information as to wages paid the various classes of labour in the district.
5.	Yes. Quarry Workers' Internationa] Union of North America.


1.	Is it the intention of the Government to remove the marine agency and buildings from Quebec to Levis?
2.	If so, has any site been secured at Levis and from whom?


1.	The question of moving the agency of the Marine Department to Levis has not been considered.
2.	Answered by No. 1.





1.	Has the Department of the Postmaster General given notice to Sylvester Bernard, of Bonaventure, Quebec, that his contract for the carrying of mails between Bonaventure post office and the railway station would be cancelled on three months' notice?
2.	What was the figure and terms of such
contract, and how long had it been in existence ?	,
3.	Had it been awarded after the calling of
tenders, and was the said Bernard the lowest tenderer ?	.
4.	Have tenders been called for the new
contract, and has the contract been awarded to the lowest tenderer ?	.
5.	What is the figure of the new contract, what is the name of the new contractor and the names of his sureties?
6.	If tenders were, not called for, who recommended the new contractor?
7.	Were there any complaints against Bernard? If so, what were they, were they investigated, and was Bernard given an opportunity of meeting the said charges? _
8.	Who conducted the investigation, if any was held, and what witnesses were heard?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) $250 per annum for twelve trips per week; (b) From 1st July, 1910.
3.	Bernard was the only person who made an offer.
" 41" 5 and 6. Tenders are now being invited but will not be opened until the 30th of May, 1913.
7 and 8. On information received by the Postmaster General from reliable sources that the contractor, had violated the conditions of his contract by carrying intoxicating liquors with the mails and for delaying the mails while attending to his passenger business, it was decided to carry out the condition of the contract which provided for the termination of the contract on three months' notice. It was not considered necessary to hold an investigation


1.	Is it true, as reported in the press, that a large quantity of rounds of small arm ammunition manufactured in the arsenal of Quebec, was lately found defective?
2.	Has an investigation been ordered?


1.	The whole question of the ammunition at the Dominion arsenal, Quebec, is being investigated.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


If it is a secret I will not insist, but that is no answer to my first question.


Until I get the result of the investigation, I do not wish to make any report.
Mr. LEM1EUX: All right.


*M/r. CARVELL:
1.	Was there a lot of 3,000 disc pattern metal bars delivered at the Post Office Department during the months of February and March, 1913?
2.	Were said metal bars ordered from Edouard Lapointe, in connection with old padlocks for mail hags ?
1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


Is the Postmaster General aware that Aime Dion and Doctor Faucher receive a royalty of 40 per cent on each padlock for mail bags sold by the Ontario Equipment Company to the Post Office Department?


No.


1.	Has the Government taken special measures to prevent the introduction into the province of Quebec of oats from frozen seed?
2.	If so, what are these measures?
3.	Who are the grain merchants recommended by the seed commissioners to the delegation of the county of Rimouski, who come to ask the assistance of the Government for the purchase of good seed grain?
4.	Where and from whom has this county purchased the greater part of its seed grain?
5.	What firms were recommended by the seed commissioner?
6.	What is the germination of this seed grain, in four days and in ten days?


1.	Yes.
2.	The staff of seed inspectors has been increased in order to inspect more thoroughly the grain being offered for sale throughout the province; and, in the case of a large shipment of seed oats being sent to the Agricultural Co-operative Society at Rimouski, a seed inspector was sent to the point of shipment to examine the oats as loaded and to take samples for germination tests.
3 and 5. The Rimouski Agricultural Cooperative Society were already negotiating with Joseph Read & Company, Summerside, P.E.I., when the department was interviewed. It was suggested that, while negotiations with the Read Company were pending, the society should get quotations from the following firms: Hogg & Lytle, Oakwood, Ont.; James Richardson & Sons, Kingston, Ont;
Am


Harris McFayden, Chambers of Oommerfe, Winnipeg; A. E. McKenzie & Company, Brandon, Man.; Grain Growers' Grain Company, Winnipeg, Man.; Alexander Cross & Company, Glasgow, Scotland.
4.	So far as the Co-operative Society is concerned, from Jos. Read & Company, Summerside, P.E.I.
6.	Samples from nine carlots gave an average germination of ninety-three per cent in soil test, the highest being ninety-seven per cent and the lowest eighty-eight per cent. The preliminary count in six days showed an average of eighty-seven per cent with ninety-four per cent the highest and seventy-nine per cent the lowest.
Mr. BOURA.SSA:
1.	Has the seed commissioner taken the necessary measures this season to favour the introduction into the province of Quebec of seed grain of good quality, and what are these measures?
2.	Who are the new inspectors appointed this season?
3.	Where did they acquire the knowledge and special experience necessary for the inspection of seeds?
4.	By whom were they recommended?
1.	Yes, in so far as the Seed Control Act gives authority. More seed inspectors have been employed than ever before who call on seed dealers throughout the province to see that the law governing the sale of seeds is being observed.
2.	Mr. J. A. Simard, Baie St. Paul, Quebec, permanent district representative of the seed branch for the French-speaking counties of Quebec, and Messrs. J. M. Le-clair, St.-Celestin, Quebec, and C. Hamilton, Iroquois, Ontario, temporary seed inspectors.
3.	Mr. Simard is a graduate of the Macdonald College, Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, and spent several months in the Field Husbandry department of that institution after graiuating. He has had considerable experience in field crop competition and seed fair work and spent about two months in the Seed Laboratory at Ottawa grading seed before starting on inspection work.
Mr. Leelair is an undergraduate of the Ontario Agricultural College, Guelph, and the Macdonald Agricultural College. He speaks both French and English and has had experience in judging field crop competitions. Before starting on inspection work he was in training under the permanent district representative of the seed branch.
Mr. Hamilton is an undergraduate of the Ontario Agricultural College and has had special opportunity to become familiar with the needs of agriculture and the seed trade through farmers" institute work. He received special training in the Ottawa Seed


8651*
Laboratory before starting as a seed inspector.
4.	The seed commissioner.
1.	Has the agricultural branch of the Conservation Commission any representative of the French language in the province of Quebec?
2.	If so, how many and who are they?
3.	What work does it intend to carry out this year in the province of Quebec?


1.	Yes.
2.	The Committee an Agriculture of the
Commission of Conservation includes the following French-speaking members representing Quebec: (a) Mgr. C. P. Choquette, -superior, seminary of St. Hyaeinthe ana Member of Faculty, Laval University: (b) Mr. Edouard Gohier, St. Laurent, Que.; (c) Hon. Jules ..Allard, Minister of Lands and Forests, Quebec. '	...
3.	During the summer of 1913, illustration farnis will be carried on in six localities and neighbourhood improvement associations will be formed near each farm. Agricultural surveys, similar to those carried on in previous years will be conducted in five counties.


1.	Who has been appointed superintendent of the experimental farm at Ste. Anne de la Pocatiere ?
2.	Has he the practical and theoretical knowledge to fill this position?
3.	Where did he obtain his knowledge?
<k Was he a defeated candidate at the elections of 1911?
5.	By whom was he recommended?
6.	Are there French irstructors in the province of Quebec for the Department of Animal Industry, as in the other provinces?
7.	If so, who are they, and what are their qualifications?


1.	Joseph Begin.
2.	Yes.
3.	From agricultural works and publications and by carrying on his own farm in the county of Levis.
4.	Yes.
5.	Minister of Agriculture.
6.	No. The Dominion Government has not adopted a policy of employing instructors in the various provinces.
7.	Answered by No. 6.


1.	How many agricultural lecturers have been appointed for the province of Quebec?
Mr. BURRELL.
2.	How many of them were qualified?
3.	What were their qualifications and where did they acquire their experience?
4.	By whom were 'the new lecturers recommended?	.
5.	For what reason has Messrs. Louis La-vallee, of St. Guillaume D'Upton, Arsene Denis, of St. Nobert, Luc Dupuis, of Village des Aulnaies, and Gedeon Garceau, of Trois Rivieres, been dismissed?
6.	How many lectures has the manager of the experimental farm at Cap Rouge given since last autumn?
7.	At how many other meetings of farmers did he take part for the purpose of discussing agricultural problems?


1.	No agricultural lecturers have been appointed, but such lecturers are engaged from time to time as their services may be required. During the fiscal year 1912-1913 there were eight engaged.
2.	All of them.
3.	Practical knowledge of live stock and agriculture generally.
4.	By officers of the department and by persons considered competent to express an opinion by the Minister of Agriculture.
5.	Messrs. Louis Lavallee, St. Guillaume; Arsene Denis, St. Nobert; Luc Dupuis, Village des Aulnaies; and Gedeon Garceau, Three Rivers, have never been permanently in the employ of the live stock branch and have, consequently, never been dismissed.
6.	None.
7.	None.


1.	Has any person been appointed or authorized by the Government, or the Department of Militia, to receive applications under the Fenian Raid Volunteer Bounty Act in the county of Inverness?
2.	If so, who are the persons so authorized?
3.	What remuneration, if any, is allowed them?


1. Not by the Militia Department.
2 and 3. Answered by No. 1.


1.	Was John S. F. McLeod, clerk of the railway mail service in Nova Scotia, recently appointed to take charge of the rural mail delivery service in Nova Scotia?
2.	If so, by whom was he recommended for such position?


1. No, but he was transferred to the office of the post office inspector at Halifax, who is in charge of Rural Mail Delivery for the division, to assist the inspector in that work.

2. By the controller of railway mail service, to the superintendent of rural mail delivery, for his efficiency.


1.	How many tenders have been received by the Postmaster General for the conveyance of the mails from Lome Valley post office, Prince Edward Island, to the railway station at 48 Road?
2.	What are the names of the tenderers, the amount of each tender, and which tender has been accepted?


The contract for this service has not yet been awarded. The information asked for will be given later.


1.	Who is the chief resident engineer of the Public Works Department in Prince Edward Island at present and what salary does he receive?
2.	Who is the assistant resident engineer of the Public Works Department in Prince Edward Island and what salary does he receive ?


1.	Consulting engineer, J. B. Hegan; $2,800 per annum.
2.	Acting district engineer, W. E. Hynd-man; $1,900 per annum.
Old rates.
The commissions on money orders issued in Canada for payment in Canada, Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, British Guiana, Cayman Islands, Cuba, Dominica, Grenada, Guam, Hawaii, Isle of Pines, Jamaica, Montserrat, Nevis, Newfoundland! Panama Canal Zone, Philippine Islands Porto Rico, St. Christopher (St. Kitts), St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Tobago, Trinidad, Turks Islands, Tutuila (Samoa), Virgin Islands and the United States, are as follows:
$5 and under, 3 cents; over $5 and up to $10, 6 cents; over $10 and up to $30, 10 cents; over $30 and up to $50, 15 cents; over $50 and up to $75, 25 cents; over $75 and up to $100, 30 cents.
New rates.
For sums up to $10, 5 cents; over $10 and up to $30, 10 cents; over $30 and up to $50, 15 cents; over $50 and up to $60, 20 cents; over $60 and up to $100, 25 cents.


1.	How many people are employed for the service of carrying the mails between the post office and Canadian Pacific railway station at Three Rivers, and putting the mail on board trains, and also for the collection of the mails in the various parts of the city?
2.	What is the name of each employee, and the amount of salary paid each?


1.	Did the Government dredge do any dredging for private parties or firms in Prince Edward Island last year ?
2.	If so, how much, and what did the Government charge for said dredging?
3.	Has the Government collected any money from Messrs. George A- Pool & Co., Lower Montague, Prince Edward Island, for the private dredging done for this firm some few years ago?


1.	Dredging for McDonald Bros., Georgetown, was commenced, but dredge broke down.
2.	The district engineer reported that the
amount of dredging was of little or no value; in view of this it was considered expedient to make no charge.	.
3.	No.


1.	Ls there a change of tariff on postal orders?
2.	If so, what is the difference between the new and the old?


1.	Yes.
2.	The following changes were made, dating from the 1st of April, 1913:
274J


1.	Thirteen.
2.	Adjutor Savard, contractor for mail service between Three Rivers and Canadian Pacific railway station, $547 per annum; Thomas Chevalier, contractor for mail service between Three Rivers and street letter boxes, $451.43 per annum; Jos. A. Savard and L. Massicotte, mail transfer agents, each $1.75 per day; T. Morrissette, Elizee Boland and C. E. Vallieres, letter carriers, each $2.25 per day; L. J. F. Fournier, Georges Pleau, Donat Teasdale, Donat Verrette, J. F. Verrette, and Emile Panne-ton, letter carriers, each $2 per day. In addition to their services as mail transfer agents, these men are partly employed in the Three Rivers post office.


1.	Has Arthur Cousins been appointed to an office in the Customs Department at Digby, N.S.?
2.	If so, what are his duties?
3.	What salary is he paid?


1.	Yes.
2.	His duties are to act as preventive officer of customs at Digby, and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him

from time to time by the collector of customs at that port.
*3. $600 a year.


1.	Has Joseph Guay, called Gendreau, of Bienville de Levis, employed as chief engineer on hoard the Eureka, been dismissed?
2.	If so, at whose request, what reasons were alleged, and why?
3.	Was an inquiry granted him? If so, what is the name of the inquiring commissioner?
4.	Does the Government know that, last autumn, Joseph Guay is said to have left his position as second engineer on hoard the Montcalm, to go on hoard the Eureka, at the request of the officers of the Government?
5.	What is the name of the person who replaced Guay, and on whose recommendation?
6.	Were complaints against Guay produced relating to his competence as engineer and as to his conduct?
2.	If nut, when was he dismissed, and why ?
3.	Who recommended his dismissal?


1.	No.
2.	Contract was cancelled on the 10th of April, 1913, owing to the failure of the contractor to maintain the service satisfactorily.
3.	Responsible officers of the department.


1.	Is James F. Brennan still lockmaster at the first lock east of Merricksville ?
2.	If not, when was he dismissed, and why?
3.	Who recommended his dismissal?


1.	No.
2.	April 27, 1913, for active political partisanship.
3.	He was dismissed upon sworn evidence sent in to the minister.


1.	No. He was retired from the position on the recommendation of the departmental officers, as it was found that he did not possess the necessary qualifying certificate. He was offered other employment by the department, for which he [DOT]was qualified, but did not accept same.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Answered by No. 1.
4.	Yes.
5.	Edgar Samson, on the recommendation of Alphonse Bernier, M.P.P.
6.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Has the caretaker of the Intercolonial railway station at St. Jean tfhrysostome, county of Levis, been dismissed since the 21st September, 1911?
2.	If so, why, and at whose request?
3 Did the Government grant him an in-<quiry? If so, what was the result?
4.	If this caretaker has been reinstated, has
he been paid for all the time he was not employed?	,
5.	If he has been paid, by whom and what amount was paid him?


1.	No, he was not dismissed, but he was suspended from May 9, 1912, until June 23, 1912.
2.	He was suspended on a charge of political partisanship at the request of Mr. A. Bernier, M.L.A.
3.	Yes, and the charges were not proven.
4.	He was immediately reinstated and [DOT]paid for all time lost.
5.	By D. McDonald; $16.33.


3.	Is Byron McGraw, who had a three years' [DOT]contract for lighting lamps on the Rideau between Hutton's locks and Merricksville, still in the employ of the Government?
Mr. REID (GrenvilUl


For a copy of all correspondence, reports and recommendations since 1st January, 1912. from Rev. R. L. Macdonald, Indian agent, at Salmon river reserve, Richmond county, N.S., relating to the Indian school in said reserve; and of all correspondence and instructions from the Department of Indian Affairs to the said Indian agent, relating to the same; also a copy of all complaints, charges and reports against Miss Charlotte M. Devereux, teacher of the said school, and of all correspondence and recommendations relating to the appointment of Ernest McNeil to succeed her.-Mr. Kyte.
For a copy of all papers, documents, pay rolls receipts, accounts, correspondence, &c., relating to repairs made upon the breakwater at Petite Riviere, Lunenburg county, N.S., in the year 1912.-Mr. Maclean (Halifax).
Copy of all letters, and telegrams exchanged between the Government and Messrs. Arch. Macdonald, Biz. Monpetit and others, on the subject of the appointment of caretakers of the post office at Rigaud, Messrs. Jean Baptiste Charlebois and Napoleon Vallee.-Mr. Boyer.
For a copy of all complaints or charges against Fred. R. Irish, postmaster at Afton, Anti-gonish county, N.S., and of all correspondence cn tile in reference thereto.-Mr. Chisholm (Antigonisb)
For a copy of all petitions, complaints, and correspondence containing any charges against Alexander Fraser, postmaster at Fraser's Grant, Antigonish county, N.S., and of all other documents and correspondence on file in relation thereto.-Mr. Chisholm (Antigonish).
For a return showing a list of all the newspapers in Canada in which advertisements have been inserted by the Government, or any minister, officer or department thereof, between October 10, 1911, and the present date, together with a statement of the gross amount paid therefor between the above dates to each of said newspapers or to the proprietors of the same.-Mr. Sinclair.
For a copy of all memorials, petitions, letters* and other documents submitted to the Board of

Railway Commissioners from January 1, 1913, to date, by any party whatsoever regardirg the service of the Quebec and Oriental railway and the Atlantic, Quebec and Western railway, as to freight, passengers and express matters, with a copy of all orders and rulings issued by such board and of all correspondence in connection therewith.-Mr. Marcil.
For a copy of all memorials, petitions anl letters, addressed to or sent by the Minister of Agriculture, or on his behalf, in connection witli the establishment of an agricultural school, model farm or demonstration station at New Carlisle, Quebec.-Mt. Marcil.
For a copy of all correspondence, memorials, petitions and other documents forwarded by any party to the Minister of Railways and Canals and the Minister of Public Works, or either or both, with any replies thereto, in connection with a projected railway or highway bridge, or both combined, ov.t the Restigouehe river between Campbellton, N.B., and any point in Bor.aventure county, Quebec.-Mr. Marcil.
For a copy of all charges, correspondence, telegrams, and other documents relative to the dismissal of John P. McKinnon, section foreman on the Intercolonial railway at Shunacadie, in the riding of North Cape Breton and Victoria, N.tS.-Mr. McKenzie.
For a copy of all charges, correspondence, telegrams, and other documents relative to the dismissal of Archibald McDonald, bridge tender on the Intercolonial railway at Grand Narrows, Iona, riding of North Cape Breton and Victoria, N.iS.-Mr. McKenzie.
For a copy of all complaints, accusations, correspondence, petitions, and telegrams respecting the dismissal of Joseph Verault, postmaster at Levis, county of Levis, of the evidence and report made following the inquiries held by the inquiring commissioner .Smith and the inquiring commissioner Jolicceur in this matter; also the .names of the witnesses summoned and heard, with a copy of the evidence heard at each inquiry, the names of those who represented the Government at these inquiries, and a detailed statement of the expenses caused by these inquiries, with a copy of all documents respecting the appointment of bis successor, such as petitions, letters of recommendation, &c.-Mr. Bonrassa.
For a copy of all correspondence, memoranda, reports, telegrams and all other documents whatsoever having reference to the dismissal of L. Philippe Carignan, lighthouse keeper at Champlain, county of Champlain.- Mr. Bureau.
For a return showing all employees of the Dominion dismissed in the county of Three Rivers and St. Maurice since October 15, 1911, to date, the date of dismissal, the employment of each man, the salary he was receiving at the time of his dismissal, the reason for dismissals, whether there has been an investigation or not, with the names and places of residence of the men appointed to replace them.-Mr. Bureau.
For a return showing all those who have been holding investigations within the judicial district of Three Rivers, since October 15, 1911, to date,, in reference to the conduct of men holding offices from the Dominion* Government, the place where each investigation was held, the amount paid to each investigator in each case; the names of the solicitors employed in each case, the post office addresses, and the amount ipaid in each case to-the solicitor.-Mr. Bureau.
For a return showing all employees dismissed in the county of Maskinonge, since October 15, 1911, to date, the date of dismissal, the employment of each man, the salary he was receiving at the time of his dismissal, the reasons for dismissal, whether there has been investigation or not, and the names and places of residence of the men appointed to replace them.-Mr. Bureau.
For a return showing all employees dismissed in the county of Nicolet since October 15, 1911, to date, the date of dismissal, the employment of each man, the salary he was receiving at the time of his dismissal, the reasons for his dismissal, whether there has been investigation or not, with the names and places of residence of the men appointed to replace them.-Mr. Bureau.
For a return showing all employees dismissed in the county of Champlain since October 15, 1911, to date, the employment of each man, the salary each was receiving at the time of his dismissal, the reasons for dismissals, whether there has been- any investigations or not, with the names and .places of residence of the men appointed to replace them.-Mr. Bureau.
For a copy of all correspondence, memoranda, reports, 'telegrams, and of all documents whatsoever, in connection with and having relation to the dismissal of Arthur Dumont and Alfred Bettez, letter carriers at the post office of the city of Three Rivers, and of the report of J. G. H. Bergeron concerning same.-Mr. Bureau.
For a copy of all correspondence, memoranda, reports, telegrams and of all documents whatsoever, in connection with and having relation to the dismissal of William Brunelle, lighthouse keeper at Pointe a Citrouille, county of Champlain, province of Quebec.-Mr. Bureau.
For a copy of all letters, papers, memoranda and other documents relating to the northeast quarter of il4-75-15J5, during the years 1911, 1912 and 1913 to date.-.Mr. Oliver.
For a copy of all documents, tenders, contracts, correspondence, Orders in Council, &e., in reference to the mail service between Bridgetown, Port Lome and Hampton, Parker's Cove, Annapolis county, N.<S., for which service tenders were recently solicited.-Mr. Maclean (Halifax).
For a copy of all telegrams, correspondence, returns, &c., between the Department of Agriculture, and any other person or persons, requesting, recently, that the Veterinary Director General of Canada visit Nova Scotia.-Mr. Maclean (Halifax).
On motion of Hon. W. T. White (Minister of Finance) House went into committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to provide for an increase, from a sum not exceeding $75,000 to a sum not exceeding $110,000, of the annual amount payable out of tbe Consolidated Revenue Fund for the maintenance of the Ottawa branch of the Royal^ Mint and the refinery forming part thereof.'
(Mr. Deputy Speaker in the Chair.)
The abject of this resolution and of the Bill founded upon it which I shall ask leave to introduce is to increase the amount of the annuity payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the [DOT]Ottawa branch of the Royal Mint in connection with its operations. When the establishment of a branch at Ottawa was under consideration in 1901, it was arranged with the Imperial authorities that statutory provision should be made for its upkeep, nnd in consequence of that understanding the Ottawa Mint Act of 1901 was passed. By section 2 of that Act it was provided that:
A sum or sums not exceeding in the whole in any year seventy-five thousand dollars, for defraying the salaries, contingencies, retiring and other allowances and expenses connected with the maintenance of the Ottawa branch of the Royal Mint

Should be payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. In course of time that sum was found to be inadequate, and since the year 1910 a,n additional amount of $25,000 has been provided in the estimates, making a total appropriation of $100,000 to defray the expense of the maintenance of the Mint. Of that sum, there was expended last year about $95,000.


How many employees
are there?


I do not think I have that information at the present time, but I can get it later.. The work of the Royal Mint has been increasing steadily during the past, few years, and no doubt it will increase in the same or a greater ratio in the future. Of course the refinery has been added since the mint was originally established, and its expenses have been considerably increased. At the present time there is no place in Canada, except Vancouver, where manufacturers and others can have an authoritative assay of precious metals, and it is the intention now that the refinery here shall do that work, of course charging fees therefor. At the present time, if any manufacturer desires to have an assay of precious metals, he is obliged to send them to New York. I may say that the fees charged for that and other services of the mint are very small. It is also necessary to increase to some extent the staff of the mint proper, and the *deputy minister has asked us to introduce legislation which will give assurance, as was done in the year 1901, that statutory provision will be made for the increased expenditure. It is estimated that the sum will not exceed $110,000. They may not use that amount entirely; in fact I do not anticipate that they will for some time, ' otherwise the amount to be inserted in the
Mr. WHITE (Leeds).
statutes should be larger. The sum of $110,000 is intended to be provision which will satisfy the requirements of the mint for some time to come. I have not full particulars as to the number of the staff at the present time, but I have some figures here which I thought might be of some interest to the House, as showing the increase in the work which has been done by the mint. In the year 1908 5,000,000 pieces were struck. In 1909 that had grown to 9,000,000 pieces, in 1910 to 19,000,000 pieces, in 1911 to 13,000,000 pieces, and in 1912 to 17,000,000 pieces; so that during a period of five years the number of pieces struck by the mint has been doubled. For the year 1912 they handled worn silver coin to the amount of $88,000, of a coinage value of $83,000. The total Canadian coinage struck for 1912 was about $3,000,000, or, to be accurate, $2,910,000. The revenue derived from fees and charges is of course very small, but there is a very substantial profit upon the operations of the mint in the sense that the Dominion obtains the seigniorage upon the silver. Last year that amounted to a profit of about $800,000. That is to say, out of a coinage of silver of $1,383,000 there was a profit of $801,000. or between 50 and 60 per cent. Possibly that may be all the information that is required by the committee, but on the second reading I shall be glad to give anv further information that may be desired.


What_is the regulation or the practice of the mint affecting the handling of old coins? Are they purchased from the holder at face value, or at silver value5


They are purchased at face value, that is to say they are redeemed. Silver that is worn is redeemed at par value, hut of course it must be worn. Then it is recoined, and there is a loss on that operation, as I think the figures I have given will indicate. For example, the worn coin handled in 1912, was $88,000 at par value, while the coinage value was $83,000.


There is some information which my hon. friend might give, if not now, later on. I would like to know how many of the 19,000,000 pieces coined were of gold, silver and copper, respectively. I would like also to know where the metal is procured, the sources from which we get our raw material, gold, silver and copper, and what price is paid to the miners. Where, for instance, is the principal source of supply of our gold? Does any of it come from the Yukon?
Mr. W7HITE: Most of it.


And does the silver come from Cobalt? The public would be interested to know the sources of sup-

ply, and what is the price paid by the Government for the raw material which comes annually to the mint. I suppose that at the present time the output of gold from the Yukon goes principally to the United States, and only a small portion comes to the mint in Ottawa. One would also like to know what was the total production of gold in the Yukon last year, how much came to the mint, and how much went outside of Canada. The same information respecting silver would be interesting. I do not remember having seen anywhere the total output of silver last year from the Cobalt district, and it would be interesting to know how much came to the mint and how much went to the United States. If this information could be given in concrete form, it would he interesting to the general public.


I shall toe very glad to
get, as fully as possible, the information that my right hon. friend desires. I think I can get it without difficulty. In regard to his first question. I have here the reply which I gave recently to a question of an hon. gentleman on the other side of the House as to the amount of Canadian gold, silver, and bronze money coined at the Ottawa mint from January 2, 1908, to March 31, 1913. My hon. friend will remember that the mint has been in operation practically since 1908, so that these figures are complete. The figures are as follows:
Calendar Year.	Gold.	Silver.	Bronze.1908 .. ..	$ 313,338 35	$23,290 951909 .. ..	673,043 65	39,441 681910 .. ..	1,979,671 10	51,619 251911 .. ..	985,678 50	46,599 471912 .. ..	.. $1,477,710	1,383,832 '95	51,095 991913*.. ..	.. 323,020	375,480 00	10,754 36$1,800,730	$5,710,944 55 $222,801 70	
JL lYLtll UIl OX.
* Estimated amount for year: Gold, $1,200,000; silver, $1,500,000; bronze, $40,000.
As to the source of our gold supply in the mint, I think I can say accurately that the greater part is obtained from the Yukon, but we have received some gold from Nova Scotia and Ontario. I shall endeavour to get the information as accurately as possible before the second reading of the Bill, so that my hon. friend will be in possession of all the facts. My hon. friend also spoke of the gold of the Yukon going to American cities for the purpose of assay and naturally also to be coined. I think 1 am correct in stating-the hon. member for the Yukon (Mr. Thompson) will be able to put me right if I am not- that the great bulk of the gold of the Yukon has gone to the United States to be assayed. During the past year, on representations made to me by the hon. member for the Yukon, we changed the
regulation by which fees were payable for assaying in the assaying plant or refinery at Vancouver, the expectation being that that would cause the gold of the Yukon to be detained there for that purpose and that there would be a corresponding increase in trade by reason of that between Vancouver and the Yukon. I have not had an opportunity yet of studying what the effect of that 'change in the regulation has been.


What was
the change?


It was arranged that gold should be assayed without payment of a fee. In the United States, where the gold of the Yukon is coined, there is no fee charged for assaying and in consequence the city of Vancouver was at a disadvantage as compared with the American cities by reason of the charges which were made. They were comparatively small charges, but they were still of some consequence in connection with the assaying of gold. That has been changed and we hope in consequence that the gold of the Yukon may go to Vancouver instead of Seattle and San Francisco. As far as the other information required by my hon. friend is concerned, I will undertake to obtain it before the second reading of the Bill.


I would
like to point out that we have in Canada two metals which are