Bill No. 207, respecting a patent of the Commercial Acetylene Company of New Jersey.-Mr. Schaffner.
Bill No. 183, respecting the City of Ottawa.-Mr. Fripp.
Bill No. 208, respecting a patent of Maurice Delvigne.-Mr. Barker.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Is the Government aware of a short article which appeared in La Patrie on the loth April, 1913, in the text of a letter signed ' An elector of Maskinonge '-	_
' The Government is going to spend the handsome sum of $150,000 in various public works in the county of Maskinonge, which represents here the sum of $9 per head of the population of 16,000 which we have.'
2.	Will the Government furnish a complete list of the various works which are to be carried out in the county of Maskinonge ?
Mr OLIVER.


1.	No.
2.	Louiseville, public buildings, $18,000, Riviere du Loup, lock and dam, $10,000.


1.	Who has been appointed appraiser of customs at Moosejaw?
2.	When was he first employed by the department, and what experience has he had to-fit him for his new position?
3.	What salary is paid to him?
4.	What are the names of the employees at Moosejaw, and the dates of their appoint ment, and their salaries, respectively ?


1.	What promotions are proposed to be made in the office of the Auditor General for the present year?
2.	What are the names and period of service in each case?
3.	Upon whose recommendation are those promotions to be made?
4.	What audit is made of the Auditor General's Department, and by whom made?
5.	What was the custom under the predecessor of the present Auditor General regarding the auditing of his department?
6.	Who is the secretary of the Ottawa Improvement Commission?
7.	Is he employed in any of the departments of the public service? If so, in what department, and at what salary?


1 and 2. The promotions for the present year are under consideration, but have not been finally determined upon.

3.	The promotions are to be made by the Auditor General under the provisions of 7-8 Edward VII, chapter 6, section 2.
4.	Audited by the staff of the Auditor General.
5.	The same as at present.
6.	Mr. Wm. Kearns is the secretary of the Ottawa Improvement Commission, serving without any remuneration, as provided by 62-63 Victoria, chapter 10, section 6.
7.	He is employed in the office of the Auditor General, at $2,900 per annum.


for a copy of all telegrams and correspondence on file relating to the mail service between A.ntigonish and Livingstone Cove, and of the tenders received, and the contract entered into for this service.-Mr. Chisholm (Antigonish).
For a copy of all correspondence, complaints, petitions and reports connected with the dismissal of fishery overseer Migneault at Seven Islands, and the appointment in his place of Iilzear Levesque.-Mr. Beland.
For a return showing a comparative and detailed statement of costs of production, maintenance, operation and management, and receipts of the dog fish reduction works at Clarks' harbour, N.S., for the years 1910, 1911 and 1912.-Mr. Maclean (Halifax).
For a copy of all papers, tenders, contracts, accounts, and Orders in Council, between the Department of Public Works and any other person or persons, relating to the purchase of a site for the public wharf being erected or recently erected at Bear river, N.S., and also relating to the construction of said wharf, and anything in connection therewith.-Mr. Maclean (Halifax.)
For a return showing the per capita taxation for the year ending 31st March, 1913, and for each of the 12 preceding years.-Mr. Hughes (Kings.)
For a copy of all petitions and correspondence relating to the dismissal of Mr. Pesha,
postmaster at Kent Bridge, Ontario.-Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
On motion of Hon. W. T. White (Minister of Finance) the House went into Committee to consider the following proposed resolution :
That it is expedient to revise the laws respecting certain savings banks in the province of Quebec, now carrying on business under chapter 32, of the Revised Statutes; to continue until the first day of July, 1923, the charters of these banks, and to authorize the payment out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of remuneration to auditors for such special examinations of the affairs or business of these banks as the Minister of Finance may require to be made.
(Mr. Deputy Speaker in the Chair.)
This resolution relates to the Montreal City and District Savings Bank and La Caisse d'Economie de Notre
Dame de Quebec, savings banks of the city of Montreal and the city of Quebec respectively. These banks were incorporated not under the Bank Act, but under separate charters, which charters expire upon the same day upon which the charters of the several chartered banks of Canada expire, that is, on the 30th of June next. It is necessary to renew these charters, just as we are now renewing the charters of the other banks of Canada. Provision is made in accordance with the provisions made in the Bank Act for the audit of these savings banks by auditors appointed by their shareholders at their annual meeting. There is further provision similar to that we have inserted in the new Act that the Minister of Finance may make investigation into the affairs of these banks, and for that purpose may engage the auditors appointed by their shareholders or any other auditor or person that we may deem advisable. It is therefore necessary that the Bill which I propose to introduce should be preceded by this resolution, because it is possible that expense may be incurred in connection with such investigation, should it be necessary to have it at any time. If there is further information I can give the committee at this stage, I shall be glad to give it. Of course, I propose to introduce the Bill immediately after this resolution is adopted.


These two
banks, so called-savings banks-are well-known in the province of Quebec, and I understand they are doing good work. They were given special charters. For my part, I never knew the reason for giving these special charters or with what special powers these banks, were invested different from those of other banks. For one thing, they have no note circulation. I understand that they do not discount paper for other banks. It would be well if the minister would give to the House some information as to why they do not come under the general banking law.


They do not possess as
wide powers ,as the chartered banks in Canada. They are savings banks in a strictly limited sense. They receive money on deposit and lend it always on collateral security, and that distinguishes them from chartered banks. They are limited to particular districts, as, for, instance, Montreal and Quebec, and they do not open branches throughout the country as the other banks do. In other words they are not engaged in the business of commercial banking, but they do loan upon collateral securities. They are exceedingly useful institutions.


They are benevolent
institutions too. I understand that the City and District Savings Bank distributes each year certain amounts out of its earnings among the various hospitals.

Resolution reported, read the first and the second time, and agreed to.
Mr. WHITE thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 212, respecting certain Savings Banks in the Province of Quebec.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
On motion of Hon. W. T. White (Minister of Finance), the House went into Committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to authorize that the provisions of chapter 43 of the Act of 1908, an Act respecting the Payment of Bounties on Lead contained in lead-bearing Ores mined in Canada shall, subject to the modification herein set forth, be extended until the thirtieth day of June, 1918, and that the provisions of the said Act limiting the payment of such bounty to five hundred thousand dollars in any fiscal year, be changed to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in any fiscal year; provided, however, that the total sum to be paid by way of bounties, under the said Act of 1908, and antecedent Act (chapter 31 of the Acts of 1903), and under any Act to be founded on this resolution, shall not exceed the sum of two millions four hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Would the committee
state what has been the result of granting this bounty up to the present time? To what extent it has stimulated the production of lead in Canada, and what would likely be the result if the bounty were discontinued?


I dealt with the matter
somewhat fully in the budget, and the figures I gave then were somewhat striking. The information which I then gave is to be found at page 9896 of the unrevised ' Hansard.'


This legislation was tentative, in order to encourage the mining of lead in British Columbia by securing to the miner that, happen what might, he could obtain a certain minimum price for his lead. That was the whole subject and the only justification of the legislation. It would be interesting to know whether it has had the desired result. The late Government were responsible for this legislation, which I think was wise legislation; but it was only tentative, and it could not be justified unless the result was what we anticipated.


I would say for the benefit of the committee that the result has been very marked. In the six months preceding the introduction of this bounty the lead production in Canada was only 6,000 tons. Since then the produc-Mr. LEMIEUX.
tion of lead has been increasing very largely from year to year. In 1903, a portion of which was under the bounty, the production was 9,045 tons. The production since that time has been as follows:
Calendar years.	Tons.
1903		.. 9,045
1904		.. 18,323
1905		.. 28,290
1906		.. 26,204
1907		.. 23,869
1908		.. 21,598
1909		.. 22,198
1910		.. 17,329
1911		.. 13,436
1912		
The falling off of production in 1910 and 1911 was due very largely to difficulties that arose in the Slocan silver lead mining district where most of the lead produced in British Columbia is obtained. This part of the country was visited by forest fires which cleaned out nearly all the mine buildings and some of the mills. The properties in that particular vicinity were not working for several months during that year. It is estimated that this year there will be something like 30,000 tons of lead produced in British Columbia. That has been possible owing to the fact that there is stability of the price. The producer knows that it is going to net him so much money. The smelters all deal on the price in the London market. While a great deal of the lead is not disposed of in London, it is disposed of on the valuation of the London market. They are always sure then of getting the minimum price fixed by the bounty for their lead. In 1903 most of the lead mines in the province were closed down. Since that time, there has been an awakening in the mining industry, and nearly all the old properties are now being developed. I believe I am safe in saying that the production of mineral in the province of British Columbia, during this year will be greater than it has ever been. At the mines at Rossland to-day the pay-roll is greater that it was in the palmiest days, and the Slocan country is also doing very well indeed. Some of the older mines are being opened on more businesslike principles than when they were operated before. The element of the speculator and the middleman has dropped out of sight altogether, so far as the mining in the older portions of the province is concerned, and money is now being furnished by actual mining men who have legitimate mining properties, with the result that there is no question but that a revival of the mining industry all through the province is in sight. I have not the slightest doubt in the world that the lead industry will continue to advance, and that it will be very beneficial, not only to the province of

British Columbia, but to Canada as a whole. I believe that some of the lead ore produced in British Columbia is shipped as far east as Kingston. It comes very largely from the Monarch mines. But we have still difficul-'ties in connection with our mining of lead and zinc in British Columbia. We have the duty to contend with, a duty of a cent and a half per pound upon the lead going to the United States. A duty of a cent per pound on zinc has been imposed since this legislation was first placed on the statute-books by the late Government. Prior to that ores containing zinc could go into the United States free, but now we have to pay a duty of a. cent per pound upon all ores containing over 25 per cent zinc. The United States being our greatest market for zinc, it makes it very hard for the people who have properties containing zinc to dispose of their products. Zinc is found almost altogether in connection with lead. The ordinary smelter in Canada penalizes the producer of lead for every unit of zinc over 8 per cent contained in the ore. In other words, if you ship ore to the 3melter cmtaining 30, 40, 50 or 70 per cent of lead, and only 8 per cent of zinc, you will get the best possible rates for the treatment of your ores, and they will not penalize you for the zinc contents. But for every unit of zinc in that particular ore above 8 per cent you will be penalized. If you have say 15 per cent of zinc, you will have to pay a penalty of 50 cents per cent over the 8 per cent which they treat free. As some of the ores are low-grade silver lead, containing from 15 to 25 per cent of zinc, it would be impossible to handle them profitably without the assistance of the bounty. If you get from 30 per cent to 35 per cent of zinc in the ores, it can be marketed as zinc, for which you get a very good price, but get nothing for the lead content. These are difficulties that will have to be worked out. I think it would be well for the Government to consider the advisability of appointing a commission to inquire into the whole matter of mining and marketing silver lead. The producers must have some relief from time to time. Whether that relief should be continued in the way of bounties or not, is a question to be decided. The bounty has certainly acted very favourably so far as lead is concerned. But it does not apply to zinc, and, if we are to continue the bounty system, I think it ought to apply to zinc. I suggest that the Government should appoint a commission to inquire into the whole matter, and to decide what assistance should be given to the lead and zinc industries in the future.


The hon. member for
Kootenay has defended this bounty in a very modest manner indeed. Listening to him, I thought I should like to live long
enough to see in 'Janada one industry that would exist without being pap-fed by the Government.


Come to Alberta.


Yes, they can raise
wheat out there, and they do not ask for any bounty. In Quebec they raise hay without any bounty, and in New Brunswick we raise a few hundred thousand barrels of. potatoes without a bounty. Then some millions of dollars worth of fish is marketed from Nova Scotia without a bounty. They do not have a bounty for wheat in Alberta, for hay in Quebec, for fish in Nova Scotia, or for potatoes in New Brunswick, and they do not have a minimum price guaranteed by the Government.


Or for cheese in Ontario.


What a millenium there would be in this country if the Government could see its way clear to guarantee a fixed price to all the agriculturists, all the lumbermen, and all the fishermen in Canada for their produce. It seems to me that if we want a millennium in this country, that would be the way to go about it.


There are the steel companies too.
Mr. CARVeLl : I am happy to say that the steel companies have got out of that category at the present time, and from the attitude of the Minister of Finance I do not think he is disposed to put them back where they were. I think I am safe in assuming that he does not intend to do so. My right hon. friend the leader of the Opposition takes upon himself the blame or praise, whichever it may be, for this legislation, and therefore I do not suppose I can fight it very hard. But I hope the Minister of Finance will not pledge himself that it will be renewed after 1918.


I never give any pledges.


I hope it will not be renewed. Why on earth the man who produces lead in British Columbia or, in Ontario, or in any other place in Canada, should be guaranteed certain minimum rates for his product is something I cannot understand. If the miner could do business when lead was $60 a ton, why is it necessary to pay a bounty to aid him when the lead is worth $90 a ton?


It might cost a great deal more to produce.


Even if it does cost more to produce, the miner is getting fifty per cent more on his price. I would not like to divide the committee and refuse to grant it, but I hope we will have a declaration from the Minister of Finance that if he should be in control of the affairs of this country five years hence, which I very

much doubt, he will not ask for a renewal of this guarantee of a minimum price on an article of ordinary commerce which is worthy fifty per cent more to-day than it was ten years ago.


If, like my hon. friend from Carleton (Mr. Carvel), I feel disinclined to divide the committe, I should like the committee to understand it is not from any lack of courage, but from excess of modesty, because I should be sorry to reveal the fewness of my supporters on such an occasion. I want to make personal protest against the renewal of these bounties now, and I express my regret that the Minister of Finance seems disposed to follow the evil examples of the previous Government.


He is always doing that.


I do not think it is a
good plan in me to follow the evil examples of any one. I notice a tendency on the part of hon. gentlemen opposite to use the tu quoque argument, and I am glad to be able to disarm any one of that weapon against myself, because it happens I protested in as vigorous language as I could against the steel bounties when the last Government was in power. I do not want to think my protest had much effect, but at any rate the steel bounty disappeared, and if I can make another protest which would synchronize with the disappearance of the bounty on lead, I can assure the Minister of Finance I would be a very happy man. When hon. gentlemen from British Columbia or anywhere else come here and ask me, as representing the independent and self-supporting men of the plains, to help them in their fruit growing or lead raising business I regard them as legalized mendicants and nothing else. I have just as much respect for the man who conies to my door-step and asks me to give him alms as I have for these fellows who come to Parliament and ask me to help them in their business for that is what a bounty amounts to. I would be more than human if I met such a request with any serious amount of sympathy because I wanted last election to get a little help in my business which would not hurt anybody else, which would be a help to all Canada, and these gentlemen of British Columbia took up arms to prevent me selling in what I thought to be the better market.


They were trying to
protect you.


I know whom they were
trying to protect, and my hon. friend had better be careful about dwelling too much on that doctrine. I would like to meet him before the farmers of his constituency and 1 do not think he would go very far in airing protectionist views.
Mr. CARVELL.


I shall be pleased to meet you.


The hon. gentleman ran
his course with such dubious results last election that next time it may be worse. However, I will take up that challenge, and the first place I visit in Manitoba for this purpose will be the constituency of Selkirk.


All right.


I am sure we will have a good time because my hon. friend and I are always personally very friendly.


We will treat you
well.


What I want my hon.
friend to understand is that I do not need protection; I came to Canada an English medical man, and I am making my own living without the help of protection. I do not need protection in the making of my living; what I want is protection from the political friends of my hon. friend from Selkirk (Mr. Bradbury). But, that protection is not afforded by the hon. gentleman, who, though he comes from the plains, joins with his political friends to legally rob me. Does my hon. friend see the point?


Not yet.


When I was interrupted by the hon. gentleman I was remarking that I should be more than human if, as a dweller of the plains I had any sympathy with these demands made to me.
The Minister of Finance says there have been beneficial effects from these bounties, and my hon. friend from Kootenay (Mr. Green) produced the figures to prove it. I should be very much surprised if there were not some beneficial effects from them. If a man gives me a chunk of money, or if I steal it and get away with it, the beneficial effect is there all right to me. But so far as the lead bounty is concerned, what 1 should like demonstrated is the beneficial effect of it on me who helps to pay the bounty. Suppose I were a millionaire and the Minister of Finance were a burglar- which suppositions are very violent, and I could not say anything more flattering to my hon. friend than to say that he is just as likely to become a burglar as I am to become a millionaire.


I
would be glad to see you a millionaire.


Both suppositions are, of
course, absolutely out of the realm of human possibility, but, suppose the Minister of Finance should become a burglar and I should become a millionaire, and the hon. gentleman came to the safe where I kept a part of my millions and he scooped out ten thousand dollars and got away with it, he would have the beneficial effect so far as the ten thousand dollars were concerned, and

it would not so very much hurt me. But I want to represent to the Minister of Finance-whose mind it is a pleasure to address any thought or idea to-I want to represent to him that there is the question of justice which remains, and I am not at all sure that the Minister of Justice would take the same view of the theft of that ten thousand dollars as would my hon. friend the Minister of Finance, if he happened to be a burglar. The question of justice is a question which we in this House ought to consider in regard to these bounties, and upon what principle of justice can you defend the taking of money from the hardworking farmers of the plains and the hardworking labourers everywhere in Canada, and the giving of it to gentlemen who cannot make a living out of their lead raising, and who have to get some one to help them? That is what it amounts to. What sort of citizens will you produce in any country if you follow that line of policy? Beneficial effects-of course the beneficial effect is there but the question of justice remains, and these are the kiinj of questions we want to solve in this country. I have before quoted Mr. Gladstone's remarks; he denounced bounties as the worst kind of protection and that is as bad a thing as could be said about anything, because protection is so wholly bad that the worst kind of it must be something too bad to live above ground. When you put a tariff upon goods you get some benefit out of it because you get a revenue for the country. Mr. Gladstone, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, regarded bounties from that point of view as the worst kind of protection because it is simply a handing out of money from the community at large to one particular favoured interest without any corresponding benefit to the Government or to the people. Adam Smith of course put this thing in a way I have never heard successfully answered; he said: you can only give bounties to two different kinds of trade; it must be a gaining trade or it must be a losing trade; if it is a gaining trade it does not need a bounty, and if it is a losing trade-then, in a country like Canada, in Heaven's name why do you want to put your sous into it? There is the whole question. Let the lead lie in the ground if you cannot take it out with profit. That policy ought to please hon. gentlemen opposite, because they used the argument on the reciprocity treaty; that they wanted to conserve the existing resources of Canada, and we would be richer, according to their argument, if we let the lead remain in the bowels of the earth. To these hon. gentlemen opposite I appeal; stand by your own argument. If the lead cannot be raised by the individual, self-supporting, manly efforts of 321
well-bred Canadians, standing full abreast to the four winds of Heaven, full-sized men after they have grown up, let the lead stay in the bowels of the earth. Canada is big enough and offers opportunity enough to efforts in other directions which will give remuneration for honest industry.
They have been in the habit of paying bounties in other countries. They give them to shipping in Germany, and a remarkable fact is that there are two great shipping companies in Germany, one which receives a bounty and the other which does not and the one that does not get a bounty is in a better financial position than the one which does. That is only what I should expect. If I had two sons and I wanted to ruin one of them, I would give him plenty of money if I had it, and the Minister of Finance, whose personal record is one which this House and this country have reason to be proud of, knows that what I speak is true. If you want to get the best out of a youth put him on his feet and let him stand on his feet and let his own inherent manhood and strength be directed in a proper direction. There is no country in which that doctrine will apply better than in this country of Canada. If I want to ruin one of my children, if I had the money I would feed him with money and I would expect the others who did not get this particular pap-feeding to go right ahead of the one so fed. Every member of the committee knows that they used to give fishing bounties in the old country, and the effect of it upon the trade was summed up in the statement that the fishermen at last went out to sea to catch the bounty and not the fish. That is a matter of history. I do not know that we do not continue this system in this country at the present time on some of our coasts.
My hon. friends opposite are a British party; they, so they say, stand for all things English, but Britain rid herself of the payment of bounties in 1830, more than eighty years ago, and Canada having participated in these follies of youth should seriously consider whether she cannot get away from this particular folly. My hon. friend (the Minister of Finance) always gives serious attention, and very flattering attention, to anything I happen to address to him, and I hope he will seriously consider this question and get rid of this thing during his tenure of office.


Will you allow me,
Mr. 'Chairman, to put on record my protest against this thing. If there is not some reasonable excuse given for it-and I have not heard any given yet-I must say that for my part I shall vote against it. Though I have neither the eloquence nor the brains of the hon. member for Red



Deer (Mr. Clark), I have more pluck than he has and I am not going to sit by and make a howl and having done that let the thing go on.


I will vote
with you.


You will vote with
me; you funked the whole job because it emanated from your party when they were in power. That's what's the matter with you. So far as I am concerned, this is exactly like the steel bounty; I regard this thing as immoral and nothing else.
I do not see how we can possibly bring the principles of honesty and fair dealing to apply to a thing like this.


Some gentlemen have become quite excited over this harmless proposition of ours. I would like to say to the hon. member for Red Deer, whether he likes it or not, or whether his arguments against protection are right or mine in favour of protection are wrong, the fact remains that we have protection in this country of ours. Therefore, if you are protecting a certain portion of the people of Canada who are producing the wealth of Canada, why should you limit your protection to those particular people and shut out others? I quite grant the hon. member for Red Deer that this is protection; protection of the lead industry. I cannot agree with the argument, the hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Car-veil) attempted to put forward in making comparisons of this industry with the fishing or any other industry of that nature. When you talk of these industries and these other things which are produced either from the earth or from the sea, you have to recollect that these things are in their finished state and ready for the markets of the world when produced. But, the silver lead industry is different, for when you have mined the lead you have to put it through a very expensive process'-a process that no ordinary individual or ordinary company can carry on-to manufacture it into a state which will enable you to put it upon the market. When the lead is mined you have to have recourse to another class of industry to reduce the product of your mine into its component parts so that it can be marketed. Before silver-lead was produced in the province of British Columbia, we had nothing in the way of a smelting industry in Canada. We were shut out of the smelters in the United States and so we had to build smelters of our own to reduce our products. We were debarred from the markets of the United States for our silver-lead products, because the duties were so high that we could not mine and pay the smelting charges and then sell our products Mr. BURNHAM.
at a profit. We therefore had to build up a smelting industry. There were at one time five or six lead smelters in operation in British Columbia and to-day, if my memory is correct, we have but two in active operation. One of them is an institution that the Dominion of Canada may be well proud of; it not only is making money for _ its shareholders, but it is enabling the mine-owners to get the products of their mines to market at a reasonable cost.


Where is the market to-day?


The market to day is our
own Canadian market and the market in the Orient. In the Orient we must compete with Mexico and Spain and other mining countries where they mine much cheaper than we do. The smelter at Trail *employs a very large number of men and it is to-day doing good work for the province of British Columbia and the Dominion of Canada. The mine-owners should be assisted by these bounties to a very large extent, and until we have a wider market, or until we are in a position to enter the markets of the United States, and are able to meet the competition of their protected lead on an equal basis, this lead bounty should be carried on.


The late Government was responsible for the introduction of this legislation, which I assume is not on all fours with the doctrine of free trade. I am a free trader myself, like my hon. friends from Red Deer and Carleton, but I have always acknowledged that doctrines have to be applied according to the conditions under which they are to be worked out. In this matter we found in 1903 that -the smelting industry had been started in British Columbia in connection with lead mining; we found also that on account of the geographical position these lead operations, if they were left unassisted, could have no other market than the United States. At that time the tariff of the United States was distinctly inimical to Canadian trade; and we were faced with the condition that this lead industry must die, notwithstanding all the money that had been invested in it, unless some assistance were given it. We gave it this assistance in order to enable it to get a market, the market of the Orient. We had to meet a hostile tariff which prevented the export of ores to the United States, although that market was at our doors, and we decided to give it this assistance. I noticed an expression which was used by the hon. member for Kootenay (Mr. Green) two or three times -that the industry was penalized by the American tariff. That is very true, but that may be a lesson to the Minister of

Finance. He was against reciprocity. I feel some pride, some justification, for our policy. Let us have reciprocity, and there would be no necessity for this bounty at all.


Was lead in the schedule of the reciprocity compact?


I do not know, as a matter of fact, whether it was or not. Perhaps it was not; perhaps in that respect the reciprocity compact was deficient, and that is the reason hon. gentlemen on the other side opposed it. Perhaps it was not large enough. There is a lesson for my hon. friend-he can make it larger. I think this only justifies our policy. Let us have a natural condition of things between this country and the United States, and there is no necessity for this bounty; and if my hon. friend is wise-I would not venture to give him any advice, but he has received a good suggestion from the hon. member for Kootenay, who wants a commission to look into the matter. Let us have the commission, and the first thing we shall do will be to try to have reciprocity with the United States.


We must not lose our sense of proportion or perspective on the matter now before the committee. The Government of my right hon. friend, for reasons that have been fully explained, decided to grant a bounty not exceeding $2,500,000 to be availed of during five years. They afterwards extended that for an additional five years because the amount had not been fully availed of, in fact only $600,000 had been expended. There now remains only $600,000 of the amount voted and, having regard to the conditions explained by the hon. member for Kootenay, it was thought by the Government advisable that the benefit should be extended, that is to say the $600,000 which has not been expended should be expended if required over a period of five years. I think there is no doubt that beneficial results have flowed from the granting of the bounty in the first instance. My right hon. friend has stated that he is a free trader. I shall not say that age cannot wither because my right hon. friend is not old, he is as young as most of us.


Younger.


But I will say that custom cannot stale his infinite variety. He was a free trader in his utterances but in his tariff he was not a free trader, and I do not know whether my predecessor, Mr. Fielding, pointed out to him that the tariff was not a free trade tariff. Possibly my hon. friend might not have studied the tariff and so was under (he delusion that it was a free trade tariff.
321 i


I knew very well what it was.


If so possibly my predecessor thought that where ignorance was bliss 'twas folly to be wise and did not disillusionize my right hon. friend. My right hon. friend is sometimes a free trader and sometimes not, in some of his utterances he is very much a protectionist. However, it is not necessary to go into that now. The hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Carvell) has some doubt whether praise or Dlame should be .accorded to my right hon. friend for this legislation. Personally I submit that he should be praised and if there is any blame we had better share it up because we are extending it for five years. As we say, it is not a matter of extreme consequence except as to the principle involved; but I would paint out to the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Clark), who is a free trader and discusses these matters in the House from the standpoint of economic principle as he understands it, an influence which is to a certain extent the key of the economic policy which has been in vogue in this countrv for the last thirty years, that is the hostile tariff to the south. There is no doubt about it that in British Columbia, in Nova Scotia, in Ontario, we have been shut out, our manufacturers are shut out from the American markets. The political confederation of this country would not be possible without the commercial federation.


Do you approve of that hostile tariff of the United States?


The tariff policy of the
United States is for the United States to decide upon. I do not wish to express any opinion as to that but I do say that our manufacturers, our producers, all have been prejudiced by a prohibitive tariff.


Hear, hear,
there is no doubt about that.


The tariff of the United
States on dutiable articles is over 40 per cent. Ours is a little over 25 per cent and the result is that we have had to build up an interprovincial trade in Canada. Political confederation would be absolutely impossible without commercial intercourse , of the freest character between the different provinces. I would submit to the hon. member for Red Deer that you cannot establish national industries without the expenditure of large capital. That capital has to be sought, for the most part, abroad, and there is this difference between the case of. a farmer, of a small producer and the case of a large industry, that your small producer is in a position to proceed with

such capital as is available to him in the production of the commodities that he intends to sell. The large amount of capital being required, as I have said, for the establishment of any industry and especially of such an industry as mining where in the first place, a great deal of money is required for the opening of the mine which is not productive at all in the meantime, and in the second place as the hon. member for Kootenay (Mr. Green) has pointed out, the establishment of smelters at great expense, you will not be able to get capitalists to establish those great industries unless they receive some assurance from the Government, either by way of protection or bounties, that .there will be at least a reasonable certainty of their making a profit. My right hon. friend gave extensive bounties at Sydney and 1 do not believe, and in this I am speaking with knowledge, that that industry could have been established without the granting of these bounties. I do not believe capital would have been attracted to the amount required in that industry if those bounties had not been given. They were of very material assistance. Large industries, are of benefit not only to the proprietors but to the community as a whole, the industrial population and the farmer. I do not believe that, having regard to the tariff that exists to the south of us which is under the control of United States, we can hope to establish and maintain in Canada large industries unless there is, some 'degree of protection, I say also to the hon. member for Red Deer that there is a phase of modern business which I believe was not- known to political economists some years ago. That is that . large and highly specialized organizations in industry will deliberately slaughter, to use the common expression, a foreign market; they will hold their own market at a price that will be remunerative to them and slaughter a foreign market. They will actually endeavour to drive new enterprises and business out of existence, they will seek to compel them to close down, will undersell them to such an extent that they cannot in that country conduct a business with a profit, with the ultimate intention of taking possession of that market themselves and raising prices. Now, we are confronted, to a certain extent, with that condition of affairs in Canada, and that it is a feature of modern economy that was not known some years ago but it is now a great factor, I believe that we must have in this country a reasonable degree of protection to our industries to save them from that hostile process on the part of highly specialized and powerful organizations existing to the south of Mr. WHITE (Leeds).
us or elsewhere. I will not enlarge now upon the question of different standards of living of industrial populations, that is a matter it is not necessary to go into now. All I have to say is that I think the bounty in the case of the steel industry in -Nova Scotia made profitable the establishment of that industry, and materially helped them after they were established. It inured not only to the benefit of the share-'holders but to the benefit of the whole province of Nova Scotia and the Maritime provinces, and, to a certain degree, to the benefit of all Canada. That bounty was introduced by my right hon. friend. The extension of this bounty to the lead industry of British Columbia, in the same way, has made for the ouilding up of a great industry there, and that building up, while it has inured to the advantage of the proprietors of the mines, while it has brought about the opening of the mines and the building of the smelters referred to by my hon. friend from Kootenay (Mr. Green), has also had a beneficial effect upon the whole province of British Columbia. And I think that if that lead industry continues to develop and keep up the rate of progress it has maintained during the last six or eight years, the province of which my hon. friend from Red Deer is a distinguished resident and representative, will also benefit, because anything that will establish a great industry in British Columbia, that will mean the employment of hundreds and possibly of thousands of men, will naturally be of advantage to the province of Alberta and to the province of Saskatchewan as well. Now, this discussion is more or less academic because what we are proposing here is not to establish a new bounty but to continue the amount of bounty available under existing legislation. I think it has been clearly shown that the result of granting this bounty was beneficial ; so far as that is concerned, I am willing to agree with my right hon. friend and to give him any meed of praise that he may deserve in connection with this matter. As to the extension, I am inclined to think that he would agree that, under the present circumstances, it is advisable, especially as we are only devoting to this object the residue of the fund which was specially allocated to the purpose of building up that industry.


I desire to ask a question of the minister, and to ask it in no controversial spirit. Would he say in what way the establishment of an industry of such a kind in British Columbia would benefit the province of Saskatchewan, beyond the natural pride that we would have in seeing our fellow Canadians prosper? What monetary advantage would it be to the province of Saskatchewan?
10]-;


If the province of British Columbia became the seat of mining or other great industries employing thousands of men, of course the demand for agricultural products would be that much greater, in other words, there would be a greater consuming population.


Suppose there were.


If there were a greater
consuming population, why should not they purchase from Alberta and Saskatchewan?


It would not affect the price of our wheat.


The hon. gentleman has
his eye fixed on wheat alone. But what about oats? What about cattle? Alberta is a mixed farming country.


I spoke of Saskatchewan.


I was speaking in answer to the hon. member for Red Deer particularly. Take the instance of Alberta, one of the most important provinces in Canada. I have been out there a number of times, and nothing struck me more than the number of cattle. There is not a farm that you pass but you will see a number of Polled Angus cattle. Between Red Deer and Edmonton, you will find an abundance of cattle and hogs, there is mixed farming everywhere, and a prosperous farming community. With a great new industry developed in British Columbia, that would be an increasing condition. Now, for my part, I have never told the western farmer what he ought to do-that he should go into mixed farming.


The hon. gentleman is
entitled to a medal, for the only man who has travelled in the West who has not given the western farmer advice.


Let me tell my hon.
friend my views on that point. When a man goes into a new country, I think he had better make up his mind that the people there are doing the thing that at the time is the best for them. I believe that the western farmer knows what is good for him better than I do. Of course, I could give him theoretical advice, I might tell him that in the end, and in time, he would make more money in mixed farming. But none the less, I believe that with the conditions as they are, the intelligent people of that country are doing the best in their own interest at the time, therefore I have refrained from telling the western farmer what he ought to do.


What effect will all
that have on this bounty?


I was answering my hon. friend from Moosejaw (Mr. Knowles). But I will say generally that if there is a demand for produce of all kinds in British Columbia, that would undoubtedly inure to the benefit of the people of Alberta and Saskatchewan. When I was in Edmonton ten years ago, the chief product of that district was oats, and oats sold at very low prices because the district was so far from the market. I think the price then was about fifteen cents to seventeen cents a bushel; the hon. member for Edmonton will correct me if I am wrong. At that time it was supposed that the sole market for oats would be in British Columbia mining camps. Edmonton at that time was a place of about 2,500 inhabitants; now it is a splendid city of 35,000 inhabitants; that district has become one of the best mixed farming districts that I know of, and there is a market in Edmonton for butter, eggs and a great deal of other agricultural produce. It seems to me commonplace, almost a truism, to say that if the demand from British Columbia through the development of its industries becomes greater it must inure to the benefit of Saskatchewan and Alberta, if not immediately and for all parts, then in the future and for some parts. It is just the same as in the case of the establishment of the great works in Sydney which are of advantage to the whole of the maritime provinces. The farmers in Cape Breton now receive high prices because there is a market at Sydney for what they produce. The same is true at New Glasgow. And so the whole maritime provinces have been benefited by the establishment of the. works at Sydney. I do not see how the farming industries of Alberta and Saskatchewan would fail to benefit through a great development of the mining industries of British Columbia. I believe that the mining industries of British Columbia are only on the threshold of their development. I look upon British Columbia potentially .as one of the wealthiest provinces-I was going to say the wealthiest-in Confederation. It is not developed to anything like its potentialities. I am inclined to agree with my right hon. friend that it is unwise to lay down any hard and fast principle as to protection and free trade. I say that a policy of reasonable protection is the policy for this country, especially having regard to its geographical position. My right hon. friend may differ. He could hardly say that when in office he had a free trade tariff, because it was a tariff giving a moderate degree of protection. He might say he was a free trader, but he qualifies that, and I think properly, by saying that we must have regard to the existing situation. He is right in saying that we must have regard to the whole economic situation. You will find fair traders and free traders

and others who will have some difficulty in
explaining or expounding their positions.


That would
not be so difficult as for the protectionist.


My right hon. friend would have difficulty in explaining how he is a free trader. If I asked him to explain some items in his tariff he would have great difficulty in explaining how he is a free trader. I am not attacking my right hon. friend, I am rather disposed to agree with him in this, that in tariff policy you must have regard to the whole existing situation. The only difference is that I am in favour of a reasonable degree of protection to the industries of Canada and I think they must have it. I commend my right hon. friend for his assistance in establishing the great industry at Sydney and in this case in giving this lead bounty. My right hon. friend says he is a free trader, that is his pronouncement, but in reality his Finance Minister did not know that he was a free trader because his tariff is not a free trade tariff.


What proportion of the products of the lead mines of Canada is consumed at home? The hon. member for Kootenay (Mr. Green) said that the market was principally at home and in the Orient. I find that under the tariff the lead industry of Canada not only receives a bounty, but a pretty fair measure of protection. Lead in bars and sheets is fifteen per cent and twenty per cent and manufactured lead twenty per cent and twenty-five per cent so it would seem that if any large amount of the lead mines in Canada were consumed at home the producer of lead must be making a pretty good thing out of it.


I am sorry I have not
those figures to-day, but I had no idea that this discussion would be so full. I shall undertake to have such information on the second reading.


The minister
said as he sat down, that the Finance Minister of the late Government did not know that the leader of the Opposition was a free trader. I think that Mr. Fielding knew very well that he was a free trader ior he lost his seat in the election which was fought largely on a matter of free trade. The minister will admit that some little credit is due to the late Government owing to the fact that they lost power by endeavouring to give a very large instalment of free trade, absolutely free trade in the articles with which it dealt. The hon. minister drew my attention to the hostile *tariff which we have to fight in the United States. Great Britain has to fight hostile tariffs the world over and she fights them the world over and beats the United States and every other country and in many things beats the United States Mr. WHITE (Leeds).
on her own soi