Bill No. 46, respecting The Erie, London and Tilsonburg Railway Company.-Mr. Morphy.
Bill No. 47, respecting The Lake Erie and Northern Railway Company.-Mr. Fisher.
Bill No. 48, to incorporate The Peace River Tramway and Navigation Company. -Mr. R. B. Bennett.
Bill No. 49, respecting The Saskatchewan Central Railway Company.-Mr. McCraney.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	What sum is to he paid per annum by the Government of Canada to the Royal Mail Steamship Company of Canada for the Canada West India steamship service?
2.	For what period does the contract run?
3.	How many steamers are to be engaged in the service, and what is their tonnage, speed, passenger accommodation, and trips per month?


3. Four.
Name.	Tonnage.	Average speed- Knots.	Passenger Accommodation.	Gross.	Net.	First Class.	Second Class.	Third Class.Chignecto..	4,744	2,999	ii	41	60	90Chaleur....	4,746	2,994	ii	41	60	90Cobequid..	4,790	2,969	u	41	60	98Caraquet...	4,889	2,975	u	40	72	80
The Cobequid was wrecked off the Nova Scotia coast on January 13, 1914.
A sailing is to be made from Halifax every 14 days.


1.	Was Mr. Watson Griffith appointed a special travelling trade commissioner for the Government of Canada in the British West Indies?.
2.	If so, what are his duties, when did they commence, and what salary does he receive?
3.	What was Mr. Watson Griffith's occupation and where did he reside prior to his appointment as such trade commissioner?


1.	Mr. Griffin was appointed a special trade commissioner. He has been sent on a trade mission to the West Indies.
2.	His duties are to interest the people of the West Indies in Canada and Canadian products and report regularly to the department, and to assist in securing greater publicity for such information in Canada. His duties commenced on December 17, 1913; salary, $4,000 per annum.


How many Fenian raid veterans have been paid the $100 bounty to date?


16,470.


How many Fenian raid veterans have received the Government grant of $100 provided for by law?


16,470.


1.	Does the Government intend to introduce any legislation extending the time for payment of bounty under the provisions of chapter 53, 2 George V., entitled an Act to authorize a bounty to Volunteers who served the Crown during the Fenian raids?
2.	Does the Government intend to introduce any legislation providing for the payment of

bounty under said Act to the widows of volunteers who, if alive, would be entitled to said bounty?
Hon. SAM. HUGHES (Minister of Militia and Defence):
1.	Yes.
2.	The bounty is payable to widows of veterans who were alive on the date of the passing of the Act, viz., April 1, 1912.


1.	What are the conditions under which bounties are being paid to men who drilled or volunteered to repel the Fenian raid invasion of 1866?
2.	If no person in the province of Prince Edward Island has received a bounty, what is the reason for the apparent discrimination?
Mr. SAM. HUGHES:
1.	Proof of a corps having been called out for active service, and of a volunteer having performed service with a corps so called out during the period of a raid.
2.	There is no record or proof in the department of any corps belonging to Prince Edward Island having been called out on active service for suppression of a Fenian raid.


1.	What was the total number of men, women and children in Canada at the time of the Fenian raid?
2.	What was the total number, by provinces, at that time, capable of bearing arms?
3.	What was the total number of men then enlisted for military service in each province?
4.	How many applications have been made to the , Department of Militia and Defence for bounty under the Fenian Raid Bounty Act, in each province?
Mr. SAM. HUGHES:
1.	To be answered by Department of Trade and Commerce.
2.	To be answered by Department of Trade and Commerce.
3.	Fenian Raid
1866.
Upper Canada	 12,199
Lower Canada	 7,398
Nova Scotia	 59,379
New Brunswick	 44,055
Total	 123,031
Fenian	Raid
1870.
Ontario	 20,956
Quebec	 15,066
Nova Scotia	 4,192
New Brunswick	 3,327
Total	 43,541
4.	Impossible to give this information at present, as applications for the bounty have not been entered by provinces.


Questions 1 and 2 will
stand for further answer.


* Mr. EMMERSON:
1.	Have any appointments been made to the official staff of the Dorchester penitentiary since January 1, 1913? If so, what are their names, to what positions respectively, and at what salaries?
2.	Have any new positions or offices been created since January 1, 1913? If so, who were the persons appointed to such positions or offices, and at what salaries respectively?
3.	tv ho recommended the creation of said new positions or offices, and what is the additional increase to the salary list of said penitentiary by reason of the creation of the new positions or offices?
1.	N. A. Macpherson, industrial guard, at $1,000, vice W. R. Burns, resigned.
2.	(a) In pursuance of the uniform schedule of last session the duties of the steward have been extended to the oversight of the clothing department in addition to the victualling department-without increase in salary, (b) Guard Gillespie, guard in charge of the kitchen, has been promoted from the rank of guard at $800 to that of assistant steward at $900. (c) Guard Elsdon who has been for a number of years in charge of the clothing department, has been promoted from the rank of guard at $800 to that of assistant steward at $900. (d) Guard McCaull, who has been in charge of the engineer's shop, has been promoted from the rank of guard at $800 to that of assistant engineer at $1,000.
3.	As regards a, b and c, the inspector of penitentiaries; as regards d the warden and the inspector. The aggregate increase in the salary list is $400 per annum.


1.	Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with the erection of a postal station in the city of Maisonneuve?
2.	If so, is it the intention of the Government to utilize the plans made and approved by the department, prepared by Mr. C. A. Reeves, architect?
3.	Is Mr. Reeves still in me employ of the Department of Public. Works in respect of this postal station? If not, why not?
4.	Is it the intention of the Government to change architects in that respect?
5.	If so, on whose recommendation has the change been made or will it be made?
6.	What will be the cost of such a station and wheri will operation be started?


1.	Plans are now being prepared by Mr. M. Dufresne, architect, of Montreal.
2.	3 and 4. No. Plans were prepared by Mr. Reeves for site decided upon, but these plans were not acceptable.
5.	Change of architects was made by direction of the minister.
6.	Plans are not completed, and, in view of this, information cannot be given as to cost of building.


1.	What reasons have prevented the works at the harbour of Fraserville from being started during the summer of 1913?
2.	Is it the intention of the Minister of Public Works to begin in the near future the execution of these works, which it was expected would start immediately after the session, according to promises said to have been made to that effect?


1.	Question of design and type of the proposed works had not been agreed upon by the Department of Public Works and Department of Railways and Canals, but plan and specification are now practically ready.
2.	Minister cannot give definite answer until he has had an opportunity to examine plans and specifications.


1.	Did the Minister of Militia and Defence accompany Sir Ian Hamilton to the political picnic of the Ward Four Conservative Association at Queenston Heights in July last?
2.	Did the Minister, so accompanied by Sir Ian Hamilton, wear a badge inscribed 'Borden and Our Empire'?
3.	Were the Minister and Sir Ian Hamilton photographed with the officers of the Ward Four Conservative Association at such political picnic?


1.	General Sir Ian Hamilton was the guest of the Minister of Militia one day last July at Queenstown Heights inspecting it from a military view' point. There were a great many picnics going on.
2.	The minister did wear a very beautiful badge showing a stalwart young Canadian standing on Canadian soil, grasping, across the Atlantic the hand of John Bull, standing on British soil. The minister does not remember whether or not the very beautiful inscription ' Borden and our Empire ' was on the badge.
3.	The minister and Sir Ian were photographed some score of times that day, with a lot of very fine people. Doubtless many of them, apparently very intelligent, belonged to the Conservative Association.


1.	Following the investigation into the duties of the staff of the House of Commons in 1912, -did Dr. Shortt, of the Civil Service Commission, make a report to His Honour the Speaker, or [DOT]to the Internal Economy Commission? If so, what was the nature of such report?
2.	Does Mr. Speaker intend to lay on the table the report in question?


1.	Yes.
2.	A copy of the report was laid upon the table of the House for the information of members.


1.	To whom has the Government awarded the -contract or the supervising of the construction of the concrete sidewalk in front of the Rigaud post office?
2.	What are the names of the parties who received money from the Government in view of that work, and how much did each of them get?
3.	Who supplied the material and the amount and nature of their bills?
4.	If that work has been given by contract, who has been the contractor and what was the amount of his transaction?
5.	Were there other tenders? If so, by whom have they been sent in?


1,	2, 3, and 4. Awarded by agreement to E. Monpetit, Rigaud, Quebec, for the sum of $276.50. Work done under the supervision of Clerk of Works G. S. Gingras, Montreal. 5. No other tenders.


1.	Has the work of draining, levelling and fencing done during the year 1913 on the Government ground where the post office at Rigaud has been erected, been done by the day or by *contract?
2.	In the first case, what is the name of the supervising officer and the amount he has received, and what is the name of the other employees and the salary paid to each of them?
3.	In the second case,, (a) what is the name *of the contractor, what was the amount of his tender; and were other tenders received? If so, (b) what are the names of such tenderers?
4.	What amount has been paid to date, for -the abovementioned works?


.
1.	How many tons of coal has the Government bought for the use of the Post Office of Rigaud during last season?
2.	What is the name of the purveyor?
3.	Have tenders been advertised for that object?
4.	If so, what are the names of the tenderers and the price by the ton, of each tender?
5.	What was the quantity to be supplied by the party to whom the contract was awarded?
6.	What quantity has he supplied?
7.	If the contractor has not supplied the quantity for which the contract was given to him, what are the reasons for so doing?
8.	What is the cubic capacity of the coal-bunker of that post office.
9.	Who was the purveyor in 1912?
10.	How many tons has he sold to the Government and at what price?
11.	Who were the tenderers in that year and what was the amount of each tender?


1.	About 211 tons.
2.	Basile Decoste.
3.	Yes.
4.	One tender, Basil Decoste, at $7.75 a ton.
5.	35 tons egg coal.
6.	Account for 21 tons 535 lbs. amounting to $164.83, passed on the 16th September, 1913.
7.	Coal bunker would only hold about 22 tons, and when same was filled caretaker wrote to say that he thought that quantity would be sufficient for the season.
8.	780 cubic feet.
9.	Chevrier Freres.
10.	About 36J tons at $8 a ton.
11.	Only one tender, as above.


1.	What amount has the Government paid for the repairing of the wharf at Rigaud during the season of 1913?
2.	Of what kind were these works?
3.	Who was the contractor or superintendent?
4.	What amount was paid to either of them?
5.	Who are the other parties who have received a salary and how much?
6.	Who supplied the material and what was the amount and nature of each bill?


1.	$233.40.
2.	Minor repairs to wharf.
3.	Work done by day labour. Supervising engineer, A. E. Dubuc, assistant district engineer, Montreal. Foreman, L. J. O. Chevrier.
4.	Foreman Chevrier paid at the rate of $3 per diem, 20 days at $3, $60.
5.	Joseph Vallee, carpenter, 22 days at $2, $44; Felix Billard, labourer, 12 days at $1.75, $21; total, $125.

6.	Adolphus Cousineau, lumber, $6; Jos. Vallee, lumber, $94.40; I. L. Lafleur, hardware, $8; toal, $108.40.


1.	What amount has the Government spent for the wharf at Graham in 1913, who has been the superintendent of such work and what daily salary did he get in whole?
2.	What are the names of the other employees and the amount of total daily salary drawn by each of them?
3.	What are the names of any purveyors and the amount of their bills?


1.	(a) $1,615.67; (b) Foreman, Nap. E. N. Seguin, paid at the rate of $3.50 per day.
2.	From 12th August to 6th November,
1913: Nap. E. N. Sdguin, foreman, 72 days at $3.50 per day, $252; Leon Gauthier, carpenter, 45 days at $2.50, $113.75; Nap. Vallee, labourer, 12 days at $2, $24; Elie Lavigne, carter, 174 days at $4, $70; Peter Berry, carpenter, 404 days at $2.50, $101.25; Didasse Lavigne, labourer, 2 days at $2, $4; Alf. Seguin, labourer, 15J days at $2, $31.50; Ant. Bertrand, labourer, lOf days at $2, $21.50; Bernard Seguin, labourer, 22 days at $2, $44. Total, $662.	[DOT]
3.	Chevrier & Frferes, cable, - $6.48; J. A. Bertrand, hardware, $20.24; Hon. Gauthier, cartage, etc., $98; Wm. Graham, hardware and disbursements, $7.84; Nap. Seguin, lumber, etc., $5.75; Capt. Gedeon Vallee, freight charges and disbursements, $46.56; Caverhill, Learmont & Co., rope, $21.13; Durand Hardware Co., hardware, $3.10; Treffle Pilon, rent of winch, $5; Philippe Lefebvre, lumber, $31; W. A. Wood, rent of pile driver, $40; Alphonse Dumoulin, smithwork, $16.45; Ant. Bertrand, sundries, $1.90; Lachine sand and gravel, towing pile driver, $5; Johnny Gamelin, pilotage, $5; William Hodgson, lumber, $632.54; Montreal Hardware Co., $7.68. Total, $953.67. *Grand total, $1,615.67.


1.	At whose request was a dredge sent to Dorion during the season of 1913?
2.	What number of cubic yards of material have been taken away?
3.	Is it the intention of the Government to have those works completed next year?
4.	Have the owners of the ground facing the spot where the work has taken place, been called on to pay any money?
5.	What is the name of the dredge?
6.	Is it the property of the Government or of a company?
7.	If it belongs to the Government, what is the daily expense of running same?
8.	How many days did it remain at Dorion?


1.	A. E. Labelle, S. S. McKay.
2.	8,742 cublic yards.
3.	The work has been completed.
4.	Yes.
5.	P. W. D. No. 103.
6.	Property of Department of Public Works.
7.	$64.17.
8.	40 days.


1.	(a) Is the Department of Public Works having a survey of Port Elgin harbour in Westmorland county, N.B., made? (b) If so, how many men and who are engaged in the survey?
2.	Is the department aware that a complete survey was made of this harbour a few years ago?
3.	(a) What is the estimated cost of the present survey, and (b) is it proposed to have the dredging, which was commenced in connection with this harbour, proceeded with during the coming season of navigation?
4.	(a) Is the Department of Public Works having a survey made at Little Cape, in Westmorland county, N.B., with a view of securing a site lor a wharf at that point? (b) If so, what is the estimated cost of such survey?
5.	Is the wharf proposed to be built at the west side of the river to suit the people of Little Cape, Portage and Great Shemogue or is a survey being made also on the eastern side of the Great Shemogue harbour inlet or river to suit the requirements of fish hatchery, and of the Shemogue Oyster Company comprised of Messers. M. G. Siddal, W. F. Humphrey, M.P.P., P. G. Mahoney, M.P.P., Richard O'Leary, and others, who require a wharf for the proposed oyster business at Little Cape or Great Shemogue harbour?
6.	Is there any correspondence in the department or any of the departments of the Government or in the hands of any of the members of the Government relating to this subject?


1.	(a) Yes. (b) Assistant Engineer Martin and General Inspector Loggie are engaged on this survey, with five local men.
2.	Yes.
3.	(a) $100 in addition to staff expenses, (b) Matter will be considered when engineer's report is received.
4.	(a) Yes. (b) The estimated cost of survey is $75.
5.	The survey is completed, but the reports are not yet to hand, and the question of site will not be considered until this data is to hand.
6.	Correspondence received was forwarded to the district engineer when the survey was ordered, and has not yet been returned.


1.	Was there an Order in Council passed recently by the Government of Canada affecting in any manner the importation of slag used by the farmers in Canada for fertilizing purposes? If so, on what date, and in what way was the importation of slag affected?
2.	Was this done at the solicitation of any persons, firms or corporations? If so, whom?
3.	Was there any duty imposed on slag used for agricultural purposes imported into Canada? If so, what was the rate of said duty previous to the passage of the said Order in Council, if any?
Mr. RI'ID:
1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	No, duty has not been changed on blast furnace slag, as mentioned in item 372, Customs Tariff, 1907. On 9th November, 1913, the Board of Customs ruled ground basic slag dutiable as fertilizer under item 663 of Customs Tariff, 1907, at 5 per cent preferential; 10 per cent general.


I wish to direct the attention of the minister to his answer to the third part of this question, and to ask him to lay on the table of the House a copy of the ruling therein referred to, together with the papers connected therewith.


I shall be very glad to get the information for my hon. friend.


1.	What was the total amount paid by the Government for fees and disbursements to the counsel retained by them or by the Minister of Justice to argue before the Supreme Court of Canada and the Judicial Committee of His Majesty's Privy Council, the marriage question and the Bill relating to it, introduced in this House during the session 1911-12 by the member for Lincoln, and referred by the Government to the said Supreme Court and the said Judicial Committee?
2.	Is the said counsel paid in full? If not, what amount is still owing to them?
3.	What was the amount charged to the Dominion Treasury by the Minister of Justice and paid to him for travelling and other expenses in connection with the reference of the said marriage question and of the said Bill to the said Judicial Committee of His Majesty's Privy Council?
4.	(u) Did the Minister of Justice take part in the argument before the said Judicial Committee? (6) If not, why not?
5.	What was the amount paid by the Government to their agents or solicitors in London, England, for fees and disbursements in connection with the said reference to the said Judicial Committee?
6.	Are they paid in full? If not, what is the amount still owing to them?


.
1.	$21,926.70.
2.	Paid in full as taxed by department.
3.	The Minister of Justice went to England in connection with the marriage case and other public business. Of his expenses $1,000 was charged to the marriage case.
4.	(a) No. The Minister of Justice submitted the questions-obtained leave to appeal and an order that the case be heard in the July term of 1912. (b) Because the Government had undertaken to have the questions submitted to the highest tribunal in the empire and to provide, as it did, independent counsel to represent the opposing views upon the questions submitted.
5.	$1,195.62.
6.	Paid in full.
THE MINISTER OF MILITIA IN EUROPE. Mr. PROULX:
1.	How many officers of the Canadian militia accompanied the Minister of Militia on his European trip in the summer of 1913?
2.	How many stenographers accompanied the party?
3.	How many servants were in the party?
4.	How many officers' wives and daughters, or other persons, accompanied the party?
5.	Were the expenses of said wives and daughters paid by the Department of Militia and Defence, or any portion thereof?
6.	What was the total cost to the country for the expenses of the whole party?
7.	What amount was paid to the officers, stenographers and servants as pay or allowance?
8.	What European countries were visited during the trip?


1.	21 officers, including 4 sent over for courses of instruction or on other special duty, and who joined the party in London.
2.	One private secretary and one assistant private secretary.
3.	Two orderlies.
4.	None officially.
5.	No, not one cent. The expenses of the ladies who accompanied the party were borne by their own husbands and fathers.
6.	$24,262, including the four special officers referred to in No. 1.
7.	To the officers-$3,984, for pay of rank. For subsistence and other allowances, $10 a day. To all others, actual expenses for subsistence only, and no pay other than their permanent pay.
8.	All the officers visited the manoeuvres of the French army along the frontier between France and Germany. They also visited the Swiss manoeuvres under the direction of General Sir Ian Hamilton and

General Ellison, for three days. They also visited the British divisional manoeuvres in one week, and the British army manoeuvres the following week. The minister personally also visited the German divisional manoeuvres, and the Belgian and Dutch military centres. A full report is being prepared, under the direction of Colonel Cruikshank, and, when published, will be placed in the hands of all the members.


1.	Have tenders been invited for the breakwater at Little Sands, P.E.I. ? If so, how many were received, and from whom, and what was the amount of each tender?
2.	Has a contract been entered into with any of the tenderers, or with anybody else? If so, when will the work be commenced, and when is it expected to be completed?


Yes, tenders 'have been invited and received, but it is inadvisable to give the information until the contract has been signed.


1.	How many post offices have been opened,
. if any, in the county of Wright, Quebec, since
September, 1911?
2.	If any, where are said post offices located?
3.	What are the names of the postmasters of same?
4.	In what parts of the county of Wright have rural mail routes been established?


I, 2 and 3. The following post offices have been opened: At Nesbitt Comers, lot 28, concession 4, township of Masham; postmaster, John Nesbitt. At Lambert Corners, lot 16, concession B, township of Northfield; postmaster Robert Lambert. At Brennan Hills, lot 48, concession 6, township of Low; postmaster, Louis Monet te.
4.	From Wakefield to Duclos, via Ste. Cecile de Masham and Masham Mills. Established in 1909.


Mr. Lemieux.-For a copy of all correspondence and papers generally concerning the
proposed changes of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
Mr. Carroll.-For a copy of all letters, telegrams and correspondance of all kinds relating in any way to the applications for Fenian Raid Bounty in South Cape Breton, or relating to or touching in any way, the claims of such applications.
Mr. Carroll.-For a return showing the names and post office addresses of all persons in South Cape Breton, N.S., who made application for Fenian Raid Bounty, of all persons who made two or more applications, of all persons who have been paid the said Bounty, and of all persons whose claims have been disallowed, with the reasons therefor.
Mr. Emmerson.-For a return showing the names and post office addresses of all persons from the county of Westmorland, N.B., who have applied to the department of Militia and Defence for a bounty under the Fenian Raid Volunteer Bounty Act, indicating the date on which each application was received, the names and addresses of the parties to whom such bounty has been paid; also the names and addresses of the parties to whom the bounty has not been paid, with the reason, if any, for nonpayment thereof.
Mr. A. K. Maclean.-Return showing the total amount of available cash on deposit to the credit of the Government of Canada on the last day of each month between 1st April, 1913, and December 31, 1913.
Mr. A. K. Maclean.-Return showing the following particulars respectively, of all loans placed or extended by the Government of Canada, upon the London market during the calendar years 1912 and 1913: loan; date and copy of prospectus; price in prospectus and price realized; date on which loan matures; rate per cent; total issue; amount realized ; charges including discount for immediate payments, &c.; net amount of cash realized; and the annual effective rate of interest per unit.
Mr. Sinclair.-Return showing the names and post office address of all parties from the county of Guysborough, N.S., who have applied to the Department of Militia and Defence for a bounty under the Fenian Raid Volunteer Act, indicating the date on which each application was received, the names of tne parties to whom such bounty has been paid, date of payments, and also the names of those parties to whom the bounty has not been paid, with the reason, if any, for non-payment thereof.
Mr. J. J. Hughes.-Return showing the quantities and values of potatoes imported monthly into Canada during the years 1911, 1912 and
1913,	and the counties from which such potatoes were imported.
Mr. Kyte.-For a copy of all correspondence relative to the dismissal of Alex. W. Finlayson, keeper of light on St. Esprit Island, Richmond county, N.S., and to his resignation and the appointment of a successor.
Mr. Boyer.-For a copy of all letters, telegrams, &c., exchanged between the Department of Militia and Messrs. A. Macdonald, E. Mont-petit and others in connection with the organization of the 33rd Hussars, at Vaudreuil and Soulanges.
Mr. Boyer.-For a copy of all letters, telegrams and other documents, exchanged between the Department of Militia and Messrs. Archibald Macdonald, Elzear Montpetit, J. H. Che-vrier and others, relating to the repairs made or to be made to the armoury at Rigaud, from 1911 to date.
For a return showing the names and post office addresses of all persons in the county of Richmond, N.S., who made application for Fenian raid bounty, of all persons who were paid said bounty up to the 15th day of January,
1914,	and of all persons whose claims have

been disallowed, with the reasons for such disallowance.


I have no objection to
this and similar motions passing; but for the benefit of hon. gentlemen who are making such motions I may explain that although certain lists are available in some of the counties of Nova Scotia, it will undoubtedly take a great deal of time to obtain the necessary information as to allowances and disallowances, and if there is a little delay I hope that my hon. friends will not feel grieved.


Motion agreed to.
For a return showing the names of all printing and publishing companies, and newspapers in Nova Scotia to whom any sum of money has been paid paid during the calendar years 1912 and 1913 respectively, and the nature of the service rendered therefor.
He said: In my absence the other day, some objection was made to the form of this motion, as evidently some words were omitted. I beg leave to move it with the following amendment: that after the word ' paid ' in the third line the following words be inserted, ' by any department of the Government of Canada.'
Motion as amended agreed to.


For a copy of all correspondence, papers and documents between the Department of Militia and Defence, or any of its officers, and the Halifax County Conservative Association, or any of its officers, or any individual in Halifax county, advising them or him of the sufficiency in form or otherwise of the application of any resident of Halifax county for the Fenian raid bounty.
He said: This motion. perhaps asks for a little too much, and if the minister thinks he cannot comply with it, as it stands, I would have no objection to leaving out the words in the fourth line ' or any individual in Halifax county.' I understand it would possibly be hard to comply with that part of the motion.
Mr. SAM. HUGHES: I might say in regard to that, that there is no answer to the motion, but it might as well pass.


I think that is a mistake; I think there is an answer.

. Mr. SAM. HUGHES: Very well, then; no, nothing.


Motion agreed to.
For a copy of all papers, letters, telegrams, reports, inquiries, and documents or other communications had with any of the departments of the Government, particularly with the Interior, Customs and Marine and Fisheries Departments, relating to Gustavus A. Colpitts, a Canadian citizen returning as a passenger on the Royal mail steamship Empress of Britain, in September, 1911, who alleged that he was not allowed by officers of the Government to disembark at Rimouski from said steamship. Also-a copy of all letters, correspondence or other communications received by any members of the Government, particularly by the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, and by any department of the Government, from the said Gustavus A. Colpitts, who was at the time a student at Mount Allison University, Sackville, New Brunswick, and of all letters or other communications sent in reply thereto.
He said: The reading of this motion gives Dne an idea of my object in making it. I may state that my principal object inbringing this matter to the notice of the House, is to have determined, if possible, or at least understood, the status of a Canadian citizen who has travelled abroad and who is obliged to return to Canada as a steerage passenger in one of our steamers, Mr. Colpitts is a young man who was a student at Mount Allison University at Sackville, N.B. With a view to broadening his mind and getting further education in a greater university, he went to Great Britain and to other portions of Europe. Not being possessed of a large amount of this world's goods, in returning home, he travelled by the cheapest possible method, namely, by steerage. He came back to Canada on the steamship Empress of Britain in September, 1911. When the steamer reached Rimouski, on her way up the St. Lawrence, it was his desire to land at that point, instead of going on to Quebec. It would save him expense and if was nearer his home; he could take the Intercolonial railway at Rimouski at much less expense than if he were compelled to take it at Quebec. He was prevented from landing by an officer of the customs. The Canadian immigration and other officials, and indeed the officials of the steamer, were quite willing that he should be permitted to land with the other passengers at Rimouski. The first and second class passengers and the mail were landed in large measure at that point, but, forsooth, a Canadian citizen, because he came home

by steerage, was prevented from landing.
Mr. Colpitts has, I think, since completed 'his studies at the University of Mount Allison, and has removed to Macdonald, in the province of Manitoba. With that persistency that characterizes some New Brunswickers, Mr. Colpitts, desirous of having it determined as to just how far a Canadian citizen has rights in returning to his home beyond those of the ordinary immigrant coming into the country, who is limited and restricted and regulated by the regulations of the Immigration Department or the Customs Department of the Government, brought this matter to the attention of the Government and also communicated with me in regard to it. The matter was not brought before the House last session, although Mr. Colpitts had written me on several occasions. ' I found that it was too late to bring it conveniently to the notice of the House.
Recently I had a communication from Mr. Colpitts asking me to bring the matter to the notice of the House and of the Government in order that certain questions which he bad propounded to the several departments might be answered or at least considered by the Government with the view of having a change, if thought necessary and desirable, in the regulations that in any way restrict a Canadian citizen in his rights, even though he travels steerage. Mr. Colpitts, after he had reached his home, in October, 1911, wrote to several departments of the Government, or to the officials thereof, asking certain questions, thinking to learn why it was that he was thus prevented, questioning the right of the customs officials to prevent him and if there was such a right on the part of these officers to prohibit his landing, he desired to know under what regulations and principles he was prevented from enjoying his rights or the rights which he would have enjoyed had he travelled either first or second class. On the 3rd October, 1911, he wrote t*o the secretary of the Department of Immigration, asking some very pertinent questions, among them the following:
Are there any circumstances under which a Canadian custom official may refuse a Canadian citizen permission to enter Canada?
If so, what are the conditions, and what spirit prompts such regulations?
Is a Canadian citizen returning to Canada subject to the same inspection re vaccination, occupation and religion as an immigrant?
Must a child born in Canada, but returning to Canada, be vaccinated before being allowed to enter Canada?
Must a young child less than a month old be vaccinated before entering Canada?
To this, his first inquiry, he received a very courteous reply from Mr. W. D. Scott, the superintendent of immigration, acknowledging the receipt of his communication, and asking Mr. Colpitts to give him full particulars of a specific case' in which any of the difficulties referred to in his letter had been experienced. If this was furnished he would have the matter inquired into and advise him as to the result. Mr. Scott very kindly sent to him a copy of the Immigration Act which outlines clearly the procedure followed by officers of the department in their inspection of immigrants entering Canada. Further on, on the 17th October, Mr. Scotfc wrote to Mr. Colpitts, as follows:
In answer to your first question I may say that customs officials have to do only with the baggage and personal belongings of passengers. A customs official might, under Canadian law, prevent a passenger leaving a boat or train and taking his baggage until his baggage was examined, but it is unlikely that any custom officer would prevent such a. passenger leaving a ship or train under ordinary circumstances.
Replying to your second question I would say that a Canadian citizen is not subject to the same regulations as immigrants, but you can readily understand that it would be impossible for a Government officer or any other person to detect whether a passenger were a Canadian without some form of examination.
Mr. Colpitts had a further letter from Mr. Scott, dated 23rd January, 1912, which-reads:
I beg to acknowledge the receipt in due course of your letter of the 17th instant, and to say in reply that there is no regulation that third-class passengers arriving by ocean steamers via St. Lawrence route must land only at Quebec, but the immigration regulations require that no passengers shall be landed anywhere from an ocean ship without the permission of an immigration officer.
Mr. Colpitts had also written to the' Director General of Public Health on the 9th of January, and he wished to know whether there was a quarantine regulation that third-class passengers arriving by ocean steamer shall land only at Quebec.-and if so whether the regulation applied to Canadian citizens as well as immigrants. Mr. Colpitts stated in this letter:
I refer of course to the summer season and to passengers on steamers that land mails at: Rimouski. If such be the regulation I shall be glad to know the spirit that prompts such legislation.
The Director General of Public Health" sent to Mr. Colpitts a copy of the quarantine regulations of the Dominion, and on the 15th of January, 1912, he further wrote to Mr. Colpitts:

I am in receipt of your letter dated 9th instant, asking me about regulations as to the landing of third-class passengers arriving by ocean steamers at Quebec only. In reply I have to say that this is not a quarantine regulation, but one issued-whether correctly cited by you or not I do not know-but I would refer you to the immigration branch of the Interior Department for full information on the subject. Jurisdiction of the quarantine of this department ceases when the immigrants have been released from quarantine or when the vessel has passed quarantine inspection with a clean bill of health. They then pass under the jurisdiction of the immigration branch of the Department of the Interior.
Mr. Colpitts wrote to the Minister of Customs asking for a copy of
3 p.m. the Act relating to the duties of Canadian customs officials in respect of passengers arriving by ocean steamer, and on the 14th of November he wrote to the Commissioner of Customs at Ottawa from his university residence at Sackville:
I was a third-class passenger on the Empress of Britain which arrived at Rimouski on the 28th of September last. Before reaching Rimouski, I had made arrangements, so far as the officers of the boat were concerned, to land there. Upon reaching Rimouski I sought permission from the immigration officer to land there and said official was in the act of signing my landing papers when the customs official who was then in the purser's office, informed the purser that I would not be allowed to land there. I turned to another customs official, not then in the purser's office, and asked why, from the standpoint of the customs, I would not be allowed to land there. He at first said I could, but on learning that I was travelling third-class he said it was impossible for me to land there. I have been quite unable to find any legitimate reason why I was not allowed to land at Rimouski. My destination was Sackville, N.B. I was a Canadian citizen, a native of New Brunswick, and my object in wishing to land there was to save time and expense. The result was I was delayed thirty-six hours in reaching home and was at the expense of a day's board and the difference in fare on account of booking at Lf vis instead of at Rimouski. Now, the customs official was either right or w'rong. If right, I ask for a copy of the Act or a statement of the ruling under which he acted; if wrong, I wish to know.
Later in the same month, the 22nd of November, he wrote the Commissioner of Customs:
I have to-day received your letter of the 20th instant, and I beg leave to thank you for your prompt reply to my last letter. I have to say, however, that your letter does not make the matter about which I have been corresponding, clear. First, you state that the reason the landing of passengers at Rimouski was objected to was because the steamer did not make entry at the customs house at Rimouski. The fact remains that passengers did land there and further that I was not allowed to land

there. Before lodging any complaint I made careful study of the Immigration Act and of the quarantine regulations and I failed to find there anything justifying the customs officer in detaining me when the immigration officer was willing to allow me to land.
I have no disposition to continue a correspondence to make it tedious, but probably another letter will give me the desired information.
Section 6, page 5, to which you refer me, does not, so far as I can see, refer to the case in question, since the quarantine officer must have given his permission or no passengers would have landed at Rimouski. I would call your attention to section 25, page 9, which would apply to the Empress of Britain, since she carried mail, and to subsection (b) under which I claim that I should have been allowed to land.
In conclusion I will say that I wish to know why a Canadian citizen in perfect health, willing to establish the fact of his citizenship, should be detained on board a vessel by a customs official, the immigration officer having . given his permission to said citizen to land, with the result that he is carried away from his home, delayed thirty-six hours in reaching his home, and subjected to considerable expense.
On December 20, Mr. Colpitts again wrote tbe Commissioner of Customs as follows:
Your explanation of the fact that I was prevented from landing is no doubt correct. But I wish to say that a Canada customs official was the man directly responsible for preventing my landing, that is to say, the customs official was the man who prevented my name being placed on the partial clearance to which you refer in the last paragraph, and I have been asking his authority and have as yet failed to get a reply. Either the Customs Department will have to shoulder this and explain, or else shift the responsibility to some other department, As a Canadian citizen, I request an explanation. To an ordinary citizen like myself it is not apparent why a direct answer to such a question as I have been asking cannot be given by your department.
Mr. Colpitts further informed the Commissioner of Customs on the 9th of January that, before making any complaint, he had made a careful survey of the quarantine regulations and had found there no such rule as referred to in the letter of the Commissioner of Customs of the 26th of December, 1911. He also stated that, acting upon the suggestion of the Commissioner of Customs, he would write the Director General of Public Health.
On the 1st of February, 1912, Mr. Colpitts again wrote the Commissioner of Customs as follows:
Yours of the 26th December, 1911, came duly to hand. In my acknowledmgent of it on January 9, 1912, I stated that I would follow your suggestion and write the Director General of Public Health. This I did, in reference especially to your statement that 'the quarantine rules require that third class passengers shall

be landed at Quebec' and 'the quarantine rules forbid the landing of third class passengers at Rimouski.'
The reply from the Director General of Public Health was to the effect that such Is 'not a quarantine regulation' 'but one issued by the immigration branch of the Interior Department', and I was referred to your department for further information.
I then wrote the Commissioner of Immigration regarding the same matter. The reply from him states that ' there is no regulation that third class passengers arriving by ocean steamer via the St. Lawrence route must land only at Quebec.'
The discrepancy between your statement in yours of December 26 and these of these other two officials will be apparent. And the statement of these officials agrees with the opinion which I formed from a careful examination of the Immigration and Quarantine Acts made before entering any complaint, as I have already stated in my letter to you of November 22.
I beg leave also to call your attention to the fact that there is a very apparent inconsistency between your letter of November 20, in which you give as the reason why I was not allowed to land at Rimouski, that 'the steamer did not make entry at the customs house, Rimouski,' and your letter of December 11, in which the reason given is that my 'name was not included in the partial clearance granted by the quarantine officer at Rimouski for the landing of passengers at that point,' and again in your letter of December 26, in which you defend the last statement and add that 'the quarantine rules require that third class passengers shall be landed at Quebec.'
I have still to inquire then why I was not allowed to land at Rimouski from the steamer Empress of Britain on September 28, 1911, the immigration officer having given his permission, the objection to my landing having been made by an officer of Canada Customs. I trust that you will be able to give me this information, or else admit the error of the customs officer referred to above by return.
The letter of the 20th of November from Mr. John McDougald, Commissioner of Customs, written to Mr. Colpitts in reply to his letter of the 14th of November, 1911, reads as follows:
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of our letter of the 14th instant, respecting the refusal of the customs officer to permit your landing at Rimouski from the steamer Empress of Britain on the 28th September, 1911, you being a third-class passenger on the said steamer.
In reply I am to say that the landing of passengers at Rimouski from the steamer Empress of Britain was objected to because the steamer did not make entry at the Customs House, Rimouski.
I enclose copy of Quarantine Regulations. You will observe in section 6, page 5, that a steamer coming from a port outside of Canada is not allowed to make customs entry at Rimouski until it has received a clean bill of health from the quarantine officer at such place. These steamers, for quarantine purposes, are inspected at Grosse Isle above Rimouski. You will observe that under section 12, page 6, there is a prohibition against the landing of passengers before the inspection of the ship for quarantine purposes.


What is the date of that letter ?


November 20, 1911.


That explains the whole matter.


It certainly does not do so, because other passengers were permitted to land. If such a rule applied to the third-class passengers, it should have had equal application to the second and the first-class passengers. To contend that the customs official was j'ustified in preventing Mr. Colpitts from landing would be to condemn that same official for permitting the second and the first class-passengers to land, as he did on the occasion referred to.
The circumstances of this ease are quite apparent from the correspondence which I have read. Mr. Colpitts had satisfied the immigration officer that he was a Canadian citizen, that he was returning to his home, that it was desirable in his own interest- and not only in his own but in the public interest-that he should land at Rimouski. But the customs officials interposed and said: No, notwithstanding the permission of the immigration officers, notwithstanding their willingness, the Customs Department absolutely prohibit your entry. And the Commissioner of Customs puts in as a defence that the steamer had not entered at the port of Rimouski. Childish, such a statement is; for the reason that if it required an entry at the port of Rimouski to permit the landing of passengers, then none of the first-class or second-class passengers should have been permitted to land. If these rules which have been cited are applicable to third-class passengers only, it is not so stated; there is no distinction or discrimination made either in the regulations or in the law in that regard. Therefore, there cannot be, fairly, rightly or legally, any distinction made between Mr. Colpitts, a Canadian citizen travelling as a steerage passenger and Mr. Somebody-else, a Canadian citizen travelling as second-class or first-class passenger. That is the crux of the case. Mr. Colpitts is a Canadian citizen; he goes to Europe on his own affairs, and he seeks to return to his university duties. And yet he is treated as an immigrant and prevented from again landing, prevented from getting to his home; and he wants to know-and rightly wants to know-under what regulation a ban was placed upon his landing at Rimouski. Mr. McDougald wrote a letter, dated the 26th of December, as follows:-



Referring to your letter of the 20th instant, I am to state that the names of the persons to be placed on the partial clearance by the quarantine officer permitting the landing of passengers at Rimouski, are in the judgment of the quarantine officer.
The quarantine rules require that third-class passengers shall be landed at Quebec.
There are no such rules apparently: though the statement was made by the Commissioner of Customs he is entirely in error on that point.
The Canadian customs officer was performing his duty in assisting in the observance of these rules.	i
This in the face of the fact that the quarantine officer, the immigration officer on board the steamer wanted to permit Mr. Colpitts to land, and the customs officer, instead of assisting the immigration officer in the discharge of his duties or in the observance of the rules provided for his guidance. Mr. McDougald in closing his letter says:
If you desire further information as to why the quarantine rules forbid the landing of third-class passengers at Rimouski, you may communicate with the Director General of Public Health, Ottawa.
As I have already shown, Mr. Colpitts did act upon this suggestion of Mr. McDougald and made application to the Director General of Public Health, Dr. Montizambert, and that official answered to the effect that there was no such regulation preventing the landing of third-class passengers at Rimouski. Now, here is the statement made by Mr. McDougald in a letter to Mr. Colpitts dated February 6, 1912:
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 1st instant, in which you ask why you were not allowed to land at Rimouski from the Empress of Britain on the 28th of September last, and would state In reply that the customs officer refused to permit you to land because your name was not included in the partial clearance granted by the quarantine officer for the landing of passengers at the place mentioned.


That is plain enough.


If it were true. The point is and the officials so state, that the immigration officials who are the ones to give this clearance wanted this man's name placed on that clearance, and the customs officials declined to permit it to be done. The customs officials, to that extent, did interfere with the duties of the quarantine officials.
Now, this case from an individual standpoint, I suppose is not a very serious one. But I apprehend that it involves a principle

of importance to every Canadian. The question is whether a Canadian citizen, having gone abroad, has a right to return to Canada at the minimum of expense wit