RESIGNATION OF HON. F. D. MONK. Mr. SPEAKER:	I have the honour to
[Mi*. Doherty.]
inform the House that I have received from the Hon. Frederick Debartzch Monk his resignation as member for the Electoral District of Jacques CartieT in the province of Quebec. I accordingly issue my warrant to the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery to-make out a new writ of election for the said electoral district.
Bill No. 91, respecting the Northern Territorial Railway Company.-Mr. McKay.
Bill No. 92, respecting the Premier Life Insurance Company.-Mr. R. B. Bennett.
Bill No. 93, respecting the Prince Edward and Hastings Railway Company.-Mr. Hepburn.
That on Wednesday, the 4th of March next, and subsequent Wednesdays to the end of the session, the House will meet at three o'clock p.m., and that the sittings on such days shall in every respect be under the same rules provided for other days, and that on said Wednesdays Government notices of motions and Government orders shall have precedence after questions.


I suppose
there is no serious objection to this motion, but I would suggest that we should be given to-morrow again and that the motion should run from the following Wednesday, the 11th.


I accept that, and I therefore beg to move that the 11th be substituted for the 4th.
Motion as amended agreed to.


On the Orders of the Day being called r
I beg your
leave, Mr. Speaker, to ask the Minister of Finance to give the House some information, which he seems to have given to the press this morning. I suppose I need not lay down the principle that Parliament is entitled to as much consideration at his hands as is the press. I wish to ask the hon. gentleman with regard to a statement attributed to him in the Ottawa Citizen. The article refers to the new Canadian loan, and in the last paragraph of the article, it is stated that the Minister of Finance said there was no truth whatever in tbs rumour current here that the Government had in view an issue later on for the purpose of making a loan to a railway corporation; and, that no application for assistance by way of loan had been or was expected to

be received by the Government from any railway or other company. I refer to this especially in view of the statement published in another newspaper, attributed to Sir William Mackenzie, to the effect that there had been a demand laid before the Government, if I correctly apprehend his statement, because it concludes:
He could not give out anything as to what -the Government would do; he had simply laid the case before them and it was now in their hands. He seemed to be as confident as ever as to the work he had in hand.
Can the Minister of Finance give any information to Parliament on this matter?


I can give an explanation of
the statement which I made to the press, but as to the statement of Sir William Mackenzie, or as to any remarks that may be attributed to him, of course I cannot ispeak. My hon. friend has correctly read what I stated to the press, namely, that no application had been received for assistance by way of loan to any railway company, nor was any expected to be received. ;So far as I am aware, that is a correct statement of the facts.


What about the
loan?


On the motion of Hon. W. T. White for 'Committee of Supply:
Mr. WM. THOBURN (North Lanark): Before we go into Committee of Supply, I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister of Justice to a judgment which was rendered in Saskatchewan by Chief Justice Haultain, and which is of vast importance to the business men of this country. It is as follows:
The Linder Refrigerator Company, of Montreal, is to appeal against the judgment of Chief Justice Haultain given at the Supreme Court here in a case of importance to firms doing business in the province, but not registered here. The company sued the Saskatchewan Creamery for the sum of $3,426 for a refrigerating plant and mechanical services rendered after the plant was installed. The defence mainly was that the machinery was defective. The judge held that there was no evidence to this effect, but at the same time gave judgment for defendant on the ground that the plaintiff company, being a foreign company and not registered in the province of Saskatchewan under the Foreign Companies Act, could not maintain the action on their contract in the Saskatchewan courts.
Is it possible that any Canadian firm doing business in any one province of the
Dominion and shipping goods to another Canadian firm in any other province of the Dominion, can be non-suited on the ground that the shippers were a foreign company? As I understand the meaning of the word 'foreign', it applies to a person or persons belonging to another nation or country-alien. I hope that the term cannot be applied to any Canadian business man doing business in Canada. If such is the law, then I think that the sooner that law is amended the better for all parties concerned.
The matter referred to
by the' hon. member seems to involve a determination of the question of how far a company, incorporated by this Parliament or under the laws enacted by this Parliament to do business generally, or incorporated by or undeT the laws of one province, is entitled to do business in any other province without being subject to such requirements as the legislature of the province in which it seeks to do business chooses to impose. I take it that the plaintiff in this particular case was an incorporated company. This is a question upon which there has been very considerable divergence of judicial opinion. It is one of the questions in connection with the respective powers for the incorporation of companies by Parliament on the one hand and by the legislatures of the provinces on the other hand, which have been submitted for the adjudication of the courts. These questions have been passed upon by the 'Supreme Court of Canada, and the judgment is in process of being taken before their Lordships of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. Until their Lordships pronounce upon the question, 1 am afraid that it will be difficult for me to give to the hon. member any answer that will be of any great use to him. No doubt, when the words ' foreign company ' are used, it strikes one as an anomalous that a company incorporated by Parliament or under its laws should be treated as a foreign company within a province; but Chief Justice Haultain is not alone among the judges of this country in having held that there was within the provincial legislature a power to impose conditions upon the doing of business within the province by companies incorporated otherwise than by the legislature or under the authority of the legislature itself. That is a question upon which there is a great deal to be said upon both sides, and I do not think that I can, on my own authority,

make any satisfactory answer to the question. The hon. member will have to wait with the rest of us for the determination by their Lordships of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.


Will the hon. minister
tell us what the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada was?


The judges of the Supreme Court were divided in opinion. Two of their Lordships held that companies incorporated by Parliament or under the laws of Parliament were entitled to exercise the powers conferred upon them within the provinces; and that the right, at all events, of the provinces to impose taxes for the purpose of raising revenue was concerned, the provinces were not absolutely at liberty to prevent the companies from carrying on buisness within the provinces. It is a little dangerous for me to undertake to say offhand what the holdings of the different judges were, because the questions are intricate and involved, and it is not easy to say that there was an absolute decision applicable in all cases without taking into consideration the circumstances of the incorporation and the particular powers sought to be exercised. Speaking in a general way, however, two of the judges -of the Supreme Court held favourably to the power of Parliament to incorporate companies and to confer upon companies incorporated powers exercisable not subject to be restricted by legislation of the provinces. So far as we are dealing with companies incorporated for purposes, which themselves are expressly included in the subjects regarding which this Parliament may legislate, the judges, as I understand it, held that these companies can do business within the provinces without being subject to restriction, and as to those companies which are incorporated only under the general powers upon the question, how far they may be subjected to further restrictions by provincial legislation in regard to the exercise of the powers conferred upon them were differences of opinion. While two of the judges, speaking in a general way, may be said to have held favourably to the incorporating powers on the part of this Parliament, and more restrictively than the others upon the question of the power of the provincial legislatures in regard both to the incorporation of com- , panies to do .business outside of the prov- ' ince, and also their power to restrict the operations of non-provincially incorporated companies, it is not possible for me

to undertake to discuss the matter in detail, or to specify in a word the difference of opinion existing. But the questions involved are, no doubt, of the very first importance to the business public of Canada; and, because they are of that, importance and because there does exist on the part of the judges this marked divergence of opinion, it is important to have the judgment on the question of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.


On the motion of Hon. W. T. White foT Committee of Supply:
I desire to
call the attention ot the acting Minister of Railways (Mr. Reid), who, I regret to see, is not in his place, to a matter relating to the news service organized lately by the Canadian Government Railways, with the laudable object of sending out bulletins to the newspaper press about the affairs along the line of those railways. News is sent out to the French-Canadian press as well as to the English press, and a French-Canadian journalist has asked me to read certain items from this service and put them on ' Hansard.' It will be seen that the French service is not what it might be; the work of translation is so faulty that it must have been made by a man who translates merely verbally and so falls into many grammatical errors. I will read certain items in order that the Postmaster General (Mr. Pelletier), who, I presume will look after the matter! may urge the appointment of a better translator:
* bar I erry pour le Passage a Georgetown, P.E.I.
(Correspondence special.)
Sackville, N.B., Feb. 28.-Durant les recent froids les vapours du Gouvemement qui font les services de Pictou, N.S.,. a Georgetown, P.E.I., atat englassee dans la glace et ne pouvaient naviger, mais il y a tout des indications quo le Char Kerry sera bien adopte pour naviger sous des conditions ci dur. D'abord que l'eau de les plus grande passage etat couvert de grande mor-ceau de glace, le plus petit passage de les Capes n'avait pas que de glace d'importance. Un va-peur comme la type de Char Ferry n'aurait pas de difficulte a force son passage a traverse les neuf mille qui sepparait 1'isle de l'autre cote. Des persons qui ont fait le passage dans un bateau construi pour cette navigation n'ont pas ren-contrer de glace qui est dangereuse. II est dit par des marines qui ont traverses la route que la glace a cette passage nes pas ci grande comme ales autres parts de la Straits de Northampton. Le travail a la Cape Tormentine est tou-jours en conditions de preparation. Des large quantities de pierre de Sackville sonten route pour la Cape Tourmantine, et apres que la navi-

cation etat commences il y aura des materiaux envoys de Pt. du Chene. Apres que les terminals sont finis, et le Char Perry pret pour service, il y aura la nessite pour service plus efficient a le N.B. & P.E.I. Railway. On dit que ces possible que la I.C.R. prendra la branche ligrne chemin de fer autout ou par lessee, qui le fera bien pour la present compagnie de faire des improvements qui sont bien demande par le grande traffic. Apres ca Lille Prince Edward sera toujours en touche avec le monde.
Nouvelle Raffinerie de Sucre & Dartmouth.
(Correspondance Special.)
Feb. 28, 1914.
Dartmouth, Feb. 28.-Ouvrage pour mille per-sonne sera trouve dans l'overture de la noveau batiment de la Acadia Sugar Refining Company a Dartmouth, qui replacera la plant qui etait brule a l'annee 1912. La capacity du noveau batiment sera 2,600 barils de sucre par jour. Depuis la destruction de la premiere plante la plus grande part del'ouvrage au sucre a etait fait par un autre compagnie a lautre cote de le Port Halifax.
Comment is unnecessary. These paragraphs are really important, and they are appreciated by the newspapers. The work is worthy of better translation.


It is evident, from
what the hon. gentleman has read, that the so-called translator does not know very much about language. I will call the attention of the acting Minister of Railways to the matter.


On the motion of Hon. W. T. White for Committee of Supply:
I wish to bring to the attention
of the House again this everlasting question of the miners on Vancouver Island. A few weeks ago, while we were in Committee of Supply, reference was made to the report laid before us by the Royal Commission on this subject. Before this, the House, on my motion, ordered a return of the correspondence exchanged between the Government and the operators. A week ago yesterday, this return was laid on the table. I have read that return very carefully, and I find that it is notable not so much for what is contained in it as for what is omitted from it. I think there must be correspondence which should have been given with this return but which is not there. We seem to have a one-sided return, just as we had a one-sided repor* The trouble culminated, I believe, on trie
15th of September, 1912. I find that on the 19th September, the minister, or his deputy, notified the men that they would have to apply for a board of conciliation. Also on the 20th, a similiar letter was .sent to the operators of the mines. On the 20th, an answer was received from the miners stating plainly that they were not on strike, and had not been on strike, but had left work in protest against discrimination-[DOT] which was later on referred to by the minister in commenting on the Teport-and against the conditions under which they had been working. There are letters which show-and if necessary I will read them later on-that the department were very anxious to get information from the operators of the mines as well as from the men. But I fail to find in the correspondence anything at all from the operators. *Still, it is manifest from some of the letters that the department did receive some documents and took copies of them. I believe these documents were received from Sir William Mackenzie. But there is nothing of these documents in the return. Now, up tc the present time, judging from this return, the Government is supposed to know nothing at all about tlie operators' side of the question. But no one in this House or out of it will believe that in the year and a half since this trouble began the department has not received any statement of the operators' side of the question. I cannot but wonder why these documents have not been included in the return. I am tempted to believe-just tempted to believe-that the Canadian Northern Railway interests, which are involved in this affair, are two great friends of the minister. If not that, I should be tempted to believe that the minister himself might be interested. Of course, I am not saying that he is, but I am tempted to do that because there was such a lapse of time at one period during which there was no correspondence whatever between those concerned in that famous strike in the west and the department. It has been stated that the men had not exposed their case and also that they had not received the proper information as to the necessity of asking for a board. We must bear in mind that there are many ways of applying for a board, and it is also proved by the correspondence that the department will not stand on technicalities in connection with an application for a board. The letter sent by the men on the 30th day of September clearly explains the case to the department. The

minister should have done something in that matter. Of course he will say that he has written to give instructions to the fair wage officer, Mr. McNiven. I strongly believe that if Mr, McNiven had been left alone he surely would have done better than he has done. I know him well enough and I know enough of his knowledge of labour troubles to be convinced that, left to himself, he would be able to do some good. There must have been correspondence also between that fair wage officer and the department, although it is omitted from the return.
I wish to read to the House a letter, signed by Mr. Foster, sent to the Minister of Labour on the 30th day of September, which explains this case. That letter is as follows:
Nanaimo, September 30, 1912.
Hon. T. W. Crothers,
Minister of Labour.
Dear Sir,
A short time ago, if you remember, in the Wilson hotel, you made the remark that if you could do anything in your power for the benefit of the workers that you would only be too pleased to do so, now I will endeavour to give you a full explanation of the trouble which we are engaged in at the present time. Our men have been openly discriminated against and the companies refuse to give any reasons whatever, they refused to meet our committees and we claim the right to question at any time why our men are discharged, the companies refuse to concede that right to us, and what do we find, they put us up against a lockout, Our men are compelled to act on those gas committees and we can find no other reasons why they are discriminated against. Of course the companies are able to prove that they are not discriminating against our men on acccount of their actions on gas committees, but they do not submit any reasons why they have discharged them, and that is what we want to know, if there is any way to compel them to let us know why they are allowed to discharge our men unquestioned that is the only question at issue. And if there is any remedy we would like to know.
Trusting you will give this question your immediate attention and that we will receive an early reply, I am.
Fraternally yours,
(Signed) Robert Foster, President District 28, U.M.W. of A.
P.O. Box 798, Nanaimo, B.C.
The answer of the minister was simply that he would consider the matter and reply later on. Up to the present time I do not know that any answer has been given.
It is not my intention to go over all these letters, because they are long, and probably when the minister -is replying to me he will read some of them, including the letters that do not appear in this re-

port. Up to the 30th of September, it seems that everything was done by telegram. That was probably the better form of communication, but from that day there is written correspondence. Of course, the explanations were long, and for that reason the minister commenced writing letters to the operators as well as to the men. But we find that at a certain moment a gap occurs in this report. There are two places in the report at which the department almost begs the company, that is Mackenzie and Mann, to have their side of the question exposed, as the session was to open very soon and probably those questions would be brought up before the House. That is about what the letter states, yet up to the present nothing appears in this report as to their side of the question. We now have before the House only one side of the question. Why is it? I know that you, Mr. Speaker, do not believe that the Mackenzie and Mann Company were so strong that they could prevent their side of the case being included. I do not believe it. I claim that last year; when Mackenzie and Mann were before this Parliament asking for a donation of $16,000,000, that was the time for the Labour Department and for the Government to force them to meet those men and come to some agreement. I claim that) whenever any company comes before this Government asking for so many million dollars and the Government and this Parliament do not know what they are going to do with that money, that is highway robbery. In such a case, when an agreement of that kind is to be made, a government is all powerful over a company of this kind. Reading this correspondence, we find that up to the 25th day of October correspondence of all kinds was received, and then we jump away down to the 19th of November. The case of the men was absolutely explained.
As I stated, I do not want to weary the House by reading all the correspondence. Probably it might have been better to do so, but I shall give a chance to the minister to read some of it, because he will pick out from the report the communications which best suit him. I am not attacking any one; I am simply stating that the men's case has been explained, and I have said here before that any man who understands the situation of labour in any part of this country, if he knows how to go about it, can probably do some good in bringing about a .settlement of such a dispute,

especially when there is a -demand for conciliation made to the Government of the country. I would ask the Minister of Labour why -it is that for that long period, from May 8, 1913, up to very late in the year, that is to say for five and a half months, nothing at all appears in this report. Is it that the Minister of Labour was sleeping on that, or was the department sleeping on it? Are we to believe that the fair wage officers out in the West were advised not to send any correspondence of any bind, or was it understood that for five and a half long months they were not to do so? Not a single line of correspondence appears in this return. The strike was on, and if nothing was done probably it was owing to a letter received from the secretary of Sir William Mackenzie himself, in which -he says that the men had acknowledged that they had made-' a great mistake in the way the strike was declared, and that, of course, they should have given thirty days' notice.
I suppose the minister, with the love he has for international unions, was hoping that international trades unionism would break up at any moment. How can he say the strike was not sanctioned by headquarters when the men are still being paid to-day ? From the beginning to the end the men have done all in their power to get this strike settled; they even went to the provincial Government.
But, whether the men were right or wrong, or whether the operators were at fault, is not the question. We must not look at one side of the question only, and only one side has been put before this House. We must not try to prove that the men were absolutely wrong and the operators absolutely right. We have to consider the matter from both sides. Men were put in jail and kept there a certain length of time, but that does not prove they were guilty. I am not prepared to say that some men have not done wrong; far from it. If the operators have [DOT]done wrong, why does not the minister come right out and state the exact conditions ? My experience in the labour movement has Taught me something about operators, not only operators of mines, but of other industries. They are very careful what they say. They do not say to the men: I am going to fire you because you are a member of the union; far from it. They do not say:	We will not hold
a conference with you because you are union men. In this particular case the miners asked for a joint committee to 81
hear the case. The company at first agreed to that, but afterwards they said: We do not like the committee that has been chosen, we want men who are now working^ for us. There is just as much sense in that as in the Government getting three of its employees to make an investigation. We could not expect them to be impartial. In September last a convention was held in Montreal. I am not going to tell the minister what was said about him there. My hon. friend is reported to have said at that time: * Oh, I can state in two words why the congress was against me.' I hope that he will give the House those two words. It was suggested at that convention that the Prime Minister should ask for the resignation of the Minister of Labour. That was outside of the jurisdiction of the Trades and Labour Congress, I know. I am not going to ask that, but before I sit down, I will make a certain motion. Just now, I will ask the minister to tell us whit has happened during the five and a half months since May 8, 1913, because this correspondence does not 4 p.m. cover that period at all. Did any correspondence pass between the minister or the officers of his department, and the mine owners? He may answer that he has already given me a return. It seems to me that when a motion is made for correspondence in connection with a strike, everything should be brought down, and I would like to ask the minister why the operators' side of this question has not been brought down in this return. We cannot discuss the question intelligently without that. I leave it to the House to decide why the correspondence has not been brought down. Perhaps the House will believe, as I do, that there is something wrong in the matter. The correspondence brought down covers very little. The latter part of it includes the report of the commissioner which has already been discussed in this House, and contains acknowledgements from different parties to whom a copy of the report was sent. I am not discussing that report now. My point is that for a year and a half nothing at all has been done, and during that time we have granted nearly $16,000,000 to a company that was involved in that strike. Was it to fight the men or for some other reason?
I may be told that there is no strike on now, that the owners have all the men they want. It matters not what colour the men are. I do not want to go back to yesterday's discussion of the Asiatic question. My hon. friend knows more about that than I do. But one thing I know, it is



impossible for any member from British Columbia who understands this question, to approve the action of the Minister of Labour. Of course the minister may say, I have done all I could through my officers, and so forth.
I claim that the minister is largely responsible for the suffering that has taken place there. I am not going to touch upon this phase of the question at the present time, but later on I hope to bring to the notice of the House a number of particular incidents which will surprise the Minister of Labour and will also surprise the right hon. the leader of the Government. I feel confident that the right hon. gentleman does not know the conditions under which the Minister of Labour has operated with reference to this question. I know that he is broad-minded enough to see justice done to all parties in this matter. Probably the Prime Minister is the greatest sufferer in that he has as his colleague the present Minister of Labour. Organized labour has very little confidence in the Minister of Labour, but I would commend to him the resolution which was adopted at the Trades Congress held in Montreal. The Trades Congress has no jurisdiction to deal with a matter of this kind, but we in this House have jurisdiction, and therefore I propose to move the following amendment, which will, if adopted, carry into effect the sentiments that were expressed at the Trades Congress, a representative body of labour men, composed of 350 delegates:
That Mr. Speaker do not now leave the Chair for the House to go into Committee of Supply, but that it be resolved that the whole conduct of the Minister of Labour in regard to the claims and the rights of the coal miners on the island of Vancouver was marked by persistent negligence and absolute indifference and deserves the censure of this House.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to say a few words upon this question which has been raised by the hon. member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Ver-ville); and in approaching a subject which, in all its details, is worthy of the consideration of this House, I do so with a feeling of regret that conditions have reached such a pass in this now prolonged labour trouble at Nanaimo. But I cannot at all agree with the hon. member in his statement that my hon. friend the Minister of Labour (Mr. Crothers) has been derelict in his duty, or has neglected in any way to do what an hon. member occupying the responsible position of minister should have done. The hon. member for Maisonneuve has

made the point that the men had not received word that it was necessary to ask for a board. I have read the correspondence, and I do not propose to wade through it now, but I find upon the record that the men were duly notified of what was required and that the minister wrote them at The inception of the trouble, stating what was required. I also find that an official of the department, a couple or three days after the trouble reached the ears of the minister, wrote that he-
-is to-day mailing you copies of this law and forms of application thereunder. In the event of proper application being made everything possible will be done to expedite the procedure under the Act.
That is on the 19th September. The trouble broke out, I see by the records, on the 15th September. It will appear later on that the mine workers to whom this was sent claimed not to have received the letter, but the letter from the Assistant Deputy Minister of Labour on the same day shows that he enclosed the forms referred to by the minister in his letter. I am informed by the minister that these documents have not been returned from the mail, and I think I will show presently before I sit down that there is irrefutable evidence that these forms were received, although the parties to whom they were sent denied that they had come.
The hon. member for Maisonneuve says that there are two sides to the question. That is apparent in almost every dispute, whether it is a labour trouble or any other kind of trouble. I was surprised to hear the hon. member say to-day that the men's side had never been put before this House. I was present when the Minister of Labour explained at great length, and I thought with a great deal of fairness-


I said that the men's side had been put, but not the other side.


time We will find this coal bidding for markets on the Atlantic seaboard as well as on the Pacific coast. This feature in itself would not be so bad if there could be an interchange of competition, but that cannot be,-
Mark the words:
-for the reason that the much superior quality of this coal will always bar outside competition
from its own zone.
Why did Farrington go in? Of course, in the interests of the American mine-worker he went in to cripple, to throttle, to shut up the Canadian coal mines. My hon. friend knows these facts, for he has a copy of this document on his file, I presume. If not, the publication of this Government has been sent him. In spite of this, he makes in this House the speech to which we have just listened. In view of these facts, I do not think the labour of this country will stand up and eheer for a member of this House representing labour who will condone interference on the part of a representative of the United Mine Workers who comes in here in the interests of the American workers and the American mine owners.
Now, there is just one observation I wish to make, particularly because it is a matter that the minister cannot touch at all. The hon. member for Maisonneuve told us, when he last spoke on this subject, something of what Will Thome thought of the Minister of Labour-that according to Will Thorne, in England they thought the minister was ' a frost.' He has said also that he would like to tell what the Labour Congress thought about the Minister of Labour. I do not know Will Thorne except by name, but I have no doubt he is a very reputable gentleman. But I can assure the non. member for Maisonneuve that Will Thorne does not know the Minister of Labour.
Let me tell the hon. gentleman something that I know to be a fact-something about the opinion of the Minister of Labour that is hdld throughout Ontario. Personally, I have had some means of judging of his work and of the keenness and forcefulness of that work. I represent a riding in which there were a large number of trainmen affected by the Grand Trunk railway strike. I saw the hon. Minister of Labour sitting at the hearing of these cases with three of the higher authorities of the Grand Trunk railway; and I can teli the hon. member for Maisonneuve that it would have done his heart good to have been there and to have taken.part, or to have sat by and listened. He would then have seen the attitude taken by the minister on behalf of labour. There was no backing up, there was no slowing
I Mr. Morpliy.]
down; it was full steam ahead. The minister's position was: these men must be reinstated. And they were reinstated, every man of them; and they got their back pay, the cheques coming to the Minister of Labour. So, there was no guess-work. Thus throughout the province of Ontario there is unanimity of feeling that at last the Dominion of Canada has a real Minister of Labour.
Of course, partisan attack is made upon him in this House under the pretence that he is ' Minister of Play.' There is no more indefatigable worker, so far as I know in any department of Government. The very record from which the hon. gentleman quotes, and on which he bases his complaint, he knows very well, is not complete. For the Minister of Labour has had a special man on the spot all the time. He has made appointments of new men in his department to go up and down the Grand Trunk Pacific watching the interests of labour, and another man to go through northern Ontario on the same mission. But my hon. friend would have the Minister of Labour go and sit at the mouth of this mine at Nanaimo and neglect all the other duties of his department here and throughout the Dominion. The Minister of Labour went out there on the spot. He failed. The hon. Sir Richard McBride was appealed to. He failed. A Royal Commission was appointed by the British Columbia Government. They failed.


Failed in what?


In arriving at an adjustment of the troubles between the men and the mine-owners.


Were they asked to do that?


The record shows that a commission was appointed and failed in this work. I think my statement is accurate.


The commission was not appointed to make a settlement but to make a report of conditions to the minister.


I hope the hon. gentleman will try to back that up when he speaks on this question. That is the gravamen of the charge, if the bon. gentleman takes the responsibility of making the charge.


I asked to what purpose was the Royal Commission, consisting of Mr. Price, appointed.


The hon. member will
have to look up the correspondence-


Was it to report on the situation or to attempt to settle the strike?


In looking up the correspondence -which is very voluminous-the hon. members speak of the minister doing nothing, but there is a great deal of correspondence, some fifty pages in all


The clerks do that.


Have you got the commission, if not I shall send it over to you.


I am reminded, I have been told, I do not know whether the hon. member for Glace Bay would quite agree with me about Farrington and the United Mine Workers.


I am going to answer the hon. gentleman.


I am told that the miners of Glace Bay refused to entertain the officers of the United Mine Workers of America. Is that true?


Some of them, yes.


They were not allowed to extend their good offices to assist in settling labour troubles.


That is not the fact.


Then you can speak to that and explain how far they went in snubbing them. The hon. member for Maisonneuve, I am told-I speak subject to correction-was president of the Trades and Labour Congress which met' in Halifax when the question of the establishment of a Department of Labour came up and a resolution was passed asking the late Government to establish a Department of Labour and especially referring to the late Minister of Labour, the hon. Mackenzie King. The resolution passed at that congress, which lasted from the 21st to the 25th of September, 1908, was as follows:
That this congress records its appreciation of the valuable services rendered to the workingmen of Canada by the Dominion Department of Labour since the establishment of the department in 1900. The congress believes that the continuous growth and expansion in the department's work during the seven years of its existence is an evidence of the increasing importance of this branch of the administration. While recognizing the able manner in which the present Minister of Labour and his predecessors have discharged the duties of their office as minister of the department, the congress believes that the scope of the department's work and its efficiency and usefulness would be greatly increased were a Minister of Labour appointed who would give undivided attention to the work of the department. In the interest of the country as a
whole, no less than of its working classes this congress would recommend that the Domin-nion Government add to the present portfolios that of a Minister of Labour who shall be assigned control of the Department of Labour as a separate and distinct branch of the Administration.
My hon. friend will remember that resolution. At the same time a letter was written by Francis Giddens, who, I am told, was private secretary to the hon. Mr. King at that time. That letter reads:
Dear Mr. Plant:
You will probably have seen from the press by the time this reaches you what is happening in North Waterloo.
Of course, something happened in North Waterloo later than that.
Would you please try and get through a strong resolution at the congress in the matter of having the Government make the Department of Labour a separate department with a separate minister? Perhaps you might be able to have the congress pass a resolution appreciative of Mr. King's services as Deputy Minister of Labour during the eight years he has been connected with the department. It could be pointed out that this would be nothing political, as it would have reference only to the manner in which Mr. King's services had been discharged as a public servant on behalf of labour.
That was before he failed properly to draft the settlement in the interests of the Grand Trunk workingmen in that agreement which did not state the time at which they would be taken back. The hon. member for Maisonneuve remembers that the thing of value to the men was left out of the agreement and when he did get it he took the word only of the Grand Trunk, everything else was in writing. The main thing was altogether verbal. That is the way the late Minister of Labour could fight on behalf of workingmen. The letter concludes :
-and it would seem something workingmen should be willing to do in the way of showing appreciation of work done on their behalf. It would also doubtless help in gaining for them the sympathy of the press and of the House in endeavouring to have the department made a separate department.


Who wrote that?


Francis Giddens, private secretary to Mr. Mackenzie King, I am told. The hon. member for Maisonneuve did not know anything about that letter, did he?	^


Who was it sent by?


Mr Giddens sent- it to Mr. Plant.


Suppose he d'd.


I am asking my hon.
friend, does he deny that he knew of the letter?


I did not know anything about it for a good many reasons. When a man is president of such a congress as that he does not know of any correspondence that comes there. I was president of the congress and not secretary. There was no harm in it anyway.


I am sorry to have taken up so much time; but I would like to say, in conclusion, that, as a comparatively new member of the House, I think it is to be regretted that a matter fraught with such immense consequences, a matter of such vital importance to this country, a matter involving a prolonged strike such as this, should be approached in a partisan manner. I think that the minister, who is well able to speak for himself, has already shown, and should not have been asked to show again, that he has done all that he could have done in an honest endeavour to bring about a settlement of the strike. We have the appointment of a Royal Commission, the minister's own visit and his deputy's visit to the scene of action; and, having regard to all these facts, it does seem to me that the people of Canada will say that the Minister of Labour shirked nothing, and neglected nothing, throughout the whole transaction, and is entitled not to be attacked, but to receive the plaudits of his fellow countrymen for having done his duty.
Mr.W.F.CARROLL (South Cape Breton): Mr. Speaker, I very seldom refuse an invitation to good meat or to easy meat, and the hon. member for -North Perth (Mr. Morphy), having invited me to discuss some phases of this question, I wish to take up a short time in discussing the coal strikes in the provinces of British Columbia and Nova Scotia, and the United Mine Workers of America. I rather admire the hon. member for North Perth for his general defence of the Minister of Labour. That was to be expected; but I should have thought he would have come to the minister's defence in this particular case rather than make the broad statement that the minister is cordially thought of in the province of Ontario, and that he succeeded ip getting the workingmen on the Grand Trunk railway their rights. If the Minister of Labour did anything for the benefit of the Grand Trunk employees, he is to be applauded for that, not adversely criticised. The Minister of 
Labour is justified in obtaining all the applause that can possibly come to him for his conduct in connection with the settlement of the Grand Trunk strike. In that particular case it was not the Minister of Labour who was criticised. It happened to be the Minister of Railways. But if the Minister of Labour was successful in getting the employees of the Grand Trunk railway their rights by holding a cudgel over the heads of their employers, is he not to be condemned for not effecting some settlement of the strike in British Columbia, where he could have wielded a much more-effective cudgel than the one he used in the Grand Trunk strike? This resolution is not intended to condemn the Minister of Labour for anything other than his action and -his futile attempts to settle the deplorable labour troubles in the province of British Columbia. I think I am justified in saying that the hon. member for North Perth has not attempted to defend the Minister of Labour in his handling of that strike.^ He made the general statement that the minister was to be commended, but I did not hear him giving any facts or the history of the strike to show in what particular the minister should be commended. It is true that he made an onslaught on an international union in this country, the-United Mine Workers of America. He attempted to show this House 'that it was an undesirable union because, forsooth, it had its headquarters in the United States, and he attempted to prove that the leader of the strike had some ulterior motive in coming across the international boundary line and interfering in labour matters in British Columbia. That does not defend t'he Minister of Labour. 1 want to take issue with my hon. friend from North Perth in that matter; but before dealing with that particular point I wish to say that this strike did not begin in August, 1913. It had become very serious then.
The real beginning of the trouble in Biitish Columbia started in September, 1912, when the employees of the Canadian Collieries Company came out on strike. According to the minister, they came out on strike; the employees themselves say they took a holiday. The cessation of work in this coal mine affected 933
5 p.m. employees. Two days later there was a cessation of work by the miners at Ladysmith in what is known as the Extension mines, also owned by tlie Canadian Collieries Company. Seven hundred employees were affected. I do not care whether it is called a strike or

a holiday, but on the 18th day of September, 1912, some 1,500 or 1,600 employees of
the Canadian Collieries Company,- counting the two mines, were affected by either a strike or a holiday or a lockout or whatever you are pleased to call it. What did the Minister of Labour do? He sent a telegram to the leaders of the affected miners telling them something about Canadian law. He told them that it was illegal for them to come out on strike without first applying for a board under the Industrial Disputes Act. So far as he went, the minister was perfectly correct, but it strikes me as rather peculiar that he did not get possession of the facts and learn whether it was a holiday or a strike before he took this step of warning the miners. I am not going to find fault with him for sending that telegram. It is true that a strike cannot be carried on in this country without the operators or workers first having recourse to the Industrial Disputes Act. Will the minister point out to this House how he attempted to settle this difficulty between the 19th of September, when he sent that telegram, and the 1st of May, 1913, when all the miners in the other collieries came out on strike. He sat silent dur:pg those months, so far as we have heard from him in this House, and so far as the correspondence goes to show.


Has my hon. friend
examined the return brought down for the hon. leader of the Opposition? If he examines that return, he will find that correspondence was going on right along, not only with the miners but with their employers.


I examined the correspondence which was brought down for my hon. friend from Maisonneuve (Mr. Ver-ville) and I found nothing.


The right hon. leader of the Opposition secured an order for a return very much more comprehensive than the return asked for by my hon. friend from Maisonneuve. The right hon. leader of the Opposition obtained his order first, and it is not the practice, as I heard the Prime Minister state in this House last week, to duplicate these orders. The hon. member will find a great deal more correspondence in the return secured by the right hon. leader of the Opposition than appears in the return given to the hon. member for Maisonneuve.


The minister is undoubtedly correct, but that does not affect
the point I am bringing out: that from the 16th of September, 1912, notwithstanding the fact that 1,600 miners were affected, until August, 1913, practically nothing was. done with reference to this matter. The minister must know that the time to settle. tbese disputes is at their inception, and if he reads carefully the history of labour troubles in this country he will find that, I will not say always, but almost invariably, when strong steps were taken at the. inception of labour troubles, those troubles were amicably settled.
That is the point I wish to bring home to the Minister of Labour. He may have had correspondence with the union or the men; he may have had- correspondence with the. mine operators; but did he do anything tangible to bring these people together? I do not think h-e has shown that, during that period from September 16, 1912, until the 1st May, 1913, when the whole of the coal miners of British Columbia went out on strike, he did anything tangible to bring the operators and miners together.
The hon. member for North Perth (Mr, Morphy) read extracts from a certain statement, which he said was an article by Mr. Farrington, published in the United Mine Workers' Journal. He said in one part of his speech that this article was signed by Mr. Farrington. I would like to point out to the hon. gentleman that this is not correct-that it was not a contribution to the United Mine Workers' Journal by Mr. Farrington, either signed or unsigned. These extracts purport to be extracts from a speech delivered by him before the United Mine Workers of America at Indianapolis or Seattle. There is this difference between the two, that -if it were a signed article he would be responsible for every word in that journal, but if what appeared in that publication consisted of extracts from a speech-and I have the minister's own words for that- it would not have the same strength. But suppose that this is a signed contribution to the United Mine Workers' Journal, what do we find? The hon. gentleman was rather unfair in giving extracts from this alleged contribution of Mr. Farrington. He read sentences which had been read previously in this House by the Minister of Labour to show that the invasion into British Columbia of the United Mine Workers of America was at the instance of the coal operators of the United States of America, and that they were practically the hired envoys of the operators of the United

States. Does the Minister of Labour for one instant countenance such a construction as that to be put upon that language? Does the minister, or does the hon. member for Perth, wish to convey to this House that the United Mine Workers of America were organized in British Columbia at the instance of the operators of the United States? They are sworn enemies. There has been open war between the United Mine Workers and the operators for years and years, and does the Minister of Labour think that they are reaching a common ground in invading Canadian territory for the purpose of throttling and killing the coal industry of this country? Surely not. He placed that const