On the Orders of the Day being called:
I desire to ask the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Roche) if he has received information that four hundred Hindus are on their way from Shanghai and Hong Kong on a steamer of the Maru line, under the leadership of one Gurdit Singh, and that the intention is to test the regulations of the Government with regard to Hindus and others; and, if the minister has heard of it, whether the Government are taking any steps in the matter?


This morning a telegram was received by the deputy minister from out agent in Vancouver to the effect that a number of Hindus were on their way to Vancouver, -and instructions were sent to prevent the landing of all those who attempt to gain entrance to this country in violation of the Order in Council recently passed.


Consideration of the motion of Hon. W. T. White (Minister of Finance) foT the House to go into Committee of Ways and Means, resumed from Thursday, April 16.
Mr. Speaker, I hope the hon. member for West Peterborough (Mr. Burnham) does not expect me to follow him in his interesting trip through the empire of China and the Principalities of India. That non. gentleman is always interesting, and last night he brought forward for the consideration of the House many questions that are of real moment. But we must not forget that the mother country, to which we go to borrow money, has had her markets open for many years to the products of -China and India, and that course apparently is helpful to the prosperity of that country.
I have had the privilege of listening to three Budget -speeches by the present Minister of Finance (Mr. White). Listening to his Budget speech of this season, it -seemed to me that -conditions are not improving under this Government. In his Budget -speech of 1912, the hon. gentleman was able to present some very rosy statements, by reason of the administration of his predecessor, -and the splendid condition of trade at that time. The Budget speech of this year -sounded very much like an excuse for continued borrowing and de-

pressed trade. I will not attempt a discussion in detail of the Budget, so carefully presented by the Minister of Finance, and so ably reviewed by the hon. junior member for Halifax (Mr. Maclean). But one feature of the minister's speech encourages me to make a suggestion to the Government. He told us that Canada had reached such a condition under this Government that we could not expect for some time to borrow money in London	for less than 4 per cent.
Indeed, the hon. gentleman frankly told the House and the country that during the past year he had made loans in London at 4J, 4J .and 4J per cent. I ask the Government: is there .any good treason why we should continue to borrow money in London at 4| per cent while we pay but 3 per cent to our own Canadian depositors in the Post Office savings banks? I submit in all frankness to the consideration of the Government the suggestion that they take this matter up and give some little attention to the savings of the people. If, as the Finance Minister says, Canada must for some time expect to pay 4 per cent in the London and New York money markets, is there any good reason why we should continue to take the savings of our own people at 3 per cent.
We are apparently .all agreed that agriculture is the basis of our prosperity. The Finance Minister told us that during the past seven years the increase in exports had .been largely agricultural. We are all agreed that good crops are good for Canada and that poor crops mean stagnation, but we are divided on .the question of how to turn those crops into money. Our hon. friends opposite say: Tax everything you produce, everything you consume, everything you buy, everything you sell, and build up the home market. We on this side have a policy of larger and wider markets and reduction of taxation on the food of the people. Apparently that i.s the difference between the two parties. While we on .this side of the	House
have a -policy of larger and wider markets, our hon. friends on the other side, if we can interpret their policy from the speeches of those who spoke yesterday and the day before, have a policy of sympathy for the western farmer. I submit to the consideration of hon. gentlemen opposite that there are times in a man's life when sympathy is very desirahle, but sympathy is of little use in Hiving wagons

from the manufacturer in Chatham, engines from the manufacturer in Kingston or cotton from the manufacturer in Valleyfield. Sympathy is not much good for the help on pay day, and so what the western farmer wants is not so much sympathy as a policy of bigger and wider markets for his products. Canada had a fair crop in 1912, and a good crop in 1913. Our western provinces had a big crop but a very narrow market, and as a result the western farmer is without money to pay his store bills. Eventually that condition must back up first on the factory and then on the eastern farmer who feeds the employees of the factory, because if the employees who have been working in a factory are without work and cannot get money, they will be unable to buy the butter and cheese and other products of the eastern farmer. So I say that the farmers of the East are very much interested in the products of the farms of the West.
Recognizing that the growing production of the West demanded larger and wider markets, the Liberal party in 1911 appealed to the country on a policy of larger and wider markets. The subsidized interests throughout this country had grown fat and selfish. Our hon. friends with their aides, the subsidized interests, organized a campaign to defeat the policy of larger and wider markets-not upon economic grounds, but upon a policy of flag waving; in the province of Quebec, a no-naval policy; in the province of Ontario a big navy policy to which was attached a race and religious appeal that was not creditable to the great sister province. That appeal being before the country, the policy which we had sought for forty years was defeated. For forty years the people of Canada, represented by both great parties, the Conservative party and the Liberal party, have looked with longing eyes upon the great markets to the south. We made continual trips to Washington without much success, until in 1911, when the Hon. Mr. Fielding, who was then Minister of Finance, brought home what in my judgment was the best trade offer that Canada ever had. I insist that many years will come and go before Canada receives a better trade offer than that which she received from the great Republic to the south in 1911. Had that policy not been defeated, trade from the Atlantic to the Pacific would have been .stimulated; the great producing West would have had more money with which to buy the products of eastern Canada and so, instead of the stagnation and unemployment which we have to-day, this

country would have been in a more flourishing condition.


How?


The farmer of the West would have had more money to buy the products of the East. My district was not stampeded in the campaign of 1911. At Brysons, in the valley of Chateauguay, surrounded by the best farms in Canada, there stands a monument to the brave Canadians who in 1812 drove back the invaders and saved the province of Quebec to Canada and the British Empire. To the sons of such sires, the loyalty appeals of hon. gentlemen opposite were hut pure hypocrisy. They knew the value of the American market, with which we have traded in the bright open light of the sun by day, as well as under the protection of the stars by night, for over 100 years.


A little on the quiet.


If our United States friends are ready to stand the chance of coming over here and paying $25 more for a horse and $15 more for a cow, we are not going to ask many questions.
The policy of our hon. friends in 1911 was: build up the home market. Now that they are able to put their principles into practice, their policy is build dreadnoughts and drill-sheds. But I submit to hon. gentlemen opposite that this country will require something more than that policy if they are to sustain the Government at the next election. Having listened to the voice of the jingoes, Canada still has a narrow market, and the price of foodstuffs is going up in this country; our United States neighbours on the other hand have revised their tariff to suit their requirements and apparently with some regard for Canadian prejudices. The Underwood tariff has put. the reciprocity issue straight up to this Government. Under the Fielding-Knox policy the products of the farm would have flown freely from the producer to the consumer. But the Underwood tariff, as revised, has very seriously interfered with the wheat industry of this country. The hon. member for West Peterborough (Mr. Burnham), in his interesting discussion of the conditions in China, pointed out that the highest wages paid to the artisan in China is thirty cents a day, and that the average wage paid is five cents a day. I suppose my hon. friend was discussing this from a silver basis, becanca China is on a silver basis.


No, on a sterling
basis.


Listening to my hon. friend from Peterborough, I wondered what the hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Foster) would think of the value of the Chinese market for Canadian flour, with wheat selling at ninety cents a bushel, Fort William. I wonder how much flour the people of China, earning five cents a day each, will be able to buy as long as we keep the price of our wheat at about ninety cents, Fort William. The hon. member for Peterborough says we may" export flour. But. we know that in Manchuria there are-some of the largest wheat fields in the world, and that at Harbin there are as good flour mills as in Minneapolis or in Canada.


Would you be in favour of
free flour?


Do not be too impatient,
my friend. The Underwood tariff places the wheat from all the world on the free list on a reciprocity basis, but a clause in that tariff hits Canada. The free list of the United States tariff reads:
That on and after the day following the passage of this Act except otherwise specially provided for in this Act the articles mentioned in the following paragraph shall, when imported into the United States or into any of its possessions (except the Phillipine Islands and the Islands of Guam and Tutuila) be exempt from duty.
Article No. 664 of the Underwood tariff says that the following shall be free:
Wheat, wheat flour, semolina and other wheat products not specially provided for in this section, provided: That wheat shall he subject to . a duty of ten cents per bushel, that wheat flour shall be subject to a duty of forty-five cents per barrel of 196 pounds; and semolina and other products of wheat, not specially provided for in this section, 10 per centum ad valorem, when imported directly or indirectly from a country, dependency, or other subdivision of government, which imposes a duty on wheat or wheat flour or semolina imported from the United States.
Now, Sir, how does this affect Canada? Does this article not mean that the Argentine Republic now enjoys what Canada refused in 1911, and does it not mean that there will ibe a tariff of ten cents against the wheat of Canada unless this Government are prepared to open the Canadian market to the competition, not, as in 1911, of the United States alone, but to the competition of the Argentine Republic and of every country that exports wheat? That is the position in which the h-on. gentlemen

have placed this country hy their opposition to the pact of 1911. In 1911 tihe big millers of Canada opposed a proposition that would have given them two markets wherein to 'buy their wheat without paying duty, and would have given them a protection of fifty cents per barrel in a market that was gaining ait the rate of a thousand barrels mill every year. Under the policy of 1911 the millers of Canada could have gone down into Kansas, Michigan or Ohio and bought wheat; and this would have been of special benefit to the Ontario miller right on the direct transit route to the sea at this season. Every year about May, the millers run short of winter wheat. The Ontario miller could have gone into the southern markets and bought wheat, kept his mills continually running exporting flour, and would have had the bran and shorts for the dairy interests of this country. They opposed that policy, and it has taken them less than three years to wake up to the fact that the reciprocity pact was not the worst thing that could have happened to the Canadian milling business.
In the Montreal Gazette, a very good Conservative paper, on Christmas day last, the big millers of Canada sent out what must have been intended as a Christmas card to the Prime Minister of Canada. I shall quote not the whole article, but a few extracts from it. The first extract reads:
The present Government were elected on the main issue of reciprocity, the provisions of which were more favourable than those offered under the present United States tariff.
And, not believing that that was quite strong enough, a little further down in the same column we find from the same big millers this further reminder to the Prime Minister:
Those who are agitating for the removal of the duty on American wheat and its products are the same who so strenuously fought for the late Government at the last election when, if anything, the proposals under the reciprocity treaty were more favourable than the present softer.
Not satisfied with making the statement once, they throw it into the Prime Minister a second time that the policy of 1911 was better than the position in which this Government has placed the farmers of the West and the milling interests of Canada.
There is another feature of the card which the big millers addressed to the Prime Minister that is worthy of some attention- because it will be remembered that the great issue in 1911 was a loyalty issue. Our friends opposite contended, and the big interests contended, that to give the western

farmer permission to sell his products to the United States meant disloyalty and possibly annexation, and that we should keep closer to the mother country. Here is what the millers have to say on that proposition:
If flour is admitted into Canada free from the United States, Great Britain and other countries in the empire might with reasonable justice ask that the same privilege be extended to them.
They say further that the millers would have to meet competition from the millers of Great Britain on our eastern coast and of Australia on our western coast. Imagine the men who in 1911 shouted loyalty and closer association with the mother country, on Christmas day, 1913, sending to the Prime Minister a Christmas card, saying: Do not let our western brother sell his wheat to the Americans or we will have to meet the competition of the motherland on the Atlantic coast and of our Australian brethren on the Pacific coast. .
I contend once more that if the policy of 1911 had not been defeated the western farmer would have had a better market for his wheat, and not only for his wheat, but for his oats, barley and flax. He would have had more money with which to buy the products of the eastern factories and, instead of stagnation and factories running short time as they are to-day, we would have had greater prosperity. This view is supported by no less an authority than the Montreal Gazette. When I am at home, before I settle down to work in the morning, I generally read the editorials in the Montreal Gazette. On May 29, 1913, at a time when there was no general election, the Montreal Gazette laid down this theory to which we on this side can offer no objection:
Much for the future depends on a succession of good harvests because the product of the field is not only the dependence of home industry but is the chief item in the total of the exports which enables the country to pay the interest on its large borrowings.
If it is good for the country to have a good crop surely it cannot be bad for the country to get good puces for that crop. I think the Montreal Gazette might have gone a little farther and pointed out that as Canada produces more wheat,'oats and barley than we can take care of, what we need most is larger and wider markets for the products of our western country so that the people who produce these commodities may be better able to buy the products of the factories in the East.


Would they buy them?

[DOT]2643


The farmer is generally a
pretty good buyer; my hon. friend should know that. I wish to deal briefly with the dairy industry. I am sorry that the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. Borden) is not in his seat. Speaking at Winnipeg on the 19th Ju e, 1911, the right hon. Prime Minister, then the leader of the Opposition, is reported in the Conservative papers to have said that the Conservative party opposed the Fielding-Knox trade arrangement because:
It encourages the export of agricultural and animal products, in their lowest and least finished form. Our cream will be converted into butter or cheese not by Canadian labour but by United States labour.
At that time the United States had offered to admit Canada's butter and cheese free into the United States if Canada would in turn admit the butter and cheese of the United States into Canada. It would have been a mutually advantageous arrangement but our Tory friends, unable to deny its economic value to producer and consumer, raised the cry of British connection. The very thing which'the Prime Minister wanted to prevent is now reaching enormous proportions in this country. The eastern townships and the counties in the valley of the Chateauguay and the lower St. Lawrence are very large dairy districts. In the eastern townships and along the valley of the Chateauguay the factories are either closing down or burning up because the Underwood tariff has discriminated against the butter and cheese of this country. They admit our cream and milk free into the United States but there is a discrimination of 24 cents a pound against our butter and of 20 per cent against our cheese. What is the Tesult? The butter and cheese factories are being turned into creaming stations. The cream is being shipped to the United States and our labour is following that cream. The increased labour that we should and would have bad in Canada, because, had reciprocity carried we would have had a larger market for butter and cheese, is lost, and the manufacturer is losing the work of making the cheese cloth and butter wrappers and his employees are paying 3 cents a pound duty on New Zealand butter.


Will the hon. member be good enough to tell the House what the wholesale price of cheese in northern New York was last week as compared with the price paid in Montreal ?


I have not that price, but I would like to remind my hon. friend of this-he is in the business ?


Yes.


And he knows.


The price was 14 cents a pound less.	.


My hon. friend knows that at the time reciprocity was under consideration, Cdnada had an offer of 90,000,000 customers at her door, but, listening to the jingo appeal of hon. gentleman opposite, the majority turned down that bargain. The United States have revised their tariff with due regard for Canadian prejudices and they are admitting into the United States markets the products of all the world. The United States manufacturer, as a result of that, is going to be able to feed his employees cheaper than our manufacturers can, and some day it will be up to our hon. friends opposite to face the situation which will arise; there will be such an outcry in the cities and towns of this country that they will be compelled to deal with the tariff in the future. Admitting that the United States market may at times be better than the market in Canada, our farmers in the eastern townships and the counties that I have referred to are not suffering very much so long as they can ship their milk and cream. Situated as they are, these farmers are to-day selling their milk at $1.40 while the farmer up here is only getting $1.10.


The hon. gentleman has not heard that the price has gone down 15 cents.


My hon. friend knows why that is. You can ship butter a thousand miles or 3,000 miles, but you cannot ship milk a thousand miles because it will not keep -and also because of the freight charges. From Huntingdon and Cowansville you can ship 100 pounds of milk to Boston for $1.50. If you reduce that milk to cream you can ship the cream for 15 cents, which is equal to 3| cents per pound of butter. If you reduce the cream to butter you can ship by express for 1J cents a pound, and if you ship by freight you can ship it for half a cent a pound. To ship 100 pounds of milk from Renfrew to Boston will cost you $1.90, while the cream content of that milk will cost 19 cents, or equal to 41 cents per pound for the butter contained in it. If you reduce the cream to butter you can ship the butter for 2 cents a pound, so that my hon. friend will understand that a free market for milk and 'onetam is not of very great advantage to the farmer who lives 200 or 150 miles from the international line.
2644'


How much butter was imported into Canada from the United States during the last fiscal year?


I do not know; but I can tell my hon. friend that the men who opposed the reciprocity pact in 1911, and more especially the men in the cities, are paying for it now every time they butter their bread with New Zealand butter, because they are paying a tax of three cents a pound on New Zealand butter and four cents a pound on butter from the United States. They are paying for their- experience to that extent. I think I have established that the tariff question was not settled in 1911. In the campaign of 1911 the policy of the Liberals meant increased trade and greater prosperity, and the policy of the Conservatives was:	Let
well enough alone. To-day that policy satisfies neither the East nor the West. The western men still send delegations to Ottawa, asking for wider and larger markets, and the friends of the Conservative party in the province of Manitoba unanimously passed a resolution demanding free wheat, which the friends of the Conservative party in the East are not willing to concede. The Minister of Finance comes to Parliament and he asks Parliament to slow down. He tells his friends that this must be a year of retrenchment; that all must make some sacrifices, and the member for St. Antoine repeated that admonition in his address. But it was noticeable that the next day after the Minister of Finance had made that appeal to his friends for retrenchment and sacrifice, his colleague, the Minister of Militia, with an entourage of colonels and majors, started out on a trip of inspection over the battlefields of Virginia. With such an example of self-sacrifice on the part of the Minister of Militia before us, we on this side of the House were not astonished at the feeble applause with which hon. gentlemen opposite greeted the Finance Minister's appeal for economy.
It is sometimes disputed that conditions in tire East are as had as the newspaper's say, hut judging by the experience in my home city, the newspapers are mot exaggerating. We have in the city of Valley-field the best cotton mills in Canada. In 1907, when the present Prime Minister, then leader of the Opposition, visited these cotton mills, he found them so busy that the local Conservative committee could not prevail upon the management (who were

always Conservative and whio sometimes threatened their employees if they voted Liberal) to let the boys out to give Mir. Borden a reception on his arrival by train. The management of these cotton mills believed Mr. Borden when in that year and the year following he preached adequate protection, and so they practically compelled their employees to oppose the Liberal Government, although, and let me state it right here, from 1896 to 1911 the mills had doubled and trebled their capacity, until they employed about 2,500 hands. But let the night hon. Mr. Borden visit Valleyfield to-day and what will he find?


What was the policy?


Mr. Speaker, those who listened to the Budget speech, or who have carefully read it, must come to the conclusion that-Canada has a Minister of Finance, painstaking, industrious and capable, ambitious to discharge the duties of his office as well as his predecessor or better, and he is in a fair way to do so, but in the accomplishment of that purpose will find in his path serious obstacles to overcome and difficult, problems to -solve. Those problems and obstacles arise to some extent by reason of the newness of our country and of its settlement, by reason of the long distances which separate communities, but more particularly by reason of the reckless toying with the credit of our country by the late Administration, the improvident incurring of liabilities and obligations, the careless way in which they undertook enterprises which are -not going to be profitable to this country. Those difficulties and th-ose problems -are also greatly increased by virtue of this one thing, that the late Administration did not properly appreciate the National Policy, nor apply it to nor work it out in the Prairie province ; so that to-day the conditions of the West aTe to a great extent different from the conditions of the East, and that also accounts
largely for the depression now prevailing in the West. The result, however, of the nonapplication by the late Administration of the national policy to the opening West is that it has created a difference of conditions between the East and the West so that the present tariff does net fall with equal incidence upon the people of the West and the people of the East. They do not share the benefits or bear the burdens equally. If there are any differences existing between the East and the West, if there are any inequalities, if there are any injustices done to the one by the other, or by the Whole of Canada, or any misunderstandings existing, the sooner those misunderstandings are dissipated, the sooner the differences are arranged, the sooner the inequalities are made level, the sooner -any injustice that i-s practised is removed, the better for the progress and strength of Canada. If those inequalities or -injustices 'or differences are allowed to remain, they can -only result in bitterness; bitternesses will degenerate into dislike, dislike into conflict and conflict into a separation in mind and heart, which in the future it will be very difficult for this country'to overcome. The right hon. the late Premier has declared time and time again that he proposed the National Transcontinental railway as one means of holding the West and the East together. The bond which will bind the East and the West together is a bond of sympathy, hearts beating in kindliness for each other, common hopes and purposes; and if such prevail, that very kindliness and sympathy will overleap the rocks which separate the East from the West, blot out the wilderness, and make Canada one, even though the rails of the National Transcontinental rust and the ties supporting it rot and the trains on it forever stand still. The thing that should be aimed at by 4 p.m. all persons in Canada is the creation of a common sentiment as well as common business relations between the East and the West.
There are disadvantages existing in the West. That term implies that others have superior means or opportunities or advantages. Some of those are natural disadvantages; but as far as possible the Government of Canada should attempt to remove them. For instance, it was stated by my hon. friend the member for Fron-tenac (Mr. Edwards) only yesterday that there was a disadvantage in eastern Canada in respect of the United States by reason of our northern climate, which prevented our farmers producing some things as cheaply as they could in the United States.

That was no doubt true; but when you consider the fact that we have a northern climate also in western Canada, you will see a disadvantage in which the farming community in the West is placed. Did the late Administration in any way try to overcome that disadvantage ? It could have been overcome; nature has provided against it great forests, great coal areas and magnificent waterfalls. What did the late Administration do with these ? We know in respect of our great timber limits that they gave many of them away for the enrichment of private individuals and corporations. They did the same with our splendid coal areas in the southwestern part of Manitoba and in southern Saskatchewan and elsewhere. It will forever gall the people of the West that many of our splendid water-powers have been dealt with in the same way. On the Winnipeg river there are great falls which, turned into water-powers, are able to generate 500,000 horse-power of electric energy, easily transmissible to the centres of our population in the province of Manitoba and in southeast Saskatchewan. With the exception of the power given to the city Of Winnipeg, which was properly utilized for public purposes, the late Administration gave away, or rendered ineffective, all of those powers except two, namely, the Slave falls and the McArthur falls, which are two of the minor falls on the Winnipeg river, and requiring for their development a greater expenditure than the other falls. I submit, therefore, that, for the purpose of overcoming the difficulties resulting from our northern climate, the late Administration did not conserve the use of those important natural resources for the benefit of the people. It is no conservation to enrich private persons and corporations and deprive the public of the benefit; but that is what the late Administration did. One of the best things that the present Government can do in respect of the West is to utilize those water-powers and coal areas which remain. Of those water-powers which are not developed now, they should repossess themselves and create and distribute cheap electrical power for the purpose of establishing in Western Canada industries, manufacturing establishments and home markets, so that the farmers of the west of Canada will not require so much markets in the United States, but will find them as the Ontario farmers do in their own country; and I commend to the present Government the consideration of the situation in. the 
West with respect of the inequality of tariff benefits with the hope it will take prompt steps for its removal, and will see that the rights of the farmers of the West are properly guarded.
Another disadvantage to the people of the prairie provinces is the long distance from an available ocean port. To remedy this better nates should be secured; to reduce such rates the late Administration made no effort, nor did they try to secure better ocean freight rates. To the extent to which any inequality in freight rates exists between the East and West inquiry should be made, and this inequality remedied. In order to encourage the export of some products, Germany absorbs .some of the freight rates or gives reduced rates.
Again, that distance between the point of production in the West and the ocean port and final market may be shortened by the immediate construction of the Hudson Bay railway. We know that the late Administration, from 1896 onward, tickled the ears of the people of the West with the suggestion: that they were going to give them the Hudson Bay railway. In every election that followed they whispered the same sweet message to the people and decoyed them to their support. Yet during their fifteen years of poweT the Tailway remained unconstructed. These hon. gentlemen say:	' But we intended to construct
it: did not we make a contract for its construction, and did not we 'almost immediately afterwards turn the first sod at Le Pas with great eclat? We were going on with it.' Going on with it! It took the late Administration fifteen years to get the idea into practical shape, and it would have taken them twice fifteen years to construct the railway. Why? Because they had no faith in dt. Did not the high priest of Opposition finance the hon. junior member for Halifax (Mr. Maclean) declare- and he was 'Supported by those behind him: ' The Hudson Bay railway is a doubtful project.'


Hear, heair.


That was the conception
they had of the project.


They say 'Hear,
hear ' to that now.


development as a tree nation, as an integer in the British Empire; that it would have subjected us to the fiscal control of the United States and made us an adjunct thereto, and so would have been an injury to the whole of Canada in all its sections and classes. They contend that now, without any fiscal entanglements with our neighbours, without any international agreement, they can at the sweet will of our Government have a free market for their wheat in the United States by a small tariff change, and that the Government can, without consulting any nation, alter again that tariff as it likes, and so have opened to them all the markets that their competitors have, thus removing this present disadvantage. They claim that the United States Government, by its policy, has established in its west large milling industries at Minneapolis and that district; that the United States Government has so developed and controlled its transportation systems, which carry the wheat from Duluth to the seaboard and from its ocean ports to the world wheat markets, that there is a better price to the farmers of the Dakotas and Minnesota for ' wheat, at their western mills and at Duluth. And I charge that the disadvantage under which our western farmers now labour in having a lower priced wheat market is due to the neglect of the late Administration in not fostering and establishing milling industries in the West during their long fifteen years of power, and in not providing cheaper transportation for wheat to the ocean and across the ocean to Liverpool. The western farmer is now suffering as a result of that neglect. The wheat of Minnesota, the two Dakotas and Montana is marketed at the same time and with the same expedition as the wheat of the prairie provinces. It cannot be controverted that for the former a better price is received. For instance, during the market period of our western wheat, say from the 15th of September to the end of the calendar year 1913, the average price in the western states was: at Minneapolis for the first grade, 87.4, at Duluth for the first grade, 86.6, at Winnipeg or Fort William for the Canadian first grade, 84.6, a difference in favour of Duluth of two cents, and of Minneapolis of nearly three cents. The Winnipeg and Fort William prices are practically the same. I have made up these averages from a statement which I hold in my hand extending over the period which I [Sir. Aildns.l
have mentioned, which shows the prices for the different grades. I will not trouble the House by reading that statement; I will give, only the results.
When consideration is given to the fact that Canada's first grade is of a higher quality than the American first grade, and that an allowance of two cents is generally considered fair, the average prices to the Americans for the same quality of wheat during the period stated would be: at Minneapolis, 89.4; at Duluth, 88.6; *a	difference in favour of Duluth
of 4 cents and of Minneapolis of about 5 cents. The spread between the non-contract or commercial grades, of the same class, usually sold on sample, was considerably higher at those points in the States. The western farmer claims that he should have the opportunity of getting that higher price. And why should he not? Are there any sufficient grounds against giving him the opportunity? One reason assigned against it is that if the Canadian wheat had free access to the Minneapolis market, prices would be equalized on both sides of the line. There is considerable force in this argument and any one who reads the debates in the Senate of the United States on this subject when the reciprocity agreement was being considered, particularly the speech of Senator Gronna, and of other senators, can see that there is foundation for that contention. The equalization, however, does not mean that the Minneapolis market price would fall to the level of the Winnipeg price. The probability is that the Winnipeg price would rise some and the Minneapolis price lower; thus they would be on the same level. The prairie farmers claim they would, in any event, get a higher price than they at present receive.
They point out in this connection the important circumstance that it is well known that the three states immediately to the south of the prairie provinces are ' hard wheat ' producing states, growing practically the same variety of wheat that is grown in the prairie provinces. A large percentage of the United States spring wheat is marketed in Minneapolis, or in small centres adjacent thereto, but that this milling industry does not consume the entire production is shown from the fact, as it is given to me, that during the crop year 1909, speaking in round figures, 54,000,000 bushels of wheat were shipped from Duluth; for	the	crop	year	1910,	26,000,000	bushels;for	the	crop	year	1911,	25,000,000	bushels;for	the	crop	year	1912,	78,000,000,	bushels,and up	to the present time, for the crop of
1913, 45,000,000 bushels, proving conclusively that more spring wheat is grown an the United States tributary to those mills than is required by the mills.
It can be readily seen therefore, that the Minneapolis mills do not need our wheat for grinding purposes, even for their home consumption. Nor do they need it for grinding flour for the foreign market. Allow me in this connection to call your attention to the following extract from page 0-98 of the tariff of the United States:
That upon the exportation of articles manufactured or produced in the United States by the use of imported merchandise or materials upon which customs duties have been paid, the full amount of such duties paid upon the quantity of materials used in the manufacture or production of the exported product shall be refunded as drawback, less 1 per centum of such duties.
But that is not all. There is this further proviso:
Provided. . . if, however, the principal product is exported, then on the exportation thereof there shall be refunded as drawback the whole of the duty paid on the imported material used in the production of both the principal and the by-product, less one per cent, as hereinbefore provided.
Which means this: that if flour manufactured from the imported wheat is exported, the by-products, bran, etc., remain free of duty. Notwithstanding that tariff provision there is no practical demand in Minneapolis for the wheat of the prairie provinces for the purpose of manufacturing for export.
As the Minneapolis miller can select from an abundant supply and leave a surplus to be sent out via Duluth, our farmers contend that any addition to that surplus would not reduce the American price, and that in no event would it be reduced below the Duluth price. Duluth is the point where the grain leaves the West and becomes subject in respect of price to eastern and export market influences. There seems to be no doubt that the Duluth price is higher than the Winnipeg or Fort William price, as I have pointed out, and our farmers claim that if they are allowed to sell their grain on the American market they will receive the American Duluth price. The rate of freight to Duluth corresponds to the freight rate to Fort William. There is a great difference between selling at Duluth and sending through the States in bond. In the one case the American dealers can sell in the eastern states and choose their own time and vessels and quantities for shipping to any point in the United States, or
from there to ocean ports, whereas the Canadian dealers cannot do so in the one ease at all, or as well in the other.
The cause for the higher price at Duluth may be accounted for at all events partially by the reasons just assigned, the market of the eastern states and somewhat lower ocean rates to final markets. Undoubtedly when the United States ceases to produce more wheat than it cons imes it will become an importer and the prices will rise. It has not yet reached that stage. When it does it will open its doors to world competition. Already Argentina, which is Canada's biggest competitor in the production of wheat, has made its tariff laws conform with the conditions of the United States tariff, and wheat and flour from that country will be admitted free of duty into the United States.
Another argument used against a free United States market for wheat is that it would involve loss to our railway transportation system. Undoubtedly the lines of transportation in Canada are east and west, and if the removal of duty would in a marked degree remove the traffic from those lines it would be an economic loss to Canadian railways and Canadian vessels and to the many people employed on them in Canada, and should be avoided. But would it cause such diminution of traffic over Canadian lines? The western farmers claim that in the three states producing hard wheat adjoining the prairie provinces, the cost to the Dakota, Montana, or Minnesota farmer to move his grain over American routes to the eastern states is substantially the same as the cost to the Prairie farmer over the Canadian routes to the East. If, as pointed out, the Canadian grain is not a necessity to the Minneapolis miller, it can find it way to the eastern states as cheaply over the Canadian as over the American routes and, therefore, the Canadian lines will have no difficulty in retaining the traffic. The average rate on wheat from Central North Dakota to Duluth is 15 cents per 100 lbs. corresponding to a similar distance to Fort William from Canadian grain fields. If shipped by Minneapolis the rate will be 20 cents per 100 lbs. for stopping and transfer, and to unload, 1 cent a bushel more. Thus, the farmers contend, it is clearly impossible for the Minneapolis dealer to bring Canadian wheat to that market unless it is required for milling there. To ship by Duluth does not cheapen transportation to the eastern states market as compared .with shipment by Fort- William. If that be so, the farmers ask what have the

transportation companies to fear? Indeed, the farmers say if our rates were cheapened as suggested by the Finance Minister why should not Canadian railways carry western American wheat from Minnesota, Montana, and Dakota to the eastern states. Let me call the minister's attention to this that the all-water route for grain during the open season is by the Welland canal. For this water route there are not sufficient boats of canal size to carry the grain that would be offered for the all-water route and large vessels are used for its transportation to Port Colborne where it is transferred to the river boats. Port Colborne lies about twenty miles west of Buffalo. The rate for wheat to Buffalo was at the opening of navigation li cents per bushel. The rate demanded to Port Colborne, which port can only be used by Canadian bottoms, was 2 cents per bushel. And I am informed that the some is also demanded for Georgian Bay ports. It is said that Canadian boats demand more for hauling grain to Canadian poTts than do the American boats to American ports, and the same grain can be carried a longer distance in American boats cheaper; but the coastwise laws prevent our using American boats to Port Colborne.
The western farmers also point out that the new market in the eastern states would have a steadying effect upon the price of wheat; and as we produce the best hard wheat the eastern states as well as Europe would compete for it. They also point out that the business in Canadian wheat is largely centralized and controlled by one English firm to the detriment of the Canadian producer, and another market would aid in checking that.
Another argument urged against free wheat is that it would injure Canadian milling interests. I understand from some millers who visited Ottawa that they would not seriously object to free wheat if they could get better ocean freight rates for flour. The farmers say: How will the western millers be'injured? Their western home market is small and easily supplied, their trade is mainly export, they can get all the wheat necessary from the adjoining grain fields, the millers have to compete now with the Minneapolis miller who can get Canadian wheat for export flour by paying I-10th of a cent per bushel advance. They say further that when wheat is free the millers in Toronto or Montreal can get soft wheat as easily as their neighbours across the line; that if mill machinery and structural material are more expensive by reason of duty,

such duty should be removed in so far as is necessary to establish a great industry.
The farmers of the West claim that they are not worried about the bran objection. They say that a good price for wheat is more important than a dollar or two a ton increase on bran; that a ton of alfalfa is as good as a ton of bran for fattening cattle and less expensive. If the majority of the people of the country, represented by the present Government, decide that for the benefit of the eastern railways and eastern routes and eastern millers, or of Canada generally, the interest of the prairie provinces must be subordinated or sacrificed to an extent, to that extent they contend those interests or Canada should, in justice, make up the loss to them or raise the price to what they would get if given the American market.
Let me suggest to the Government, as they admit that the Minneapolis price is higher because of its established mills, why should not the Government take steps then to establish such mills in the West? It can be done by establishing such mills in connection with their interior terminal elevators. It can be done by taking off the duty on materials entering into mill construction. It can be done by the Government constructing on their Dominion water-powers and in their coal areas plants developing electric energy; and they can distribute "that to all the cities and towns and places where there are mills, and without loss to the Government-(the people are willing to pay for that power). It can be done by absorbing or reducing some of the freight rates according to distance to the seaboard and by getting suitable ocean rates on flour. The price of wheat can be improved also by a reduction of freight rates to the ocean and across it and, as I have pointed out, by the completion of the Hudson bay route. I press upon the Government these considerations.


I understand that the
hon. member's suggestion would be to reduce the duty on materials for the construction of mills, for the exclusive benefit of the West?


I said in respect of the
construction of mills for the purpose of encouraging milling, the duties on those dutiable articles which enter into the construction might he reduced. Do they not do the same thing in eastern

Canada in respect, of other structures? And when a great industry is to be established -and it should have been established by the late Administration-then I say it is right, under those circumstances, to take the necessary steps to do it.


Where would my hon.
friend put the limit; where would this reduction begin?


not apply it to developing western Canada. They never established, or encouraged the establishment there of great industries as they should have done under our National Policy. The purpose of the National Policy is the creation of home markets. No home markets, during the whole of their Administration were established in the West save one, and that is mainly in the city of Winnipeg. That was done by the industrious, energetic and enterprising city itself in acquiring cheap power. Who did that ? The late Administration ? No, the city had to finance to the extent of $6,000,000 in order to provide that cheap power; they did it independently of the Government, which during all the years of its Administration did not have any love for the province of Manitoba. They not only did not establish industries there but to a large extent they sacrificed water powers.
When the late Administration had been in office some time they thought they would tear a hole for the United States in the National Policy garment which they wore, present it to the country and say that it is unfit for the people of Canada. Then they thought they would put a patch on it to cover that tear and the patch which they attempted to put on was the reciprocity agreement. The people saw the garment, they knew that it was not the true policy which was intended for the development of the Dominion and they said: We will have nothing to do with those who would undertake to add to the garment and they thrust them over the crystal battlements of public opinion into the abyss in which they are now seething. When we look .at them in the chasm in which they are we find the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Clark), who has always carried his little ladder of free trade, leaning it up and trying to scale the wall and get 'back into public approbation. We find the hon. member for Moosejaw (Mr. Knowles) trying to support him. We see other hon. members equally puzzled as to how they are going to escape from the pit. We find also that the right hon. leader of the Opposition has a free trade ladder which he has never abandoned and that he is trying to splice onto it some protection and thus get back into power. When he makes a speech to the people of the city of Hamilton on a policy for Canada his policy is to have free food. He does not say that in the West where the farmer knows well that free food means the cheapening of the prices of the things which he produces. He may whisper to th