Bill No. 78, respecting the patent of Auto Wheels, Limited.-Mr. Fisher.
Bill No. 79, to incorporate The Bruce Peninsula Railway Company.-Mr. Mid-dlebro.
Bill No. 80, respecting The Canadian Northern Railway Company.-Mr. W. H. Sharpe.
Bill No. 81, to incorporate The Canadian Press Association.-Mr. H. Clark.
Bill No. 82, respecting The Kettle Valley Railway Company.-Mr. Green.
Criminal Statistics for the year ended September 30, 1912. (Appendix to Report of Minister of Trade and 'Commerce for the year 1912.)-Mr. Foster,
Hon. G. H. PERLEY (for the Minister of Finance) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 83, respecting Loan Companies.
He said: This Bill is on the lines of the Trust Companies' Bill already introduced. The object is to secure uniformity in the charters of these companies. There is a provision for compulsory audit and for returns being forwarded to the Minister of Finance. It is intended that this Bill * should go to the Banking and Commerce Committee, along with the Trust Companies' Bill, so that both may be considered there.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.	'
On the Orders of the Day being called:
I would ask the Prime Minister if it is the intention of the Government to grant assistance to the Canadian Peace Centenary Association. This association is creating unbounded enthusiasm throughout Canada, and its laudable work in the interests of international peace should, in my estimation, receive encouragement.


On June 5, 1913, a somewhat similar question to that now asked by my hon. friend (Mr. Weichel) was asked by the hon. member for Welland (Mr. German), who has taken a worthy interest in this important subject. The Canadian Peace Centenary Association had then been in existence for upwards of a year, under the presidency of Sir Edmund Walker, of Toronto, and had done valuable work of a preparatory nature. I find on that date I said in part:
While the Canadian Peace Centenary Association is an unofficial body, the Government

strongly sympathizes with and approves ot its object and purpose of promoting good will and peace between the nations of the world. The Government is disposed to give favourable con sideration to a grant such as that mentioned in the Question in case similar action should be taken in other countries.
That statement still holds good so far as this Government is concerned. Indeed, this Government is disposed to go a step further. The cause which the Canadian Peace Centenary Association and the corresponding bodies in the United Kingdom and the United States have set before them is one with which we are -warmly sympathetic. It is a triumph of humanity that during a century of rapid development, despite the existence of serious international differences and problems, the British Empire and the United States have found wiser and more humane methods of adjusting differences than the arbitrament of war. We welcome the achievement of a century of peace, and hope that it will prove to be but the first century of peace, the forerunner of a long series stretching into the future as far as human anticipation can trust itself.
The Government is informed that during the eight or nine months which have elapsed since I made my statement last year active organizing work has been carried on by the Canadian Peace Centenary Association. An organizing secretary has been appointed, offices have been opened, visits have been made to important centres in every province of the Dominion, and every necessary preparation for the holding of an adequate celebration a year hence has been made. It is gratifying to note that the organizing secretary, Mr. E. H. Soam-mell, reports that the response to the efforts of the association has been exceedingly cordial in the numerous centres visited. Strong local committees have been formed, valuable assistance has been rendered by the press, and in general public opinion has manifested an encouraging interest and friendliness. I understand that similar work also has been done in the United Kingdom and in the United States in particular. I am informed that a Bill appropriating a sum of money for the purposes of the celebration is now pending in the United States Congress.
In answer t-o my hon. friend from North Waterloo (Mr. Weichel), I beg to say that, subject to the approval of His Royal Highness the Governor General, it is the purpose of the Government to insert in the Supplementary Estimates to be introduced

this session the sum of $25,000 for the purpose of defraying the preliminary expenditures incurred in the work of organization.


Anything
which tends towards the maintenance of peace between Canada and the United States should undoubtedly receive the commendation of the Canadian Government and the Canadian Parliament. Perhaps my right hon. friend would consider that the improvement of our trade relations with the United States would also be con? ducive to peace.


We are doing that every
day.


I am sure that from the standpoint of the United States trade relations are really very excellent, because our importations from the United States have been increasing year by year.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
The matter is absolutely new to me. I am sure that the members of the Press Gallery always have a hearty welcome when they come to see me. I will make inquiries; their complaints will be heard and their grievances attended to.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
I would ask
the Minister of Trade and Commerce whether the report of Mr. Drayton on the joint commission on ocean rates has been laid on the table.


The report was made
by Mr. Drayton and I had a number of copies struck off for the purpose of distribution in the House. I thought that they had been laid on the table, but I will
make inquiries at once, and, if it has not been done, it will be done at the next sitting.


On motion of Hon. J. D. Reid (Minister of Customs), the House went into Committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to amend the Export Act, chapter 50, of the Revised Statutes, 1906, to give the Governor in Council power to prohibit the exportation of crude or partly manufactured petroleum obtained or won on any land belonging to His Majesty, in the right of Canada, situate in the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta, British Columbia or in the Northwest territories or in the Yukon territory.
There are regulations passed by the Governor in Councii with reference to the disposal of petroleum and natural gas rights.


Passed when?


They were passed by Order
in Council, first on March 11, 1910, amended and re-established on March 10, 1911, on August 12, 1911, and on October 16, 1913. It was found that there could not be included in these regulations the right to prohibit the exportation of petroleum, and it was necessary to have a separate Act. Therefore, we are simply taking that power by adding another clause to the present Export Act that was included in the Revised Statutes of 1906.


Will my hon. friend explain the tenor of the resolution of 1906?	'	*


I have some recollection of this matter. Regulations have been established for a number of years with regard to the leasing of lands in the West for the purpose of oil production. The matter dates as far back as 1910, and perhaps farther. The subject has been under consideration during the past year. Many representations from different quarters were made to us that certain amendments were required, inasmuch as the regulations when first established were largely in connection with coal and other minerals, the conditions with regard to the production of which are different from those in force in most countries in regard to the production of petroleum. The subject was carefully considered by the expert officer of the Department of the Interior who is charged with this particular duty. He sought information as to the regulations which have been

established in other parts of the world-in some portions of the West Indies, ' in Mexico, in Egypt, in India and elsewhere. After a careful consideration of those regulations we arrived at the conclusion that certain changes should be made in our regulations. Those changes have been made. In connection with them the subject was under discussion of providing by regulation that, under certain conditions which might seem to justify such action, the export .of petroleum might be prohibited by the Minister of the Interior. It was found that the powers vested in the minister under the Acts relating tQ the Department of the Interior did not permit that to be done; and if at any time it should become desirable in the public interest to prohibit the exportation of petroleum either in whole or in part, that would have to be done by means of authority conferred by this Parliament, in addition to the authority which already exists.


The object of the Bill will be simply to make it absolutely sure that the Minister of the Interior has the right to prohibit the exportation of petroleum P


That is all.


Under what circumstances is it proposed to exercise this right, that is to say, what is to be the policy of the Government in practice under this amendment?


My hon. friend has asked me a question as to which I cannot give a very definite answer at the moment beyond this, that it will only be exercised in very important and extreme cases and in cases in which it might seem expedient, in the interest not only of this country but of His Majesty's dominions as a whole, that the right should be exercised. It is not expected or intended that it shall be a right to ibe exercised in the immediate future. The object of the regulations, so far as they have been changed, is to make the development of oil production in the West more effective, and to make sure that it will be conducted upon more efficient lines than has been possible in the past. The object of this empowering provision looks to the larger future. My hon. friend will -understand that there might be conditions under which its exercise would be desirable.


We are considering now, not the regulations regarding the development of petroleum, but the proposed amendment to the Act, which is to empower the Government to prohibit export. Inas-

much as this is an extraordinary power, and as at the moment the development of the petroleum industry is only at its beginning, it seems to me very desirable that, at the time when such extraordinary power is proposed to be vested in the Government by Parliament, the Government should state specifically its purpose in asking for this power and should give Parliament to understand the limitations within which they propose to exercise it. I would not ask that such limitations be laid down in thb Act, but I think that it would be fair to the House and to the country that there should be a specific understanding on the subject.


It is not in the mind of the Government that this power should be exercised from any commercial or productive standpoint. The idea in mind is that it might be desirable some time in the future-not only desirable but important- that in connection with matters which may affect the defence of the empire as a whole, as power such as this should be vested in the Government of Canada.


I hope I shall be pardoned for being somewhat pressing on this point as this is a matter that intimately concerns the constituency I represent as well as other portions of Alberta-in fact, for the moment, it applies only to Alberta. I am quite willing to accept the principle that there are or may be considerations of national or world-wide significance that would warrant the Government in exercising the authority with which it is proposed to invest it, But I am not the man who is putting money into the somewhat risky business of petroleum development at this time. Efforts are being made to secure capital for this enterprise which, as I say, up to the present time carries a very large element of risk, and naturally there is difficulty in securing that capital. I am under the impression that, with a provision such as is proposed upon the statute-book, the result may be that capital will be in a measure deterred from entering upon that field. It is for that reason that I think the Government would be well-advised to be somewhat more specific than my right hon. friend has yet been. I do not wish him to understand that I am at all questioning the good faith of the Government or its purposes; all I say is -and I am urging this point very strongly and for material reasons-that it would be desirable that the Government should be measurably specific in stating the purposes for which, and the restrictions within

which, they propose to exercise this authority when vested in them.


The hon. gentleman will understand that if an extraordinary power such as this were exercised it would be only for the gravest cause and only for the cause that the particular commodity under consideration is required for such a purpose as that to which I alluded a moment ago; It will be abundantly apparent to him, I think, and to every hon. member, that if steps of that kind were taken and an interruption of business brought about, that is, if under the terms of this statute private interests were injuriously affected, those private interests would have to be taken into consideration and due compensation made.


The reason given by the right hon. Prime Minister, I submit to him, is hardly satisfactory. The Government asks power to do by Order in Council what should be done only by Act of Parliament. When we are asked to give such power it is only fair that we should know the reasons which induce the Government to ask for it. I do not understand from the explanation given by my right hon. friend what connection there may be between this and chapter 50 of the Revised Statutes. That statute gives power, not to prohibit the exportation of any commodity, but simply to place export duties on certain commodities, and it is confined practically to timber and products of timber, and ores. The reason for this statute is apparent on its face. It was to enable us to protect ourselves against possible action threatened by the United States. At one time it was supposed that, as a matter of protection, we should have to put an export duty upon our lumber and raw material for lumber going to the other country; and the same with nickel. But now my right hon. friend is asking, not to impose an export duty, but absolutely to prohibit, under certain circumstances which he has very definitely indicated, the export of petroleum. He has suggested a reason, which, I think, I understand, and which I do not desire to discuss at length at this time-that in the development especially of naval defence, petroleum may become an article of war, and for that reason it might be advisable for the Government to prohibit its export. If that be the reason, that is another point of view, but unless I am mistaken, the Government already have power to prevent the export in time of war of all materials that might go to the advantage of the enemy. I have not
refreshened my memorj'' recently as to that point, but I think I am right. If that be the object, or whatever be the object, I think the House is entitled to know why such legislation as this-which is absolutely foreign to our ideas of parliamentary government-is sought. The right hon. gentleman simply asks that the Government should be vested with power which ought to be vested in Parliament and Parliament alone, and his explanations seem to me to be absolutely unsatisfactory.


I do not at all concur in the view which my right hon. friend has put forward, because the power vested in the Government many years ago by chapter 50 is one entirely analogous to this. Further than that, chapter 50 does give power to absolutely prohibit the export of certain articles. It is perfectly apparent that certain conditions might arise when it would be exceedingly important not only to exercise this power along the lines the hon. gentleman has mentioned, but to prevent oil of certain quality and suited for certain purposes from being exported to any country, even though that country might not be engaged in hostilities with the empire of which we form a part. The object in such cases would be to conserve the supply of this particular article in the British Empire for purposes of defence. For that reason, and because of the representations made to us as to the importance of this matter, we are asking Parliament to confer this power upon the Governor General in. Council, not for the purpose of interfering in any way with commercial operations, but only for the purpose of being in a position to take action when, under very serious conditions, the prohibition of the export of this article might be a matter of grave importance to the empire.


The only commodity the export of which is prohibited by the Act is game; the other two commodities mentioned are simply lumber and ores. The object of the legislation is apparent on the face of the Act, section 2 of which reads, in part, as follows:
The Governor in Council may, if any country now or hereafter imposes a duty upon the articles enumerated in schedule A to this Act, or any of them, when imported into such country from Canada, by proclamation published in the Canada Gazette, declare an-export duty chargeable upon logs and pulpwood.
My right hon. friend, without giving any good reason to Parliament, and upon conditions of which hon. gentlemen opposite

shall be the sole judges, asks that the Government be authorized to prohibit the exportation of petroleum. When such vague powers are conferred upon the Government, naturally the Government can shield itself behind very good intentions, or behind the certainty that these powers will not be abused, but if there is to be any such exception to the law of the land, we are justified in asking for good reasons why such a power should be exercised.


What I have said to my right hon. friend with regard to the proposed exercise of power absolutely represents the intention of the Government. I appreciate what he has said as to the wide extent of that power. It is wide, because we thought it necessary to have the power expressed in comprehensive terms. I would suggest that the resolution pass as it is, and I will ask my hon. friend the Minister of Customs, and the Minister of the Interior as well, to go over the material in their possession upon which this proposed legis-. lation is based-and strong representations have been made in regard to it-to ascertain whether or not some qualification which would bring the power into narrower limits might properly be made to meet the views my right hon. friend has expressed.


Under such
conditions there is no objection to the passing of the resolution, and we can resume the discussion on the second reading of the Bill.


I should be interested
t) know why this prohibition is confined to petroleum obtained on lands belonging to His Majesty the King. It it be necessary to put this regulation in force for the purpose of maintaining the defence of the country, should we not have the power to prohibit the export of petroleum from any lands in Canada upon which there are petroleum wells? I understand that the great petroleum-producing province of Canada is Ontario.


I have not observed closely the terms of the resolution, but, having regard to the purposes which I have placed before the committee, I think some importance is to be attached to the suggestion of my hon. friend. I would be content either to let the resolution stand as it is, or to strike out all the words after the word ' petroleum ' and let it pass in that form, in which case it would have the wider operation which the hon. member for

Guysborough very pertinently and properly suggests.


The condition of affairs
has been just as the hon. member has stated. The old regulations provided that a person could make an entry for three sections of land by paying his $5 entry fee. He would then have thirty days in which to tender his first year's rental. The hon. gentleman is not aware of the fact that that has been changed?


I did not know that.


The regulations have been recently changed. There was considerable agitation, especially in the district of Calgary, by reason of the fact that we suspended the regulation for a time so that speculators could not go in, pay their $5, secure their entry and have thirty days in which to pay the first year's rental. The concession was cancelled automatically if that rental was not paid. Then these men waited on the steps of the land office to get re-entry, they paid another $5 and had another thirty days. Therefore I suspended the regulations last December, and some of those who were injured, in a speculative sense, rushed into print to show how badly they had been dealt with. These regulations have been changed so as to do away, to as large an extent as possible, with the speculative features; and now, in addition to the $5 entry fee, the applicant must deposit at the same time his first year's rental. This will nip off a great many of these speculative applications. The particular well to which the hon. gentleman has referred in connection with Moosejaw, if my memory- serves me correctly, was not plastered, as he said, by applications by any particular party under the old regulations. My idea is that those were some lots that had been sold
many years ago to the Canadian Pacific railway, and, as he is aware, the Canadian Pacific railway purchases in those days carried with them the mineral rights. But when the Canadian Pacific railway re-sold those lots they did not dispose of the mineral rights. The city of Moosejaw purchased from a third party, thinking that they were getting the mineral rights. They struck oil and then found that their title did not convey to them the mineral rights, because these were vested in the Canadian Pacific railway. The feature referred to by the hon. member has been remedied to a certain extent by the imposition of the clause which provides for the tendering of the rental for the first year when the application is made.


When were the regulations changed?


About a month ago.


I am surprised to learn that; I waited on different officials since coming to Ottawa, that is, within three weeks.


I will put the regulations
on the table to-morrow.


The minister is not
quite right in his information about this Moosejaw case, as is naturally to be expected, as he has a very large department. The Canadian Pacific railway lands in question which the city of Moosejaw owned were originally given to the Canadian Pacific railway and the Canadian Pacific railway did not elect to retain them and they reverted to the Crown and were afterwards given to the city without mineral rights. The question of the townsite lots in all cities was handled in that way by the former Government and in that way the property that went to the city of Moosejaw went through without its oil right. The oil rights were in the Crown, not in the Canadian Pacific railway. My hon. friend and myself seem to be of one mind in the matter.
Motion as amended agreed to, reported, read the first and the second time, and agreed to.
Mr. REID thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 84, to amend the Export Act.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
The House in Committee of Supply.
["This is an old friend which we have put into such shape that no mischief can be done. This Bill was brought in last year. They wanted to extend a lot of charters which would give them a right to litigate in regard to land grants, under old provincial statutes. This was apposed by the Governments of Ontario and Quebec and by members of the Dominion Parliament. The House was almost unanimous that the Bill should not pass unless the* promoters agreed to abandon all such claims as a condition of receiving a renewal. The Carillon and Grenville railway is about the only part of any of these lines that has ever been built. At the instance of the Railway Committee and of the House I went to Toronto and discussed with the Provincial authorities and their counsel and also with the gentlemen from the province of Quebec, the whole situation and we drafted a clause that satisfied them that it would prevent all such claims being raised and that was satisfactory to me and to the House and the committee. This clause was agreed on last year and a new Bill was introduced in the Senate with that clause in it, so that we could pass it when it came to this House. The Senate threw out that clause and we rejected the Bill in this House without even sending it to the Railway Committee as it was not thought desirable to pass the Bill without that clause. We insert at the beginning of section 1, ' subject to the. provisions of section 3 of this Act,' which is as follows;\n1. It is hereby expressly declared and enacted that the Central Railway Company of Canada shall not, nor shall the Ottawa River Railway Company, the Central Counties Railway Company, the Ottawa Valley Railway Company, the Carillon and Grenville Railway Company or the Ottawa River Navigation Company, nor the assigns of any of the said companies, nor shall any other company or person whatsoever, be entitled to receive any land grant or grants under the provisions of the statutes of the late province of Canada, 19 and 20 Victoria, chapter 112, and 24 Victoria, chapters 80 and 87, or any of them, or any amending or substituted Acts, or any other statutes or Acts of Canada or any of the provinces of Canada.\nThen we have added three standard sections to water-powers and municipal control of highways.\nBill reported, read the third time and passed."]
Would the Minister of Marine and Fisheries state if any Order in Council has been passed in connection with the Naval Service Act since he assumed control of his department, and, if so, would he bring copies down some day soon ?	'


I think that every Order in Council that has been passed in regard to the Naval Service Act since I became minister of that department has been laid on the table of the House. The Act requires that these regulations passed in Council shall be laid on the table of the House, and we have conformed to that.


Does the minister recollect if any were passed, and, if so, upon what subject?	-


I know that a number have been passed; one had regard to injuries sustained by those in the service. I shall get a memorandum of them all for my hon. friend.
Public Works, chargeable to capital-Ship channel, river St. Lawrence, $1,019,000.


Last year my hon.
friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries read to the House an Order in Council which had been recently passed appointing a commission to examine and report on the question of the levels of the waters in. the river St. Lawrence above Montreal and between Montreal and Quebec. The appointment was a very, creditable one, the commission consisting of Professor Haskell, one of the professors of Cornell University, and two well-known Canadians whose ability has never been questioned, Messrs. Stewart and Forneret. For several years, and notably during the last two or three years, there has been some nervousness amongst the shipping interests and people generally as to the lowering of the water of the harbour of Montreal and of the channel between Montreal and Quebec. The lowering of the water level has been assigned to the dredging operations which have taken place for the last fifty years between Montreal and Quebec. The channel, which originally was * only eleven feet, increased in depth as the years rolled by, and to-day the policy of the department, if I mistake not, is to deepen the channel still more to a depth of from thirty to thirty-five feet so as to afford ocean

navigation as far as Montreal inland. Would my hon. friend state to the committee, first, the nature of the dredging operations during the last fiscal year, second, the cost involved in such operations and, third, if any report has been made by that very important commission as to the level of the water being affected by the dredging operations?
The harbour of Montreal, I need not say, is of vital interest to the country. It is no more a local port; it has become the national port of Canada. Looking at the tables contained in the report of the Board
of Trade of Montreal interesting figures:	I find the 1S82.	following 1912.Vessels arrived	614	736Tonnage	
Value of merchandise	554,692	2,403,924exported	$26,503,001 Value of merchandise	$87,679,442imported	50,527,497	148,977,605Customs duties collected	8,395,652	24,555,598
The best year apparently for 4 p.m. export was 1906 when the value of merchandise exported from Montreal reached a total of $89,616,459. I have only quoted the figures to show the importance of the port of Montreal in our commercial life as a nation and the importance of maintaining as deep a channel as possible between Montreal and the ocean, without, of course, affecting materially the water level in the upper portion of the St. Lawrence. Indeed, this question is of the utmost importance and affects the whole transportation problem in Canada.
A question that is also connected with this one is that of insurance rates. I remember that my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Foster) last year made a statement-I forget whether he made it in the House or in answer to a deputation composed of shipping interests -that the Government were studying the question of providing, if possible, cheaper insurance rates for shipping. Yesterday the question was brought up from a different aspect; the question of ocean freight rates was discussed in the House. I refer now especially to the other phase of the question -that of insurance rates. We all know that our shipping interests are deeply affected by the very high insurance rates prevailing against our shippers from the St. Lawrence river. My hon. friend will correct me if I do not state exactly the views which he expressed at that time to the deputation, or it may have been to the House, but if I

mistake not he stated that the intention of the Government was to come to an understanding with our shippers in Canada and to subsidize a Canadian Lloyds. I would like to know from my hon, friend if anything has been done in this connection, or if any decision has been arrived at by the powers that be.


My recollection is much the same as the recollection of my hon. friend (Mr. Lemieux) in reference to the matter. In short, the matter stands in about this way: I stated that the Government was sympathetic with the attempt to lower insurance rates on the St. Lawrence and that negotiations had long been going on with Lloyds with a view to that, but that these were not resulting in any appreciable reduction at that time. Some reductions have been made since that time, I believe, but what I did say at the end was: that it was up to the shipping interests of the St. Lawrence river to show their appreciation of the necessities of the case by forming some association, and undertaking to do their part towards bringing about the necessary relief, in which case, I said, the Government would be disposed, and very sympathetically disposed, to lend an assisting hand. From that time to this I have not received, nor do I think the Government has received, any practical offer in that direction. No practical step has been taken to form a basis for the consideration of the Government, in the way of sympathetic aid.


My recollection of the incident is the same as that of the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I am sure the hon. gentleman would help the shipping community, if, when sitting with the Imperial Commission in England, he should make representations to Lloyds. I wish to express my regret that so many accidents happened on the St. Lawrence river last year. There is no doubt that those accidents, which are not attributable to the route itself, are debited to the route by Lloyds.


They happened upon the route.


There is no question but that the ship channel, splendidly maintained as it is, is not responsible for the accidents. Indeed, there is a belief that the libel upon the St. Lawrence route is only one of the pretexts on the part of Lloyds to mulct the Canadian shippers.
I trust the Minister of Marine will give me information on these several points: Is the Government to continue its policy of deepening the ship channel to 35 feet, and what compensation works are contemplated in order to maintain an even and equal flow of the water in the channel? What portions of the channel have been widened and what curves have been straightened in the past year? For some years, work of great advantage to the shipping interests was done on the St. Lawrence route, commencing under the late Mr. Tarte and continuing under the late Mr. Pre-fontaine, and the Hon. Mr. Brodeur, my immediate predecessor in the department. Last year, when a commission of experts was appointed, my hon. friend from Welland (Mr. German) made some apt remarks on the subject of the conservation of water powers on the St. Lawrence. He said, that the examination of the Upper St. Lawrence by this commission of experts would probably induce the Government to erect compensation works between the Great Lakes and that part of the river above Montreal. The result of that would be, in the first place, to ensure a proper water level, and in the second place, the possible appointment of a commission with the view of developing hydro-electric energy. I am opposed to the proposed development of hydro-electric energy on the St. Lawrence by the Americans. We all know that an unsuccessful attempt was made some years ago to secure at the Long Sault authority from the Canadian Government to develop energy. But, if such works were constructed after having been declared necessary by this commission, the Dominion Government could very well consider the advisability of exploiting the water powers on this great river for the benefit of the Canadian people. I trust that the minister will give some explanation on these matters.


I agree with all my hon.
friend has said with respect to the importance of the great national port of Montreal. My own desire personally, and as minister, and the desire of my department, is to do everything possible to improve the shipping facilities in the pot -of Montreal and to improve the waterway on which the ocean steamers pass up the river^ to that city.
There is no doubt that, as the business tr* this country increases, as it is doing by leaps and bounds, the business of the city of Montreal as the great port of Canada in the summer months must increase. There-



fore I think the efforts of those who are interested in that port will be taxed to the utmost to provide adequate facilities for the handling of the freight that is bound to come in increasing measure every year to that great national port, which is destined for all time to come to remain the greatest of Canadian ports in the summer season.
My hon. friend has referred to the fact that at 'the last session of Parliament I announced that a commission had been appointed, consisting of Mr. E. E. Haskell, of the School of Engineering of Cornell University, a gentleman who had probably more experience than any other man on this continent in connection with river levels, having had extensive experience with the Missouri, the Mississippi and other rivers, and of two officials of the department, Mr. V. W. Forneret, superintending engineer of the Ship Channel, and Mr. W. J. -Stewart, of the Hydrographic Survey, for the purpose of considering the question of the river levels of the St. Lawrence below Montreal, this work being limited to that.


There was another commission appointed.


That was by the Public Works Department. The jurisdiction of the Department of Marine and Fisheries over the St. Lawrence river extends only from the city of Montreal down to the sea. The reaches of the river above Montreal are under the control of the Public Works Department.
We had deepened the St. Lawrence channel from fourteen feet to thirty feet, and we had planned to deepen it to thirty-five feet. The -reason for the appointment of that commission was the idett that we could not go on deepening the channel of the St. Lawrence indefinitely without affecting the level of the water in the harbour of Montreal. It was most desirable to have accurate scientific observations taken for the purpose of determining whether there was danger of that, and, if so, to find out what steps should be taken by way of compensating works for the purpose of preventing that lowering from taking place; because it would be a disastrous matter if the result of deepening the channel of the St. Lawrence and allowing larger ships to com-e to Montreal should be a -reduction of the volume of water in that harbour, thus lowering its level, so that in that harbour there would not be the same opportunity for ships of deep draught that

there is at the present time. That commission was appointed and it entered upon its work at the end of last session. When I announced the appointment of that commission last year to the House, I was in hopes of being able to lay its report on the table at this session. Although the commissioners have attended to the work as faithfully as possible, I find that, with the data that was on hand and the observations that they were able to make last year, they cannot make a report that would be satisfactory to them without taking further observations during the coming season of open navigation. Therefore I regret that it will be impossible for roe to lay their report upon the table of the House before another session. From the information I have received from Mr. Stewart and Mr. Forneret, I have no doubt whatever that probably at the opening of the next -session the report will be tabled and the result of the observations of these gentlemen will be made public.
Th-e work of deepening the channel that goes on from time to time is not being proceeded with in any haphazard manner. It has been in charge of gentlemen of high scientific knowledge and experience in work of that character, and the material they have been removing from the channel in different places, they.have been placing in suoh -a way that it serves as a compensating work, backing up the water -and preventing it from running out too rapidly. For some years itha-t has been in the minds of the gentlemen who are charged with the responsible duty of deepening and widening and straightening that channel. From the information I have received, I think I am justified in -saying that nothing so far has been discovered by that commission that would lead the department to abandon for this season the work upon which it has been engaged in deepening that channel to thirty-five feet. It is our intention during the coming season to continue that work.


Has there been any
especial change of late years in the depth of water at Montreal on account of the dredging that has been done in the lower St. Lawrence?


No. The question of the levels of the waters on the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence is a very curious one. From observation it has been found that for a period of six or seven years from year to year the water will gradually get lower and lower in the different harbours on the Great

Lakes, and along the St. Lawrence. There appears to be no reason for this. It does not depend upon the rainfall. Then will come a period of the same number of years when the water will gradually rise until after a lapse of about seven years from the time the water was at its lowest it will be as high as it was before. It is a natural phenomenon which men do not at present understand.


Is the water rising or falling now?


It is rising. There has been no appreciable reduction in the level of the water in the harbour of Montreal. There is such a volume of water pouring down past the city on the Montreal side that the harbour commissioners have taken means to divert a portion of that water to the south side, so as to reduce the current on the Montreal side, which interferes with the handling of ships.


And at the same time
this gives more water on the south side of the harbour.


Yes, it serves a double purpose. My hon. friend asks me if I will give him information regarding the work that has been done on the ship channel during the last year. That is given in detail at page 104 of the report of the Department of Marine and Fisheries. My hon. friend asked me what amount had been spent on the St. Lawrence channel up to the present time. The report states that the total cost of the dredging and plant up to March 31, 1913, is $15,617,893.11, of which $9,610,259.57 is the cost of dredging, and $6,007,633.54 the expenditure for plant, shops, surveys and work of that description.
The quantity of material removed during that time was 85,160,875 cubic yards. In 1911-12 the expenditure was $588,000. The cost of dredging in 1912-13 was $663,229.74. Then, in the report, commencing at page 104, are given details of the operations of the different dredges employed on the St. Lawrence channel. I do not suppose my hon. friend desires that I should read these details. As to the record of work of last season, I find from a statement I have here that the total quantity of dredged material was 6,929,344 cubic yards. The hon. gentle, man also asked me to tell him where the dredging operations were carried on. No doubt he will be interested to know also the depth of dredging at low water. The places, with the respective depths are: Montreal harbour, 30 feet; Varennes curve, 35 feet; Cap Charles channel, 30 feet; Grondines, 30 652i
feet; St. Anne traverse, 35 feet; Cap a la Roche curve, 30 feet; Point aux Trembles channel, 35 feet; Repentigny channel, 15 feet; Champlain channel, 30 feet; lake St. Peter (No. 3 curve to W. B. curve), 35 feet; North channel, west sands, 35 feet; St. Thomas channel, 30 feet; floating dock approach, 30 feet; floating dock basin, 50 feet. The statement given in the report shows also the number of days each dredge worked during the year, the nominal working days per year, the hours of actual dredging, and the number of cubic yards of material dredged, and the character of material. As I have said, it is not all easy dredging; there is some shale rock and some rock for which a crusher has to be used. Of course, some of it is easy work. One dredge, the J. Israel Tarte, is a suction dredge which throws the spoil through a pipe several thousand feet from the dredge.


What is the cost per cubic yard?


At page 11 of the Marine Report, my hon. friend, will see that the total number of cubic yards dredged was 6,929,344 at a total cost of $66,229.74, or at the rate of 9-57 cents per cubic yard. This covers merely operating expenses and repairs, but not depreciation or interest. According to the information I have received, and according to my own observation, the dredges are kept in first-class repair.


When the Government is able to dredge at such a low rate as 9 457 cents a yard, how comes it that the Minister of Public Works pays from 20 cents to 50 cents a yard for similar work?
Mr.' HAZEN: I am here only to tell how we are running our own department. But it must be borne in mind that the Government does not need to make a profit, and we do not allow for interest or depreciation, -and I understand that the depreciation on a machine of this character is a very substantial amount every year. These are items that private contractors have to take into consideration.


Does the hon. minister really think that even with the J. Israel Tarte he is doing work at the price suggested by these figures? Why should not he take into consideration the matters that have to be considered by contractors and base his price on that?


It is hard to calculate that. The Government is not seeking a profit, and all we are trying to do is to keep track

of the cost of our operations. The J. Israel Tarte is a suction dredge and cannot be used everywhere. It has a long pipe running from it, and if that were in rough water it would be broken up. But for this dredge the cost is a good deal less than I have given-something like 4 cents a cubic yard.


That is only the cost of men, fuel and oil?


It includes wages, fuel, oil, the cost of feeding the men on board, and repairs.


Do you feed the men
too?


Yes, we make a contract with a steward who feeds the men on board tie dredge, I understand they are given excellent food,-certainly there are no complaints-and it costs us, as I recollect, about 14 cents a meal.


But that does not include the cost of the upkeep of the dredge.


It includes repairs.


Minor repairs.


No, more than that. Of
course, we do all our own repair work at our shops at Sorel. Not only that, but we are actually building tug-boats, hopper barges and other craft. I understand the shipyard is doing good work now. The men are practically all working on piece work, instead at so much a day, and the results are better for us and the men get more money.


Is there any allowance for interest on construction?


No.


Is it the intention of the Government to build a marine railway at . Sorel?


There has been some talk about it, but I am inclined to doubt the necessity of a marine railway there. I think the shipyard at Sorel is getting on very well; the men are well employed and the work well directed. I think there. are over 1,000 hands employed at Sorel at the present time. Of course there is more work at this time of the year, when the dredges are being repaired, but a large number of men are employed right through the whole season. My hon. friend asked me a question with regard to marine insurance rates. Whilst this is a matter coming more especially within the jurisdiction of the Department of Trade and Commerce, still it is

one to which my department feels that it ought to give attention. The department has from time to time made representations to the underwriters and to those who are interested in insurance, pointing out that in recent years very great sums of money have been spent in improving the waterways of the river St. Lawrence and in establishing modern aids to navigation, and urging that these things should be taken into consideration in fixing the rates. The rates are not now nearly as high as they were some years ago, but in the estimation of the ship-owners of this country they are entirely too high. My department has also urged from time to time upon the underwriters-and this was brought very strongly to the attention of Lord Strath-cona one or two years ago-the desirability *f giving better rates to the vessels which come to the ports of the lower provinces in the winter season. There was a clause in these marine policies known as the British North American clause, under which, at a certain date-I think October 1-the rates on vessels coming to any port in British North America went up, and the ports in question were paying higher rates than were being paid in Portland, Boston, and other Atlantic seaports in the United States. We urged this matter as strongly as possible upon the attention of the underwriters, with the result that they changed that clause so far as the port of Halifax was concerned, and Halifax is now getting lower insurance rates. We have been pressing on the underwriters the necessity of making the same provision with regard to St. John. When my deputy minister was in London this year, attending the conference with regard to the safety of life at sea, he took the matter up again, with the result that the underwriters have asked us for certain information which we are having collated in the department. We hope that when this information is submitted to the underwriters, they will see the justice of making the same concessions so far as the rates at St. John and other ports in the Maritime provinces during the winter season are concerned.


My hon. friend knows that there has been a strong movement in recent years on the part of navigators and shipping interests generally to have a new channel on the north side of the St. Lawrence below Quebec.


That is being attended to.


I would like to know
what operations have taken place there this summer. Does the hon. minister con-

template adding to his flotilla of dredges on the river St.. Lawrence? The other day my hon. friend announced that he would do his best to have the Government steamers built in Canada; what does he propose to do about the new dredges that are to be made a part of the flotilla of dredges on the St. Lawrence?


A certain amount of new
construction is provided for in these Estimates. The construction of a new selfpropelling hopper barge, capacity 650 cubic yards, of which the estimated cost is $125,000, is provided for. We hope to have that barge constructed at Sorel. Provision is also made for a self-propelling elevator dredge for work below Quebec in the north channel. With the dredges we have at present it would take us five, six or seven years to get that north channel dredged out and ready for use. When that north channel is dredged out, my opinion is that the last impediment to safe navigation up the St. Lawrence to the city of Quebec will be removed. We thought that work should be hastened, so we are asking an appropriation for a new dredge. While my policy and the policy of the department is to have as much work done in Canada as possible, it is the opinion of Mr. Forneret and of the other oflicials that a dredge of the character required for that work cannot be built in Canada. In the first place, it would have to be constructed, I understand, below Montreal, as a dredge of the size required could not pass through the canals. I understand that no firm below Montreal will undertake the construction of suc