There are two Senate Bills on the Order Paper, but no one has been put in charge of them and no instructions have been given, consequently I can only allow' them to stand until some one is put in charge of them, or information is given as to who is to be responsible for them.


Sir WILFRID LAURIER moved the first loading of Bill No. 225, to amend the Civil Service Amendment Act, 1908, as respects the Senate of Canada.
Explain.


I understand, Mr. Speaker, that this Bill is with regard to some rights which are claimed by the

Senate, which I do not pretend to he familiar \vith, and, therefore, cannot endorse; but the question is worth while giving attention to, and that is (the reason I move that the Bill be read.


I understand that this Bill aims to exclude Senate employees from the operation of the Civil Service Act.
Sir WILFRID LAURdER: I do not pretend to endorse it, but, as it has come from the Senate, we should give it consideration.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
With regard to Bill No. 222, to amend the Secret Commissions Act, 1909, no one seems willing to take charge of it.


With regard to this Bill, Senator Davis has left for home, and has not given instructions to anybody to Itake charge of it, so far .as I know. Under the circumstances it had better stand.


Stands. We have no power to drop it.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an .asterisk.)
1.	What was the total amount spent for the repairing: or reconstruction of the wharf at L'lle Verte, Temiscouata, during the summer of 191-3?
2.	Out of that amount what sum of money has been spent for the purchase of the wood necessary for such work?
3.	What are the full names and addresses of the parties entrusted by the department with the purchase of such wood?
4.	What is the full name and address of each of the parties who sold wood intended for such work?
5.	What quantity of wood did each of them sell?
6.	What price was paid per foot or otherwise to each of them for the said wood sold, and the total sum paid to each of them?
7.	Was such sum of money paid directly to the seller himself in every instance?
8.	If it was paid through a third party, what is the name and address of such third party?
9.	How many mooring posts have been delivered on said wharf while the work was in progress?
10.	What was the cost of each of these posts?
11.	What is the full name and address or each of the parties who sold such posts to the department?


1.	$4,500.59.
2.	$2,079.75.
3.	Under the control of district engineer, .1. A. Tremblay, Montmagny. and foreman, Joseph Collin, Isle Verte.
4.	5 and 6. Cyrille Duibe, Isle Verte: 605 feet spruce timber, 5 to 6 inches, at 5 cents, $30.25; Octave Boucher, Isle Verte: 355 feet spruce timber, 5 to 6 inches, at 5 cents, $17.75; Ernest Malenfant, Isle Verte: 350 feet spruce timber, 5 to 6 inches, at 5 cents, $17.50; Thomas Talbot, Isle Verte: 600 feet spruce timber, 5 to 6 inches, at 5 cenjts, $30, 977 feet spruce timber, 12 by 12, at 23 cents, $224.71, 859 feet spruce timber, 10 by 10, at 15 cents, $128.85-$383.56; Frangois Cour-bon. Isle Verte: 1,219 feet spruce timber, 5 to 6 inches, at 5 cents, $60.95; Alphe. Cote, fils de Johnny, Isle Verte: 3,500 feat spruce timber, 12 by 12, at 23 cents, $805, 3,136 feet spruce timber, 11 by 12, at 15 cents, $470.40, 886 feet spruce timber, 10 by 12, at 19 cents, $168.34, 7,000 feet spruce lumber, at $18, $126-$1,569.74. Total for timber, $2,079.75.
7 and 8. Yes.
9. 10 and 11. None.


Mr. l.ANCTOT:
1.	Has Mr. Alphonse Durangeau, of La-prairie, done any work for the Government to the public buildings at the town of Laprairie, during the past year?
2.	If so, what -was the nature of such work, was it done by the day or by contract and what amount was paid for same?
1.	Yes.
2.	Improvements to the sewage system,
$256, private agreement; minor repairs, $58; total, $314.90.	.


1.	At what date was license under the Bank Act issued to La Banque Internationale?
2.	On what date was the application for this license first made to the Department of Finance?
3.	Was the present Minister of Finance informed from any source that the late Minister of Finance, Mr. Fielding questioned In any way the regularity of this application?	,
4.	If so, did the Minister of Finance institute any inquiry before issuing the license.


1.	October 17, 1911.
2.	May 23, 1911.

3.	The minute made on the 27th day of September, 1911, by the outgoing Treasury Board, of which the former Minister of Finance was chairman, with regard to the Banque Internationale's application for a certificate is as follows:
The board having had submitted to them the further papers in connection with the application of La Banque Internationale for a certificate under the provisions of the Bank Act to enable it to commence business, is of the opinion that the matter requires more consideration than can be given to it in the present state of affairs, when a change of administration is about to take place. The board, therefore, without expressing any opinion on the merits of the application, desire to leave the papers for the consideration of the new Treasury Board.
4.	Before granting the certificate the incoming Treasury Board gave full consideration to the application and the documentary evidence filed in support of it. All the provisions of the Bank Act having been fully and amply complied with, authority was given for the issue of the certificate.


1.	When was the contract let for the extension to Hantsport wharf, county of Hants?
2.	Who were the tenderers and what was the amount of each tender?
3.	Whose tender was accepted?
4.	When was the contract executed and when was the work to begin?"
5.	Has the construction of said wharf been started? If not, why not?
6.	What is the reason the work on the contract has not begun?
7.	Has the department extended the time for the beginning and completion of the contract?


1.	16th October, 1913.
2. Standard	Construction	Company,
Limited, $18,685; A. W. Girroir, $20,500; C. A. Huntley, $22,250.
3. Standard	Construction	Company,
Limited.
4.	16th October, 1913, immediately after the signing of the contract.
5.	Yes.
6.	After awarding the contract, the town council petitioned to build a slip between the old wharf and the new for the accommodation of small vessels, and build a straight front for the whole length with a square end so that vessels could lay at end of wharf.
7.	No.


1. Was the Government made aware that the Insurance Company Rimouski Mutuelle had,
before its winding up, as alleged, given up a certain proportion of its policies to the York Fire Insurance Company of Toronto and to the Midland Fire Insurance Company of Brandon, Manitoba?
2.	Did the Government inspector report on these alleged facts?
3.	Is the Government aware that Company Rimouski Mutuelle is said to have received certain amounts paid by the above mentioned com- _ panies and intended to indemnify policy-holders; who had sustained losses through fire, and that these amounts have been retained by said company for two months at least previous to its being wound up?
4.	Is not inspection by the Government intended to prevent such irregularities?
5.	Is it the intention of the Government to appoint within a short time, a special inspector with instructions to investigate the management of the Companies Rimouski Mutuelle and Ontario Mutual?


The companies referred to are probably La Compagnie d'Assurance contre l'incendie de Rimouski and the Ontario Fire Insurance Company. Neither of these companies is a mutual company.
1.	No.
2.	No.
3.	No.
4.	One object of inspection is to discover and correct irregularities if they have occurred.
5.	No.


Mr. Lemieux.-For a return showing who secured the mail contract between Armagh station and Mailloux, county of Bellechasse, Quebec; how many tenders were received; and what the names of the tenderers and the amount of each tender are?
Mr. ROCHE moved the following proposed resolution:
That the following Orders in Council made by His Royal Highness the Governor General or His Excellency the Administrator in Council in accordance with the regulations for the survey, administration, disposal and management of Dominion lands within the railway belt in the province of British Columbia, approved by Order in Council of the 17th September, 1889.
(1)	Order in Counoil P.C. No 234, dated 6th February, 1913, extending the provisions of clauses 19 and 20 of the Dominion Lands Act to similar cases affecting land in the railway-belt in the province of British Columbia
(2)	Order in Council P.C. No. 1384, dated 26th June, 1913, amending section 13 and rescinding sections 23, 24 and part of section 29 of the regulations for the survey, administration, disposal and management of Dominion lands in the railway belt in the province of British Columbia.
(3) Order in Council P.C. No. 2959, dated 27th November, 1913, amending the regulations approved by Order in Council of 17th September, 1889, so as to provide that letters-patent issuing in the name of a deceased person such letters-patent shall not be void, but the title to the land shall become vested in the heirs or other legal representatives of such deceased person.
Copies of each of which Orders in Council were laid before this House on the 2nd day of February, 1914, for the approval of this House under the provisions of subsection (d) of section 38 of the regulations for the survey, administration, disposal and management of Dominion lands within the forty-mile railway belt in the province of British Columbia and the said Orders in Council are now so approved.
He said: According to the statute, the Minister of the Interior is supposed to lay upon the table, of the House within fifteen days after the opening of each session copies of all regulations passed by Order in Council during the recess. That procedure was followed last January, when I laid upon the table of the House all regulations that had been adopted by the Department of the Interior, which regulations, according to the statute, are supposed to be approved formally by Parliament. These regulations deal with a great many matters connected with the administration of the department. They refer to the leasing of school lands, to forest and park reserves, to clay deposits in townsites within park reserves, to purchased homesteads, to deceased homesteaders' rights, to the leasing of Dominion lands containing limestone, granite, marble, gravel, sand and building stone. Certain of the regulations make the same provisions in connection with coal mining rights on forest reserves as those which apply to Dominion lands generally. I think that this covers generally the regulations that have been passed during the recess. I had a talk with the hon. member for Edmonton yesterday, the ex-Minister of the Interior, and he said that he did not think it necessary to enter into any discussion of these Orders in Council. They have been on the table of the House since last January, and open to the inspection of members.
My hon. friend is giving us no information except what we already have. We know that the statute requires that my hon. friend shall lay these Orders in Council upon the table of the House, and we know also what purports to be the nature of the Orders in Council. All these matters are very technical; but if the hon. member for Edmonton has looked at these Orders in Council and is satisfied, as he is the only gentleman on this side of the

House who is competent to deal with them, I shall be satisfied also.


I am sorry that measures were not taken to have the orders which have been laid upon the table considered earlier in the session. Iam informed that they were laid on the table early in the session, buit I was not aware of that fact, and it was only when the notice appeared on the Order Paper that I knew that they were available. The date upon which we received information that they were laid upon the table was so very late in the session and the Orders in Council cover such a large ground that I do not think I would be warranted in delaying the House in order to consider them at this stage of the session.


There is no objection to their standing over to a later day in the session if the hon. member so desires.


It is in the hope that
there will not be many later days that I am wiling to forego discussion 'at the present time. I am aware of the importance of the matters involved, and I am aware of the desirability of Parliament being informed as to their nature and effect. I think it is rather a pity that there should not have been a fuller opportunity for their consideration, not for the purpose of antagonism or undue criticism. As most of these orders affect the West and as most of the western men have already gone home in the expectation that the session would have concluded by this time, we are not in a position either to give the House information or to get the information from the Government that would be desirable. On this particular occasion I am willing that the orders should pass, but I would ask that on future occasions when it becomes necessary to put such information before the House, means should be taken to let the House know that the orders have .been laid on the table and to bring them forward at a reasonably early date in the session, so that due consideration may be given to these very important matters.


As my hon. friend is
aware, the Orders were laid upon the table of the House four months ago. Of course, if it had occurred to us that that fact did not come to the attention of hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House, the matter would have been mentioned earlier, but neither my hon. friend the Minister

of th-e Interior nor I had the impression that they were not being considered. It may be worth while to make some more definite arrangement in future so that these matters will be brought to the attention of hon. gentlemen; but this is precisely what has occurred in many previous sessions, when these Orders were laid upon the table of the House early in the session and were not considered until nearly the conclusion.


Motion agreed to.
That the following Orders in Council made by His Royal Highness the Governor General or His Excellency the Administrator in Council under the provisions of section 77 of chapter 20, 7-8 Edward VII 'The Dominion Lands Act' on the dates hereinafter mentioned, that is to say:
(1.) Order in Council P.C. No. 2917 dated 19th October, 1912, establishing regulations for the leasing and administration of school lands for the purpose of extracting fire-clay therefrom.
(2.) Order in Council P.C. No. 3257 dated 21st November, 1912, amending the regulations established by Order in Council of the 13th May, 1910, and amending Orders in Council, for the leasing and administration of Dominion lands containing limestone, granite, slate, marble, gypsum, marl, gravel, sand or any building stone so as to include the leasing of Dominion land containing deposits of clay.
(3.) Order in Council P.C. No. 3373 dated 4th December, 1912, rescinding the Order in Council of the 4th March, 1911, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (k) of section 76 of the Dominion Lands Act.
(4.) Order in Council P.C. No. 243 dated 6th February, 1913, amending the coal mining regulations established by Order in Council of the 20th of April, 1910, and amending Orders in Council, in regard to the maximum area of a coal mining location.
(5.) Order in Council P.C. No. 245 dated 6th February, 1913, prescribing regulations governing the sale of lands for irrigation purposes within certain defined limits as provided by section 34 of the Dominion Lands Act.
(6.) Order in Council P.C. No. 351 dated 17th February, 1913, amending the regulations for the leasing and administration of school lands for the purpose of extracting fire-clay therefrom as established by Order in Council of the 19th October, 1912.
(7.) Order	in	Council P.C.	No.	446 dated27th February, 1913, amending clause 'P' of the regulations governing the granting of yearly licenses and permits to cut timber on Dominion lands, established by Order in Council of the 1st July, 1898,	and subsequent	Orders in
Council.
(8.) Order	in	Council P.C.	No.	592 dated19th March,	1913, amending	the	regulations
for the leasing and administration of lands containing limestone, granite, slate, marble, gypsurh, marl, gravel, sand or any building stone, approved by Order in Council of the 13 th May, 1910, and amending Orders in Council.
(9.) Order in Council P.C. No. 775 dated 7th
April, 1913, amending the regulations governing the sale of coal mining lands in the Yukon Territory approved by Order in Council dated 21st January, 1901, by granting exemption from the payment of royalty for .a period of five years.
(10.) Order in Council P.C. No. 1101 dated 14th May, 1913, re-establishing regulations for the leasing of school lands in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta for petroleum and natural gas rights.
(11.) Order in Council P.C. No. 2587 dated 16th October, 1913, rescinding section 5 of the regulations for the disposal of petroleum and natural gas rights, established by Order in Council of the 11th March, 1910, amending Orders in Council, and substituting another section (5) in lieu thereof.
Copies of each of which Orders in Council were laid before this House on the 2nd day of February, 1914, for the approval of this House under the provisions of section 77, chapter 20, 7-8 Edward VII, and the same are now so approved.


Motion agreed to.
That the following Orders in Council made by His Royal Highness the Governor General or His Excellency the Administrator in Council in accordance with the provisions of chapter 10, 1-2 George V, 'The Dominion Forest Reserves and Parks' Act' that is to say:
(1.) Order in Council P.C. No. 981 dated 30th April, 1913, extending and making applicable to lands within the forest reserves and parks, except, Elk park within the Cooking Lake Forest Reserve and the Buffalo Park Reserve, in the province of Alberta, the quarrying regulations and clay regulations established by Orders in Council dated 13th May, 1910, and 21st November, 1912.
(2.) Order in Council P.C. No. 1803 dated 19th July, 1913, amending clause (3) of the regulations governing the use of motor vehicles in the Rocky Mountains Park approved by Order in Council of the 8th April, 1911.
(3.) Order in Council P.C. No. 1943 dated 2nd August, 1913, amending the water-power regulations in accordance with the provisions of subsection 2 of section 35 of the Dominion Lands Act and subsection b, of section 17 of 'The Dominion Forest Reserves and Parks Act.'
(4.) Order in Council P.C. No. 2028 dated 8th August, 1913, rescinding the regulations established by Orders in Council of the 13th January, 1908, and 19th October, 1910, in accordance with the provisions of section 17 of The Dominion Forest Reserves and Parks Act, and substituting in lieu thereof.
(5.) Order in Council P.C. No. 2349 dated 24th September, 1913, rescinding section 75 of the regulations relating to forest reserves established by Order in Council of the 8th August, 1913, and substituting another section (75) in lieu thereof.
(6.) Order in Council P.C. No. 2875 dated 27th November, 1913, establishing regulations respecting buildings in Dominion parks, in accordance with the provisions of section 18 of 'The Dominion Forest Reserves and Parks Act.'
Copies of each of which Orders in Council were laid before this House on the 2nd day of February, 1914, for the approval of this House under the provisions of section 19 of 'The

Dominion Forest Reserves and Parks Act,' are now so approved.


Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day being called:
Yesterday the hon.
member for Carleton, N.B., (Mr. G'arvell) called attention to a news item published in the Ottawa Journal in which it was stated that the Marconi operator on the Lady Evelyn, post office boat at Rimouski, had refused to send marconigrams offered by persons who had been rescued at the time of the sinking of the Empress of Ireland. I promised to make inquiry about this, and I said I hoped that the statement was not true. I wired to Captain J. B. Pouliot, w7ho is in charge of the Lady Evelyn, and this is the answer which I received :
Rimouski, Que., June 1.
R. M. Coulter,
Ottawa, Ont.
Wireless operator appointed for Lady Evelyn by Postmaster General not arrived yet; had no wireless operator when we went to the rescue of the Empress of Ireland. After our arrival there inquired if there was a wireless operator saved; one was found and put in charge of our wireless to notify the station agent at Rimouski to have cars and clothes ready on wharf for the rescued and to send other messages required. He was not told to ask payment for messages sent I was told that his name was Ferguson.
Captain J. B. Pouliot.
This shows that to a certain extent the news published was perhaps true, but that our officers on board the steamer did not act in the way reported. I am very glad that is the case.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
Might I ask the Government if they have decided on any policy in reply to the large deputation that waited on them some weeks ago asking for Government assistance for the extension of hydroelectric lines throughout Ontario. I have had a number of inquiries from constituents and from citizens throughout the province asking if anything will be done. Have the Government decided on any policy?


The matter is still under consideration, but there will be no legislation introduced on the subject this session.


On the Orders of the Day being called-
I wish to take the opportunity to inform the House that Lord Mersey has consented to act as one of the commissioners to inquire into the recent unfortunate disaster on the river St. Lawrence, and we are informed that he will probably sail on the Mauretania on Saturday of this week. I might also inform the House that I have communicated with Chief Justice McLeod, of New Brunswick, who is also the local judge in Admiralty for that province, and Sir Adolph Routhier, exChief Justice of Quebec, who is the local judge in Admiralty of the Quebec district, informing them that, with their consent, it was my intention to appoint them members of the commission, with Lord Mersey. 1 have a reply from the Chief Justice of New Brunswick saying that he will act if it is the desire of the Government, and I expect a reply from the ex-Chief Justice of Quebec during the day. In addition to the three members of the Board of Inquiry it has been decided, after communication with the Board of Trade in Great Britain, to appoint four assessors. Two of them will be gentlemen with special knowledge of nautical matters, one a naval architect, and the fourth a marine engineer. It has not yet been decided what gentlemen shall be appointed assessors, but it has been decided that they shall be of the callings mentioned. I think that by to-morrow or the next day we shall be able to announce the names of the assessors. The date of the investigation will not be determined until the representative of the Board of Trade, Mr. Vaux, now on his way to Canada, arrives. The place of meeting will also be discussed on his arrival. It is our intention to ask Lord Mersey to act as chairman of the commission.


This statement is very satisfactory as far as it goes. May I ask for some information as to a matter which appeared yesterday in the press to the effect that Captain Demers was holding a preliminary investigation with a view to weeding out unnecessary evidence? Captain Demers is certainly a very competent officer, but it is a very delicate matter that he should attempt to weed out any evidence which perhaps might be needed afterwards. It might be that there would be a conflict

of judgment between Captain Demers and the commission.


If the statement mentioned Captain Demers, it was in error. It was not Captain Demers, but Captain Lindsay, the superintendent of pilots. This action was taken at the suggestion of the British Board of Trade, who thought it very desirable, before the formal investigation was held, that depositions should be obtained from different witnesses and facts ascertained as to witnesses whom it would be desirable to call before the commission. My hon. friend is aware that in the Canada Shipping Act provision is made for preliminary inquiries into shipping casualties. It is under the provisions of that Act that this preliminary investigation is being held, not with the intention of weeding out anything, because everybody feels that the investigation must be of the most thorough and complete character; but it is for the purpose of expediting the work of the commission when they meet by having information that will enable them more readily to get down to work.


That is quite a difference.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
Has the Minister of the Interior any further information with regard to the difficulties at Vancouver with respect to Hindu immigration?


I made inquiry this morning for any fresh information, and was informed that there was none except what appeared in the press this morning, and we have not had any official -Confirmation of -that.


The House proceeded to consider amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 83, respecting loan companies.
What are the amendments?


There are six amendments in all, none of them being of serious consequence. The first is an amendment to subsection 2 of section 3, which doee not in any way change the meaning of the subsection but makes it more clear. The name of the Bill is changed from the 'Loan Companies Act' to the 'Loan Companies Act of 1914.' Section 16, which relates to the election of
directors, is modified so as to provide that, in the event of an election of its directors not taking place at the proper time, the company shall not be held to be thereby dissolved, but that such election may take place at any general meeting of the company duly called for that purpose, and the retiring directors shall continue in office until their successors are elected. That is not an unusual clause in company legislation. iSection 30 is changed so as to provide that, in the event of a forfeiture of shares through a failure of a shareholder to pay any call or instalment, the holder of such shares at the time of the forfeiture shall continue liable to the creditors of the company at such time for the full payment payable on the shares at the time of forfeiture, less any sums which are subsequently received by the company in respect thereof. There is also a verbal amendment to section 68, which makes the intention of the section more clear. Section 90 is also amended by changing the word 'the' to 'this.' On the whole, I see no objection to the amendments proposed by the Senate, and move that the House do concur therein.
S:r WILFRID LAURIER:	-Has any
change been made with regard to the retroactivity of this Bill?


No. Perhaps that was in connection with the Bill relating to trust companies.


If we proposed any
amendments in this House now, I suppose it might delay the passage of the Bill this session; otherwise, I .should have liked to draw my hon. friend's attention to some amendments that have been proposed to section 63 by the Loan Companies Association, to prevent loan companies from investing in the stock or debentures of any company whose chief business is buying and selling vacant land.


It would be quite out
of order to propose amendments to the Bill at this stage, as we are now dealing with the amendments sent to us by the Senate.


I am only bringing this matter to the attention of the Minister of Finance, as I think the amendments are very valuable. I will send them over to him so that he may understand them better.


I think it inadvisable that we should consider any further changes in the Bill now. The Bill received very full con.-

sideration by the Banking and Commerce Committee, and like any otheir Ant this may be changed at any time by an amending measure if that is deemed advisable. As the Bill has received very careful consideration on the part of the Commons and apparently also on the part of the Senate, and having regard to the fact that the session is so far advanced, I should not like the passage of this Bill to be jeopardized by taking into consideration any further amendments at this stage.
Amendments concurred in.


Consideration of the proposed motion of Hon. W. T. White (Minister of Finance) for the second reading of Bill No. 185, for the relief of the depositors of the Farmers Bank of Canada, and the proposed amendment thereto, of Mr. A. K. Maclean, resumed from June 2.
Mr. Speaker, in the
early hours of this morning I was dealing with the endorsements on the writ sent by Mr. Leighton McCarthy to the ex-Minister of Finance. I have not exhausted this phase; but, as the endorsements already appear in the proceedings. I will content myself with saying that they embrace charges of deceit, illegality, unlawful practices, fraudulent conduct, false pretenses, and similar charges against Mr. Travers, the man who was asking the Finance Minister of the day for a certificate to allow him to commence business. There is one feature in the evidence which is worthy of comment, and that is the letter of the hon. member for London (Mr. Beattie) objecting to the unwarrantable use of his name as one of the provisional directors. The Finance Minister of the day had only to take a step across the floor to make inquiries of the hon. member for London, which would have disclosed the facts, but that was not done. I shall endeavour to abridge my remarks on account of the lateness of the session, but there are a few things which I would like, as briefly as possible, to put on the record. In the first place, the evidence states that Mr. Fielding was only suspicious of. this particular bank. He said that he did not like the name, and so forth. At page 456 of the evidence he speaks as follows:
From the beginning I disliked, I do not think the word is too strong, I disliked the movement, because I was afraid a number of farmers were going into a business they did not like and un-

dertaking responsibilities which they did not appreciate.
Again, he says:
I looked upon the application for a further extension as an evidence of weakness.
Again:
I always viewed the incorporation with anxiety, because I understood it was an effort to get farmers, as the name implied, and I thought it was the line of business that probably they were not the best capable of going into.
Again, on page 457:
My mind from the beginning was suspicious; my mind was rather unfriendly to the movement from the beginning; that kind of gossip might emphasize it a little, but from the inception of the movement I looked upon it with a little anxiety.
Again, on page 458 Mr. Fielding is asked the following question:
Q. Under the Act I think the duty is cast on the Treasury Board itself and not on the Minister of Finance individually? A. That is true, though naturally he would have chief responsibility and his colleagues would look to him largely for advice and guidance.
On page 459 he says:
I think no doubt he was to the department before that and saw some of my officials, but I am pretty clear in my recollection that I saw Mr. Travers only once and that was the 30th November, and that was the date the certificate was issued.
After all the warnings and charges of fraud, deceit, false pretenses, and illegal practices that Mr. Fielding had received, it might appear to the casual observer that he should have seen Mr. Travers more than once, and that after the information he got from Sir Edmund Osier, Mr. Henderson and Mr. Leighton McCarthy, it was incumbent on a man in Mr. Fielding's position to see the person charged with these malpractices. According to both Mr. Fielding and Mr. Travers, their interview lasted only twenty minutes, and it is very peculiar that in that interview Mr. Fielding did not tell Travers that he had received this writ from Leighton McCarthy, and the warnings from Mr. Henderson and Sir Edmund Osier. There is no evidence that he mentioned these things, but merely the statement that he told Travers what people were saying about him, and Travers denied it. Then Mr. Fielding said: 'Write me a letter to that effect.' The junior member for Halifax (Mr. A. K. Maclean) has argued that these charges did not sink into the mind of Mr. Fielding. If that is so, how is it he told Travers what the people were saying about him. It is obvious from that, that the charges from Mr. Henderson and Sir Ed-

round Osier and Mr. Leighton McCarthy had sunk into the mind of the Finance Minister, and that he was conscious that they were serious charges which called for inquiry. Mr. E. S. Clouston, then president of the Canadian Bankers' Association, used the following language in a letter to the deputy Minister of Finance, dated November 30, 1906:
Permit me to request that, if only for the protection of the public, the Treasury Board will exercise its right to refuse to issue a certificate if it thinks best so to do, until a thorough investigation has been made into the circumstances stated herein.
That was the language of a man whose word stands as high as that of any man in banking circles in this country, a man well and favourably known to the Finance Minister of that day. The letter was warning the minister against an abuse that might be perpetrated on the public, and asking for the stay of his hand. Mr. Fielding's answer was, ' I gave the certificate yesterday.' He sat back in his chair, folded his arms, and allowed Travers who had been charged with every species of fraud in the calendar to get a certificate and go out like a firebrand into the country armed with the seal of this Dominion. Mr. Fielding took not one step to put himself into possession of the facts supporting the warnings against Travers. Some have said that Mr. Fielding was guilty of an error of judgment, but I say that it was a case of not doing his duty because he did not ascertain the facts which would have enabled him to form judgment upon the charges made. He was Minister of Finance, the master of the Treasury Board, he had had notice of fraud, he had had plenty of warning, and he had had verba1 charges of improper practices against the very man to whom he gave the certificate after an interview of only twenty minutes.


The hon. gentleman states that it was notorious that Travers was dishonest at the time the certificate was issued. Might I ask if there is any truth in that?


The hon. gentleman will understand me. I am referring to the endorsements on the writ sent by McCarthy. Every kind of fraud in the calendar was charged against this man Travers. Mr. Fielding had evidence from Mr. Henderson that the bank under this man's administration was doing improper business. Mr. Fielding had information from Sir Edmund Osier that the money
was improperly and illegally borrowed. Mr. Fielding knew all this, and if he had made the inquiry that was incumbent upon him to make he would have discovered what kind of a man Travers was and turned out to be. A minister is human like any other man, but he owes a duty to himself and to his country, and we have evidence that Mr. Fielding failed to do his duty. He was guilty of negligence. To make myself clear I would just like to give two short definitionsofnegligencefrom the legal point of view, though I maintain that this question should not be discussed from the legal point of view but from the point of view of what is right and just. It should be discussed on the higher ground that the State owes a duty to the public, and should be discussed without any legal hairsplitting. A minister is chargeable with knowledge of what a reasonable inspection would disclose, and in this case Travers's perjury and the improper discounting of the notes to raise the money for the deposit would have been fully disclosed if Mr. Fielding had made further inquiries. His failure to act was a breach of duty or worse 

gross negligence. Negligence has been well defined as:
The want or absence of ordinary care; that is, just such care as a reasonably prudent and cautious man would exercise under similar circumstances.
Another definition is:
A failure to do what a reasonable and prudent person would ordinarily have done under the circumstances, and the honest endeavour to use the means reasonably necessary to avoid injury to others.
After all the warnings and notices of fraudulent transactions I say that no more fitting and pregnant language could be used in describing this case, than is found in the two terse definitions I have just quoted. Mr. Fielding was a man of splendid attainments. He had had his warnings and there is no excuse for his lack of knowledge. He knew his duty but he failed to do it. He said that when he got Mr. Clouston's letter it was too late because the certificate had already been issued. I dispute that. It is true there was no legal machinery at his hand to recall the certificate, but there is an old adage that there are a good many ways of killing a cat besides drowning, and information could easily have found its way to the public after Mr. Fielding had discovered that he had made a mistake. But no, he sat still. And why? Nobody knows why, but we do know that Travers was introduced by Mr. Calvert and the

mystery of that certificate being issued lies there. It does not do to impute motives, but the attitude of the Finance Minister on that occasion -was absolutely out of keeping with his well-known ability, assiduity, and industry. In this case he did what he was never known to have done before. He had himself admitted that he was suspicious of the institution and that he would like to stop it, but he did not stop it. And why did he not? There is not a sufficient reason, and the disaster came through his lack of action.
Sir William Meredith has dealt with this question at very great length. I need not repeat much of it, but I would just like to quote a sentence or two. On page 8 of Sessional Paper 153a the commissioner says:
My conclusion on this branch of the inquiry is that the Treasury Board was induced to give its certificate by false and fraudulent representations on the part of Travers, and that if the facts I have mentioned as to the way in which the $250,000 was made up had been disclosed, the certificate of the Treasury Board would not have been given.
Mr. Fielding had express notice of fraud, because the facts were disclosed. If he had gone further, he would have had absolute proof. He failed to do that. If he had acted, there would have been no certificate, no bank deposits and no loss. The commissioner speaks about the efficient cause. I have already said in regard to that, and I say it again, that the word * efficient ' is not appropriate; I would call it the 'deficient * cause-the failure to act on the part of the Minister of Finance that brought about the loss in this case.
I pass over the findings at large of the commissioner, because they are all set out in the report, but I wish to make this point very clear. The commissioner says:
I do not suggest that the minister would have been justified because of the information conveyed to him in recommending that the certificate should not be granted, or that the Treasury Board because of it would not have been justified in refusing to grant it.
He is non-committal there.
But having received the information, it was in my opinion incumbent on the Treasury Board to have investigated the charges that had been made before coming to a conclusion as to whether or not the certificate should be given.
That language is express and clear. It carries its own condemnation of the inaction, the negligence, of which supporters of this Bill complain. The next paragraph in the report contains these words in regard to Mr. McCarthy's letter:

, Mr. McCarthy did not in any way intimate that the information he conveyed to the minister as to the way in which the $250,000 had been made up had been found to be incorrect.
- Therefore, it will not do to say that Mr. McCarthy withdrew his writ. The charges were there. They were never investigated, never proved untrue. The charges were never withdrawn, although the writ was. The commissioner further says:
It is true that, as Mr. Fielding stated in evidence, Travers, so far as he knew, was a reputable banker; but that was not, in my opinion, a sufficient reason for not having instituted an inquiry as to the matters which had been called to his attention.
Therefore my argument is in line with what the commissioner found:
Such an inquiry could easily have been made, and the delay occasioned by it would have been inconsiderable, and such an inquiry would, undoubtedly, have resulted in the discovery of the manner in which the $100,000 had been raised and in the refusal of the Treasury Board to give the certificate.
I do not wish to detain the House at any great length with regard to that kind of evidence. The case has been proved abundantly. In fact, it was easily seen by the attempt of the hon. junior member for Halifax (Mr. Maclean) last night how desperate a cause he had, and how utterly unable he was to withstand the salient points brought out by the hon. Minister of Finance.
I wish now to turn to another phase of the question for a moment. The right hon. the leader of the Opposition in the late Parliament, in answer to Mr. Henderson- I do not quote his exact words, as I am speaking from memory- said that this country in a case of this kind ought to be big enough to do justice to these unfortunate people, some of whom had their homes severed by death or by lunacy, and some of whom were reduced to poverty and despair. I know of men in my own constituency, old and gray, who had retired from a hard and arduous life, who had deposited their savings in this chartered bank, not for purposes of speculation, but for safe-keeping, and who were left penniless owing to these savings having been completely wiped out.
This country has in the past treated outsiders generously, as it has the power to do. I might mention the volcanic disaster in the West Indies in 1902; the sufferers in Japan in 1906, when this Government poured out its money; the San Francisco earthquake in 1906, when the Government and this country paid willingly; the Jamaica earthquake in 1907; the earthquake

in Italy in 1909; the floods in France; the Ottawa and Hull fire sufferers; the distress on the Liard and Dease rivers; the Vancouver riots; the Campbellton fire sufferers. There is a list four times as long as the one I have given, and I need not dwell further on the subject. Yet it is said, forsooth, that we should not compensate the sufferers in this disaster so widespread, affecting thousands, of whom some can bear the loss, some are suffering a great deal, and others are absolutely ruined-a disaster in which poverty and distress has fallen upon men and women, Liberals and Conservatives alike. Yet, for some unaccountable reason, where no member of this House would state, although it has been charged, that any attempt has been made to make party capital out of this matter, where nothing exists in the whole situation to warrant party feeling, the hon. junior member fcr Halifax (Mr. Maclean), last night, after condemning the Government for not acting sooner, said that they were now acting too late, and moved the six months' hoist.


I did not say so.


That is exactly the
meaning that the hon. member conveyed to the House at about half-past twelve this morning. Under these cireum-
12 noon, stances, can any hon. gentleman tell this House and this country that there is in this whole affair anything but a pitiable tale of woe and distress that should be dealt with and relieved? I have letters in my possession from hon. gentlemen opposite. I have . one from the right hon, the leader of the Opposition, but I do not wish to put it on record. I have copies of letters from the hon. member for South Renfrew (Mr. Graham), the hon. member for Russell (Mr. Murphy) and other hon. members opposite, expressing their deep sorrow and regret at this great loss, and promising to do their best, and wanting to see this Government do its best, in the matter. There is nothing in the opposition to this Bill except perversity. There are hon. gentlemen opposite who are anxious to vote for this Bill. It is not a political question; it is a great financial disaster to a great many worthy and deserving people, of all political stripes, who come to this Parliament, not as a matter of right, not as a matter of law, but as a matter of grace, supplicating this Parliament to relieve them, many of them in their declining
years, from the poverty and despair which have visited their homes. We have always been generous in giving in case of need to people in foreign countries where we have neither kith nor kin; and it would be a fitting tribute to the generosity of this House and of the Upper Chamber to say that, under all these circumstances, especially owing to the fact that there was negligence on the part of the late Government, we should come to the aid of these people. No hon. member on this side desires to attack the personality of any one who was on the Treasury Board at that time. We put this question upon the high plane that all men are human, that a mistake was made, -and that people suffered by that mistake. If men suffer for their own negligence, their own lack of care, so must governments. Let us put the matter on an equitable basis, without any legal hairsplitting. Let us come together, and not have any talk about Conservatives in the Senate lobbying to kill this Bill. I repudiate that; I throw it back with scorn to the hon. gentleman that there ever was a lobby in the Senate bj Conservatives. 'There are gentlemen in the Senate who have their individual feelings, and it is their right to act as they like. It was reported in the Liberal press that there was such a lobby, and I investigated the matter, and found that there is not one jot or tittle of truth in it. As far as I know, speaking generally for this side of the House, we are practically unanimous upon this measure. There may be some opposed to it; if so, that is a tribute to the freedom of opinion in this House. And I would ask hon. gentlemen opposite to side with their colleagues from Middlesex (Mr. Ross) and North Oxford (Mr. Nesbitt) and rise above partisan feelings, which too often actuate parties in this House, and let us get together and put it through unanimously.
As to precedents, let them take care of themselves. Somebody says that similar failures have happened heretofore. If so, I would be magnanimous enough to say that those losses should be paid too. But I do not think that anything that has happened in this country has been quite of the same kind. There may have been other cases. If there have been, the country ought to be big enough to right the wrong done by its own officers for lack of care. We can pour out millions for the Canadian Northern; we can lose $7,000,000 in the Quebec bridge; we can waste millions on the transcontinental. But, with our growing and expanding rev-

enues, let us do something for the farmers and other people of this country; let them have a little show on this particular Bill, to which I have great pleasure indeed in giving my warmest and most conscientious support.


The question which is before the House for consideration is, perhaps, one of the most important questions that we have had to discuss in recent years, not on account of the amount involved, $1,200,000, but because of the principle involved in this Bill, and because of the effect which its passing will have upon future legislation. If it could be shown me, assuming the facts which have been stated by hon. gentlemen opposite, notably by the Minister of Finance, that any negligence upon the part of the Treasury Board was a contributing cause to the failure of the bank, entailing upon the depositors a loss, I would then feel in conscience bound to vote in favour of the Bill. For that purpose I have listened very carefully to the speeches delivered so far by the Finance Minister (Mr. W. T. White) and the hon. member for North Perth (Mr. Morphy). The hon. member for Perth wound up his remarks by saying that the depositors ought to be recouped, not as a matter of right, not as a matter of law, but as a matter of grace.


I know the hon. gentleman would not want to misquote me. I corrected myself with regard to the right. I admit that I used the words, but immediately corrected myself.


As a matter of right P


Absolutely.


And a matter of law ?


I did not say it was a matter of law, and I did not say it was not.


I want to be just as fair in this discussion as hon. gentlemen opposite, because I can understand the degree of feeling which they have upon this question, and I have given it myself as deep consideration as possible. All my sympathy went out to the depositors who had lost their savings, and I tried as hard as I could to find out, either as a matter of right or as a matter of law, why the Government should recoup the depositors. I would be very glad if the hon. member for Perth, or any other hon. gentleman, would correct me if I misstate any of the facts. But the hon. member for North Perth added, using the words of the hon. member

for Halton (Mr. Henderson), ' This country is rich enough, big enough and generous enough to recoup the depositors '; and he went on to say that, if any loss had been incurred through acts of officials of the department which entailed losses to other parties in similar cases, the Government ought to recoup them as well. I think 1 am quoting the sense of my hon. friend's words correctly. We on this side look upon this measure as being unfair, inasmuch as it singles out one particular bank for consideratio