That Bill No. 33, to confirm certain agreements made between the Canadian Northern Ontaiio Railway Company, the Georgian Bay and Seaboard Railway Company, and the Campbellford, Lake Ontario and Western Railway Company, be withdrawn, in accordance with the recommendations contained in the third report of the Select Standing Committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph Lines.


What about a motion to remit the fees?


The fees paid have not been in excess of the cost of printing and translation, and therefore there is nothing to remit.


What reasons did the company give for wishing to withdraw the Bill?	.


I do not know that any particular reason was given. When the Bill was called in the committee, the

gentleman in charge of the Bill'moved that it be withdrawn, and the motion was carried. I believe there was opposition to the Bill, coming from the city of Belleville, but that was not stated in the committee.


The Bill stood in my name.. The companies mentioned in the Bill were unable to come to any satisfactory agreement, and they thought it was better to have further time, and so they requested that the Bill be withdrawn.


Motion agreed to.
17th BATTALION NOVA SCOTIA HIGHLANDERS.
On the Orders of the Day being called:
On Friday I called the attention of the Government to a despatch that is going the rounds of the Canadian newspapers concerning the conditions in which the 17th Battalion of Nova Scotia Highlanders find themselves in the old country. It is reported that the commanding officer, Col. Struan Robertson, was relieved of his command on the 28th of January, and that the only satisfaction which he had been able to obtain from the General Officer Commanding was " that the authorities were down on him." The despatch contains many other matters which affect the standing of the Nova Scotia contingent and put it in a rather unenviable condition as compared with the other portions of the overseas contingent. Has the Prime Minister any information on the subject?


The arrangements for the troops on the other side have been entirely in the hands of the War Office, and we have no information from the War Office nor from any other source which would lead us to believe that the statements alluded to are wrell founded. I understand that the 600 or 700 men who went from Nova Scotia, together with four other battalions, have been set apart as reinforcements for the troops going to the front. I did see in the press, although I have no official information on the subject, that some men from the Nova Scotian regiment were to be sent forward as reinforcements for the Princess Patricia regiment. The Minister of Militia informs me that they were also to provide reinforcements for one of the Highland brigades. So far as Col. Struan Robertson is concerned, we have no information as to his having been relieved of his command. Nothing of that kind has originated or could originate here,
and we are not aware that anything of the kind has transpired.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
I note by the press that Col. Labatt has retired on account of illness. Who succeeds him?
Major-General HUGHES:	I have no
information on this subject, other than what is to be found in the newspapers. Col. Labatt has undergone a very serious operation, and, until he recovers from the effects of it, I presume some one else will be placed in command of his regiment. The information regarding his illness came by wire, and we have not as yet received any official information on the subject.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
I notice in the papers a despatch stating that one of our colleagues in -the House has been appointed as eyewitness with Sir Max Aitkin for the purpose of getting information with regard to the movement of Canadian troops, the furnishing of casualty lists, and so on. I have reference to Mr. Carrick. Has he been appointed by this Government or by the British Government; what rank does he hold, and is information being furnished to this Government by him?


So far as I am aware, there has been no person appointed as eye-witness by this Government, notwithstanding all statements in the press to the contrary. Sir Max Aitkin was appointed to discharge certain duties in connection with the Recording Office in London. Mr. Carrick, who received the rank of honorary lieutenant colonel of his own regiment, desired to be of service in any capacity for which he might be available, and he was sent forward at his own request to have his services utilized in such manner as the War Office might deem expedient. Neither he nor Sir Max Aitkin has been appointed an eye-witness.


On the Orders of the Day being called:
Has the Minister of Militia received any complaints with regard to certain dispositions made or proposed to be made in the various units which go to make up the battalion from officers in the battalion commanded by Col. McLeod, a member of this House? If so, what is the nature of those complaints, and



t>62
has the minister given personal attention to them in consultation with the general staff, and have the complaints been remedied?


I dare say that from time to time communications have come forward to persons in this country with regard to matters such as those to which the hon. member alludes. My own understanding is that any such communications are of a private and confidential character; and, further than that, I would like to remind my hon. friend that these troops, after they leave the country, having enlisted as Imperial troops, are necessarily subject to military dispositions under the control of the War Office, and that we do not make demands nor initiate anything at all in connection with such matters. It would be obviously impossible that there should be a dual control under such circumstances. We might, of course, in any case where the circumstances seemed to make it desirable, do something by way of suggestion. I am sure my hon. friend will be the first to realize that any attempt to establish a dual control over a portion of the troops at the front would probably, and indeed necessarily, have a most unfortunate result.


My idea is exactly the
same as that of my right hon. friend, namely, that dual control would be very objectionable; but a copy of the communication to which I have referred was sent to me and was not marked confidential. It was not in the nature of a complaint against the commanding officer; but it referred to certain dispositions in regard to which the Minister of Militia was asked to intervene, and I am sure that my hon. friend the Minister of Militia will not forget that, since the troops went to the O'ld Country, he has attempted to have certain things done to add to their comfort and to meet the wishes of officers and men generally 'in the Canadian contingent. That would not be exercising dual control, but would merely be bringing to bear that knowledge of affairs which the Minister of Militia has, and which he might utilize to very great advantage in the interest and for the comfort of the Canadian soldiers. As the House is aware, the Minister of Militia went to England-


The hon. member must
not forget that it is not permissible to enter into a discussion when asking a question.


The Prime Minister
rather provoked me to do that when he

stated his views as to the course he thought I ought to take as a member of this House in regard to matters of this kind. I see the Minister of Militia is anxious to reply, and so I shall sit down.


The gerieral
question of details-the name given to those who are not sent to the front, but who are kept behind to fill up vacancies arising from various causes in the brigades at the front- is left entirely in the hands of the British War Office, as has been explained by the Prime Minister.
I have not the slightest doubt that the officers, non-commissioned officers and men who were left on the details felt it very keenly. Each man is anxious to get to the front, and naturally each man would wish to get to the front with his own corps. But there must be some details. They all knew that. We have nothing to do with the selection of these details, and, whether the men are satisfied or not, these are matters over which we have not attempted to exercise any control, whatever else we may have done.


In recent press despatches it was stated that a complete list of the officers and men at Salisbury had been prepared and forwarded to the Government. Has that list been received?


That is being prepared, and I hope it will be printed in a very short time. _


Consideration of the proposed motion of Hon. W. T. White (Minister of Finance) for Committee of Ways and Means resumed from February 25.
Mr. Speaker, in resuming this debate, let me first express appreciation of the courtesy shown by the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Rogers) on Thursday evening last in consenting to the adjournment of this debate until to-day. It has been a matter of very considerable convenience to me. I suppose the only way in which I can show my gratitude in a practical way is by shortening my remarks as much as possible, and this I shall endeavour to do.
Before continuing the remarks I was making in reference to the proposed, and I think wholly unnecessary, expenditure provided for in the Estimates, I should like to call attention to an article appearing in the

Montreal Gazette, a prominent Conservative paper, under yesterday's date, criticising my hon. friend the junior member for Halifax (Mr. A. K. Maclean) and other hon. gentlemen who have spoken from this side of the House for the attitude we have taken with regard to the proposed increased taxation and rather expressing the. view that we are not discharging our duty to the country when we venture to criticise the Government with respect to these matters. I would like to read this, so that the nature of the criticism may go upon "Hansard." For this criticism is not peculiar to the Gazette; we find the same line taken in many prominent newspapers in many sections of the country. I have not observed that any prominent Liberal or Independent newspaper has criticised our course in this respect. The article to which I refer is not an editorial, but is contained in a parliamentary despatch or letter from Ottawa:
In one of the most uncompromisingly partisan speeches which the usually moderate junior member for Halifax has ever been heard to deliver, Mr. A. K. Maclean on Tuesday attacked the Government for that Recline in revenue, disturbance in trade and unsettling of financial conditions which has been experienced in Canada, as it has in a generally greater degree been experienced universally since the war began. In the course of his utterances he blamed the Government not only for the method of taxation which it proposed to adopt, but for the necessity of that taxation. It was, in many ways, an amazing deliverance, in that it arraigned the Government for a condition of affairs in Canada which has been general throughout the whole world since the first outbreak of hostilities, which in the United States alone has caused a revenue loss of over a hundred million dollars, and which has led even that neutral country to the necessity of imposing extraordinary taxation. In the face of such a fact, Mr. Maclean allowed himself to go on record as declaring that to the war alone could be laid no greater loss of revenue than five millions. It was, too, a singularly provocative utterance in view of the so-called political truce to which the Opposition has lost no opportunity of declaring its intention to adhere while Canada was in the throes of world war. As far as the method of taxation proposed by the Government was concerned, it was purely destructive criticism.
With that remark I entirely agree. It was destructive criticism-criticism of the most destructive character it would be possible for any critic to make of this Government.
There were appeals not to increase the tariff, not to touch the British preference, not to impose stamp taxes; but in all this no suggestion of any other method of securing the ends at which all these measures aim. And as regards the general question of financing, the only remedy Mr. Maclean had to propose for war conditions was the cessation of all public works and the consequent dismissal of hundreds of civil servants. It was a fighting speech and 36$
an indication that, truce or no truce, war or no war, the Pugsley-Clark spirit-
My genial and unwarlike friend from Red Deer (Mr. Clark) must be astonished to find such a statement as this in a newspaper:
-in the Liberal party has predominated and the Opposition, with no adequate measures of its own to propose, will fight those introduced by the Government.
Ye Gods! Think of an Opposition that would venture to fight the measures introduced by a Government. That is conduct which this newspaper and other newspapers cannot for a moment tolerate, especially at the present time. Mr. Speaker, I think the fact that a statement of that kind appears in such a prominent Conservative paper as the Montreal Gazette, such a thoroughly respectable and influential paper, calls for some remark from me. With regard to my hon. friend the junior member for Halifax, I think he made a fair and just criticism of the proposed measure of taxation. He argued that it was not necessary at the present time to impose this additional taxation on the people of Canadh. He contended that it was very impolitic, very unfair to the people to unduly burden them as proposed by the Minister of Finance. At the same time he showed that this Government, in the three years it has been in power, had increased the ordinary expenditure from $89,000,000 to $140,000,000-or, if you like to put it more accurately, looking at the Estimates of the present year, $147,000,000, the added $7,000,000 or thereabouts being necessary to pay interest on the money which it is proposed to borrow from the Imperial 'Government for war purposes. The hon. gentleman contended that that increase of expenditure was unjustifiable. He showed that whereas the expenditure on public works chargeable to ordinary revenue When this Government came into power, ranged about eleven or twelve millions, it was proposed this year to expend the enormous sum of twenty-two millions. And he charged, and I think properly charged, that there was nothing in connection with the public works, the immigration or the progress of the country to justify that enormous increase within three short years. He contended that if even now the Government would exercise that ordinary prudence which the average businessman in this country is exercising, and which every city, town and municipality in Canada is exercising; if they would apply the pruning hook and proceed to carry on only those public works the necessity of

which is recognized by all; it would not be long before the ordinary revenue would overtake the expenditure of the country, and it would not be necessary to resort to these extraordinary taxes and to impose these extraordinary heavy burdens upon the people of Canada.
It has been asserted that the hon. menu ber for Halifax said that all publio works should cease. My hon. friend said nothing of the kind. What he said was that in respect of harbour improvements, the deepening of rivers, the dredging of waterways and the erection of public buildings it would be possible to reduce the expenditure during this year, perhaps by one-half. In that way the public works would go on with reasonable rapidity and the people would be far better satisfied than if these works were carried out at full speed by means of this proposed extra taxation, That was the argument of the hon. junior member for Halifax; that was a part of the criticism which he made of the policy of the Government, and I for one say that the j unior member - for Halifax was entirely justified in the remarks, hev made in that respect.
I have had an opportunity of being among my own constituents for a couple of days since I addressed the House last week. When I first arrived I met a number of people who said: You are charged with desiring to stop the public works in St. John; surely that is not a proper thing to do. But I explained that while it was proposed to spend a considerable sum of money at St. John, and while we desired that there should be retrenchment and economy, yet we proposed not that these works should be stopped, but that they should 'be carried on with all reasonable rapidity, subject to the due exercise of proper economy. When I pointed out that these taxes are going to impose upon the 350,000 people of New Brunswick the payment of the enormous sum of 31,500,000 a year, they realized that I as a representative from that province was justified in standing up with my Liberal friends in the House and appealing to the Government not to resort to these extraordinary measures of taxation, but to proceed to exercise that economy which they might fairly exercise without any detriment to the public interest. Hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House talk about the necessity for going on with public works. They know-but they conceal it from the

people-that public works in any locality benefit but a small portion of the community. During the year which will close March 31, there will have been expended some 33,000,000 upon the harbour of St. John, but out of that total amount there has not been paid for labour more than $300,000. Many thousands of dollars have gone to the southern states to buy southern pine for the construction of wharves; vast sums of money have gone outside of St. John to purchase cement to be used in the making of concrete; vast sums of money have gone to pay contractors' profits and interest on the plant. I would say too, if it would not offend my hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, that a large amount possibly went towards the nourishment and support of those newspapers in New Bruns-vick which so violently attack members of the Opposition for venturing to criticise the Government. .
At the adjournment last Thursday evening I was endeavouring to show that there are in the Estimates for the coming year items providing for ^orks of various kinds -h'arbour and river improvements, erection of public buildings-in respect of which I believe the Government does not seriously intend to make any progress during the coming year. In a great majority of cases the amounts voted for next year are simply re-votes; if the Minister of Marine and Fisheries will take the trouble to look at the estimates for New Brunswick, he will find that the items in respect of a large number of public buildings are exactly the same as the amounts voted for the same purposes at the last regular session of Parliament. This shows positively that no work has been done, and I presume that in a large number of cases no contracts have been let and no plans prepared.
As evidence of the fact that unnecessary, items of expenditure are placed in the Estimates

I shall not say proposed to be made -in connection with the Department of Public Works, the Department of Railways and Canals and the Department of Marine and Fisheries, let me call attention to the fact that $5,000,000 has been struck out of the Estimates of the Department of Militia and Defence. In other words, the Estimates for the coming year are $5,000,000 and upwards less than they were last year. But that does not mean that the money is not to be spent; it means that the money is to be spent, but it is to be borrowed from the British Government to form part of the war expenditure. My hon. friend (Mr. Hazen) shakes his head, but-


If my hon. friend will
1 Jok at the Militia Estimates he will observe that those items which were voted last year and which do not appear in the Estimates this year were expenses of camps of instruction, training of cadets, annual drill, and items of that nature which, in view of tue war, were not considered necessary during the present year. Not one dollar for these purposes would be used out of the vote for war expenditure.


I was not calling attention to that at all; what I had in mind was annual drill. Last year $2,000,000 wore voted for annual drill; there will be no annual drill this year because the soldiers are being drilled preparatory to their going to the war. Therefore the item is cut out, but it is charged to war expenditure.


No, annual drill is not
charged to war expenditure.


But what takes the
place of annual drill is paid for with money borrowed from the British Government. The item for ordnance and arms, amounting to $1,900,000, is also struck out. Ordnance and arms will be required for the militia for the coming year, or would be required if it were not for the war and if the militia men of Canada were not preparing to take part in the defence of the Empire. I do not know just how long my hon. friend was acting Minister of Militia and Defence; one of his organs in New Brunswick said that he was acting Minister of Militia during the absence of the minister,	but when	the	minister returned he referred to the Prime Minister	as	having been	the	acting Minister of Militia during his absence. But	if	my hon. friend	the Ministerof Marine and Fisheries was acting Minister of Militia and Defence, he ought to know that	this	Government	has	ordered vast
quantities of ammunition for the militia of Canada. Of course, it is for the purposes of war.


Did my hon. friend expect us to shoot blank cartridges?


Therefore that whole amount for ordnance, arms and ammunition has been struck out from the Estimates of the Department of Militia; $1,900,000 has been struck out. As I have said, it does not mean that the money is not to be expended, but that it is to be excluded from the Militia Estimates, while an equivalent or a greater amount, perhaps a far greater amount, is to be included in
the sums which are to be borrowed from the Imperial Government for the purposes of the war. And there are stores. It will be necessary to have stores just the same, but I presume these stores which are to be purchased now and next year will all be charged to the expenses of the war. All this money taken out of current Militia expenditure, and which is to be included in the money borrowed from England for the. purpose of the war should be available for the necessary expenditure of the other-Departments of the Government.


Might I interrupt my hon. friend? He said that the hon. junior member for Halifax (Mr. A. K. Maclean) did not suggest giving up public works altogether this year. I would ask the hon. gentleman what meaning he attaches to these words of the hon. member for Halifax at page 387:
I do submit, and in fairness, I think, having in view the circumstances prevailing throughout Canada this year, and throughout the world for that matter, that instead of the Government's asking for an expenditure of $20,000,000 for public works, they might have asked , for $10,000,000 or less, and, if need be, they might have wiped out altogether expenditures for public works for the next fiscal year.
The hon. gentleman adds:
I do not believe that the people of any province of Canada would have objected to the most drastic measures on the part of the Minister of Public Works during the present year and during the next fiscal year in connection with public works expenditure.
I would ask my hon. friend if that does not convey the suggestion that there should be no expenditure for public works during the present fiscal year.


I do not so read it. Let me read the whole passage:
I do submit, and in fairness, I think, having in view the circumstances prevailing throughout Canada this year, and throughout the world for that matter, that instead of the Government's asking for an expenditure of $20,000,000 for public works, they might have asked for $10,000,000 less.
It is important to consider this suggestion by itself. I think that my hon. friend the junior member for Halifax was speaking of the ordinary expenditure, not the expenditure upon capital account.


I was.


Not the expenditure on national harbors and so on. The hon. member went on:

And if need be, they might have wiped out altogether expenditures for public works for the next fiscal year.
That is, if need be. Where fs the objection to that? Suppose the Government had exercised reasonable, fair economy and had found that in order to carry on the public services they would have to curtail the public works which are chargeable to ordinary revenue-the building of the hundred odd buildings throughout Ontario, most of them in small towns where they have very good postal accommodation at the present time; if they had decided that it was absolutely necessary to postpone the construction of these buildings for one year, where would be the harm, more particularly as although this Parliament gave the money to the Government upwards of a 5'ear ago they have in many cases not started the work; they have not, I venture to say, in the majority of cases, even had the plans prepared. Where would the public interest have suffered if the construction of these buildings had been posponed for one year? The hon. junior member for Halifax said:
I do not believe that the people of any province of Canada would have objected to the most drastic measures on the part of the Minister of Public Works during the present year and during the next fiscal year In connection with public works expenditure. Many of these projected works were without justification, the necessity for others have at least temporarily passed away by reason of the declining business of the country. Expenditures for these purposes should have been reduced to the minimum this year and next year. And bear in mind that the expenditures to which I have referred do not include votes for dredging and dredging plants nor for other public works of an important or national character, whether proposed to he made under ordinary or capital expenditure. In respect to public works expenditure is it not time to adopt some rational policy?
Who will object to that? Who will say it is not the time to adopt some rational policy in respect to national works? Who will say it is not the time to endeavour to economize to a reasonable and fair extent?
The junior member for Halifax goes on:
Is not this the time to commence? Circumstances will compel us irr the near future, and I believe public opinion is condemnatory of the present method of spending money on public works. In this respect the present Government have been great sinners.
The Minister of Marine and Fisheries should hot pick out just one part of the hon. member's speech, but should read the whole of it. Having read the hon. gentleman's complete remarks, I ask how any fair-minded man could question the reason-

ableness of the views set forth by the hon. junior member for Halifax.
In connection with public expenditure, just let me show you for a moment with what ideas this Government came into power. When they came into power in 1911 they found themselves with a buoyant and expanding revenue, with millions of dollars beyond what was necessary to meet the ordinary expenses of the country. In the city of St. John a demonstration was held, which was attended by the Minister of Finance (Mr. White), the Minister of Customs (Mr. Reid), and, I think, the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Hazen.) Under plans prepared by the late Government it had been proposed to expend there in the development of the great harbour of Courtenay bay about $11,500,000. My hon. friend the Minister of Customs had been taken around, and he had been amazed at the wonderful possibilities of the port of St. John; and at the banquet that night he said to the representative citizens who were there in numbers:	" The only fear
I have is that you are going ahead on too small a scale." And he said:	In
your presence and that of the Minister of Finance, I want to say to the Minister of Public Wotks that if he wants more money to carry on and enlarge these improvements, let him come to the Department of Customs." These, Sir, were the ideas of extravagance which were being disseminated among the people of Canada. -They were taught to believe that in the opinion of this Government the rainy day would never come and that all they had to do was to go ahead, to spend all the money they could possibly spend; that the time would never come when the revenues would decline, but that they might count upon them being enlarged-year by year for all time to come.


The hon. member is mistaken in saying that I was present at the banquet to which he refers. I was in England at the time. I recollect, however, reading the reports in the newspapers, and it seems to me I read a statement by my hon. friend fully approving of what the Minister of Customs had said.


This is only one of the very erroneous ideas my hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries received when he was in England. He can well understand that I wrould not approve of what the Minister of Customs said, because

5G7
it was a reflection on myself. I wanted the people of St. John to believe that I had been liberal in expenditure, that I had provided plans for these works which would be ample for many years to come, and when the Minister of Customs thought it necessary or desirable to belittle what I had done, to convey the impression that I had been.' too small in my ideas and that all they had to do was to come to the Government and get many millions more, my ho'n. friend will well understand that I would not be ardent in expressing my approval of what the Minister of Customs had said.
There is another thing in regard to Which I should like to ask a question. I should like to know how it is that of the item of $4,700,000 which was voted last year for the construction, acquisition, leasing or expropriation of terminal elevators, no part has been expended during this year.


Some has been expended.


No, it is marked a revote. It may be a clerical error, of course.


If my hon. friend is referring to the elevators in the West, I may point out that a great deal has been expended in that direction.


Then, it is misleading to put that in as a revote.


My hon. friend would call it that anyway.	V


Did I ever miscall anything that my hon. friend has done? I have enough to do to quote correctly what he has done, and enough to find fault with when I state correctly all his acts and statements, as perhaps he will discover before we get through with this discussion.


The amount voted last year was $4,700,000, and this year we are asking for $3,000,000. I think it would be natural to infer from those figures that $1,700,000 has been spent during the year.


Yes, if it were not for
the fact that it was put in as a revote. Mr. Speaker, I was saying that of the $3,905,100 which Parliament is asked to vote for public buildings in Ontario, the enormous sum of $2,282,100 is made up of revotes. In a great many cases not a single dollar has been expended on the buildings for which amounts were provided during the last session of Parliament. Take, for instance, the public building at Berlin, for which a revote of $50,000 is asked. What does that
mean, Sir? It means that at the last session of Parliament-not, I am bound to say, in view of the statement of the Minister of Public Works, with any idea of influencing the electors-$50,000 was put in the Estimates in the session of 1913-14 but none of that amount has been spent. Why has none of it been spent? Why was not a contract let? Why was not even the foundation of a building prepared? We have conclusive evidence that not a blow was struck on that building. Yet last year, when no war was on, at all events until August, the building was not considered as urgently required, although provision was made for it in the Estimates. How can they fustify the clapping on of this extra tax by saying that this and other buildings are necessary when, although they were so urgently required last year that provision was made for them in the Estimates, not one dollar has been spent on them since. Take the public building at Burk's Falls', for which $20,000 was voted in the session of 1913-14. Not a single dollar of it has been spent, and yet the amount is again put in to swell up the Estimates in the hope of inducing the people of this country to believe that it is absolutely necessary to impose these special taxes upon an already overburdened people. Take the public building at Cobourg. Not one dollar of the $25,000 that was voted for it last session has been spent and the whole amount appears as a revote. And so I might go on down the list. There are scores of buildings in regard to which provision was made in the session of 1913-14, but on which not a single dollar has been spent since the money was voted. The same remark applies to the province of Quebec, to which I have already referred; and to Manitoba, where the' amount of $1,008,500 includes a revote of $752,500; that is to say, $750,000 of the amount voted in the session of 1913-14 remains unexpended. Take the Winnipeg barracks, for instance, for which $150,000 was voted in 1913-14; the amount to be voted this session is $150,000. The amount of the revote is $150,000. That shows that, although the Minister of Public Works sought to make Parliament believe that this money was required upwards of a year ago, not one dollar of it has been expended; which proves, I think, that there is no great urgency for these buildings, and that they- might very well stand for another year at all events, and that no public interest would suffer thereby. Take Winnipeg postal station "C," for which $75,000

was voted at the previous session, and $73,000 is asked for now. It is true that in that case $2,000 has been spent-not a very large amount. Take Winnipeg postal station "D," for which $75,000 was voted at the previous session; $75,000 is the vote for this year, and the revote is $75,000, showing that not a single dollar of that money has been expended, and refuting in the most positive way the statement that these works are urgently required, and which has been given as one of the reasons for this alleged, and falsely alleged, war tax. In the province of Saskatchewan the cases are even more marked. The vote for 191415 was $983,500. The amount asked for this year is $806,500, and the revote is $711,500, showing that of the large amount of $983,500 voted at- the previous session, almost all of it is a revote. And there are several other public buildings in regard to which no work has been done, and presumably no contract let. The same remark applies to Alberta, British Columbia, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and indeed to the whole of Canada. In view of that, Mr. Speaker, do you not think that the burden is upon this Government of giving to this Parliament a detailed statement of the public works in regard to which they think there is such urgency that the work on them cannot be delayed, and so justifying the imposition of this special tax? They attempt to justify it on the ground that these public works must go on. Presumably they said the same thing in the session of 1913-14, but I have shown to you and to this House that they asked for millions of dollars which they have not expended even in a time of peace. So it cannot lie in their mouths to say that these works are so urgently required in this time of war as to necessitate the imposition of these special and onerous taxes.


I might point out to my hon. friend that none of these votes are available for expenditure until the Supply Bill has been passed and assented to, and the House prorogued. The House prorogued last year on the 8th day of June, I think. War was declared on the 4th of August, but it was known a few days before that there would be war. Do I understand my hon. friend to complain because the Government, when war broke out, adopted the policy of proceeding only with those works actually under operation at the time, and does he say that the money that was voted could have been spent between the 8th day of June and the declaration of war?


I do not complain that the Government did not spend the money, [Mr. Pugsley.l
I never did complain. I stated it as evidence that there is no emergency witn regard to these public buildings. I quite agree
with my hon. friend that after the war broke out the Government should have proceeded slowly. But the war is still on, and I greatly fear that the war will be on next year after these amounts have been voted, and if as my hon. friend suggests it was not reasonable to go ahead during these past six months, from the month of June to the month of December, when the building season was on, why does he say it is reasonable to ask Parliament to impose these special taxes in order that these works may now be rushed, the war still being on, and the financial condition of Canada in an alarming condition, due to the reckless administration of affairs by this Government since it came to power? There are in these Estimates items to the extent of millions of dollars in regard to which the action of the Government proves without the shadow of a doubt that there is no emergency, and that the public interest would not suffer if they should stand over for another year. If the Government could go slowly in respect to all these public works, surely that casts upon the Minister of Finance the burden of laying before this House a clear and detailed statement of the public works, the urgency of which is great, the necessity of going on with which is great, and which they purpose going on with, even though the war should continue. The Minister of Finance is asking the people of Canada to take upon themselves a heavy burden, and he should show absolute necessity for his course before he adopts the unusual expedient of raising money, not for war purposes [DOT]-let that not be too strongly emphasized- but simply in order to restore the equilibrium between the ordinary revenue and the ordinary expenditure. Before he does that, he ought to be able to show to this House and to the people of this country that these public works which the Government say they intend to carry on, are of an urgent character, and -that the public interest would suffer if the Government allowed some of them to be postponed until another year.
When you bear in mind that in this $140,000,000, which the Minister of Finance says will be expended and chargeable to consolidated revenue as ordinary expenditure during the coming year, is included seven or eight million dollars of interest upon the money borrowed and to be borrowed from the Imperial Government for war purposes,

surely it is not unreasonable to ask this Government to now curtail expenditure, and to bring the total expenditure chargeable against consolidated revenue down to at least one hundred million dollars. When we show tha't even in times of the greatest prosperity, even with an abounding revenue, even with a surplus of thirty or forty million dollars, the late Government only three years ago was able to get its ordinary expenditure down to less than ninety million dollars, surely in this time of war and trouble and stress, when the people of Canada need every dollar they can spare for contribution to various charitable objects to which they are cheerfully contributing, this Government ought to be able to cut down the expenditure within ten million dollars of what the expenditure on current account by the Liberal Government was only three years ago. It is not fair for hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House to simply say: Oh, if you charge us with extravagance now, you are showing partisan feeling, and, after all, suppose we have been guilty of extravagance, what are you going to do about it? Well, Mr. Speaker, when we show, as we have shown conclusively from the public accounts, that only three years ago, when the whole country was prosperous, and when its revenues were increasing with wonderful rapidity, and when liberal provision was made for the various public works, the total expenditure on current account was only $90,000,000, surely we have the right to ask this Government to curtail the expenditure to at least $100,000,000. If the Government did so now, within a very short time the finances of Canada would be again in a sound position. The Ministei of Finance is estimating a revenue upon current account this year of $120,000,000, and if we should cut the ordinary expenditure down to $100,000,000, we would* have a surplus of $20,000,000. But, this Government is like the inexperienced mariner who, navigating his ship, hears the roar of the breakers off his bow and gives the order to steam ahead. All we want to do is to stop the ship as soon as possible, turn her so as to get her in a position of safety, guide her with skill and prudence, and in a few years we would be in a financial position which would give satisfaction and joy to the people of Canada. That is all we are asking the Government to do. We are asking them to be prudent; we are asking them to adopt the same prudent course which any business man or any municipality would adopt under the existing circumstances.
In answer to that these gentlemen on the other side of the House say to us: "Oh, the war is on, many people are out of employment, and now is the time for us to rush ahaad and spend all the money we can get, not only from the ordinary revenues, but which we may be able to squeeze out of the people by these exactions in the way off stamp duties and increased customs taxes.
I have-criticised in my own humble way the reasons presented by the Government for putting on these taxes, and I assert that in my opinion these taxes cannot De defended from any standpoint. They are so wanting in reason, so inharmonious, so unfair, so unequal in the burdens they impose upon the people that they cannot be defended. Take the question of putting stamps on receipts and cheques, and the poor man who is involved in a transaction of ten dollars pays as much as the wealthy man who is involved in a transaction of twenty or fifty or sixty thousand dollars. The burden upon the poor man in respect to small transactions is exactly the same as it is upon the rich man in respect to large transactions.
Let us consider the burden imposed upon people, who travel in sleeping cars. The man who occupies a berth from St. John to Montreal, or from Montreal to Toronto, or from Ottawa to Toronto, pays as much as the man who gets aboard a sleeping car in Montreal -and journeys all the way through to the Pacific ocean. The man going the journey of 3,000 miles in a sleeping car pays no more into the Dominion treasury than the man who goes the short journey.
Why is it that the man who, instead of buying his ticket, is furnished with a pass upon the railways, does not also pay a tax? Why is it that the 300 odd members of this Parliament who, by law, are entitled to travel free upon the railways, are not obliged to pay a tax whenever they enter upon ia railway journey the same as the man who does not enjoy that privilege and who is obliged to pay for his railway ticket ? What reason is there why the gentleman who enjoys the luxury of a private car and who is constantly travelling over the railways of this country, having passes not only for himself and his family, but for his car, is exempt under this extraordinary measure? Why. is it that the rich men who enjoy these luxuries are exempt from taxation ? An hen. member who preceded me, truly said that this tariff exemplifies the Scriptural

statement: " To him that hath, shall be given, -and from him that hath not shall be taken away, even that which he hath."
Why is a tax placed upon bituminous coal, which is used by hundreds [DOT] of thousands of poor people? Surely it is not because my right hon. friend the Prime Minister represents a coal-producing county. I would not suggest that; but what is the reason ? Will the hon. Minister of Finance tell us why bituminous coal, $15,000,000 worth of which came into Canada from the United States last year, has the tax upon if increased, while anthracite coal, $22,000,000 worth of which came info Canada from the United States last year, is left absolutely free of taxation ? Anthracite coal is used by the wealthy classes, perhaps I should say by the middle classes also but bituminous coal is the coal of the poor man.


The hon. financial critic of the Opposition is on record in Hansard as saying-


I am not discussing the financial critic of the Opposition; I am speaking for myself.


Will the hon. gentleman permit me-


No.


The hon. member for St. John has the floor.


I object to my hon.
friend interrupting me in order to refer to what other hon. members on this side have said on this question. If my hon. friend wants to ask me anything in regard to what I have said on this question I shall be glad to give him an opportunity to do so.


There will be another
chance, and I will give my hon. friend all the opportunity he wants.


Yes, that will be a first-rate opportunity.


Will my hon. Mend permit me to ask a question?


Wait a moment. I wish to make a remark to my hon. friend the Solicitor General. I am glad to know that my hon. friend is not always unreasonable. Now what does my hon. friend wish to say?


As my hon. friend is so conversant with the coal question, will he tell us in what part of the province of Ontario the poor man uses bituminous coal?


What about Quebec and the maritime provinces?


In the form of gas. The poor man uses very little electricity as compared with gas. He is taxed by reason of this tax upon bituminous coal. Every company manufacturing gas in all the little towns throughout the province of Ontario is taxed a certain amount under this new tariff. The poor man also uses bituminous coal in his grate. Bituminous coal is used in that way by the poor man in my province, and 1 dare say also in the province of Ontario. Anthracite coal is largely used for furnaces, to heat the great office buildings in the various cities of Canada. It is used to heat the scores of buildings which the Government have been renting in vastly increased numbers from its wealthy friends in the city of Ottawa. It would be ia shame to impose burdens upon these gentlemen and to make them pay a little more for their coal. But that is one o'f the inequalities of this tariff.
On behalf of the farmers of this country, I ask the Minister oif Finance why he allows anthracite coal to the value of $22,000,000 to come in from the United States, and why he puts this tax upon practically everything the farmers of this country use? Why does he tax the farmers' ploughs, harrows, pitchforks, shovels, spades, hoes, potato-diggers and wagons ? It has been pointed out in the very able speech delivered by my bon. friend the member for Assiniboia (Mr. Turriff) that amongst the many other things in regard to which there is imposed by this new tariff an increase of duty to the extent of 100 peT cent, are fertilizers, the plant food, the life of the farmers' products. Why is that done? Can the Minister of Finance explain it? Can it be explained upon any other ground than to avoid the necessity for care, the necessity of going over the old tariff, taking up the different articles in regard to which in some cases the tariff was low and in some cases high and in some cases at a medium rate and adjusting the rates? Is it because it was easy simply to make an absolutely arbitrary horizontal rise of 5 per cent against Great Britain, 74 per cent against countries enjoying the intermediate tariff and 74 per cent against countries enjoying the general tariff? Under this new tariff the fertilizer of the farmer has been taxed by an increase in duty to the extent of 100 per cent against Great Britain, 75 per cent against countries enjoying the intermediate tariff, -and 75 per

cent against countries enjoying the general tariff.
This was bad enough. But in case of another most important fertilizer, nitrate of soda, which is absolutely essential to the people of eastern Canada, particularly at this time when, by reason of the war, the importation of potash from Germany is shut off-whereas nitrates formerly came into Canada free of duty, this Government has imposed upon that very important fertilizer the high tariff of 7J per cent against the only country in which nitrates can be obtained. I speak now of a country in regard to which the members of the Government seem ignorant, and more especially my hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Hazen)-I refer to the Republic of Chile. Chile has the only natural nitrate beds in the world. Last year there was brought into Canada from Chile some 45,000,000 pounds of nitrates. This was not all used for agricultural purposes; but a good deal, I presume, was used for making powder. Chile is a country with which Canada might have a good deal of trade; it is a country of enormous wealth and of vast possibilities. I hope the Minister of Marine and Fisheries will give attention to that country, because it especially interests his own province, which needs this fertilizer. Last year the export duties upon nitrates collected by the Chilean Government amounted to about $84,000,000 in Chilean money, or $42,000,000 in Canadian money. Under the former tariff nitrates came in absolutely free of duty, but now the Minister of Finance has put upon it a duty of 7J per cent.
In view of what I have said, what irony it seems for the Minister of Finance to declare that by this tariff a stimulus will be given to agricultural productions and to manufactures. As to manufactures, I do not think there is any doubt, because the very object of the tariff was to give increased protection to the manufacturers. But why the Minister of Finance should venture to say that the new tariff would encourage the farmers of this coun