Joseph Adelard Descarries, Esq., for the Electoral District of Jacques Cartier, introduced by the Hon. T. Chase Casgrain and Hon. Louis Coderre.
The Civil Service List of Canada, 1914.- Hon. Louis Coderre.
Report of the Secretary of State of Canada for the year ended March 31, 1914.-Hon. Louis Coderre.
Statement of Governor General's Warrants issued since the last session of Parliament on account of 1914-1915.-Hon. W. T. White.
Statement of Expenditure on account of Unforeseen Expenses, from August 18, 1914, to February 4, 1915.-Hon. W. T White.
Auditor General's Report for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1914.-Hon. W. T. White. .
Report of the Ottawa Improvement Commission for the year ended March 31, 1914.- Hon. W. T. White.
Statement of the receipts and expenditures of the Royal Society of Canada for the year ended April 30, 1914.-Hon. W. T. White.
Statement of Civil Service Superannuation and Retiring allowances for the year ended December 31, 1914.-Hon. W. T. White.
Shareholders in Chartered Banks as of. date December 31, 1913.-Hon. W. T. White.
Public Accounts of Canada for the year ended March 31, 1914.-Hon. W. T. White.
That Albert Sevigny, Esq., member representing the electoral district of Dorchester, be appointed Chairman of Committees of the Whole House.
He said: Mr. Sevigny is a young member of this House, and young also in years. Since his entrance into the House he has displayed qualities which admirably adapt him to fill the important position for which he is now proposed. He combines a perfect knowledge of that language which is his mother tongue with an excellent command of English, and it is with every confidence that I submit his name to the House as the selection for Chairman of the Committee of the Whole House.	.


I do not rise with any intention at all of opposing the election of the hon. member for Dorchester

to the chairmanship of the Committee of the Whole House. I am prepared to agree that Mr. Sevigny is a young member well qualified in many ways to fill that position. But what will the electors of Dorchester say when they hear that Mr. Sevigny is no longer to champion the policy he was elected upon? Like yourself, Sir, Mr. Sevigny when elected will be an arbiter be tween the two parties in this House. The moment he takes the Chair to preside over the deliberations of this House he is supposed-and I hope the supposition will not be a vain one-to be absolutely without politics.
It is said that he will not be able to take part in any political fight. In this I hope he will not follow in the footsteps of his predecessor, who did not scruple to take part in any political fight although occupying the position that the hon. member for Dorchester is going to occupy. But I believe that, if the electors of Dorchester are in the same frame of mind that they were in at the time of the general elections in 1911, they will be very much aggrieved when they hear that the young man to whom they gave their entire confidence then, and who was pledged to obtain in this Parliament the repeal of the Naval Service Act, will henceforth make no effort in that direction. Henceforth not a word will be heard from the hon. member for Dorchester against the Naval Service Act.


What will the Government do without him?


I do not know, however, that the position which he is about to occupy will change his attitude very much in this respect because the hon. member for Dorchester is entitled to the compliment that the moment he came into this House where he happened to sit upon the side of the Government, his views on the Naval Service Act underwent a very severe change. If my memory serves me, one of the first things the hon. gentleman did after he entered this House was to give notice of a Bill to repeal the Naval Service Act; but I am not aware that he ever presented such a Bill. I think he made one inquiry, whether it was the intention of the Government to repeal the Act or not, but as yet they have not done it. Be this as it may, whatever the change of heart of my hon. friend may be, it is apparent that henceforth'he is to allow the Naval Service' Act to be applied without being able to

utter a word against it. I give credit to my hon. friend for having had a change of heart in this respect, and if he again goes before the electors of Dorchester he will understand that after all the straight path is the best, and that it is better in Opposition as well as in Government to do the best that is to be done for the country.


I entirely agree with one of my right hon. friend's observations, namely, that the electors of Dorchester on any future occasion will be very much of the same mind as they were in 1911, and I think-


Good-bye to the Naval Act, then.


That it may be said of my hon. friend from Dorchester that he has at least made as much progress in accomplishing the repeal of the Naval Service Act as my right hon. friend did after 1896 in destroying that protection against which he made so many vows. If my right hon. friend has seen fit to introduce the subject of changes of opinion upon public questions, I can only say that my hon. friend from Dorchester has a long record to fill up before he shall be able to emulate my right hon. friend.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. ROBERT BICKERDIKE (St. Law

rence, Montreal): moved for leave to introduce a Bill to amend the Criminal Code. He said: I want to say that capital punishment is murder, and that it is morally indefensible in any Christian land. It is a relic of the dark, pestilential days of Nero.
I am afraid that the
hon. gentleman is starting on a course that will take him away from the well-understood rule of the House that a simple explanation only is in order at this stage.


I was just coming to that, Sir. I think I am safe in saying that the time has arrived when it is the bounden duty of this Government and Parliament to give consideration to this grave question, which is daily growing in importance all over the world-


Not just now.


-especially in the Christian nations. The purpose of the

Bill is to abolish capital punishment in the Dominion of Canada and to substitute life imprisonment for the different crimes for which capital punishment is provided under our present Criminal Code. The opinion has gained ground very rapidly of recent years that the death penalty is nothing more or less than legalized, brutal murder. I am aware that there are a number of. members of this House who look upon capital punishment as a deterrent. I hope that I shall be able to prove, when the Bill comes up for its second reading, that it is not a deterrent. If we wore honest in saying that it is a deterrent, then all executions should be made as public as possible; and if they are to be regarded as an object lesson to the community, then we should have a hanging bee in the public square. If capital punishment is to be regarded as an object lesson, then we had better have this exhibition where every man, woman and child will be able to see all the ghastly proceedings. I trust that every hon. member of this House who votes against my amendment will feel a sense of personal guilt if Canada continues to stand before the world as a barbarous country.


I am afraid the hon.
gentleman is not confining himself to an explanation of the Bill.


Any further remarks I have to offer, with your permission, I will defer until such time as the second reading is called.


The hon. member, it
appears, has not a copy of his Bill at hand, and therefore it will be obliged to stand.
Motion allowed to stand.


Mr. J. E. ARMSTRONG (East Lambton) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 3, to amend the Railway Act. He said:	The
Bill is very similar to the one I introduced last year requiring steamship companies to file their rates of toll and tariff arrangements with the Railway Board. At the present time steamships run in connection with railways are required to file with the Board of Railway Commissioners their rates, tolls and tariff arrangements, while all other steamboats, of which we have 8,500 in Canada, are allowed to make use of our 'nl and waters and to charge the producers,
manufacturers and shippers whatever tolls they wish.
They are perfectly free to call at any port, or at no port, as they choose. One clause of this Bill brings the steamships under the jurisdiction of the Railway Board. Another clause gives the Railway Board control over privileges granted by railway companies to shippers and manufacturers. Certain privileges are granted to speculators, such as enabling a man buying 25,000 bushels of grain at Winnipeg and shipping it, to hold it up in transport at Port Arthur or elsewhere, thus monopolizing the rolling stock of the railway and interfering with transportation. Certain privileges are also granted to municipalities immediately outside some of our large cities, where railway men are directly interested in real estate, and where they are apt to have the trains stop. The Bill provides that matters of this kind shall be placed under the jurisdiction of the Railway Commission, so that a remedy may be applied.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
The Bill on the Order
Paper to regulate the exportation of nickel was reserved yesterday for my ruling. After a careful consideration of the Rules of the British House of Commons and of the Canadian House of Commons, I have reached the conclusion that this Bill is of such character that it should come under Rule 50, which provides:
No Bill relating to trade, or the alteration of the laws concerning trade, is to be brought into this House, until the proposition shall have been first considered in a Committee of the Whole House and agreed unto by the House.
.It appears to me quite clear that a Bill to regulate or restrict the export of nickel is a Bill relating to trade within the meaning of. this rule (Bourinot, p. 633). Mr. Speaker Cockburn held that the term ' trade ' included exporting goods, and in 1911, upon the question of the introduction of the Bill to amend the Electricity and Fluid Exportation Act, Mr. Speaker Marcil held that it was a Bill relating to trade within the meaning of Rule 50, and must be introduced upon resolution, and last year the Bill relating to the exportation of petroleum was introduced upon resolution (Journals of the House of Commons, volume 46, page 125,' and Journals of the House of Commons, volume 49, page 157).

It is true that the Bill to regulate the export of electric power and natural gas, chapter 16 of the Statutes of 1907, was introduced, in 1906, by Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, and in 1907 by Sir Allen Aylesworth, without a resolution, but in both instances this would seem to have been the result of inadvertence, and no exception was taken to what I conceive to have been an irregularity.
I would also point out that in the session of 1911 the House decided that it was necessary with respect to three Bills-one relating to the importation, etc., of white phosphorus matches, one relating to the importation, etc., of explosives, and the other to the importation, etc., of opium-that they must be introduced upon resolution.


I
draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the following, which is published in the Ottawa Citizen of this morning:
Machias, Me., Feb. 8.-Werner Horn, wnu maintains that his recent attempt to blow up the Canadian end of the international railway bridge near Vanceboro was an act of war, tonight retained Daniel T. O'Connell, of Boston, as counsel. The attorney will look after Horn's interests in connection with the effort of the Canadian Government to obtain the extradition to the Dominion of the man who claims that he was formerly an officer in the German army.
Horn is now serving a sentence of thirty days in the county jail here for damage to property on the American side of the border caused by the explosion.
Does the Prime Minister know anything about this serious incident, and has he taken any steps in the matter?


The Government of course has information of the incident. The Department of Justice has the matter in hand, and has taken the necessary measures with regard to extradition.


[Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.]
1.	FVhat vas the total expenditure in connection with tlie Transcontinental Investigation Commission ?
2.	How much was paid to F. P. Gutelius for his services in connection with the said investigation, including travel and outlay?
3.	What was the date of his appointment tv the said commission, and how many days war he employed in connection with the sittings o' said commission?

4.	Was the said F. P. Gutelius in the employ of the Intercolonial railway during any part of the time that he was acting on the said commission? If so, did he receive any remuneration during that time from the Intercolonial railway, and how much?
5.	What is the gross amount that has been paid to the said F. P. Gutelius for his services in connection with the said commission, and also as general manager of the Intercolonial railway since the date of his appointment to December 31, 1914?


1.	$65,668.18.
2.	Services, $25,870. 1 Travel and outlay,. $1,595.48.
3.	(a) January 29, 1912; (b) 398 days.
4.	No.
5.	(a)	$27,465.48, gross amount; (b)
amount paid Mr. Gutelius for services by the Intercolonial Railway, between May 1913, and December 31, 1914, $33,303.33.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY-GUYS'	BOROUGH BRANCH.


1.	Did the Department of Railways ana Canals survey a branch railway in Guysborough county during 1914?
2.	Has the survey been completed?
3.	Has a report been made to the minister? -
4.	What is the name and post office aaaiess of the engineer who had charge of the work, and what are the names and post office addresses of the members of his staff, and the daily or monthly wages paid to each?
5.	How many men were employed on said survey, and what are their names, post office addresses and rate o{ wages?
6.	What is the total cost of said survey to date?
7.	What is the maximum grade between the town of Guysborough and the Straits of Canso, as ascertained by said survey?
8.	What is the maximum grade between Sunny Brae and the town of Guysborough?


1.	Yes.
2.	No.
3.	No.
4.	Four location engineers: J. M. Millar, Halifax; D. J. Bergin, Moncton, in charge reconnaissance engineer; J. H. Congdon, Dartmouth; H. S. Clarke, St. Catharines, Ont. Rate, $150 per month. There were employed on the staffs of these engineers from time to time at the rates mentioned per month:
J. A. Rankins, Port Hawkesbury, N.S. . . .? so
II. L. Currie, E'redericton Jet., N.B	 75
R.	R. Beebe, Moncton, N.B	
90G.	R. McGrane, Montreal, P.Q	
45H. Taylor, Fredericton, N.B	
45F.	G. McLellan, Moncton, N.B	50H. McAnn, Moncton, N.B	
35J. M. Wortman, Salisbury, N.R.^	
45
Ernest McCully, Hawkesbury, N.S	$35
H. N. Bradley, Montreal, P.Q	 75
F.	H. Rowe, Moncton, N.B	 60
F. N. Chadwick, Ottawa, Ont	 60
S.	W. Kennedy, Toronto, Ont	
00R.	L. Waycott, Hawkesbury, N.S	
90C.	A. McNearny, Halifax, N.S	
75P. Buteau, Montreal, P.Q	
60L. A. Johnson, Westmount, P.Q	
50C.	G. Reade, Teddington, Eng	
50S.	S. Jones, Montreal, P.Q	
45
L. W. W. Sass, Montreal West, P.Q. ... 45
W. M. Killally, Montreal, P.Q	 35
J. O. Leblanc, College Bridge, N.B	 30
W. O. Hearn, Moncton, N.B	 35
C.	LI. Patterson, Salisbury, N.B	 50
Geo. Bishop, Dorchester. N.B	 45
W. H. Crandall, Moncton, N.B	 50
F. Boileau, Moncton, N.B	 50
A.	W. Fraser, Halifax, N.S	 06
Geo. E. Dowling, Aspen, N.S	 75
John A. Jackson, Chatham, N.B	 50
H. W. Humphrey, Moncton, N.B	 30
R. B. Herrington, Salisbury, N.B	 45
V.	LI. Carruthers, Grand Falls, N.B.... 60
A.	A. Burke, Lo, Moncton, N.B	 v.*
R. D. Huddart, New Glasgow, N.S	 50
J. H. Hart, Hawkesbury, N.S	 45
R. .E. Wortman, Salisbury, N.B	 35
J. McNeil and team, Hawkesbury, N.S. . . . 100 Angus McDonald, Hawkesbury, N.S . .	. .	35
Bruno Desserault, Ste. Genevieve de Batis-
	 [DOT] 60
E.	Hart, Hawkesbury, N.S	
30W.	Yorke, Parrsboro, N.S	
35Alex. O'Brien, Antigonish, N.S	
35W. Nevin, Halifax, N.S	
30B.	Belliveau, College Bridge, N.S	
40F.	Wheaton, Parrsboro, N.S	
60D.	McWliirter, Moncton, N.B	
30B.	Hart, Hawkesbury, N.S	
35J. Duff, Hawkesbury, N.S	
35
W. Cunningham and team, Boylston, N.S. . 125 J. R. McDonald and team,, Guysborough
Co., N.S	l2r>
G.	W. Torry and team, Guysborough Co.,
N.S	125
D.	R. McDonald, Guysborough Co., N.S. . .	40
N. Hattie, Guysborough Co., N.S	 40
W. Cummins, Guysborough Co., N.S	 40
J. Kirke, Pictou, N.S	 40
A. Hudson, Pictou Co., N.S	 40
C.	Smith, Pictou Co., N.S	 35
T.	McKean and team, Guysborough Co.,
N.S	125
G.	Scranton, Guysborough Co., N.S	 35
N. McMullen, Pictou Co., N.S	 40
J. Fraser, Pictou Co., N.S	 40
A. W. Cameron, Pictou Co., N.S	 40
E. B. Cameron, Pictou, Co., N.S	 40
G.	Tait, Guysborough Co., N.S	
40E.	McKeen, Guysborough Co., N.S	
40F.	Mills, Guysborough Co., N.S	
40N. Gunn and team, Pictou Co., N.S	125A.	Mason, Guysborough Co., N.S	
40B.	Gunn, Guysborough Co., N.S	
40E. McDonald, Guysborough Co., N.S	
40H.	Mclsaac, Guysborough Co., N.S	
30Allan Grant, Hawkesbury, N.S	
355.	Seventy-seven men, including the fourlocation engineers. See No. 4, for names and rate of wages.	.6.	$20,553.60 to January 31, 1915.7.	Six-tenths per cent.8.	Six-tenths per cent.H.	M.C. SHIPS NIOBE AND RAINBOW.


1.	Referring to the following statement on page eight of the report of the Department of Naval Service for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1914, viz.:
'Owing to the decision of the Government not to continue H.M.C. ships Niobe and Rainbow in full commission, the course of exercises and training for these ships has been discontinued, and they are at present manned by nucleus crews.'
At what date was the decision referred to in the above, paragraph arrived at?
2.	Was the said decision expressed in an order in council, or other written document or memorandum?
3.	If so, will the full text of the said decision be laid before Parliament?


No formal action or decision of this sort was taken and no order in council in reference thereto was passed, but owing to the gradually decreasing number of men on these vessels it was found necessary to take the ships out of full commission and place them on a nucleus basis.


I.	What reply was given by the Government to the application of the lobster packers of the Maritime provinces, asking for the close season for lobster packing during the year 1915?
2.	Was the question submitted to the Fisheries Advisory Board?
3.	Has a decision been reached? If so, what is the decision?


1.	That before it would be feasible to consider such an application it would be necessary for the department to have before it a a practically unanimous request from the canners and fishermen as well in favour of the proposal.
2.	No.
3.	Yes. That lobster fishing will not be prevented and that lobster canneries will be licensed as usual.


1.	How many vessels of all kinds were withdrawn from the Canadian Shipping Registry since July 1, 1914?
2.	What is the gross tonnage of such vessels?
3.	What are the countries to the registry of which such vessels were transferred?
4.	What is the number and tonnage of all vessels added to the Canadian Shipping Registry since July 1, 1914?


1.	Twenty-two vessels of all kinds.
2.	Gross tonnage 28,791.
3.	Three to Newfoundland; three to Barbados; one to France; fourteen to United States of America; one to Spain.
4.	One hundred and twenty-seven steamers of 45,026 gr. tons; 67 sailing of 20,816 gr. tons; total 194 vessels of 65,842 gr. tons.


1.	Is the Intercolonial railway operating any portion of the Valley railway, so called, in New Brunswick? If so, between what stations?
2.	Is the said railway being operated by the Intercolonial railway between Fredericton and Gagetown? If not, why not?
3.	Is not the railway completed between Fredericton and Gagetown for a distance of about thirty miles?
4.	Is the present operation under the statutes and leases made in 1912?
5.	What proportion of the gross receipts, under present arrangements, goes to the railway company and the province of New Brunswick?


1.	Yes; between Fredericton and Centre-ville.
2.	No; not required under the statutes.
3.	Not completed to statute requirements.
4.	No.
5.	The gross receipts are not proportioned between the railway and the province.


Is it the intention of the Minister of Railways and Canals to build a spur from the Intercolonial railway at. Bathurst to the harbour at the earliest practical moment?
Mr. COCHRANE.- The matter is under consideration.


1.	What is the lowest depth of water at low tide at present in Bathurst harbour?
2.	Is it the intention of the Department of Public Works to proceed further with dredging in Bathurst harbour during next season?


1.	There is a depth of 14 feet, at low water, in that portion of the channel which has been worked over.
2.	It is not customary to give such information until the Estimates are submitted to Parliament.


What was the amount of dredging by cubic yard done by the contractors in Bathurst har-

bour during the months of May, June, July, August, September, October and Novemoer, 1914, and what amount of money was paid to them for each month?


The Northern Dredging and Construction Company in 1914:
Removed
cubic yards. Paid.
May	
8,154	$ 1,90b 04June	
56,841	13,300	79July	
78,972	18,479	45August	
66,505	26,646	13September	
70,543	19,703	42October	
65,682	*12,000	00November	
43,751

* On account.


What is the amount of dredging by cuDic yard done in Bathurst harbour by the Government dredge Restigouche during the summer of 1914?


The Government dredge Restigouche removed 87,407 cubic yards during the summer of 1914.


1.	To whom was the contract awarded for the building of the. lighthouse at Mizonnette, Gloucester county, N.B., and what was the price of contract?
2.	Was the contract awarded to the lowest tenderer?


1.	Samuel Gammon, carpenter and builder, of Bathurst, N.B., $2,700.
2.	Yes.
antigonish-sherbrooke mail
.	SERVICE.


1.	Has the contract for the mail service between Antigonish and Sherbrooke, N.S., been awarded? If so, to whom and at what figure?
2.	When were tenders called, and up to what date were they received?
3.	Who were the persons tendering for said service and at what figures respectively?
4.	If the contract has not been awarded, why not?


Tenders were invited and were due at the department on the 11th December last. Seven out of a total of nine tenderers asked permission to withdraw their tenders. In these circumstances the department considered it in the public interest to invite tenders again, and instructions have been given to that effect.


1. How many padlocks for mail hags have been ordered by the Post Office Department

from the 1st of January, 1914, to the 1st January, 1915?
2. What is the name of the Arm to which said contract was awarded and the price paid?


1.	No order for locks for mail bags was given by the Post Office Department from the 1st January, 1914, to the 1st January, 1915. Ten thousand locks were ordered during the previous year, 1913, but as they were not satisfactory they were rejected and returned to the contractor, who was requested to replace these locks by locks that would meet with the. approval of the department. These locks have been delivered during the period above mentioned.
2.	The Ontario Equipment Company, of Ottawa, and the price paid was seventy-five cents per lock and eighteen cents for each key.

