Bill No. 88, for the relief of Adam Clarke Anderson.-Mr. Wallace.
Bill No. 80, for the relief of Thomas Jefferson Moore.-Mr. W. M. Martin.
Bill No. 90, for the relief of Alexander McIntyre.-Mr. Bristol.
Bill No. 91, for the relief of Violet Burnett Delmege.-Mr. Brahazon.
Bill No. 92, for the relief of Alice Beckett. -Mr. Michael 'Clark.
QUESTIONS.	^
[Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk].
How much has been expended in the county and city of Halifax, N.S., by the present administration between the date on which they accepted office and the present date respectively,
[Mr. C. Mareil.'l
on railway construction, Halifax and Eastern, Branch; on new Halifax terminals, including railway approaching same, and on public works, inclusive of public buildings, wharves, breakwaters, etc. ?


The Department of Railways and Canals as follows:	For increased accommodation, $327,307.12; for new pier, $915,694.31; South Eastern railway, for plans, surveys, etc., $85,000; for new ocean terminals, including railway approaching same, $1,976,519.74; total, $3,304,521.17.
The Department of Public Works as follows :	Harbour works, $222,642.67; public
buildings, $'246,646.30; total, $469,288.97.


1.	Was H. Gobeil, former Deputy Minister of Public Works, employed by any department of the Government since October 10, 1911?
2.	If so, what was -the nature of such employment?
3.	What was the salary or remuneration paid him in respect of such employment?
4.	When did such employment cease?


1.	Yes, from 15th June, 1912.
2.	To prepare a complete history of the port of Quebec, in relation to the St. Lawrence trade; to investigate titles of ownership of lands required in connection with St. Charles river improvements, and compile other information required by the department.
3.	The difference between his superannuation allowance, $2,160, and $5,000, the salary, of a deputy minister.
4.	January 31, 1915.


1.	Has any action been taken in regard to the petition asking that rural mail delivery be established to supply the districts of Hodson and Toney Mills, county of Pictou!
2.	If not, what is the cause of tne delay?


1.	Yes, as regards Hodson district. A contract was awarded in January last for a rural mail delivery service over a route from River John post office via Hodson post office, and the inspector has been instructed to inaugurate the service as soon as fifty per cent of the eligible residents on the route pay for and erect their boxes.
No petition has reached the department for a rural mail delivery service in the Toney Mills district.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Since the dismissal of Mr. L. F. Sansfagon as postmaster at Louisville, how often has the post office inspector employed an employee to make or assist in making the monthly report of the Louisville post office?
2.	At what date was his last trip made?
3.	Is the Government aware that the present postmaster, Mr. Geo. Lafontaine, is said to be absolutely incompetent, through lack of education, to fulfil the duties?
4.	Who has been appointed caretaker of the post office building at Louisville?
5.	What is his salary?
6.	What has been the revenue of the Louisville post office for each of the past three years?


1.	Since the dismissal of Mr. L. F. Sansfagon as postmaster, the post office has been inspected by officials of the office of the post office inspector at Montreal on 24th August, 1914, 12th January and 16th February, 1915; but the department has no knowledge of the inspector employing any person to make or assist in making up the reports of the post office.
2.	The last inspection trip was made on the 16th February, 1915.
3.	No. No complaints have been received at the department in regard to the management of the office.
4.	George Lafontaine.
5.	$33.33 per month.
6.	The revenue of the office for the past three years was as follows: 1912, $2,322.74; 1913, $2,601.41; 1914, $1,945.97.


Mr. A. K. Maclean:	For a return showing
the names, addresses, articles, quantities, prices and estimated total cost in connection with all articles of every kind purchased by the Government of Canada out of the War Supply Bill of $50,000,000 to this date, and unenumerated in the memoranda respecting work of the Department of Militia and Defence, European war, 1914-15, laid on the table of the House during the present session.
Mr. Macdonald:	For a copy of all letters,
papers, petitions, reports and other documents relating to the establishment of a rural mail delivery route, for the purpose of giving postal service to the districts of Hodson and Toney Mills, county of Pictou.
Mr. A. W. Chisholm: For a copy of all payrolls in possession of the Department of Public Works showing the expenditure of money on Mabou Harbour Piers, during the years 191213, and 1913-14, and the expenditure of money on Mabou harbour protection pier for one of the lighthouses in Mabou harbour during the years 1912-13 and 1913-14.
92i
On motion of Sir Robert Borden, the House went into committee to consider the following proposed resolution, Mr. Sevigny in the Chair:
Resolved, that an address be presented to His Most Excellent Majesty the King, in the
following words:
To the King's Most Excellent Majesty:
Most Gracious Sovereign :
We, Your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the	Commons of Canada, in Parliament assembled, humbly approach Your Majesty praying that he may graciously he pleased to give his consent to submitting a measure to the Parliament of the United Kingdom to amend certain provisions of the British North America Act, 1867, in the manner following, or to the following effect:
An Act to amend the British North America Act, 1867.	[DOT]
Be it enacted by the King's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:
1. Notwithstanding anything in the British North America Act, 1867 , or in any Act amending the same, or in any Order in Council or terms or conditions of union made or approved under the said Acts, or in any Act of the Parliament of Canada:
(1)	The number of senators provided for by section 21 of the British North America Act, 1867, is increased from seventy-two to ninety-six.
(2)	The divisions of Canada in relation to the constitution of the Senate provided for by section 22 of the said Act, are increased from three to four; the fourth division to comprise the western provinces, Manitoba, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta, which four divisions shall (subject to the provisions of the said Act and of this Act) be equally represented in the Senate, as follows:
Ontario, by twenty-four senators; Quebec, by twenty-four senators; the Maritime Provinces and Prince Edward Island, by twenty-four senators, ten thereof representing Nova Scotia, ten thereof representing New Brunswick and four thereof representing Prince Edward Island, the western provinces by twenty-four senators, six thereof representing Manitoba, six thereof representing British Columbia, six thereof representing Saskatchewan and six thereof representing Alberta.
(3)	The number of persons whom, by section 26 of the said Act, the Governor General may, upon the direction of the King, add to the Senate, is increased from three or six to four or eight, representing equally the four divisions of Canada.
(4)	In case of such addition being at any time made by the Governor General shall not summon any person to the Senate, except upon a further like direction by the King on the like recommendation, to represent one of the four divisions until such divisions are represented by twenty-four senators and no more.
(5)	The number of senators shall not at any time exceed one hundred and four.
(6)	The representation in the Senate to which, by section 147 of the British North \ America Act, 1867, Newfoundland will be entitled, in case of its admission into the union, is increased from four to six members, and in case of the admission of Newfoundland into the union, notwithstanding- anything in the said Act, or in this Act, the normal number of senators shall be one hundred and two, and their maximum number one hundred and ten.
2. The British North America Act. 1867, is amended by adding thereto the following section immediately after section 5, of the said Act.
(51a) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, a province shall always be entitled to a number of members in the House of Commons not less than the number of senators representing such province.
All of which we humbly pray Your Majesty to take into your favourable and gracious consideration.
Mr. Chairman, there is no necessity to say a great deal about this resolution, as the matter was under consideration of the House last session. It is intended to be a joint resolution of the Senate and House of Commons, and the necessary blank space is left in the resolution for the inclusion of the words "Senate and." [DOT] The brief explanation which njay be made of the resolution is this: at the last session of Parliament Bills were introduced to increase the number of senators from the four Western Provinces. There was a consensus of opinion, I think, that, so far as Alberta and Saskatchewan are concerned, the Parliament of Canada had power to pass the necessary legislation to give the increased representation, but there was a difference of opinion as to Manitoba between hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House and us as to the competency of Parliament to increase the representation in the Senate of that province. As to British Columbia, it was agreed on both sides of the House that legislation of the Imperial Parliament was necessary. The House also had under consideration the necessity of making some new disposition in regard to the senatorial divisions which were constituted by the British North America Act, 1867. It was agreed that a resolution should be passed constituting four divisions for that purpose, instead of three as provided by the British North America Act, 1867. The additions proposed to be made to the representation of the western provinces are in conformity with the principle which was laid down in 1905 with respect to Alberta an'd Saskatchewan.
The last clause of the resolution has reference to the relation of the representation of each province in the Senate to that which it possesses in the House of Commons.

There was a recommendation by the committee which had under consideration the Redistribution Bill at the last session, and the proposal embodied in the second paragraph carries out the recommendation of the committee, and it passed the House unanimously. Eventually there arose a difference of opinion between the Senate and House of Commons in regard to the period at which these amendments to the British North America Act should take effect. My hon. friends from the province of Prince Edward Island have urged upon me that the resolution should again be introduced, and, after giving consideration to what they have urged upon me both privately and in the House of Commons, I have deemed it my duty to now present the resolution again to the House.


When this resolution was before the House last session we on this side did not in any way object, but rather tried to help the Government to come to a solution of questions which were vexatious in their nature. It was felt, and rightly felt, that the representation of the provinces in the Senate should be readjusted to meet the present condition of things after forty years of development since Confederation. My right hon. friend (Sir Robert Borden) has stated that as to that feature these changes were first suggested and enbodied in the Act which created the two provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta in 1905. The gist of this resolution is that to the three groups of population which were created at Confederation, namely, Ontario, Quebec and the maritime provinces, we add a fourth group representing the western provinces, and to this we altogether agree. The second part of the resolution refers not only to Prince Edward Island but to the maritime provinces generally. It is proposed to amend the British North America Act in these words:
Notwithstanding anything in this Act, a province shall always be entitled to a number of members in the House of Commons not less than the number of Senators representing such province.
It has been a grievance with the Maritime Provinces that their representation in the House of Commons has continued to de-crease'from decade to decade. It has been explained, and it is the true explanation, that at the time of the formation of Confederation no * one anticipated the extraordinary developments which were to take place west of lake Superior and in consequence of which the representation of the

maritime provinces in the House of Commons has decreased from decade to decade. We had to deal with the matter in 1902. At that time the province of New Brunswick, in particular, felt very much the diminution in representation which it had to undergo.
It was a special grievance in the province of Prince Edward Island, which always contended that under the terms of Confederation they should at all times he entitled to six members. Whatever may be the merits of this contention-it is true the record does not show it-I believe that what is now proposed is a fair compromise, and ought to be so accepted by all the provinces, so that henceforth, whatever may be its fall in population, the province of Prince Edward Island shall be entitled to a representation of fouT members. So far I altogether support the resolution. Last session, when this matter went to the Upper Chamber an amendment was moved to this effect:
That this Act shall not take effect until the termination of the now existing Parliament.
In other words, it was suggested by the Pipper Chamber that this resolution should take effect not after a general election, but at the time of the dissolution and not before.
We passed last year a new Act providing for a redistribution of the representation in the House of Commons, and in that Act the western provinces were given a marked increase of representation in this House. That ' Act does not come into force on the day of its promulgation, but at the termination of the present Parliament. There is this disposition to that effect in the Act:
This Act shall take effect only on the dissolution of the present Parliament.
This was not necessary, because the constitution itself provides that a redistribution shall not take effect until the dissolution of Parliament, but it was done from an abundance of prudence. The effect of the amendment made by the Upper Chamber was simply to put into the Bill the same provision with regard to increased representation in the Upper Chamber as the provision with regard to increased representation in the House of Commons; that is to say, that the Bill should only come into effect upon the dissolution of Parliament. The amendment came back to the House of Commons, and it did not commend itself to the judgment of my hon. friends opposite. I thought it was reasonable and fair, and that, as a measure of compromise, it should have been accepted
in that spirit. The Government, however, took a different view. I do not know what position will be taken this year in the Upper Chamber, but I present the views of that body as they come to me; and, as I have said, I thought they were fair and in a spirit of compromise in regard to the whole measure. I hope in this instance, as our blood has had time to cool, in this chamber as well as in the other chamber, that we shall be able to dispose of this important question in a manner satisfactory to all partie concerned.


My right hon.
friend says that we shall wait and see what view the Government takes of this question this year; but it will be necessary first to see what view the Senate takes of it this year. Last year, if. my memory serves me well-and I think it does-we in this House unanimously concurred in not agreeing to the Senate amendment, and we gave reasons for our action. Those reasons seemed to be good at the time, and they commended themselves to the judgment of the House, because there was no dissent. It is of very little use, however, to thresh over these questions of the past. The main question now is, what we shall do and what the Senate will do this time, and I need add nothing to what I have said.


Representing one of the smaller provinces in the Dominion and one which is likely to be affected in the future by these proposed changes in the British North America Act, I desire to say that I think it was a very happy thought, on the part of the committee which had charge of the Redistribution Bill, to recommend the making of this provision. The problem is a very difficult one. It has been under consideration for a long time, and representations have been made from time to time to this Parliament by the maritime provinces urging that some provision should be made under which their representation should not be reduced. We in New Brunswick have the feeling that it would be proper to restore the representation to that which it was at the time of Confederation; but there were difficulties in the way which seemed to be insurmountable. One can, of course, understand that objections would be raised by the other provinces to changing the constitution. The provision, that a province shall always be entitled to a number of members in the House of Commons not less than the number of Senators

representing such province, ought to be satisfactory, although it is not what the Maritime Provinces had hoped for. Still, under the circumstances, it is perhaps the very best solution possible.
Does my right lion, friend not think that there ought to be some provision in this Bill, that in the adjustment of representation from time to time, the population of the added territory of the province of Quebec should not be included as forming the unit of representation P There is a consensus of opinion that Quebec should be entitled to 65 representatives, apart altogether from the population of the added territory in that province, arid that in the redistribution from time to time the population of that added territory should give to that province additional representation. If that idea is to be brought into effect, now is the time to make provision for it. I merely throw out that suggestion to my right hon. friend. I presume he has considered it.


The suggestion of my hon. friend admits of a very ready answer. So far as to the territory which was added three years ago that provision was made, as my hon. friend will doubtless recollect, and it is effective. As to the territory added, in 1897, I do not thinl' is competent for this Parliament to move in the matter without getting the consent of the province of Quebec because in every case where a change is made in the boundaries of a province, it is made with the consent of the Dominion Parliament on the one hand and of the legislature of the province on the other. It would not be competent for us to approach the Imperial Parliament to alter the dispositions agreed to at that time, without the consent of the province concerned.


I am afraid that Parliament has not got rid of the matter yet, so far as New Brunswick is concerned at all events, because we can no doubt come back in the future and make a contention similar to that to which I have referred. The addition made to Quebec previously is the most important consideration, because in that territory there will be the largest increase in population. As the question of representation was not dealt with when the previous addition to the territory was made, it would be quite competent for Parliament to deal with it now. It would, not be in any way adding to boundaries; it would be making that provision which I think ought to be made under the terms of the British 
North America Act. It is very clear that Quebec, in regard to representation and readjustment from time to time, means the province of Quebec as it existed at the time of the passing of the British North America Act; and if the population of any added territory, whether that territory was added three years ago or eighteen years ago, or fifty years ago, should be entitled to representation according to its popu-. lation, in addition to the 65 representatives from the province of Quebec, I am unable to see hovr, as between one province and the other provinces of the Dominion, it would be necessary that the province of Quebec should be a party. Even if it were necessary, I would take it for granted that the legislature of that province would consent to what seems fair and what, by the terms of the Act to which my right hon. friend has referred, is recognized as being in accordance with constitutional principles. I merely mention the matter now with the understanding that, so far as I am concerned as representing the province of New Brunswick, I do not feel that our case is concluded, but that I shall be at liberty to bring it up at a later date.


There is a good deal of force in some of the observations of my hon. friend, and it is because we realized the force of those considerations that we made the stipulation with the province of Quebec when territory was added to that province three years ago. Unfortunately the same thing was not done in 1897, and the attention of Parliament apparently was not called to the subject at that time. For the reason that I have already mentioned, namely, that the proposal with regard to adding territory to any- province must be assented to both by the Parliament of Canada and by the legislature of the province, and because they were so definitely assented to in 1897, it seems to me that we could not alter the arrangement, it being virtually a contract as made at that time, without the consent of the province of Quebec. Therefore it does not seem to me that at this date we can take any effective action in the matter. It is not likely, moreover, that the territory in the immediate future will have any considerable population. So the considerations which the hon. gentleman has brought forward might be urged by him at a later date with the same effect or with greater effect than they could have at the moment.
Mr. A. A. McLEAN (Queens, P.E.I.j: As I understand from the right hon. the

Prime Minister, this resolution is identical with the one which was introduced last session. That part of it which provides that the representation in the House of Commons was not in any case to be less than the representation in the Senate for any province, is the one in which the members from the Maritime Provinces are particularly interested. The first part of this resolution does not greatly interest the members from the Maritime Provinces. We would naturally wish that the resolution which affects us should not be coupled with any resolution which would meet with the disapproval oi the hon. members of the Senate or contain anything which they would think contentious. Earlier in the session I asked the right hon. leader of the Government if he would not consent to introduce the part of this resolution relating to the Maritime Provinces, separately from that part which relates to the West. I would ask again to have tlfht done. I do not, of course, suppose that the Senate will do what they did last year; I do not see any reason why they should, because if the West is entitled to the additional representation now they are entitled to have their senatorial representation increased just as much as if the readjustment were postponed until after the dissolution of this Parliament. I do not intend to discuss that phase of the matter. What interests me is the second portion of this resolution, and that alone; and I would ask the Government to consider this matter before they go any further with the resolution. There is no reason why there should not be two separate resolutions. If there is anything contentious or anything which the Government think would not meet with the approval of the Upper House, I would say that, in order to meet the wishes of the representatives from the maritime provinces, the second part of this resolution should be introduced separately. I did not suggest it lately to the right hon. leader of the Government, but when the matter was up about a fortnight ago I did make that representation, and I would again ask that the Government should reconsider the matter. We no doubt are entitled, -so far as Prince Edward Island is concerned, to a representation of six, as has been stated in this House on many occasions. I think we have undoubted evidence that it was T&ally intended when we entered Confederation that we should have a representation in this House of at least six; but the committee who had charge of the Redistribution Bill thought otherwise, and they suggested as a compromise that no province should have a representation in this House less than their representation in the Senate. This matter was first brought up in this House by the representatives from Prince Edward Island. The provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick at that time, I think about the year 1900, did not foresee that their populations would decrease or Tather that the populations of the other provinces would so increase that their representation would decrease; but they have now come to realize that they are situated very much as are the people of Prince Edward Island, and they iare anxious, of course, that their representation should be what was originally intended. My own opinion is that the gentlemen who formulated the terms of Confederation did not realize the meaning of the word " adjust," they imagined that it meant that the representation should be increased or could be increased, 'but that it should never be diminished. Of course the delegation from Prince Edward Island in 1873 had before them the resolutions passed by the Legislature of British Columbia and by this Parliament admitting British Columbia into the Union, but I do not even now believe that delegates from Prince Edward Island or even this Parliament realized the meaning of the word " adjust " as used in the resolutions which were passed here with reference to the admission of Prince Edward Island into this Union. At any rate, all the preliminaries to the admission of Prince Edward Island, the telegrams and other communications, go to show that Prince Edward Island intended that they should enter this Union with a representation of six, and that this number should not be liable to be diminished. Under these circumstances this matter has been argued over and over again -before this House; and under the circumstances of the case I would suggest to the right hon. leader of the House that this resolution relating to representation should be put before the House separately from the other part of the resolution which relates to the representation in the Senate for the western provinces.


I think that all my hon. friend has in mind will be carried out if the resolution is sent to the Senate in its present form. There is no reason to believe that the Senate will adhere to their view of last year. If they do adhere to it then it will be time enough to consider the suggestion of my hon f-ien<L
14D4


As a member from the Maritime Provinces, and coming from Prince Edward Island, I am, of course, very much interested in the resolutions before the House; and I must say I regret that the Government has not seen its way clear to provide that the representation from the island province should be six instead of four. When this subject was before the Redistribution Committee last session several delegations came from the province of Prince Edward Island and placed before that committee the views of the province in connection with this matter. I think they also presented those views to the Government, but of that I am not quite certain. However, I know that the Prime Minister was quite familiar with the arguments that these gentlemen presented, because he referred to them in this House. These men were quite familiar with the subject, they were representative men from our province; one of them was the Premier and Attorney General of the province, the other was Mr. Stewart, now Judge Stewart, and the right hon. the Prime Minister, in referring to their arguments, stated that they had presented their case clearly, cogently and forcibly.
I am sorry that they failed to make an impression on the Prime Minister; it .would have been much better to have met the views of these gentlemen than merely to have flattered them for their arguments. However, as the right hon. gentleman is not disposed to meet their views, and as the right hon. leader of the Opposition states that in his opinion the present proposal is a fair compromise, I presume that we cannot do better than accept it. I must put in the proviso, however, that we will not accept this as closing the door entirely; we retain the privilege of bringing the question up at any time when we think it may receive more favourable consideration. I am glad to hear the Prime Minister say that the latter part of the reso

lution, which relates to the representation of this Chamber, will, if necessary, be separated from the other part of the resolution in order that the proposal particularly affecting Prince Edward Island may become legislation this session. But I want to ask the right hon. Prime Minister if he is quite mire that, the procedure which he is adopting is the proper procedure. I am not learned in the law, and in saying this, I present not my own view, but the view of Judge Stewart, who gave a written opinion that this is an entirely improper procedure.
>oir Fotiert Bopden.]
At the time he gave this opinion he was a barrister in Charlottetown; later a vacancy occurred on the bench and the Government thought so much of his legal knowledge and ability that they appointed him to fill that position. Judge Stewart was one of the delegates who came here to aTgue this question before the Redistribution Committee and the Government. He came with Premier Mathieson, and I think I am justified in saying that Judge Stewart's opinion and Premier Mathieson's would be identically the same on this question. In our province this has been and is a very live question. I was accused of not being quite orthodox in the matter; of not being favourable to the views that were entertained and upheld very strongly in Prince Edward Island. I think the right hon. Prime Minister was instrumental, to a considerable extent, in circulating that opinion, because ''he referred to a speech I made in 1903 in which he said that I used arguments that gave him great trouble-particularly that I used the word "oversight" instead of "unforseen" -when he wanted to do something for Prince Edward Island. I had to combat that idea, and in a letter to the press I pointed out that in the session of 1906 and again in the session of 1907, I had moved a resolution identical in principle with the resolution that is now before the committee: that an address be presented to the King asking him to submit a measure to the Imperial Parliament to amend the British North America Act so that no province of the Dominion should have fewer representatives in this Chamber than it had when it 12 m. entered Confederation. In 1907 I introduced a similar resolution, asking that an address be presented to His Imperial Majesty praying him to submit a measure to the Imperial Parliament providing that no one of the maritime provinces should have fewer representatives'in this Chamber than the number that was assigned to it -when it entered Confederation. In principle this resolution is identical with the one now before the committee. I will read to the committee the opinion of Judge Stewart, to which I have referred. Referring to the letter which I wrote to the press, he says:
In this letter he asserts that in the session of 1906 he moved for a resolution for an address to the King to have the British North America Act amended so that no province should have at any time fewer representatives in Parliament than it was given when it entered the Confederation, and failing in this the follow-

ing session he moved another resolution to the effect that the Constitutional Act should be so amended that the Maritime Provinces should not at any time have fewer representatives in the House of Commons than what was assigned each of them when they entered the union. If Mr. Hughes were some enemy of our province and desired to kill our case completely, he could not have made a more effectual move for accomplishing his purpose. Every one knows that there never was and never will be the slightest chance of such a resolution passing through Parliament, and if Mr. Hughes had any proper comprehension of the case and possessed that foresight which is expected of all representatives, he never would have thought of submitting such an absurd proposal.
If I may be permitted to use the name of the right hon. Prime Minister instead of my own in reading this opinion of Judge Stewart's, it would run this way:
Every one knows that there never was and never will be the slightest chance of such a resolution passing Parliament, and if Mr. Borden had any proper conception of our case and possessed that foresight which is expected of all representative^, he never would have thought of submitting such an absurd proposal.
Of course, I think Mr. Stewart is wrong, but I want to 'direct the attention of the committee and of the right hon. gentleman to Mr. Stewart's opinion. I am justified in believing that that opinion is entertained also by the premier of the province, who is also the attorney general. The date of Mr. Stewart's letter is March 26, 1914; it was published in the issue of the Charlottetown Guardian of March 27, 1914. The Guardian very strongly supports the present local and federal governments. This is the Guardian's editorial comment upon Mr. Stewart's letter. It, says:
Mr. Hughes unearthed a resolution which he submitted to the House of Commons praying that a petition be presented to the Imperial Parliament asking for an amendment to the British North America Act to provide that the three Maritime Provinces "shall not at any time have fewer representatives in the House of Commons than the number that was assigned to each when it entered the Confederation -striking directly at the root of the principle of Confederation."
To charge the right hon. gentleman with striking at the root of the principle of Confederation is a very serious charge * to bring against him. The article goes on:
As the Premier-	,
That is, the Premier of our province.
-pointed out in the Legislature, and as Mr. Stewart emphasizes in his letter, the Island's case requires very different handling from that, and it has received it at the hands of the local Government, Mr. McLean-
That is, the member who has just spoken.
-Mr. Nicholson, Senators Murphy, Prowse and Yeo.
These are the opinions of distinguished men and of an important newspaper, and I give them to the House for what they are worth. The Prime Minister himself has a very high opinion of these men, because, as I have already pointed out, when Premier Mathieson and Mr. Stewart came here as delegates from Prince Edward Island, the Prime Minister said that they had presented their case in clear, cogent and forcible argument, and later on he appointed Mr. Stewart to the bench in our province. The views of these gentlemen should therefore be worthy of consideration. We do not want any mistake made this time, and, if the present procedure is wrong, we want to know it in time, because we are very anxious that this resolution should pass and become law; so I commend to the House and in particular to the right hon. gentleman who leads the Government the well-considered and matured opinions of Judge Stewart, of Premier Mathieson, and of the editor of the Charlottetown Guardian.
Mr. 0. TURGEON (Gloucester):	May I
be permitted to call the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that in this clause, which is to give the various groups of the provinces an equal number of representatives in the Senate, we are merely asking that material form be given to the spirit of the resolution. In the last part we are asking that both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution be changed. My right hon. friend knows my long and strict adherence to the Constitution.
I think this proposal the most moderate which has ever been offered, and perhaps the most acceptable to every member of this House, as well as- to the different legislatures of the Dominion. My right hon. friend knows that each of the maritime provinces has made its own appeal about this representation to the Privy Council, but in every case the Privy Council denied their appeals; and these judgments of the Privy Council may have considerable weight, not only with the Imperial Government, but with the members of the Imperial Parliament as well. I am perfectly willing to accept this proposal as a very moderate one, but, in order to secure its acceptance by the Imperial Parliament, would it not be better first to submit it to an interprovincial conference; for it is scarcely two years ago that a con-

ference of the provinces denied this right to the maritime provinces. I believe that if the Prime Minister referred this proposal to the judgment of the Provincial Legislatures and secured their assent or, at least, their favourable comment, the proposal would be sanctioned by the Imperial Parliament. I join with my hon. friend from Prince Edward Island in suggesting that this proposal be separated from the other, in order that it may be submitted to the Provincial Legislatures for their assent.
On the first part of the resolution:
(1)	Tlie number of senators provided for by section 21 of the British North America Act, 1867, is increased from seventy-two to ninety-six.
(2)	The divisions of Canada in relation to the constitution of the Senate provided for by section 22 of the said Act, are increased from three to four; the fourth division to comprise the western provinces, Manitoba, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta, which four divisions shall (subject to the provisions of the said Act and of this Act) be equally represented in the Senate, as follows:
Ontario, by twenty-four senators; Quebec, by twenty-four senators; the Maritime Provinces and Prince Edward Island, by twenty-four senators, ten thereof representing Nova Scotia, ten thereof representing New Brunswick and four thereof representing Prince Edward Island, the western provinces by twenty-four senators, six thereof representing Manitoba, six thereof representing British Columbia, six thereof representing Saskatchewan and six thereof representing A'berta,
(3)	The number of persons whom, by section 26 of the said Act, the Governor General may, upon the direction of the King, -add to the Senate, is increased from three or six to four or eight, representing equally the four divisions of Canada.
(4)	In case of such addition being at any time made by the Governor General shall not summon any person to the Senate, except upon a further like direction by the King on the like recommendation, to represent one of the four divisions until such divisions is represented by twenty-four senators and no more.


Is there not some mistake in the printing in subsection 4? It
says;
Except upon a further like direction by the King on the like recommendation, to represent one of the four divisions until such divisions is represented-


The " s " should be off the word "divisions".


That would make that
all right, but, again, in the first line of subsection 4, it says:
In case of such addition being at any time made by the Governor General shall not summon any person to the Senate.
Some words may have been left out.


I am obliged to my hon. friend. I will look at it.


In paragraph 4 the word " by " should be left out.


I have before me the resolution as it was before the committee last year. I see that the word " by " should he left out. I am obliged to my hon. friend for directing attention to the matter.
Resolution as amended reported and concurred in.


That it he resolved that the House do send to the Senate to inform their Honours that the House has passed an address to His Most Excellent Majesty the King praying that he will be graciously pleased to give his assent to submitting a measure to the Parliament of the United Kingdom to amend certain provisions of the British North America Act, 1867, in the manner set forth therein, and request that their Honours will unite with this House in the said address by filling up the blank therein with the words " Senate and."


Motion agreed to.
The House in Committee of Supply, Mr. Sevigny in the Chair.
['I agree with\nwhat the hon. member for South Renfrew said about the engineering corps; I think it is going to be a very fine corps. I may say, in addition to the explanation given by the Minister of Militia-I know something of this, having been Acting Minister for a time-that it was suggested from this side in October Tast that we have in Canada a number of very capable railway engineers and railway contractors, men accustomed to doing things quickly, whose services might be very valuable indeed in connection with the rebuilding of railways that had been destroyed in the course of the war. At that time it was not thought that they were needed, but later-I think it was in February-we received an intimation from the War Office that they would be very glad if such a corps could be organized in Canada. We got in touch with some of the large railway corporations, and eventually it was left to Colonel Ramsey who, I understand, is a very capable man, to undertake the organization of this corps. It was thought that by reason of his knowledge and experience he would be able to do this work more effectively than if it were done by the department itself. The matter, therefore, has been left entirely to him, and from what I have heard of the progress which has been made in organizing the corps, it promises to be a most excellent body of men; I have no doubt that they will do excellent work when they get to the front. The Minister of Militia informs me that applications for enlistment in this corps will be received at the office of any divisional superintendent throughout the country.\nProgress reported.\t.\nOn motion of Sir Robert Borden the House adjourned at 11.10 p in.', 'Friday, March 26, 1915.']
Mr. Chairman, I desire to make a requeslt of my hon. friend the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Cochrane). It is that he negotiate with the contractors of the Halifax and Eastern railway for terms by which the operation of that road might commence between Dartmouth and Musquodoboit harbour or a point further east if circumstances permit. The construction of the Halifax and Eastern railway was commenced in 1912. I think it was in that year that the contract for its construction was entered into. The railway is incomplete. The grading is very nearly finished and the rails are laid for a very considerable distance from the western termini at Dartmouth. This railway has been long and anxiously waited for by the people residing in the district traversed by it and there is considerable disappointment over the delay in its completion and the commencement of its operation. The rails are all laid, as I understand, between Dartmouth and Musquodoboit harbour, t. distance of 25 miles in a southeasterly direction. The road bed, I understand, is to this point in very good condition, the rails being laid and I think all the heavy bridges have been erected. There is no reason why a train service should not

now be running from Dartmouth to Mus-quodoboit harbour. For a few weeks in the later months of last year a freight passenger service was in operation under some arrangements between the contractors and the Department of Railways and Canals. This service was operated by the contractors. I should say that the Government have not yet taken over the railway and it is still in the hands of the contractors. The country between Dartmouth and Musquodoboit is an old section, there is in that district a considerable population. If the road were in actual operation it would perform a valuable service for those people and it would be decidedly in the public interest to commence the operation of the road at the earliest date possible.
What I want particularly to urge upon the minister is that some working arrangement be made between the department and the contractors whereby a daily passenger and freight service may be put into operation between Dartmouth and Musquodoboit harbour or a point further east if possible. It would be a very great convenience to the people living in the district traversed by the road. The road not yet being in the hands of the Government but in that of the contractors, in order to secure a passenger and freight service at the present time it would be necessary for the department to enter into an operating contract with the contractors. I think it quite likely that the contractors would insist upon the payment of some amount for the performance of the service and I wish to submit that under all the circumstances the department would be justified in making such an expenditure. I do not think it would be very large but it would enable the contractors to carry on the service without loss to themselves and I hope with some little profit. I do not think that they would ask for more than a reasonable profit for the operation of the road.
There is just one other point that I would like to call to the attention of the minister. When this section of the road was in operation last fall, the contractors were obliged to stop their trains a mile or a mile and a half from the town of Dartmouth, owing to the fact that they were unable, or were not permitted, to enter into the town over the Intercolonial rails from the Acadia Sugar Refinery to Dartmouth ferry. I am not acquainted with the reasons for the refusal to permit the contractors to run their train directly into the town of Dartmouth. There possibly may have been good reasons for the refusal.
I would like to urge upon the minister that it would be well for him to enter into an arrangement with the contractors by which permission would be granted to them to run their traina as far as the Intercolonial station near the ferry wharf, which, as the minister knows, would be a very convenient point for receiving passengers and freight. I do not know that there is anything further that I can say upon the matter, except to assure the minister that if he can enter into such an arrangement with the contractors it will be a very great convenience to the section of the country interested, to the city of Halifax, and to other sfections of Halifax county not directly contiguous to the railway. I would therefore urge the minister, as quickly as possible, to enter into negotiations with the contractors, and ascertain if he could make a reasonable working arrangement with them for the operation of this portion of the Halifax and Eastern railway.


I discussed with the contractors the question of operation some weeks ago, and, in fact, we arranged for a temporary operation. They complained that there were some temporary bridges that they were afraid to run passenger trains over. The permanent bridges are under way now, and will be in place shortly. The question of running trains over the Intercolonial tracks into Dartmouth has also been taken up and will be arranged definitely. In reference to the other matter which the hon. gentleman has mentioned, I will take the matter up and see what can be done to secure the temporary operation of the road. I think it may go farther than the particular point that the hon. gentleman has mentioned; it may go to Country Harbour. I shall be very glad to take the matter up.
, Mr. SINCLAIR:	Before the minister
leaves the question of branch lines in Eastern Nova Scotia, I would like to ask him if he has any information for the people of my constituency in regard to the proposed branch in that county. I understand that the minister made a survey of the road during the past season. He was kind enough to answer a question I asked a few days ago by saying that this matter was under consideration. I would like to know what his policy is in regard to the construction of the proposed branch line. Is it to build a line to the port of Country Harbour and also to the port of Guys-borough, or has he any other scheme on hand in regard to it, and does he propose soon to take any action?


The line is to run from Sunnybrae, and down to the ferry there, with a .branch up to Guysborough. It is not definitely settled yet to which point it will go, or whether it will go to Guysborough and Country Harbour. When the Supplementary Estimates come down there will be an appropriation for starting the work.


While we are discussing branch lines, has the minister come to a decision to build that small spur that joins the Intercolonial main line at Bathurst with the works in the harbour?


That will be in the
Supplementary Estimates. We propose to construct it.


Early in the present session I inquired of the minister in regard to a balance of subsidy claimed by Mr. C. R. Scoles for the completion of the contract on the Atlantic and Lake Superior railway. I was informed by the minister that it had been paid. I subsequently moved for the papers, which were brought down on the 20th of March, in regard to the payment made to Mr. Scoles, and I regret that those papers did not give me the information I was anxious to get. In 1901, under 1 Edward VII, chapter 27, a subsidy was voted to the Atlantic and Lake Superior railway, to construct 20 miles of railway from Capla'n to Paspebiac, and a stipulation wa