5 GEORGE V., 1915
PRINTED BY J. de L. TACHE, PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY 1915

1 ' L 1 *	>
i 4 ' u
it	* J-
Douse of Commons Debates
Speaker: Hon. Thomas Simpson Sprotjle.
Wednesday March 31, 1915.
[Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk. 1
1.	Is it a fact that the Imperial Government has rendered compulsory in Great Britain since January last the use of the metric system of weights and measures for pharmaceutical preparations'?
2.	If so, what is the text of the Order in Council putting in force said change?
3.	Does the Canadian Government intend to
follow the example of the Imperial Government?	,


1.	No. The use of the metric system is not compulsory in England, but simply legalized. Recently it has been adopted by the Druggists' Association as the most convenient.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	The metric system has the same status in Canada as in England. It is legalized after standards adopted by La Convention Internationale du Metre. The metric standards are kept by the Department of Inland Revenue.


X. Has the Government taken any steps to enforce the provisions of the Adulteration Act establishing standards for maple sugar and maple syrup, passed in June, 1914?
2.	If not, is it the Intention of the Government to take immediate action against infringements of this Act?


1.	The Act passed in June, 1914, came into force only on the 1st January, 1915, 113


and as important amendments were to be made at the present session, it was deemed advisable to wait a little longer before making investigation as to whether, it was complied with or not.
2.	An amendment to the Adulteration Act is at present before Parliament. When this is sanctioned, steps will at once be taken to ascertain whether the Act is being complied with or not, and proceedings taken against any party violating the law.
1.	Is the Government aware that a regulation is reported to have been passed by the management of the Intercolonial railway, to take effect on the 5th March, instant, in virtue of which the employees on the Intercolonial, working at ChaudiSre, have lost time marked, and are not paid for such lost time, when they arrive after the hour fixed by such regulation, even though such delay is due to the sub-train which carries them from LSvis to ChaudiSre?
2.	Is the Government aware that, in virtue
of the same regulation, these same employees are obliged to receive their cheques at the supplies department and to cross several tracks on which locomotives are constantly moving?	,
3.	Does the Government intend to continue the said regulation in force?


1.	The same regulations are in force at Chaudiere Junction as at other engine houses on the system. Employees arriving late on account of the train being delayed are allowed to commence work at once, and paid accordingly; those arriving late through their own fault are not permitted to commence work until the next hour.
2.	The time office is in the stores building. There are three tracks between the stores building , and the round house which it is necessary for the men to cross. The movement over these tracks is not extensive and is slow, and necessary precautions are being taken to protect the men. This is only a temporary arrangement pending the installation of a time clock in the machine shop.
3.	Yes.
EDITION	.


1.	Is the Government aware that on the 1st of January, 1915, the Great North Western Telegraph Company and the Canadian Northern Telegraph Company are said to have been amalgamated and that both lines are now operated under the name of Great North Western Telegraph Company?
2.	Is the Government aware that, as alleged, George C. Corman and A. J. Worzel, both employees in the Montreal office of the Great North Western Telegraph Company, were given fifteen days' notice that after the 25th of March instant their services would no longer be required?
3.	Is the Minister of Labour aware that these men hold first-class records and ample seniority, and that the action of the said company in thi3 instance is contrary to the provisions of article 5 of the Award of the Board of Conciliation or 1911?
4.	Does the Government, or the Department of Labour, intend to take any steps to have this rectified?


1.	Statements on the subject of an apparently authentic character have been observed.
2.	Communications received are to the general effect stated.
3.	Communications received from the officers of the labour organization affected represent the situation generally to be as stated.
4.	The matter has been taken up with the employing company concerned with a view to having what is possible done to have the differences which have arisen amicably arranged.


Is it the intention of the Government to adopt a regulation under the provisions of the Fisheries Act regulating the price of small fresh herrings caught in Canadian waters and exported fresh to the Untied States?


No. The Fisheries Act does not give authority to make such a regulation.


1.	Have tenders been called for the work being carried on at present on the Rigaud wharf?
2.	If so, what are the names of the tenderers. and the amount of their tenders?
3.	If not, who is in charge of such work?
4.	What is the name or names of the superintendent or superintendents?
5.	What amount did the Government appropriate for such work?
6.	What is the scale of salaries paid to those who work on the said wharf?
7.	Has it been recommended to the Government by its resident engineer and by others to purchase a piece of land adjacent to that be-

longing to the Government in order to lessen the incline of the road that is very steep between the wharf and the public highway?


1.	No.
2.	See answer to No. 1.
3.	Paul Paradis, assistant engineer.
4.	Hector Chevrier.
5.	$2,500.
6.	Superintendent, $3.50 per day; foreman-carpenter, $3.50 per day; carpenters, $3 per day; masons, $3 per day; labourers, $2 per day.
7.	Yes.


1.	Why was the work on the public buildings at Three Rivers suspended?
2.	Did the Government make any arrangements since the signing of the contract with the contractors for the construction of the said buildings?
3.	VThat is the amount mentioned in the contract for the construction of the wharf at Cap de la Madeleine?
4.	How much money has been paid for that wharf s n e V e o m nc ment cf c n t. uc 'on to date, and to whom, and why were such moneys paid?
5.	At whose request were the works on the Three Rivers wharves during the years 1914 and 1915 carried on?
6.	Are such works paid for by the Government, or by the Harbour Commissioners of Three Rivers?
7.	(a) At what date did the Government authorize such works, and (b) to whom did it confide the undertaking?


1.	Weather was too cold to build stonework. No instructions were given to suspend, the contractors did so themselves, principally because they had no stone ready.
2.	Arrangements were made to make the north and south elevations similar to the Notre Dame street elevation.
3.	Schedule rates, approximately $56,000.
4.	Total cost to 1912-1913, $9,167.56. In 1913-1914 the wharf was enlarged, under contract; paid to date, $57,426.62; total, $66,594.18.
5.	Works done during 1914-15 were to complete work already under contract.
6.	By the Government.
7.	(a) May 18, 1910, March 18, 1912. (b) Collins & Giroux, of Ottawa.


1.	Are any repairs now being made on the ss. Tyrian at Halifax?

2.	If so, (a) who has the contract for the same, and (b) what is the amount to be expended?
3.	Were tenders asked for said work? If so, who were asked to tender, and what were the amounts tendered, respectively?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Halifax Marine Engineering Co. has contract for repairs and renewals to machinery, $16,750, and for new boilers, $9,200; (b) T. Hogan & Co., Halifax, have contract for removal of old boilers, alterations to boiler room and installation of new boilers, $9,841.
3.	Yes, tenders .were called by public advertisement for new engines and boilers, and the following tenders were received:
Supply of New Engine.
1.	Bow Mclachlin Co	$10,416	002.	McKie & Baxter	10,610	673.	Poison Iron Works, Ltd.	..	. . ..	12,244	004.	The Jno. Inglis Co., Ltd	
12,500	005.	The Halifax Engine Co.,	Ltd.* . . .	14,300	006.	Collingwood Shipbuilding	Co,	Ltd. .	14,000	007.	The ChaudiSre Machine and Foundry Co	
15,750	00
* Alternative offer to install compound surface condensing engine to be supplied by department and fit propeller to shaft, department to pay for ship hire and dockage, connect piping from boilers, pumps, circulating pump suction and discharge to sea, remove present engine and stow as directed for $13,600.
For repairs to old machinery.
1.	The Halifax Marine Eng. Co., Ltd. 16,750 00
2.	Burns & Kelleher	 17,200 00
Supply of new boilers.
1.	The Halifax Marine and Engine
Co., Ltd	  9,200	00
2.	International Engineering Works,
Ltd	
9,500	003.	The Jenckes Machine Co.,	Ltd.	.	.	.	9,554	004.	Collingwood Shipbuilding	Co.,	Ltd.	10,000	005.	The Jno. Inglis Co., Ltd	
10,200	006.	Poison Iron Works, Ltd	
10,936	007.	The ChaudiSre Machine and Foundry Co	
18,500	00
Installation of new boilers.
1.	The T. Hogan & Co	 9,841 00
2.	Halifax Marine & Engineering
Co	
14,550	003.	A. A. Webber & Son	
14,700	00
ARTHUR GILBERT. [DOT]


1.	Has Mr. Arthur Gilbert been collector of excise or an employee of the Inland Revenue Department at Victoriaville?
2.	When was he appointed to such position?
3.	Did he succeed a Mr. J. U. Poirier and was the latter dismissed?
4.	What salary did Mr. Gilbert receive during each of the years 1912, 1913 and 1914?
5.	Had Mr. Gilbert an assistant at Victoriaville? If so, who was that assistant, and what was his salary?
6.	What rent did the Government pay for Mr. Gilbert's office?


1.	Yes.
2.	July 19, 1912.
3.	Yes. Mr. J. U. Poirier.
4.	1912, $333.30; 1913, $799.92; 1914, $799.92.
5.	No.
6.	$20, monthly rent.


Mr. A. W. Chisholm: For a copy of all applications received for Fenian raid bounty from residents of the county of Hants; also the names of persons who have been paid the bounty and those who have been refused it in said county; with the reasons for refusal, and showing the number of applications that have yet been dealt with.
On the Orders of the Day being called:
I desire to draw the attention of the Plouse to a statement that appeared in the Toronto Globe of yesterday, which, to say the least of it, seems to me rather unfair. It reads as follows:
Early Prorogation to Hush Scandals?
Ottawa, March 29.-It looks as though the Government is now eager and determined to " close shop." It proposes, if possible, to crowd through remaining business and prorogue by the end of the present week. To do this it will be necessary to abandon the Easter adjournment and sit on Saturday. The Government notice providing for the Eastertide adjournment Avas formally put in, but since has been mysteriously withdrawn. Importance is attached to .the new move to end Parliament as soon as possible by reason of the fact that prorogation would bring automatically a termination to the embarrassing investigations of the .Public Accounts Committee, the special inquiry on soldier's boots and other investigations AA'hich threaten further serious disclosures.
The facts are that the Clerk of the House, follotving his usual practice, and without any special notification from any member of the Government, placed the usual notice on the Order Paper that when this House adjourns to-day it shall stand adjourned till next Tuesday. The first intimation I had of that notice being on the Order Paper was when hon. gentlemen opposite requested that it be withdrawn, and that we sit on Saturday, and on Monday and Tuesday of next week, in the hope of being able to conclude the business of the House within that time. Therefore I think it was rather unfair of the Globe to make the statement that

Importance is attached to the new move to end Parliament as soon as possible by reason of the fact that prorogation would bring automatically a termination to the embarrassing investigation of the Public Accounts Committee, the special inquiry on soldiers' boots and other investigations which threaten further serious disclosures.
I do not think that the Government, either in this House or in the Public Accounts Committee, have given any evidence of a desire to prevent any matter from coming out that hon. gentlemen desired to be brought to the attention of the House and the country. I claim that the statement of the Globe is a very unfair representation of the facts, by reason of the fact that if the motion mentioned has been withdrawn it has been withdrawn at the request of hon. gentlemen opposite.


I have only to say that if this motion was withdrawn at the request of gentlemen on this side of the House, I have no knowledge of it. The attitude of the Opposition this session has been to facilitate business as much as they possibly could; I think everybody will agree that we have had no other desire. For my part, I at one time indulged in the hope that it would be possible to close by Easter, and some time ago, when the Government proposed to take Mondays, I asked what business they had still to bring down. We were told what business they had to bring down, but since that day the Government has been continually bringing down new business of which we had no notice. To-day there is a new Bill on the Order Paper, to amend the Supreme Court Act. We were given no notice of that. The Estimates . were brought down only last evening. If, under such circumstances, we are to sit from day to day I have no objection, but I think it would be preferable to have the usual Easter adjournment. If the Government desires otherwise, we on this i ide of the House are ready to go on.


I gave notice of my motion to the Clerk, and it appears in the Votes and Proceedings this morning. It is in accordance with what I stated two or three days ago, that we should ask the House to adjourn Thursday night and sit again on Saturday and on Monday in order to speed business through as quickly as possible. The Opposition have a perfect right to sufficient time in which to consider all measures that are .brought down. Some new measures have been brought; down which were rather unexpected, but I am
 -
told they are not very serious, and I hope they will not take a very long time to discuss and dispose of. I am quite sure that the opinion which prevails on both sides of the House is that with the exception of Good Friday, we should stick to business until the business of the House is finished.


May I ask if
there are any more measures to be brought down by the Government, or is this the last ?


There are no more measures to be brought down that I know of.


"I know of" is rather elastic.


But of course one never knows what may happen.


I am afraid that is true.


The right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) has mentioned the Bill to amend the Supreme Court Act. Unless my memory is entirely at fault, when the right Ihon. gentleman asked the question as to what business -might be expected, the -right hon. leader of the House (Sir Robert Borden), on my reminding him of it, mentioned that -there might possibly be a Bill to amend the Supreme Court Act. It is a very trifling amendment.


I think my hon. friend is right in that. Bqt that was ten days ago, and the Bill now appears for tfhe first time.


On motion of Hon. 0. J. Doherty (Minister of Justice), the House went into Committee on Bill No. 106, to amend the Representation Act, 1914-Sir Robert Borden; Mr. Sevigny in the Chair.
On section 1-Nipissing:
As was explained when this Bill was introduced, its purpose is simply to correct certain errors in the description of some of the constituencies as set forth in the Act of last year providing for the redistribution. As I understand it, there are no substantial changes in any constituency. It is merely the correction of errors in description, and if I am correctly informed, the matter has been looked into by the committee that dealt

with redistribution, and the Bill as it now stands represents correctly what was agreed upon as being necessary.


What are the constituencies affected by these corrections ?


Nipissing, London,
Quebec West, Jacques Cartier, Wright, Labelle and Hull, Portage la Prairie, Springfield, and some constituencies in Prince Edward Island.
Mr. PARDEiE : This was necessary because, as I understand it, one side of the boundary of the city of London had been entirely left out and this describes it.


The effect of the description was to include in London sections which it was not intended to include.


In regard to
Nipissing, the first amendment simply strikes out the word " Kelly." Kelly should not be there?


Kelly should not be
there. I understand that Kelly is a township some seven townships to the south of the boundary. It was put in there by error.
On paragraph 4-Quebec West:


Some explanation is
necessary here. Perhaps the minister has an explanation to give.


In the Act that was
passed Limoilou was included in Quebec East. Limoilou includes the village of Stadacona, which was intended to be in Quebec West. For the purpose of taking Stadacona from Quebec East I beg to move:
That paragraph 4 he amended by inserting after the figure 6 the words: " (b) The description of the electoral district of Quebec East is amended by adding at the end thereof the following words: ' Exclusive of the village of Stadacona'; and further that clause (c) of the same paragraph 4 be amended by inserting in the third line, after the words ' St. Malo ' the words, ' and the village of Stadacona.' "
This will have the effect of placing the village of Stadacona where it was intended to be placed, that is, in Quebec West.


Amendment agreed to.
For the sake of clearness I would suggest that the section be redrafted as it should read, instead of amending it in this way.


I think that would be better. There is a change to be made in regard to Hull and Labelle, and it might be understood that these sections will be taken
as passed, they to be redrafted and the changes incorporated in them.
On section 5-Jacques Cartier shall not include any portion of St. Denis ward:


This amendment is not clear.


St. Denis ward was in Jacques Cartier as it existed at the time of the passing of the Act, and it should have been included in the places that were excluded from Jacques Cartier. It was not mentioned as being excluded, though it is mentioned as forming part of a new electoral district.


Is it in
Maisonneuve?


It is described as the electoral district of St. Denis, and the Act says that that electoral district shall be composed of the whole of St. Denis ward. As the Act stands, St. Denis ward is apparently in this new riding, and also in Jacques Cartier.


Section agreed to.
As. I understand it, the amendment with regard to Hull and Labelle is in conformity with the arrangement made yesterday by the hon. member for Wright (Mr. Devlin) with.Mr, Gisborne* the law clerk.


There has been no change that I know of.


The minister has before him the written amendment with regard to Labelle and Wright.


This is sent to me as being the result of the conference.


Quite so.


Is there any change in section 6 with regard to Buckingham?


Yes. In the description of the electoral district of Hull, the townships of Southeast Buckingham and North Templeton, not being named, were left in the electoral districts of Labelle and Wright respectively. It was intended that both those townships should be in Hull. That was the reason of the introduction of subsection 6 into this Bill. I understand that, as a result of the conference of yesterday, there was to be added to subsection 6 these words:
And the municipality of South Hull shall form part of the electoral district of Hull and not part of the electoral district of Wright.


That is changing the
boundaries altogether. It is going too far.


That amendment was
handed to me as a result of a conference of yesterday. I am not myself sufficiently familiar with the geography of the district to know exactly what the change means.


If we adopt that amendment, we adopt the principle that we decided not to take into eonsidera-
12 noon, tion at all, that is, the changing of the boundaries. I understood this Bill was simply to correct errors made in the descriptions of the electoral districts. This opens up a wider field altogether.


I understood from the
hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Achim) that a piece had been taken out of the city of Hull which should have been left in. South Hull was really transferred to another riding, although that was not the intention of the original Act at all.


It may be all right, but I think we had better allow the section to stand.


I will have it recast.
Subsection 6 stands.
On subsection 8-Portage la Prairie:


What is the
change here?


Under the Act as it now stands, the portions mentioned are included both in Winnipeg and Portage la Prairie. They will now be Winnipeg alone.


Subsection agreed to.
On subsection 9-Springfield:
. Sir WILFRID LAURIER: In what electoral district will the portions named be included?
According to the Act as
it now stands, they are included in both Winnipeg and Springfield. They will now be in Winnipeg alone.


Subsection agreed to.
Progress reported.
On motion of Hon. P. E. Blondin (Minister of Inland Revenue) Bill No. 114, to amend the Adulteration Act was read the second time, and the House went into

Committee thereon, Mr. Sevigny in the Chair.
On section 1-imitation or compound maple sugar or maple syrup to be labelled:
Last session a deputation of the maple sugar makers of Canada was introduced to the Minister of Inland Revenue, and upon their recommendation a Bill on this subject was passed by Parliament. Will the minister please explain why it is that he comes before Parliament to-day asking for an amendment of that Act of last session? Upon whose demand is this new legislation introduced?


As I stated on a previous occasion, it was found that the Act of last session was not workable. This Bill proposes to amend that Act so as to authorize the maker or seller of the imitation article to label the article so as to make the public aware that it is an imitation. I will give the details of these amendments.
Section 29 (a) as appears in section 4 of chapter 19 of the Revised Statutes, 1914, entitled "An Act To Amend the Adulteration Act," is repealed. This repealed section provided that no article of food should be sold as maple sugar or maple syrup unless it was pure maple sugar or pure maple syrup, and that every article which did not comply with the standard for maple sugar and maple syrup as provided by statute should be deemed to be adulterated,-that is to say, in case the article represented to be maple sugar or maple syrup was offered for sale and did not comply with the standard, then the vendor would have to prove that it was really pure maple sugar or pure maple syrup.
The second subsection of that section provided that the word "maple" should not be used on a label of any article or on a package containing it unless the article was pure maple sugar or pure maple syrup, but, by a clerical error, the words "which is or" were inserted at the end of the fourth line of said subsection and had the effect of prohibiting the use of the word "maple" on the label of even pure maple sugar or pure maple syrup, thereby, in a certain sense, defeating the object of the Act.
The amendments provided in subsection 1 are, in effect: that any article of food which has the appearance of maple sugar or which is partly composed of maple sugar and maple syrup must bear a label containing the words "imitation maple


sugar" or "imitation maple syrup" or "compound maple sugar" or "compound maple syrup," so that the purchaser of such an article shall receive due notice that what he is buying is in fact a "compound" or an "imitation" of maple sugar or maple syrup and thereby will not be deceived as to what he is purchasing.
Subsection 2 is to the same effect as the latter part of subsection 1 of section 29 (a) of last year's amendment, that is to say, it throws the obligation on the vendor of maple sugar or maple syrup, who 'does not comply with the standard of proving that the article is really maple sugar or maple syrup.
Subsection 3 is the same as subsection 2 of section 29 (a) of last year's amendment, with the exception that the words "which is or" are struck out.
Section 2 of the Bill amends sections 31 and 32 of "the Adulteration of Foods Act. Section 31 is amended by adding the words " and not less than $25 and costs," in subsection (b) after the word " costs " in the third line thereof. In the Act as it stands at present, there is no minimum ffnd, and it is deemed advisable that a fine of $25 as a minimum should be imposed in cases of violation of the Adulteration Act, covered by this section.
Section 32 is amended for the same reason, the words " and not less than $50 and costs," are added after the word " both " in the fourth line of subsection (a), so that a minimum fine should be imposed in cases of violation of the Act piovided for by this subsection.
The words, " and not less than $25 and costs,. and for each subsequent offence a penalty not exceeding $200 and costs, or six months in jail, or both and not less than $50 and costs," are added to subsection (b) after the word " then " in the fourth line of said subsection (b). These two sections of the Act (31 and 32) are deemed incomplete as they are at present, and it was thought advisable to amend them in the manner suggested.
Section 37 of the Act is also repealed, and the amendment as suggested in section 3 of the proposed Bill is substituted therefor. The intention of this amendment is to reach the vendor of an article resembling maple syrup, who does not label this article as being an "imitation" or a " compound," and also provides for a higher minimum penalty, also for a penalty for subsequent offences, which section 37 as it is at present, does not provide for.
Subsection 40 of the Act is repealed, and replaced by the section appearing in section 4 of the present Bill. The intention of this amendment is to give the person who gives information or otherwise helps in the detection or violation of the Adulteration Act, one half the penalty. It is expected that this amendment will be a great help to the department in the application of the law and the detection of all violations thereof.
I understand that the most contentious question in regard to this Bill is whether the law should entirely prohibit the sale of compounds of maple syrup or maple sugar, or whether this trade should be allowed to go on provided the public are made aware that they are buying a compound or imitation article, and are not buying pure maple syrup or pure maple sugar. The reason in favour of allowing this trade to go on is that many people cannot afford to buy the pure article, but would like to buy the compound, which is cheaper. I am inclined to believe that there would be no objection to such sale so long as the public are made aware that they are buying the imitation; and I think that is one of the worst evils from which the maple sugar industry is suffering-that to-day the adulterated stuff can be sold on the market without my department being able to interfere to prevent it, even though the purchaser may be under the impression that it is pure maple sugar or pure maple syrup that he is purchasing Under the present Act dealers may sell adulterated sugar or syrup provided they put no label on the package. The aim of the Act is to- force the man who manufactures a compound or makes any adulteration of the sugar or syrup to announce it to the public and put on. his package the word " imitation." So long as the maple sugar is pure the dealer is not obliged to use any label. Articles which have no labels on are supposed to be pure.
The objection to this legislation, which comes so soon after the Act of last session, is that to some extent it favours adulteration. Adulteration is one of the evils of this modem age. Scarcely anything that comes upon the table is not in some way adulterated by some industrious man who derives a profit from doing so at the expense of the consumer. The manufacturers of maple sugar last year interviewed the Government protesting against the adulteration of maple sugar, and had it made an offence. I think every-

body will agree that we should prevent, as far as we can, adulteration of any kind of food. This year those who have been adulterating maple sugar come back and ask permission still to sell adulterated sugar providing that they announce it to the public in a certain way, but they should not be allowed to adulterate it. Adulteration ought not to be encouraged, and the answer that should have been given those who came and asked the privilege of putting adulterated sugar on the market should have been: You must conform to the law, and the law passed last year requires that all maple sugar shall be pure. That should have been the answer instead of saying that - they must announce that the sugar is adulterated. I think the objection taken by the hon. gentleman for Huntingdon (Mr. Robb) is very serious, and ought to be taken into consideration by the Government, that the Bill which my hon. friend is now amending was introduced last year at the request of the maple sugar makers. They protested against their product being adulterated in any way, and I am surprised that, twelve months after passing that law, those against whom the law was directed are able to come back again and obtain the privilege of doing what was denied them last year.


Although this Bill may appear to give more protection to the adulterators, it is, on the contrary, an effort to devise some means to follow them. What has happened under the law of last year? We have had more adulteration of maple sugar than we had before. Why? Because the dealers put on the market maple syrup with all kinds of labels which we cannot control, which did not contain the word " maple," while in many- cases they informed their customers verbally that it was maple syrup they were selling.


How is the labelling of
the packages going to help? Supposing a man sells an adulterated package and does not label it, he is liable to a fine. You must first have an inspector analyse the contents of the package to ascertain that it is not pure maple syrup. Under the old Act the man selling such adulterated goods would be subject to a fine. This is only recognizing the compound of maple syrup and helping the man who wishes to cheat the public to put on the market an article not fit for consumption. If you want to prevent that and to prevent compounds going on the market, you ought to make the

man who offers the adulterated article subject to a penalty. You have no more guarantee that the man who is going to adulterate maple syrup will put his label on it than that the man who is offering maple syrup will say:	This is not the right stuff
I am selling you; I have put yellow sugar in it. The minister knows that the man \who resorts to that means will not spend money to put labels on his goods telling the public what he is doing.


To-day it is left to my department to detect the adulterators; but by this Act we are compelling the adulterators to self-denunciation; every article that is put on the market must be labelled " imitation " if it is not pure.


Why legalize adulteration by putting that label on the package?


We do not.


You do. I may go on
the market with an adulterated package, but the moment I put on the package the words " compound maple syrup," I am within the law.


It is more a question ot . whether our efforts to prevent adulteration is to prevent only for the sake of prevention or to make the public aware that they are buying adulterated goods. If I want to buy this imitation I have the choice of doing so. I do not think that we should prevent a man who wants to buy these imitations from doing so; but I think we must force the dealer to make the public aware that such and such products are compounds.


The position that the minister has just taken is a complete change from the attitude of his predecessor last year, when the farmers and makers of maple syrup were before the Committee on Agriculture, and from the position taken by the Minister of Agriculture who was present at that gathering. Members of the Agricultural Committee may remember that quite a large deputation of maple sugar makers from the province of Quebec and eastern Ontario waited on the Minister of Inland Revenue and the Minister of Agriculture and objected to this very practice. They strongly resented the use of the word " maple " in connection with these adulterations that are made up in cellars in Montreal and sent out to the people in the Northwest and British Columbia, branded as maple sugar, or adulterated sugar,

if you will. Their point was that the imitators should not be allowed to use the word " maple " at all, and with that view the minister's predecessor and the Minister of Agriculture sided and took very strong ground before the committee. I think the minister should give some better explanation of this change of policy.


My hon. friend knows
that there are articles on the market which are really not maple syrup, and on which the word " maple " does not appear.


They would not bring the
price they would fetch if the word " maple " were on them. It is the word " maple " that gives them value.


First of all, if you want to use the word " maple " you have to put it in a conspicuous position. The section
says:
No person shall keep for sale, offer or expose for sale, or sell, any article of food resembling or being an imitation of maple sugar or maple syrup, or which is composed partly of maple sugar or maple syrup and which is not pure maple sugar or pure maple syrup, unless the article itself or the package containing it is labelled with the words " imitation maple sugar " or " imitation maple syrup," or " compound maple sugar " or " compound maple syrup," as the case may be, in a conspicuous place on the article itself.


If my hon. friend reads the whole section he will see that the word " imitation " need not be on it at all. A man might sell a compound, having on one side the words " compound maple syrup " and on the other side " extra pure article," and that would give the impression of being the very best kind of maple syrup. The word " imitation " need not be on it at all under this section.


What is the object in
allowing adulterated maple sugar and maple syrup to be put on the market at all? We in the West do not produce any maple sugar or maple syrup, but we buy a good deal; and many times we have bought what purported to be maple syrup or maple sugar, but what turned out to be an imitation made of yellow muscovado sugar. Why should manufacturers be permitted to do that? Why does not the minister settle the whole matter by imposing a heavy penalty on any one who sells in any shape or form adulterated maple sugar or maple syrup that purports to be the real article? He should allow the sale of pure maple sugar and maple syrup and nothing else. By this Bill
the minister is allowing anybody to sell adulterated maple sugar or maple syrup. This will only make matters much worse. Why does not the minister continue the policy of his predecessor a little further and impose such penalties on the man who is found selling adulterated maple sugar or maple syrup that he will never do it again? That would overcome the whole difficulty.


I do not know that I
am very well versed in this question, but I should "like to know the object that is sought to be attained by insisting that there should be no possible method by which a man might make a compound of maple syrup. Whether or not it is desirable to allow such compounds to be sold I am not prepared to say. But when the word " adulterated " is used, it always gives the idea that the article is being set up for something that it is not. What is not quite clear to my mind is this: Why should we prevent a perfectly honest man from making a syrup of which maple may form one of the component parts, a syrup which is cheaper than the pure maple syrup, and which some persons are desirous of buying? I should like to know what harm is going to be doner by allowing that man to put his ware upon the market with the statement staring everybody in the face that it is what it is, that it is not maple syrup, but an imitation. Perhaps some better word than compound could be found. I understand that the purpose of this legislation is to make any man who wants to sell such an article as I have described tell the public that it is what it is, and that it is not maple syrup. If it be an evil to allow people to make a compound of maple syrup, then this course may not be a desirable thing; but if the evil consists simply in a man's selling as maple syrup what really is not maple syrup, it seems to me this Bill will aid in counteracting the evil, and it will not produce a result whereby you would prohibit a man perfectly honest from making an article of which maple syrup might form a component part, and which is cheaper than the pure article.


I do not know whether the minister has received any correspondence on the subject, but I have from parties who strongly object to the Bill. Their objection to it is this. Maple sugar and maple syrup are peculiarly Canadian products, and the makers of these articles are anxious to have maple sugar and maple syrup known on the mar-

ket; but for years past they have had to suffer from the malignant industry of some people who adulterate these articles. As I stated a moment ago, the adulteration of food is one of the evils of the present day. It is to be found not only in maple sugar and maple syrup, but in almost everything. Now, the object of the law and the, object of the Government ought to be to prevent adulteration, and to see that no food comes on the table unless it is what it purports to be. There are parties who make some compound of maple sugar and of maple syrup, but that is not in the interest of public health. It is injurious to health, and certainly injurious to the genuine article. This question came before the House last year, and ft has several times been before the House and the country. A delegation of the makers of maple sugar came before the Committee of Agriculture last year, and as a result of their representations and the deliberation of the Government upon them the present Adulteration Act was passed. But steps are now to be taken to make that law ineffective. That is the objection which the makers of maple sugar and maple syrup have to this Bill, and it is an objection worthy of consideration by this Government. The makers have given this matter their very best thought, and decided that there should be no adulteration at all of the articles they produce. That is the sum total of their objection. They object to this legislation because it allows an adulteration which is altogether objectionable.


As a constant user of maple sugar and maple syrup I must give my own experience. It is the most difficult thing in the world to obtain the genuine article to-day. If you go into any high-class grocery store in Montreal or any other city you have to accept the salesman's word that what you are getting is genuine maple sugar or maple syrup. It has been only within the last ten or fifteen years that the maple groves have been getting scarce in the province of Quebec. I am not so familiar with Ontario, so I will not speak about that. When they began to disappear, it was felt that there was a need for a substitute, and a way was found of getting up an artistic imitation on which the word "compound" was hidden away somewhere, and the word "maple" put in a conspicuous place. It is most difficult to obtain the genuine article to-day.

The Minister of Justice, who comes from the province of Quebec, knows the high value that is placed upon the industry. It is essentially a national industry, and is unique in this respect. Therefore it should be safeguarded in every possible way. No adulteration of any kind should be permitted.


This is a (question which interests me to a very considerable extent. I think the legislation which was passed last year was very acceptable to the sugar makers of the district from which I come. I do not think that the sugar makers of our district would have any objection to any company manufacturing any syrups they desired to produce; but, as one- coming from a district which is very much interested in the manufacture of sugar, I very much object to any company borrowing the name "maple." Maple sugar is one of the best and most wholesome products of our country. The industry is a very important one, and I feel it is the duty of this Government to protect it. The object of the farmers who came here last year was simply to protect that industry. They did not want to borjfnv anything from any other industry; they simply wanted to protect an honest industry, and I think it is the duty of this Government to do right by these people.


Mr. Chairman, I congratulate sincerely the Minister of Inland Revenue for introducing to-day this legislation which has been for a long time expected and the need of which has been felt also for a long time. His predecessor, at the last session, introduced a Bill, on which, if I am not mistaken, this one is an improvement. I take this opportunity also of expressing my thanks to the minister and his officers who have made it easy for me to secure interviews for the purpose of discussing the Bill.
It is not therefore, Mr. Chairman, believe me, with a critical disposition, that I rise now, but only to ask that it be finally retouched so as to be made for the present entirely effective and satisfactory both to those to whom it applies, many of whom are electors of mine, and to myself.
The. maple sugar industry, must be placed on the same footing as all the other agricultural industries, and really it is due to the general ignorance of its great possibilities if it has been heretofore neglected. Up to the present time the farmer has manufactured maple syrup and sugar solely for his fam-

ily's use; it was only as a luxury that the consumer bought yearly a certain quantity for his table. Lately it has been discovered that this industry, heretofore unexploited, could be turned into a gold mine for the farmers; and that, in order to extract this gold which would go to swell the income of the farm, this industry must be given a wider scope and a new direction. The awakening has been general. Here, the late Government distributed to 50,000 owners of maple-bushes a very valuable pamphlet on the manufacture of maple syrup and sugar, and drafted a Bill designed to give protection to the producer. At Quebec, at the same time, the provincial government opened in different parts of the province schools for the practical teaching of this industry. In a word the movement is spreading all over and gives good promises for the future. A society, comprising some of the most notable producers, and persons interested in this industry, and of which I am president, although not myself a producer, was formed two years ago, and apparently has taken upon itself the important as well as patriotic task of acting as intermediary between the mass of the producers and those authorities who see to the making of laws, the protection of rights, the opening of markets, etc. I have always myself taken a deep concern in this industry, although the number of producers to be found in my county is not at all commensurate with its extent. That was my reason, as early as 1906, for rising in this House to speak in favour of this industry. On that occasion I was spokesman for a powerful association of farmers of Vaudreuil.
At that time, already distant, I was given encouragement. And I am glad to say that greater care has since been given to the inspection of adulterated products, but adulterators can never be proceeded against too rigorously. It is only of late that the Government seems to have resolved seriously to enact a law for the protection of that new agricultural industry, and I shall not be sparing in my congratulations.
First of all, before taking up the Bill, we may ask if this industry deserves to be noticed by this House. Is the maple industry, meaning thereby the extraction of the sap to be manufactured into sugar or syrup, profitable-to the producers and consequently for the country in general? After a close study of Jthe question, and after comparing it with the other money-crops on the farm, I find that many of these are on the whole
less productive than the sugar industry. I am satisfied that it will come as a surprise to many to learn that the sugar industry, until now considered insignificant as a source of income, does, on the contrary, bring to the- farmer quite a profit. If we may rely on the last census, the annual production of maple sugar exceeds that of the fruit-growing industry. Our orchards and fruit trees of various species have yielded approximately, in 1911, $1,470,000, that is 14 per cent less than the maple-tree. The value of maple sugar and syrup manufactured in 1911 exceeds the value of sheep sold and killed on the farm in 1910; is almost equal to the value of poultry sold and killed in the same-year; amounts to more than the quantity of cream sold and is six times greater than the value of the total yield of honey and wax. Take my own county; according to statistics I myself gathered last year, 128 farmers have together notched 96,465 maple trees, from which 13,740 gallons of syrup and 18,811 pounds of sugar were manufactured, representing a total value of $19,712. The number of producers in the county exceeded 128, but only that number have answered the circular I sent around.
The annual product of the maple-tree reaches about $2,000,000 and if there was provided proper protection, it would in a very tew y-ears amount to $6,000,000, the increase going into the pockets of the farmers and those who engage in the sugar industry. If then the Government would give the same care to the development of that industry which it gives to the other farm specialties, enough sugar and syrup could be produced to supply the whole Canadian market. Our sugar and syrup could take the place of all other known sugars and syrups. Now, what is required to rebuild or, if you prefer, to build up, this industry, are the combined efforts of all who are directly or indirectly interested in the development of agriculture. We know from past experience that by a well distributed propaganda, we have almost created the dairy industry and stock-raising. Many other astonishing results have been obtained from a systematic propaganda organized by the various governments, from the laws of these governments and from the combined efforts of the farmers and .educated and patriotic persons. The maple industry, during this last decade, instead of expanding, has been steadily declining till it could almost be said to be on the eve of disappearing, when competent and devoted men suddenly decided to come to its rescue

and present circumstances seem of a nature to encourage them.
I shall now give figures showing the progress of this industry since 1850, which point to the conclusion that a considerable amount of money has been lost to our farmers, because they neglected to work the maple-tree. I have drawn important information from the annual report of the co-operative society of maple sugar and syrup producers. This information is furnished by Mr. Joseph H. Lefevre, secretary or the society, John H. Grimm, a Montreal manufacturer and other distinguished men who take an interest in this industry. In looking into these statistics it will be found that the maple region extends throughout Quebec, Ontario, and the maritime provinces, and that about two-thirds of the total production is in Quebec. Canada produced from
1850 to 1860, 135,000,000 of pounds of maple sugar.
1860 to 1870, 175,000,000 of pounds of maple sugar, an increase of 40,000,000.
1870 to 1880, 190,000,000 of pounds of maple sugar, an increase of 15,000,000.
1880 to 1890, 225,000,000 of pounds of maple sugar, an increase of 35,000,000.
1890 to 1900, 212,000,000 of pounds of maple sugar, a decrease of 13,000,000.
1900 to 1910, 196,000,000 of pounds of maple sugar, a decrease of 16,000,000.
Those figures are to be apportioned among the different provinces in about the following proportion: Quebec contributed 65 per cent of the total output of maple sugar and syrup manufactured in Canada; Ontario, 32 per cent, and the maritime provinces, 3 per cent.
But how explain the decrease of 16,000,000 of pounds in the production of maple sugar during the ten years from 1890 to 1900? That decrease is due to the adulterators of all kinds, who, by their unfair competition, have disheartened the farmers On June 6, 1905, out of one hundred samples of syrup tested by the Inland Revenue officers, 76 were found to have been adulterated; which means that one-quarter was pure and three-quarters mixtures. In the second series of tests made, 34 per cent of the samples proved adulterated. On February 16, 1911, Mr. McGill wrote to Mr. Grimm, of Montreal, that out of twelve hundred sample tests only 59 came up to the standard which had been adopted as the legal standard. On the other hand, the sugar-bush has been neglected in certain localities. The small state of Vermont, with an area of only 10,200 square miles, has an annual production of sugar amounting to $1,086,933.
[Mr; Boyer.]
This figure is an eloquent answer to those who would say that there is no money in the maple syrup and sugar industry. According to the census of the United States of 1910, which gives the data for 1909, maple sugar is made in nineteen stat