Report of the Secretary of State for External Affairs for the year ended March 31, 1915.-Sir Robert Borden.
Mr. PUGSLEY (for Mr. W. M. Martin) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 38, to amend the Criminal Code.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
[Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.]
1.	How many men have been taken from other railways and placed in positions, with $900 a year and over, on the Intercolonial railway between April 1, 1913, and December 31, 1915?
2.	What are the names of the men so employed ?


1.	There are eighteen such men now' in the employ of the Intercolonial Railway.
2.	Engineering department: C B. Brown, A. T. McDonald, F. S. Wilkins, G. C. LSght-ner, L. H. Robinson, A. D. W. Cuthbert, James Pullar, II. T. Rhul, L. Broussean, T. L. Landers, G. C. Perkins, A. H. Jones, J. E. Long.
Operating department: J. K. McNeillie, A. C. Barker, William Charles Roberts.
)

Traffic department: C. A. Hayes.
Mechanical department: George E. Smart.


1.	Where is the French Government purchasing: horses in Canada?
2.	What are the names and addresses of the parties representing the French Government in the matter?


1.	The Government has no official information-on the subject, but understands from advertisements appearing in the daily (press, that purchases are being made in various parts of Canada.
2.	The Government has no official information on the subject, except that the Hudson's Bay Company is the official purchasing agent for the French Government in Canada. No information is available as to whether their duties comprise the purchase of horses. Information can doubtless be obtained from the French remount officers, who, according to advertisement, are to be in Ottawa during the whole of the present week.
102ND BATTALION.


1.	Why is the 102nd Battalion, the men for which are mostly being recruited in the upper county or the mainland of British Columbia, to be mobilized at Comox?
2.	What is the additional cost to the country of transporting these men to Comox?
3.	How long will they be trained there?
4.	What is the total precipitation per annum at Comox, as given by the Meteorological Department?
5.	How is it divided throughout the year?


1.	On the recommendation of the District Officer Commanding Military District-No. 11.
2.	Cannot be estimated. In most cases, men were en route to the front.
3.	Until they are moved into concentration camp or overseas.
4 and 5. This information is given in reports.


1.	How many tons of stone did the Gover-ment purchase for the construction of the pier at the head of the Soulanges canal?
2.	What price per ton was paid?
3.	How many tons were purchased from Philias Dore, of Valleyfield?
4.	What price per ton did he receive?
5.	By what method of transportation was such stone conveyed to the works?
6.	How many boats, scows and men were employed in such transportation?
7.	How many days were required for the transportation of such stone?
8.	What was the daily cost of such work?
9.	What amount has Philias Viau received so far?
10.	What amount is still due him?


1.	5,775 tons.
2.	$1.20 per ton on scow at Valleyfield.
3.	5,775 tons.
4.	$1.20 per ton.
5.	By Government-owned scows and tug -the Carillon.
6.	Two scows, one tug, six men.
7.	Transportation at the rate of one trip per day for 52 days. Each trip consumed about two hours.
8.	$2.35 for fuel and oil. No charge made tor crew and tug which did the hauling, while the dredge she was attending was loading her own scows and otherwise would have been idle.
9.	Nothing has been paid Philias Viau.
10.	Nothing. '


1.	What arrangement has been made -with the United States of America for supplying sentries for days and nights in watching the International railway bridge between Van Buren, Maine, and St. Leonard, N.B.?
2.	Is the Government aware that these sentries are being accommodated in American cars? If so, who has ordered said cars for our Canadian soldiers?
3.	Are the United States of America paying Part or the whole expenses to watch the said bridge?


No arrangements have been made with the United States of America, but, on request of the president of the Bangor and Aroostook Railway Company, a guard,was furnished by the Militia Department, the company agreeing to furnish the housing accommodation of this guard, and no complaint was ever received.


1.	Has the Government purchased any property in the city of Swift Current for a post office site?
2.	If so, what is the description of such property?
3.	What was the date of such purqhasq, and what was the price paid for such property?


1.	Yes.
2.	Lots 19 and 20, block 55.
3.	31st March, 1914; $25,000.


1.	What is the tqtal sum of money paict out of the federal treasury by way of subsidy to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company?
2.	How many acres of land have been granted by the federal Government by way of subsidy to said company??
3.	What amount of bonds or other issues, if any, have been guaranteed by the federal Government on behalf of said company?


1.	What is the total sum of money paid out of the federal treasury by way of subsidy to the Canadian Northern Railway Company?
2.	How many acres of land, if any, have been granted toy the federal Government by way of subsidy to said company?
3.	What amount of bonds or other issues have been guaranteed by the federal Government on behalf of said company?


1.	What is the total sum of money paid out of the Federal Treasury by way of subsidy to the Grand Trunk Railway Company?
2.	How many acres of land, if any, have been granted by the Federal Government by way of subsidy to said company?
3.	What amount of bonds or other issues, if any, have been guaranteed by the Federal Government on behalf of said company?


1.	For Victoria Jubilee bridge, $500,000.
2.	None.
3.	No bonds or other issues have been guaranteed by the Federal Government for the Grand Trunk Railway.


1.	Is Dr. Ferguson, of the city of Moncton, in the employ of the Canadian Government railway?
2.	If so, in what capacity is he so employed?
3.	If he is so employed, when did he get his appointment?
4.	What salary does he receive?
5.	Is any allowance given him for expenses over and above his salary? If so, how much?


1.	Yes.
2.	Chief medical officer.
3.	May 10, 1915.
4.	$2,500 per annum.
5.	Yes, actual expenses when travelling on railway business.


1.	From whom were tenders called for the supply of milk to the soldiers of the 106th Regiment, billeted at Pictou, N.S. ?
2.	What were the prices from each tenderer?

3.	What were the prices received from each tenderer for meat, groceries and coal, respectively, for the use of such soldiers?
4.	To whom was the contract awarded in each case?


What quantity of ftiilk can be made from a pound of powder milk?


I really have no way of judging. I presume it would depend on the quantity of water.


Powder milk costs 14J
cents a pound, and I want to know whether it is as cheap as liquid milk.


We are trying to
get a scientific answer to the question.


I want a practical
answer. Let the question stand.


Does the hon. gentleman wish the question to stand?


Yes, if I can get a practical answer.


The only answer 1 can give is, "Add water."


1. Have any requests been received by the Railway Department with reference to provid-
66i
ing better accommodation for the people of Eureka, county of Pictou, in going to and from the town of New Glasgow?
2. If so, what action has been taken in regard to the said request?


1.	Yes.
2.	The matter is being inquired into at present.


1.	Were any tenders called for the various supplies required for the men of the 40th Battalion, quartered in New Glasgow, Nova Scotia, in 1915?
2.	If so, from whom were, they asked ?
3.	To whom were the various contracts awarded?


1. B Company of the 48th Battalion, stationed at New Glasgow received an allowance in lieu of rations. Therefore, no tenders were obtained or contracts made by the department.
2 and 3. Answered by No. 1.


Mr. Edwards.-For a return showing the amount paid out for new buildings and repairs at the Royal Military College and at Fort Henry in each of the years 1912, 1913, 1914 and 1915; to whom the money was paid; the amount in each case; what portion of the work was tendered for; and the amount of each tender submitted.
Mr. Lanctdt.-For a return showing the number of permanent employees in the Department of Inland Revenue in 1915-16; the number there will be in 1916-17; the amount paid in salaries for temporary employees in each of the following years:	1912-13,	1913-14,	1914-15,
and 1S15-16; and the names of the temporary employees and dates of their appointment, respectively.
Mr. Macdonald.-For a return showing the names of all shell inspectors employed in and about the Nova Scotia Steel Company, and the other factories producing shells at New Glasgow, in the county of Pictou.
Mr. E. Lapointe.-For a copy of plans, profiles, reports, correspondence and all documents concerning the construction of a viaduct at Amqui, on the Intercolonial railway, at the place called Traverse Dube, Dub6 Crossing; also of the plans of properties belonging to the Intercolonial railway at Amqui, and of the land leased to the municipality of Amqui, with a copy of the lease affecting such land.
Mr. E. Lapointe.-For a copy of all reports and documents concerning the surveys made by the Federal Government during the autumn of 1914 of Lake Matapedia and the river of the same name down to the village of Amqui.
Mr. E. Lapointe.-For a copy, of all documents, correspondence, reports, etc., concerning the dismissal of ,T. B. Levesque, of RiviSre Ouelle, as steward on the steamer Champlain.
Mr. E Lapointe.-For a copy of all documents, reports, correspondence, etc., relating to the changing of St. Eleuth£re station on the National Transcontinental railway.
Mr. E. Lapointe.-For a return showing the names of all persons who worked at the repairing of the wharf at RiviSre Ouelle during the summer of 1915, with a statement of their occupations and the amount paid to them, respectively.
On the notice of motion:
Mr. Pugsley: Proposed resolution: That, in the opinion of this House, it is desirable that the Government should promote legislation to amend the Dominion Elections Act, so as to provide that upon any province of Canada enacting legislation giving women the right to vote for members of the provincial legislature, such women as are on the provincial voters lists, or as are otherwise entitled to vote for members of the legislature in such province, shall also, unless otherwise disqualified, have the right to vote at elections for members of this House.
Unless the Government desire the order to stand, I should like to proceed.
Mr. ROGERS-:	Would my hon. friend
let this resolution stand for to-day? Certain other arrangements have been arrived at between the whips.


Very soon there may be elections in the province of Manitoba, where they have passed a law giving women the right to vote. Under the Dominion Elections Act it is very doubftul indeed whether women could vote at elections in Manitoba for representatives of the federal House. Women are expressly excluded from voting in Dominion elections in the provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta; it is desirable, I think, that this should be made clear. Perhaps my hon. friend will say that there will be another opportunity of bringing the resolution up.


I think there will be no
doubt as to that.
Notice stands.


On the Orders of the Day:
Would the Minister of Militia inform me what are the regulatiohs governing the various battalions in respect to the formation of bands? I am the president of the Civilians' Committee of the 163rd, the new battalion being formed at Montreal, and I have been asked to urge on the Government the necessity 
of having a band for that battalion. I know that in several cases the citizens have subscribed funds for the purchase of instruments, but I wish to know if the de-ipartment grants any help towards the maintenance of a regimental band. I am told that in this new regiment we have all the elements for the formation of a band, but they would like, if possible, to get the instruments from the Government.


The rule is that we furnish bugles and drums for the bugle bands of the different regiments, but regiments wishing brass bands furnish the instruments themselves. They have done that all over -the country. I wish to add my tribute of appreciation of the work Which our good friend from Rouville (Mr. Lemieux) is doing in connection with the formation of this new battalion. I understand, as he has suggested, that among its members are men with all the qualities of good bandsmen, and also all the qualities of good fighters.


I thank my hon. friend for his answer.


On the Orders of the Day:
I have received a telegram from some members of the Bar of Montreal asking if the Government have decided to appoint a new judge there. There has been a vacancy on the Bench in Montreal for over a month now, and the business at he court house is very congested. The barristers and the judiciary would be more than pleased if the Government would come to a decision and appoint a new judge.


I think my hon, friend asked this question the other day, when the Minister of Justice was present. As I understand, the answer of the Minister of Justice was, in effect, that he was giving the matter consideration, and that he hoped to be able to reach a conclusion in a very few days.


On the Orders of the day:
I wish to secure some information from the Minister of Militia in reference t-o Civil Service enlistment. We have been informed by the Government that since the first of November last young men in the Civil Service who enlist are allowed the difference between the pay

which they receive as military men and their salaries as members of the Civil Service. I am informed that members of the Civil Service who have entered the service since the war began, that is, during the past eighteen months, are deprived of this privilege. I wish to know if that distinction is made and, if so, the reason for it. It is a matter of great interest to members of the Civil Service, particularly those who have joined the Service since the war broke out. I am unable to see why any difference should be made in the treatment of the two classes of civil servants, but I am told that such is the case.


The rule in force is that members of the Civil Service who enlisted in the army prior to the 1st 'of November last draw their salaries as [DOT] civil servants and also their pay and allowances as soldiers. Those who have joined the colours since the 1st of November, 1915, receive their military pay and an additional amount which brings it up to the amount of their Civil Service salaries, if their salaries in the service were larger than their military pay. I am not aware of the existence of any such rule as my hon. friend has referred to, and I do not think that young men who have joined the Civil Service since the war broke out are des-criminated against as he has suggested. I will look into the matter and give my hon. friend further information.


My information comes from two different sources, and I am satisfied my hon. friend will find, on inquiry, that there is ground . for the statement which I have made.


I will look into it.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I desire to rise
to a question of privilege. I have been informed by some members of the press this morning that there is a bulletin outside some of the newspaper offices to the effect that the Hon. Mr. Calder, a member of the Government of Saskatchewan, stated in the Legislature yesterday that I was the instigator of certain charges that are being preferred against members of the Government, of that province. What I wish to say is that if such a statement has been made .it is absolutely untrue. I am informed further
that a statement has been made that I approached Mr. Calder a few months ago in respect to arranging the withdrawal of the charges against the ex-ministers in the province of Manitoba. Let me say that if Mr.-Calder has made this statement, which I very much doubt, it too is absolutely untrue.


I ask the indulgence of the House to rise to a question of privilege. In to-day's Hansard, I find in the excellent speech delivered yesterday by the hon. member for North Simcoe (Mr. Currie), that he referred to his non-recognition in the way of distinction or honours for his very excellent conduct at the battle of St. Julien. He said:
If anything has been said or done since to my injury, there are only two men who stood between me and any decorations that might have come to me, or any " mention in despatches," and these were General Alderson and the Minister of Militia here. One was six miles back of the line all through the fight, and the other was attending to his duty in Canada, about 1,800 miles away.
I may point out, Mr. Speaker, that the command and administration of affairs at the front are absolutely independent of Canada, or, for that matter, of Great Britain. They come under the direction of the Field Marshal, or the General Officer Commanding the forces at the front. In regard to decorations, the hon. member for North Simcoe has as much to do with them as I have. I was not in the field, and therefore was in no position, other than from hearsay, to make a recommendation, even supposing I had the right to do so. Every one will admit that it would be a great presumption on the part of any one who had not been in the field, and who was not familiar with the actual operations, to interfere in the sense of making any recommendation. I may say that I have had a great many requests from young fellows, brave young fellows too, to make recommendations, but it can be easily understood that it would be altogether out of place for me to attempt anything of the kind. I was speaking with one young gentleman who won the Distinguished Service Order at St. Julien, and he remarked to me that he felt ashamed almost to take it, because out of the 4,000 men in his brigade who took part in the fight, he felt that 3,999 had earned it just as much as he had. The fact that a soldier, or an officer, does not receive recognition does not signify that he has not done his duty.
I may say, since the hon. member for

North Simcoe himself referred to the matter, that rumours have been going round as to his conduct in the field. Personally I do not pay any heed to rumours, and I may observe that at every opportunity I have had of mentioning his name I have stated that Colonel John Currie, commanding the 48th Highlanders, 15th Battalion, Overseas Forces, had, so far as I could find out, done his duty fearlessly and well. There were two rumours current. One had it that he bad been found during the fighting in the rear of the British division, a considerable distance away from his regiment. If that rumour were correct it would require some explanation, but Colonel Currie was not there. Brigadier General Curry, who had a perfect right to be there, was there looking for reinforcements from the British division to help in the fight. General Curry had a perfect right to be there, because it was his duty to look for reinforcements.
Another rumour connected with that fight was that-I forget whether it was on the second or on the third day-Colonel John Currie was back in the rear of t'he Yser canal, behind Ypres. I investigated this rumour, and found that he was not in Ypres until 4 o'clock, or thereabouts, on the afternoon of Saturday, and that the officer referred to was again Brigadier General Curry, who was back, as was his duty, to consult General Alderson in the , matter of getting orders for holding t'he position.
With regard to a recommendation, I took the matter up with General Turner, on two occasions verbally, and on one occasion in writing. Without suggesting that I was interfering in any way, I asked, as I had a right to do, for a report on the matter, and I inquired if he could give any reason why Colonel John Currie, if he was entitled to recognition, had not been given it. I have not yet received an answer to either of these requests. I have nothing to say further than this: that every one who [DOT]knows Colonel John Currie believes that he is a thorough soldier, brave, and fearless, and one who performed his duty fearlessly and well on that occasion. So far as in me lies, I have endeavoured throughout this struggle to confine myself to my own part of the game. As I have said, the command and administration at the front are entirely under the direction of the Field Marshal or General Officer Commanding the forces, and that is as it should be. Every one will admit that for politicians, minister of militia, or any one else to interfSir Sam Hughes. J
fere in the matter of giving a decoration to this man, or an order to that man, would be entirely subversive of discipline, and of the best interests of the service.


The House resumed, from Wednesday, February 16, consideration of the proposed resolution of Mr. Turriff:
That in the opinion of this House, in order to secure to the farmers and people of Canada the advantages of the American market for wheat products and potatoes, steps should he taken at once to put these articles on the free list in the Canadian Tariff.
Hon, ROBERT ROGERS (Minister of Public Works):	Mr. Speaker, when the
House rose at six o'clock on Wednesday last I had just made a passing reference to ' the very abnormal premium being paid today on Canadian wheat available for immediate shipment from Atlantic seaports to the United Kingdom, or to France, or to Italy, or to Belgium. I did not then have the opportunity of making an explanation of the circumstances which have brought about this favourable condition of affairs, and before doing so to-day perhaps I will be permitted to say a word or two in respect to certain statements that have been made regarding comparative prices in the Canadian market at Winnipeg and Fort William, and in the American market at Minneapolis and Duluth. Let me begin, Sir, by saying that it is impossible for even the most experienced trained man in the trade in this country to be able to make an accurate statement by way of a comparison of prices between those different markets, for the simple reason that the conditions in the two countries are entirely different. We have at the markets of Winnipeg and Fort William, the same conditions that obtain throughout the rest of the Dominion where wheat is being traded in. We have adopted and we maintain a high standard of grading, and under this high standard our grain trade is carried on. But, the conditions are entirely different on the other side of the line. They not only have their grades but they also have their sample market, a condition that, in my humble judgment, carries with it an advantage to the grain producers of that country. I feel now, as I have always felt, that the farmers of western Canada have suffered to a very considerable extent by reason of the fact that v,e have no sample market. Shortly after I came to this House I had the pleasure, in company

with the rest of my colleagues from the province of Manitoba, of waiting upon the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Sir George Foster) to press upon him the desirability of the establishment of a sample market. I felt that I was justified in this by reason of the fact that for years previously I had been listening to the Grain Growers' executive of that province urging upon myself, and upon other public men in the province, the necessity and desirability of a sample market. The Minister of Trade and Commerce gave heed to our request, and came down to this House and secured the necessary powers to carry it into effect. But, strange to say, no sooner had we reached this point, than this very same Grain Growers' executive appealed to the Minister of Trade and Commerce not to establish such a market. If we have not a sample market in western Canada to-day, the executive of the Grain Growers' Association is responsible and blameable.
On the American side they not only have a sample market but they have adopted methods of their own, resulting in what is called picking the grades. I perhaps might explain that the grain dealer who is receiving wheat has his own man look at a lot of wheat which has been graded, say No. 1 hard, or No. 1 Northern. This man will say: that will go into such and such a bin-it is a very good No. I Hard, or No. 1 Northern, as the case may be. The next car will be graded by the same person who will put it in bin No. 2, by reason of the fact that he does not consider it quite as good a sample as the car he has placed in bin No. 1; and the same thing will occur all down the line with respect to four or five different grades. That is what they call picking the grades in the markets at Minneapolis and Duluth. When these grades are picked over, the prices quoted in Minneapolis for a specific grade of No. 1 Northern vary at times as much as ten cents per bushel, while in Canada we have one definite standard for each grade, and our grading is maintained at that high standard, and therefore each grade, as fixed by the inspector, carries one and the same price. But these conditions are entirely different upon the American side, and by reason of that fact, it is impossible, for any member of this House, or any experienced grain buyer in the country, to make an accurate comparison of prices as between the markets at Winnipeg and Fort William and the markets at Minneapolis and Duluth.
To return to the question of the abnormal ' premium being paid on Canadian wheat to-day, let me first of all acknowledge that a portion of it is probably due to the war conditions under which our great . agricultural capabilities have become so universally recognized in the wheat markets of the world; but it is probably more largely due to the fact that we have maintained in Canada a very high standard of wheat grades, and that we have traded under these standards for many years past. Because of the methods pursued by the grain trade of the Dominion, as compared with the methods employed in the United States, where they pick and lower their grades, a great advantage has come very recently to the grain producers of western Canada. In order that the House may understand the correctness of this statement, I shall quote from a supplement published by Broomhall's Corn Trade News of Liverpool, dated January 4, 1916, about six weeks ago. This paper, as every person in Canada who knows anything about the grain trade will understand, is published at Liverpool, and is the leading publication of the United Kingdom in connection with grain and flour. This Supplement contains a statement prepared by the Corn Association of London, with the co-operation and support of the corn associations of different parts of the continent as well. These united associations of the corn and grain trade of the United Kingdom and of the continent, prepared this statement for Broomhall's Supplement. Dealing with the conditions with which they were concerned as the purchasers of large quantities of wheat from various countries for consumption in Great Britain, they were very anxious to make a wide, a comprehensive, and a clear statement, and therefore they dealt fully, not only with their own conditions, but with the conditions in the United States and in Canada. Having prepared this statement, they waited upon the American Ambassador in London and made the request of him that he transmit it officially to the United States Secretary of Agriculture at Washington.
This statement contains a general review of the grain trade, and as it is rather long I will trouble the House with only such portions as relate to the United States and the Dominion of Canada:
Concerning United States Wheat Shipped from Atlantic and Gulf Ports.
For many years, European buyers of United States grain shipped from Atlantic and Gulf ports, have expressed grave dissatisfaction with the conditions of trading in respect of the qua-
lity of grain exported on Certificate. Matters have now reached a climax. According to the rules governing the inspection of grain in the State of Illinois-
" No. 2 Hard Winter Wheat shall Include all varieties of Hard Winter Wheat of either or both light and dark colours, dry, sound, sweet and clean, and may contain not more than 25 per cent of Soft Red Winter Wheat, and weigh not less than 59 pounds to the measured bushel."
Large quantities of No. 2 Hard winter wheat, 1915 crop, Chicago inspection, have been sold and shipped in the last few months. A very large proportion of this wheat was neither dry, nor (sound, nor sweet, nor did it weigh 59 pounds per bushel, nor even was it in any degree hard on its arrival in this country. Evidence in support of these statements is provided in Appendix A accompanying this communication.
This is what they have to say in regard to Canada, and I am sure it will be of interest to hon. members of this House and the country generally:
Prior to 1912, serious complaints were made against Canadian grading, but the Dominion - Grain Act of 1912 and the administrative ar-'rangements ancillary thereto, have effected very great improvements so that all European buyers have now confidence in Canadian certificates, and though a great number prefer trading on sample or on standard, they acquiesce in the system of grading and its concomitant " certificate final," as established by Canadian law and carried out by Canadian practice. Therefore in this brief historical review no mention need be made of the communications between European buyers and Canadian representative bodies.
One very important fact which has greatly enhanced the reputation of Canadian grading is this. Both in the United States and Canada a large proportion of the crop is sold before it is reaped. The buyer should be in a position to rely upon the grading rules current at the time the deals are made; in other words, the grain when it is reaped should be graded on its intrinsic merits according to rules which should not be changed from season to season. Canadian law and practice embody this principle. When the weather has been bad during harvest in Canada and the quality of the crop has therefore been depreciated, the statutory grades have nevertheless not been changed, and buyers have obtained grain of the quality they expected and had a right to expect.
With regard to trading in the United States, they say:
The merits or demerits of a system of grading are not ascertained on a crop harvested under favourable conditions. Between the crops of 1908 and 1914, trade with European buyers in United States grain languished. Then came the exceedingly favourable harvest of 1914, and an exceedingly large trade in United States grain, due, among others causes, to the fine quality of the Hard Winter wheat. Even then there was cause for complaint as to irregularities in grading, of which evidence is provided in Appendix "A", but on the whole buyers were satisfied. In that state of mind they made large purchases of the 1915 crop, 
and it is important to note that the first arrivals of that wheat were satisfactory. Attention is called to a sample included in the set sent herewith, drawn from a bulk specially certified as New Crop. Such wheat would today command a ready sale on our markets for millers in the United Kingdom much desire to keep such wheats in their current mixtures, and doubtless the quality of these early arrivals induced buyers on this side to greatly increase their purchases. By the later export of grossly inferior and improperly graded wheat, some United States shippers have secured an immediate advantage, for the system of grading and trading on " certified final " appears to protect them from loss of monetary advantage on contracts then existing but the loss of good repute is serious and deplorable. Buyers cannot be fleeced with impunity. A buyer suspicious and unwilling, cannot be a satisfactory source of profit to the seller. For past years Canadian wheat has realized substantially higher prices in European markets than the corresponding grades of United States wheat, and the climax has now been reached in this further sense, that European buyers are restricting their present purchases of graded wheats almost exclusively to Canadian produce.
What more favourable condition than that could we wish to have in Canada? This favourable condition is not only cited by the Corn Associations of the United Kingdom, but is reflected in the markets of Italy, France, Belgium, and of all other countries in which our wheat comes in competition with that of the United States. This, to my mind, is Canada's great opportunity. That the grain producers of Canada have reached the goal to which they have been pressing year by year, steadily if somewhat slowly, is proved by the statement of the Corn Associations of the United Kingdom: that future European purchases will be made almost exclusively in Canada, for the simple reason that European buyers like our wheat and flour, and the way in which we handle the business. That is something of which we can be justly proud; and that is the reason why, within the past thirty days, the Canadian grain merchant who has had wheat at the Atlantic sea ports, available for immediate shipment to the markets of the world, has been able to sell his grain at a high premium. Would it be wise, now that ,we are in sight of this commanding position in the English market, to adopt the resolution before the House, and have our wheat go through American channels, and run the gauntlet of their methods of grading and trading, as described in the report I have just read to this House? Furthermore, in my judgment *it would be a mistake for us to be entangled in any international agreement which might recoil on us in our preparations for the

blessings of peace at the close of this war. For who will deny that, so long as this war continues, the Canadian producer will enjoy the position of advantage he has had during the last sixty days in the markets of the world? In my humble judgment, no class of people will profit more by the present conditions, as described by the corn exchanges of Great Britain, than the producers of grain in the prairie provinces of Western Canada.
The same conditions obtain with respect to flour. Our exports of flour to Britain have been steadily growing year after year. I quoted the other day from the report of a commission appointed by the Government of Saskatchewan, to show how trade was increasing in the United Kingdom, and I would like to again draw the attention of this House to the opinions of that commission :
Canada's Increased Share of United Kingdom Imports.
It is of value to note the increasing quantity of Canadian exports of wheat and flour to the United Kingdom in the face of fairly constant aggregate annual imports of wheat by that country. The wheat imports of the United Kingdom are 196,000,000 bushels annually. This amount does not vary more than 8,000,000 bushels either way from year to year. During the five years ended March 31, 1907, Canada's wheat exports to the United Kingdom averaged
23.763.000	bushels annually. During the next five years, ended March 31, 1912, they averaged
49.893.000	bushels. For the corresponding periods Canada's flour exports to the United Kingdom averaged annually 750,000 barrels (representing 3,375,000 bushels of wheat) and
1.652.000	barrels (7,434,000 bushels) respectively of total imports of the United Kingdom averaging annually 6,646,000 barrels. Thus Canada already supplies rather more than one-fourth of the United Kingdom's wheat and flour imports. Roughly speaking, in these increases, Canadian wheat is replacing Russian wheat and Canadian flour is replacing United States flour. Whether the Canadian miller could continue to compete so successfully with the United States miller were the United States' duty taken off Canadian wheat is a question that only the event can prove. The commission sees no reason why in view of the protected home flour market he enjoys he would not be able to compete successfully.
Here we have a statement, made over a year ago, that Canada was supplying one-quarter of the flour that was being imported into Great Britain. I shall surprise this House, I am sure, when I state that whereas at that time we were exporting to Great Britain a little over 1,500,000 barrels of flour, we are exporting this year 3,500,000 barrels. The report of the commission goes to show that Canadian flour is replacing Russian flour in the British market, but we have the statement of the corn exchanges
that the wheat produced by the Canadian farmer is almost entirely replacing the wheat of the United States, which has been our competitor for so many long years. This Saskatchewan commission states that the producers in Great Britain like our flour and wheat, and also like our methods of handling them. If the Canadian farmer sees any advantage in having his wheat milled in the United States, or if the millers of the United States see any advantage in grinding Canadian wheat, there is nothing in the world to prevent that being done. It will only cost them one dollar for every thousand bushels of wheat they deal with.
What would happen, Mr. Speaker, were we to adopt the resolution of the hon. member for Assiniboia (Mr. Turriff) to allow our wheat to go into the United States markets to engage in the mixing process that has practically ruined their trade in the markets of the United Kingdom, according to the authorities I have read? At best, it could have the effect of using but a small proportion of our good wheat, and that wheat would be mixed with a large volume of the poor wheat of the United States, and then our wheat and our flour would have to come into competition with this product in the markets of the" United Kingdom. I ask you, would that be fair either to the Canadian farmer or to the Canadian people as a whole? Let me point out that the effect which this resolution would have on our whole crop is indicated by the following :
The want of uniformity in the system of grading must result in a lowering of the value of the whole crop, for buyers naturally base their prices on the poorest quality they may receive. Separate grading by the different ports tends to lower the grades in an endeavour to secure trade.
That is exactly what would happen to us should we adopt the resolution befbre the House. We should also lower our grades, and should have to meet the form of mixing employed in the United States. We have to-day a position of great advantage with our wheat, a position which we have won gradually by our own efforts.
Beyond question of doubt all these conditions justify us, having in view the interests of the farmers themselves, in rejecting this resolution, and thereby permitting these favourable conditions to continue.
The farmers of Western Canada have carried on their industry in a manner that has won for them a position of vantage and of respect. At the outbreak of the war, heeding the call of the Allies for increased production, they planted an .unprecedented
acreage of wheat. They have been blessed with an abundant harvest, and I am sure that next year they will do again what they have been able to do in the year that is past. They recognize their duty in this great struggle, and they are performing it faithfully and well. While we shall ever acknowledge our great and lasting appreciation of the devotion and self-sacrifice of our gallant sons who have gone to defend our freedom and our liberty on the field of battle, we should not forget that "peace hath her victories not less renowned than war." Those who remain at home to till the soil in order that an abundant harvest may be obtained, and in order that the staff of life may be sent to England, France, Italy, and Belgium are performing a service for civilization no less important, though, of course, less spectacular, than that which is being performed by those who are engaged in the fight. At the close of the war no class of the community will be more interested in the lines upon which the peaceful development of the world may proceed than will the grain growers of Canada. A certain sentimental benefit will come to them, in addition to the special position of vantage which they occupy today. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, it is our plain duty, having in regard the best interests of the Canadian farming community, to adhere to our good old traditional policy of keeping Canada for the Canadians. Doing this, we shall have more reason to hope that at the conclusion of the war we shall be able to supplement that advantage with an allied policy of preference within the Empire.
We have in the prairie provinces something like 300,000,000 acres of the best land in the world, of which less than 20,000,000 acres are as yet under cultivation. These facts will cause the House to understand at least in some degree the great possibilities o.f the prairie provinces. It is our duty, I submit, to protect our great inheritance in the prairie provinces, and to build these provinces up, as Ontario, Quebec, and the older provinces have been developed.
It is true that we are confronted with the great problem of immigration, which is inseparably connected with the welfare of the grain producers of Western Canada. A vigorous and determined immigration policy will have to follow the conclusion of the war in order that all the advantages possible may come to Western Canada. The quotations that I have made in respect of the grain trade of the United Kingdom are

clear and unmistakable evidence of the fact that the grain producers of Western Canada are the first in line to secure those material advantages and compensations which will follow the conclusion of the great conflict in which we are engaged. Indeed, the war has caused the agricultural capabilities of our great western country to be recognized by the opening up of every port in the United Kingdom Italy, France and Belgium for our grain. Coupling a vigorous immigration policy with the sentimental inclination of our people towards the welfare of their own country, and of the Empire and its Allies, we may reasonably expect a large influx of immigration upon the happy restoration of peace. Indeed, the unrest bred amongst the warring nations, the severance of family and business ties, the ruin which has been wrought, cannot but tend to increase the tide of immigration. Even the local pessimist, recently described as a person who, given the choice between two evils, promptly takes them both; even such a soured extremist must agree with Lord Derby, who has just been in close contact with the British masses, in his statement: that after the war there will be a tremendous rush to the British colonies of young men who are soldiers at the front. You will never get these former clerks and others from the middle classes to remain in Great Britain when peace comes. We in Western Canada appreciate Lord Derby's words; we believe that the fulfilment of this prophecy will bring untold advantage to that portion of Canada, the people of which at all times, and never more than to-day, recognize their duty not only to their own provinces, but as well to the whole of the Dominion. Next to winning the war, the first thought of Canadians everywhere, whether they be farmers, merchants, bankers, lawyers, manufacturers or politicians, should be given to the great task of assisting to protect Canada from the financial, industrial and commercial consequences which the devastation of this war is bound to let loose upon mankind. To my mind the great and pressing question for us in Canada is how to fortify our country against these conditions. In meeting them, we shall have to compete not so much with belligerent nations as with neutral countries that are not absorbed, as we are, in the great task of winning the war. These neutral countries have already begun to prepare for peace. Some of them are enjoying fabulous prosperity to-day through their legitimate

and friendly activities in connection with the war. I make no adverse criticism of this; for these countries I have, on the contrary, many \yarm words of gratitude. But the inevitable effect of this condition is that these countries take, what we may without critical intent call, the prosperity-promoting view of the war. They are free, as we are not free, to study carefully how profits may be extracted from this colossal tragedy.
Therefore, we should be very careful in any step that we may take, in order to make sure that we do not let them beat us in the discovery of how best to profit by the novel conditions which will follow peace. It will be no trivial matter for Canada to be so beaten, no small question of losing a little trade; it will be a matter of life and death for this country. Would it be wise for us to commit an act which would have for its purpose the denuding of our railways of their traffic. We have erected a great railway framework in this country for a prolonged period of progressive population. When we courageously and optimistically launched our vast railway project, belting the continent with three transcontinental lines, we were not calculating on legislating to divert their traffic to American lines; we were calculating not alone on feeding those lines with the produce of our present population of seven millions or eight millions; we were calculating, and calculating with reason, on a CQntinuation, with marked increase, of our then immigration boom, and we saw the mighty tidal wave of immigration sweeping into this country from across the Atlantic and from across the American border, and we wisely prepared for it. Moreover, the West, and especially the grain producer of Western Canada has realized, and he realizes more than ever to-day, that we must undertake to educate the manufacturers of this country. We are often told that the manufacturers control Parliament. This is a chance for us to show that we can give the lead to the manufacturers. They are busy men, too busy often to look into new opportunities or to experiment in new fields. I claim [DOT]that we have in Western Canada the greatest opening, the greatest field, for manufacturers and industrial development that is to be found in any part of the civilized world. So this Parliament should step in and subject our manufactured imports to the closest scientific analysis, and discover just what prevents every one of them from being made ini Canada. Canadians are
quite as well able as are any Europeans or Americans to manufacture the articles we require, and in no place are conditions more favourable for manufacturing than they are in the Prairie Provinces. We have there in many 'forms an abundance of raw material, of natural products, of cheap power, and of capable labour; and there is nothing too difficult, or too intricate, for us to undertake. It would not be too forehanded for us to import industrial instructors when necessary. We want for Western Canada an informed industrial leadership, a skilled industrial population, the best of both in the world. We should know exactly what the articles are that we buy in foreign markets, and we should have workmen to make them for us, and we should pay them handsomely. Let us mandfacture these things at home, let us keep that money in our own country. That is the policy, and it is the only policy which to my mind is capable of ensuring [DOT]a brighter and1 greater development in the 'Prairie Provinces of Western Canada. You will tell me that is the old Protection argument. That is just what it is; it is Sir John Macdonald's National Policy brought up to date; and it is what I propose, and what I believe he would propose if he were here to-day and saw the wonderful opportunity that peace is going to bring to our Dominion.
Therefore in view of those favourable conditions, conditions that have been created in a great measure during the last sixty days, as laid down in the very important statement given out and transmitted by the united corn exchanges of the United Kingdom and the continent, through the American ambassador to the Government of the United States, I say that we should appreciate the advantage of our position and that we would fail in our duty, especially to the farming community of Canada, and more especially of Western Canada, if we did not reject the resolution of my" hon. friend the member for Assini-boia (Mr. Turriff), in which he proposes to divert our wheat into American channels as much as possible and thereby allow it to become mixed With American wheat, in which case we would have to go over again all the work that we have done in the past to establish our own transcendent identity in the markets of the world. To-day we are absolutely masters of the situation, so long as we continue to maintain our high standards and in the future to carry on our business in the efficient manner it has been
carried, on in the past. If we act in this manner we shall be doing that which is best in the interests of the farming community of Western Canada, and I therefore hope, in view of the changed conditions, that my hon. friend from Assiniboia will withdraw his resolution and allow the matter to stand in its present favourable condition.
Mr. Speaker, as I come from a constituency in Manitoba composed mostly of agriculturists, I feel I would not be doing my duty if I did not say a few words in favour of this resolution. A great deal has been said for the resolution and a great deal against it, but the one fact remains, and we cannot get away from it, that the farmers of this country are demanding the free admission of their wheat into the United States.


Not the farmers of Ontario.


When I say wheat I mean wheat and the products of wheat; I do not wish to be misunderstood. It does n