The House in Committee of Supply, Mr. Rhodes in the Chair.
Ocean and river service-inspection of live stock shipment, $5,000.
["My hon. friend from South Renfrew (Mr. Graham) referred the other day with appreciation to the work that had been performed by the Pubic Works Department in equipping this building so promptly and conveniently for the purposes of Parliament. If I may be permitted, I would like to express my warm appreciation of the indefatigable energy and personal .attention which my hon. friend the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Rogers) himself has given, to these matters. I have personal knowledge that he has been most laiotive and indefatigable, ever since we met here on Friday afternoon last, and certainly the arrangements which have been thus carried out have been much more satisfactory than could have been expected., He desired me to announce to the committee tkat the time-honoured custom of having the lightabovethe Parliament buildings will be carried out in the future. Arrangements therefor have already been made, and he has had placed on my desk a little button, which he has asked me to press, and which will illumine the top of this building for the first time since we have 'been sitting here.\nAt six o'clock the House took recess.\nThe House resumed at eight o'clock."]
Where is the inspection made? .


It is made now chiefly at Montreal. This item is the same year after year. The inspection is to see that all live stock are properly, placed on board the vessels and have proper quarters.


Are the inspectors permanently attached to the department or are they just engaged for each shipment?


They are permanently attached to the department.


Is there an inspection of stock going to different points?


This is not an inspection of stock; it is an inspection of the provision made on board the vessels for the stock, to insure that they are properly quartered.
To continue subsidy for wrecking plants- Quebec, Maritime provinces and British Columbia, $45,000..	j


How many wrecking
plants are there in each of the provinces?


There are altogether three wrecking plants in Canada, one for the St. Lawrence, one for the Maritime Provinces, and one on the Pacific coast.


Who has the contract for the St. Lawrence?


The Quebec Dredging and Wrecking Company. The Dominion Coal Company act in Nova Scotia and their contract extends to the Bay of Fundy. The

British Columbia Salvage Company have the contract for British Columbia-


Has there been any
change as regards the agreement with the Quebec Dredging and Wrecking Company?


No.


What was paid last year to the Dominion Coal Company?


$10,000.


Will my hon. friend give the amounts paid to each of these companies?


The St. Lawrence, $25,000; hut in a sense we are in partnership with this company, there being a provision that if their earnings are above a certain amount, a proportion of the subsidy we pay comes back. The company in the Maritime provinces receives $10,000, and the one in British Columbia, $10,000. The amounts are practically the same as they have been for a good many years.


How much
did you receive last year from the Quebec Dredging and Wrecking Company?


I do not think we received anything. The year before we received several thousand dollars. The amount depends on the number of wrecks; if there are no wrecks, we get nothing; if there are wrecks and the plant works a good deal, we get something back.


Were there many wrecks-last year on the St. Lawrence?


Not very many.


Is the wrecking plant at, Levis or is it lower down from the river?


The headquarters are at Levis but we allow the vessel to run to a, certain point below and a certain point above Levis. She is equipped with wireless so that she can reach any point within a reasonable time. It was thought advisable, for various reasons, to allow the boat to engage in towing and that sort of work because it gave the vessel something to do, and it was thought desirafble that the men employed on her should be kept occupied. If the boat was left lying at Levis, it was thought that the crew would get out of condition and not be as well able to perform their duties as if they were kept working.


Has the department taken into consideration the advisability of having a wrecking plant further down the river?
FEBRUARY II, I OH!


No, that has not been considered necessary.


Wrecks occur there, and if a wrecking plant was placed further down the river, it could get to the scene of an accident sooner.


This plant can get there in pretty quick time. These vessels aTe all equipped with wireless so that there is very little delay in getting to the scene of a wreck.


In the Maritime Provinces the Government does not own the plant at all? .


It does not own the plant at any of these places.


How is the work performed; is it done by contract?


By contract with the different companies.


Are tenders called for or what is the arrangement?


It is about ten years ago since the contract with the Dominion Coal Company was entered into.


Can my hon. friend give us the exact terms of the contract?


We pay them $10,000 a year in consideration of which they maintain a wrecking plant, divided in the summer between Halifax and Sydney, and they furnish or place at the disposal of ship owners requiring their services, the following steamers, when required, the Cabot, Cohan, Cacouna, Cape Breton, Louisburg, and the tugs, D. H. Thomas, C. M. Winch, Spring Hill, and the barge Glenville. The steamers I have mentioned and the tugs D. H. Thomas and C. M. Winch are located at Sydney in the summer and at Louisburg in the winter. The tug Spring Hill is located , at St. John and the barge Glenville at Halifax. The contract expired in 1912 and was renewed for a period of two years. I think it has been continued since that time by agreement


Is there any restriction by the department upon the rates charged when these boats go to a rescue?


My recollection is that the charges are subject to the approval of the Governor in Council.


Does this wrecking plant have anything to do with such cases as that
which occurred when a Government steamer with a minister aboard collided with some other boat? Was that a wreck or only a collision?


Only a collision.


Has that been cleared up.


The matter was investigated by the Wreck Commissioner, who made a report, and in consequence of that report the captain of the steamer Hugh Fleming had his certificate suspended and the captain of the other vessel, who also was found to be in fault, had his certificate suspended for a time. My hon. friend from Bonaventure (Mr. Marcil) asked me with regard to the operation of the steamers in the lower St. Lawrence. From time to time, as required, we send steamers during the winter season to Anticosti, Seven islands, and other places. The same practice is followed this year as in other years.


Perhaps the
minister can give me now information I asked for last night as to the removal of wreckage from Margaree harbour; the minister stated that this work was done by tender and contract.


It was represented to the deputy minister that this was an urgent matter, and consequently he instructed Mr. Harvey, the agent of the department at Halifax, to adopt what means he thought best to get the wreck removed. Mr. Harvey entered into a contract for $150. My deputy tells me that the file bearing upon the matter is in the Department of Justice under instructions to collect from the owners of the vessel. Does the hon. 'gentleman (Mr. Chisholm) wish to see the file?


I am not particular about the file. The statement of the minister was that this had been done by tender and contract.


I said it had been done by contract, but I did not say that tenders had been called for.


I understood the minister to say that tenders had been called for. As to the urgency of the matter, I may say that the wreck had been there for a year and a half before its removal. I may tell the minister, further, that this work was done in accordance with the usual custom of patronage, so far as I can see. The man in charge of the patronage there was asked to get a friend to do the

work. The friend did the work and got the figure he asked. I am not complaining about his getting the money, for he earned it. But to leave it to be understood that tenders had 'been called for. is not right.


It is a small matter and did not come to my attention at the time. I can only give the facts as they are given to me by officials of the department.
Mr. MARCH.: I do not ask the Minister of Marine to divulge any state secret, but in view of the threats of renewed German activity at sea, could he tell us whether any precautions have been taken for the protection of. shipping in the St. Lawrence?


I would rather give that information privately to my hon. friend.
Ocean and river service-unforeseen expenses, $5,000.


That is the usual vote ior unforeseen expenses.


How much was ispent last year.


Last year $1,572, and in the present year up to December 31 last, $88.17. It looks as if we should have enough to carry us through this year.


Would this vote be
used to meet cases of urgency like that mentioned by the hon. member for Richmond (Mr. Kyte).


No, that comes out of the vote for removal of wreck's.


In case of a wreck on the Baie des ChaleuriS, which station would 'answer the call-Quebec, Halifax, or St. John?


A vessel equipped with
wireless could communicate with either Quebec or Halifax. Quebec would send help as the Baie des Chaleurs is within the Quebec district.


Before a rescue call could be answered by sending help from Quebec, the vessel might be lost. I would urge upon the minister the importance of utilizing Gaspe as a substation for the wrecking service.


Last evening the question was raised by the hon. the junior member for Halifax (Mr. Maclean) of the shortage of coal in some of the towns and villages along the 'cost, that are not reached by railways. The hon. member thought it was due to the shortage of shipping. It 
may be partly due to that, but I know, as a matter of fact, that great difficulty is experienced by small vessels in getting coal at the mines. They are kept waiting so long for caTgo that they will have to go out of the business of carrying coal altogether unless something is done to improve matters in this respect. I do not know what the Government or the department could do in a matter of that kind, because as the coal mines are owned by private companies, it might be difficult to interfere. At the Magdalen islands-the same conditions prevail in Prince Edward Island-they can get coal only by means of sailing vessels, and these vessels are kept waiting so long at Pictou, Sydney, and other coal ports that they often go without their cargo. It is quite probable that a vessel getting a cargo only after considerable delay will not return for another; it would not be profitable to do so. It would be desirable that the minister take into his immediate consideration whether or not he can do anything to overcome this very serious difficulty.


I think my hon. friend
has put his finger on what is really the greatest source of trouble. The difficulty is that the coal companies own their own wharves. The coal is brought down on the wharves on spur lines and there loaded into vesels which the companies charter for the purpose of taking the coal up the St. Lawrence and to other points. When the smaller vessels from Prince Edward Island and other points go there, they are often kept waiting for a long period of time until the large vessels are loaded. If the matter were taken up with the Dominion Coal Company and other companies in Nova Scotia, possibly some arrangement could be arrived at that would obviate the difficulty.


I understand that these. companies exist under charter of the Dominion Parliament .


No; the coal companies in Nova Scotia operate under provincial charters.


It seems to me that the Government should have some control over these companies. The Government should insist on their providing wharves for the smaller vessels. At a time when promptness of shipment is very important, it is unfair that vessels should be obliged to

wait a week or two weeks before being loaded.


As these companies are incorporated by provincial charter, we have absolutely no control over them. It seems to me that if the matter were taken up with the coal companies they would see the desirability of themselves building small wharves for the smaller vessels.


Would the minister take *some steps in that direction?


I should be very glad to use my good offices in a friendly way.


That in itself might result in some relief.


This is but one instance of what is occurring all over the world at the present time, certainly all over Canada. The tendency is for the big interests to use their charters and powers to squeeze smaller competitors out of business. While the Government may not be in a position to take direct control of the business of the large companies against whose operations objection is taken, in this as in all other cases it is the business of the Government to act as the champion, or agent, or organizing head of the small interests and enterprises. By legislation, by supervision, by enactment, or by administration, the Government should attempt in some measure to counterbalance the disadvantage under which the, larger interests place their smaller competitors, so as to give the small competitors a chance in their competition for the business of the country. That is what has been done by the Grain Act in the matter of car distribution. The question has actually been taken hold of and dealt with in that Act, and while it may not be possible to apply its terms to all these transactions, yet what has been done in this Tespect has been of great benefit to that particular interest, and should be done as far as it can be done in respect of all other interests where the conditions are approximately the same.


I rise not to disagree with the remarks of the hon. member for Edmonton, but to point out to the hon. member for Kings, Prince Edward Island, that I think the good offices of the Government of Nova Scotia would prove more effective than my good offices in connection with a matter of this kind, and for this reason: The coal mines are the property of the Government of Nova Scotia, and are under lease to the operating companies., If my
hon. friend would apply to his friends in the Nova Scotia Government, I think they may be able to persuade the owners of the coal mines of the desirability of making provision for the loading of the smaller vessels without undue delay.


It would seem
that this Government ought to have some jurisdiction over the coal mining operations, which form part of the trade and commerce of our country. The Government has made arrangements whereby shippers by rail are fairly dealt with; surely something can be done in connection with the operations of these coal companies, even though the mines be owned by the province of Nova Scotia. This is a long standing grievance which has been brought to the attention of the Government on many occasions during past years by Mr. A. G. Bailey, with whose correspondence I am quite sure the minister is familiar. If the grievance were confined entirely to the one province, as the minister suggests, Mr. Bailey would not have brought the matter to the attention of this Parliament as he has done. It is a matter of transportation that affects the trade and commerce of the country and therefore this Government should deal with it in some way. ,
Public Works-capital (Marine Department), ship channel, river St. Lawrence, $1,172,000.


This large item is in connection with the work that is'being carried on in the St. Lawrence ship channel. It is to make provision for the maintenance and operation of the ship channel dredging fleet, as well as general additions to the machinery and plant, all according to the detailed Estimates which I have here and which I shall read if hon. gentlemen are interested in them. The increase of $135,000 is in consequence of the large additions made to the fleet from year to year. There are elevator dredges with tugs at an estimated cost of operation of $45,000; two selfpropelling steel elevator dredges at an estimated cost of $100,000; hydraulic dredges, at an estimated cost of $118,000, and so on.


Would the minister give
us some information of the operation at Sorel during the past year?


I will read the memorandum giving the details of the work. It is as follows:
During the season of 1915, 15 dredges and attending plant were kept at work day and night, deepening and improving the ship channel,

from Montreal to the foot of the Island of Orleans, removing a total amount of 8,462,957 cubic yards of material, varying from soft clay to hard shale rock.	.
Considerable work was done widening the channel through Montreal harbour, in St. Mary's current and Longueuil shoal, where it it proposed to widen the channel from 700 to 800 feet.
Good progress in deepening of the channel to 35 feet at extreme low water was made, between Three Rivers and Montreal, eight miles in length having been accomplished during the last season.
There remains very little of the. channel through lake St. Peter that is not deepened to 35 feet.
The Cap Charles channel, Cap-ft-la-Roche district, was completed to 30 feet at extreme low water, and widened from 300 feet to 450 feet and 650 feet at the Curve.
A new range of lights was constructed to mark the new centre line. The channel was buoyed to give the increased width and opened to navigation.
The Grondines channel was also completed to 30 feet in depth and 450 feet in width. A new range of lights was constructed to mark the new centre line. This channel was also buoyed out to give the increased width.
The widening of Cap-ft-la-Roche curve is almost completed, but there remains considerable deepening and cleaning up to be done yet. There is a large area of rock which has been broken by the rock cutter, in readiness for next season's work.
The new channel for light draught vessels and tows, through the islands opposite Sorel, to lake St. Peter to a depth of 15 feet at low water and a minimum width of 400 feet was completed and will be opened for navigation next spring. New lighthouses have been constructed to mark the different courses. This will oblige all tows, etc., to keep out of the ship channel. There is now a distance of over 50 miles, between lake St. Peter and Montreal, where the tows and light draught vessels can keep out of the ship channel. This will avoid the delays and annoyance caused to ocean steamers by these vessels.
The dredging operations in the north channel below Quebec have been carried on vigorously, and good progress has been made, two dredges being kept at work during the whole season. They removed 2,197,568 cubic yards, there still remains 6,928,805 cubic yards to be dredged. This channel is to be 1,000 feet in width anu io being deepened to 35 feet at extreme low tide. Where there was only 7 feet at low tide, there is now a depth of about 26 feet.
With the new dredge now building at Canadian Vickers, Limited, Montreal, greater progress will be made. The completion of this dredge has been unavoidably delayed owing to conditions arising out of the war.
A commencement has been made on the construction of the compensation darts, as recommended by the commission appointed to Investigate upon the water levels of the river St. Lawrence at and below Montreal.
In order to lessen the cost, it was decided to utilize the dredging material taken from the ship channel and deposit it on the site of the proposed dam.
A considerable amount was dumped on the following sites:
Repentigny (between He ft Bague and lie Bellegarde), chenal Corbeaux (between lie de

Grace and Stone island), chenal des Barques (between lie aux Barques and He du Moine), Pointe du Lac, at foot of lake St. Peter.
It is proposed to continue depositing at these points next spring while the water is high, in order to be able to utilize as much of the dredged material as possible.
Referring to the construction of compensation dams mentioned above as being recommended by the commission, hon. gentlemen will remember that a few years ago a Commission was appointed to investigate the question of water levels, representations having been made that on account of the deepening of the channel, and for other reasons, the level of the river was being very much lowered. In consequence of those representations a commission was appointed to investigate the question of the levels from Montreal down to the sea. The commission consisted of Professor Haskell, Dean of the engineering school at Cornell, who had had an extensive experience in dealing with similar matters on the Mississippi river; Mr. V. W. Forneret, engineer in charge of the ship channel work, and Mr. Stewart, chief of the Canadian hydrographic survey. Their report was laid on the table of the House last year with plans. It showed that there had been a considerable fall in Montreal harbour which was due to the removal of the obstruction at St. Mary's current and below and that there had been also a fall in the water below, but not of great extent. These gentlemen reported that that could be avoided by erecting compensation works to hold back the water at various points below lake St. Peter and that this would be comparatively inexpensive because the work could be done largely by taking the material dredged out of the river and placing it so as to make dams between certain islands- Thus with a comparatively small expenditure the levels would be brought back to what they_ were before, and of course these dams would be permanent. That work was commenced this year. The total estimated cost, which will extend over a number of years, will be about $400,000. At Sorel the Government work goes on pretty much as usual. The dredges and the scows and the tugs are at work, and there is some new construction work being performed there. They are building tugs, and scows, and other boats that may be necessary for the deepening of the channel. The number of men employed is practically the same from year to year.


Who is the superintendent of dredging on the Lower St. Lawrence ?[DOT]


The gentleman in charge
of the dredging and other work on the ship channel is W. B. Forneret, who occupied the position when I became minister, and he is considered a competent man.


What position does Mr. Kastella occupy?


He is not in my departr
ment?


What was the depth of
the channel of the river St. Lawrence in 1915? Was it more than in 1914?


Last year, which was an
unusually dry season, I think the level was a little lower than usual.


I may recall that a few years ago we had a discussion as to the effect of certain works on the St. Lawrence west of Montreal, on the level of the river east of Montreal. There was a commission appointed at that time to investigate the water levels as they were affected by these works west of Montreal; did that commission report?


That matter is under the
control of the Public Works Department, and probably the Minister of Public Works will give my hon. friend the information.


I wanted to have the
attention of the Minister of Public Works called to the matter. From time to time, certain works are being enlarged on the river west of Montreal, and in the vicinity of the various rapids. In fact, the largest power development on the continent is possibly in that vicinity. It is natural to suppose that from time to time further application will be made for extended rights, and for the development of greater power. Reports have been made by very competent engineers as to other powers on the St. Lawrence west of Montreal, not including the Longue Sault. I would like to have the Minister of Public Works tell us later whether any new power is to. be developed on the St. Lawrence, and what the report of the commission appointed a few years ago was as to the probable effect on the water levels east of Montreal of the further development of power.


I shall be glad to call the attention of the Minister of Public Works to the matter.


Has any part of the Sorel works been used for the manufacture of munitions?


No.


Was that matter considered in any way?


Months ago my department communicated with the Shell Commission informing them that we would be very glad indeed to put the works at Sore] in the way of manufacturing munitions or of assisting in that work, but the Shell Commission did not think it was necessary or desirable that they should be so used.


Has the minister an
estimate of the probable cost of dredging that north channel?


We are working with the
intention of getting the channel to a depth of 35 feet. It will take at least five years to complete that channel.


There is no estimate of
what the work will finally cost?


We are voting this year a little over $2,000,000, and at the same rate, the cost in five years would run between eight and ten millions.


What is the depth now?


Thirty feet over the whole distance at extreme low water.


What is the object of
dredging the north channel?


It is to get rid of the dangers and difficulties of the south channel. It is thought that on the north side the dangers to navigation would be greatly lessened.


Is there any intention to abandon the present navigation rpute once the north channel is complete?


When the north channel is complete, I think all the large ocean going vessels will use it.


What does the minister
intend to do at Longueuil. The minister once made an important speech in which he promised that very extensive works would be carried out at Longueuil for the purpose of making the harbour available to ships of the largest kind.


That comes under the control of the Harbour 'Commissioners of Montreal. Montreal runs for fourteen or sixteen miles along the river and across to the south shore. I believe that the Harbour Commissioners have in contemplation a project for making extensive additions there when circumstances permit. On



account of the war, public works of all' kinds are not proceeding as rapidly as oould be desired, but the Board of Harbour Commissioners are working up to a plan for the development tof the harbour there and I believe that in the future, as it as inconvenient to have the harbour stretching so many miles below the city, it is the purpose to extend the development to the south shore, and to connect the harbour on the south shore with the north shore by means of a bridge at a point adjacent to where the Lachine canal enters the harbour.
To provide for construction and completion of dredging plant for River St. Lawrence from Montreal to Father Point, $452,715.


The items that are involved are as follows:
Maintenance of ship yards at Sorel .. $64,615
Improvement of ship	yard	 3,100
New construction	 60,000
Completion of new self-propelling steel elevator dredge for work below ^Quebec	 325,000
Total	$452,715
There was an 'amount of $871,000 voted last year.


Is that dredge being built at Sorel?


How many dredges belonging to the Government are there on the St. Lawrence?


Eight elevator dredges, two self-propelling steel elevator dredges, one hydraulic dredge, two suction hopper dredges and two dipper dredges. We have fifteen dredges in addition to stone lifters, sweeping tugs and vessels of that description.


These dredges can only be employed, I suppose, for about six months in the year?


These vessels are under our control on the St. Lawrence ship channel, hut, of course, there are a lot under the control of the Department of Public Works.


All these dredges represent the investment of a very laTge amount of capital and they are only kept employed for about half the year. I have often thought that, by making proper arrangements, a considerable portion of the plant might be used to advantage in the Maritime Provinces in winter, in the harbours which aTe open .the year round.


These dredges work in water where there is no very great rise or fall of the tide and, while there might be
4 p.m. places in the Maritime Provinces where some of them could work, .still for many otf the Maritime Province harbours, you have to get a dredge which goes deeper because of .the rise and fall of the tide. I might point out that the work these dredges are doing is very heavy, and they have to be repaired every year. The winter is the time for. making these repairs so that at the earliest possible date in the spring they may be able to go -back to work. However, the hon. gentleman's suggestion is worthy of consideration. I admit there might be something done in that respect.


Some years ago, when the late Government was in office, one dredge was taken to St. John and was operated in connection with the Government wharf at the head of the harbour.


Was that one of the
dredges under the Department of Maxine and Fisheries?


I am not sure, but it was a Government dredge, and it was very well adapted for that purpose.
Mr. . HAZEN: Does the hon. gentleman remember the name of that dredge?


I do not; it was one of the ladder dredges which can be used at any depth of water. The reason I speak of it is that, I have in my mind the dredging required to be done in St. John in connection with the development of Courtenay bay. That work ought to have been practically completed by this time, but, as my hon. friend knows, progress has been very slow indeed. Upwards of four years have elapsed since the contract was entered into; and very little has been done beyond building the breakwater. No large amount of work has been, done in the way of dredging, and the delay in the dredging, I suppose, has prevented the building of the wharfs and that, or some other reason, has prevented the .building of the dry' dock.

I have spoken only of this great work at one of the ports of the Maritime Provinces; but the same remark would apply to other ports, like Halifax. If some of the large number of dredges which are used in the upper Canadian waters in the summer could be brought down to the Maritime Provinces in winter, much more progress could be made and there would be less expense to the country. I do not find any fault because this has not been done, as the late Government did not do any more along these lines than this Government bias done, but I do not see why some suitable arrangement oanmot be made so that dredging work in the Maritime Provinces can be carried on in winter by a number, if not all of the dredges that are operated on the upper Canadian waters in summer.


The subject is worthy of consideration.
New ice-breaker for River St. Lawrenec, $510,000.


This ice-breaker'which is being constructed by Vickers Company, Limited, under contract, should have been completed now, but it has been delayed through reasons arising out of the war. It will be the finest ice-breaker in the world when it is constructed. Hon. gentlemen who live along the St. Lawrence know how important it is to keep the ice broken on that river during the winter months. It not only has the effect of causing the eaTly opening of navigation and of enabling steamers to get to the port of Montreal several weeks in advance of the time when they otherwise would be able to do so, but, in addition, it prevents flooding and consequent great damage to the low lands below Montreal. Every year w'e do as much work as possible with icebreakers. This ice-breaker will be of modern construction and will possibly be the best in the world when it is completed. It would have been completed now but for conditions which arose in consequence of the war. Last year there was in the Estimates a vote of $500,000 for this purpose, and, although I think we shall not be able to spend more than $250,000 during the current year, we are asking for a further vote of $510,000.
Lighthouse and Coast Service-agencies, rents and contingencies, $160,000.


There is an increase of
$10,000 in this item, due to the annual increases in the salaries of the clerks in the various agencies as authorized by the schedule established in 1911, to promotions
and additions to the staffs of some of the agencies owing to increased work and extended premises, and to postage and some other items which were formerly charged to lighthouse maintenance, but which are now charged to this item. We have agencies as follow:	In Nova Scotia, at
Halifax, with sub-agencies at Pictou and Sydney; in New Brunswick, at St. John; in Prince Edward Island, a sub-agency at Georgetown; in Quebec, at Montreal; in Ontario, headquarters at Ottawa, with agencies at Parry Sound and Fort William, and a sub-agency at Kenora; in British Columbia, at Victoria, which includes also the agency at Prince Rupert. I have before me the items of the expenses of the different agencies if any hon. member wishes me to read them.


Is the minister going to do any ice breaking work in the St. Lawrence this year?


Yes. We will do it with
the Montcalm and the Lady Grey probably quite as well as it has been done during past years. The ice bridge has been kept from forming in places where it usually forms.


I understand the department sold one of its ice-breakers?


Last year we sold the Earl Grey to the Russian Government. They asked us to sell it to them for military purposes in order to keep open the port of Archangel in the White Sea. This year they came again and urged us to sell the Minto, and, as soon as the car ferry .starts between Cape Tormentine and Cape Traverse, the work for which the Minto was intended, as was also the Earl Grey, that is, keeping open the service between Prince Edward Island and the mainland, will be at an end. We sold them the Minto, and provided them with a captain and crew, who took her to Archangel.


Then there will be less ice-breaking done this year on the St. Lawrence?


No, quite as much as last year, because last year the Earl Grey and the Minto were on the Prince Edward Island and New Brunswick route. The same vessels are on the St. Lawrence for icebreaking this year as were there last year.


Can the minister this year give some attention to Campbellton and Gaspe?


I do not think it will be possible to do so with the plant at our disposal.


Navigation is held up there sometimes for a long time.


I know.


At Prescott there is, under the management of this department, a depot which, I am told, is run on very strong party lines. Living as I do but a *short distance from that point, I naturally hear the complaints. I believe that a large number of men have been deprived of their employment, undoubtedly on the recommendation of the minister, who comes from that riding. But that is not what I primarily rose to speak of. That depot apparently has been leased to a company.
Mr. HAZ'EN: No.


Or a part of it.


No part at all. I think I know what my hon. friend refers to. There was no lease at all to any company.


Have they the depot for nothing?


They haven't it; nobody
has it. A request w^as made to me to allow some industry at Prescott to load some' cars on the track which runs into the yard at the depot. As it was a temporary matter,
I communicated with the agent Mr. Taylor, asking him if he saw any objection-if it would in any way interfere with our work or its efficiency if this permission were granted- He wired me that it would not interfere in any way, and therefore this temporary permission was granted. There is no lease or anything of that sort. I think it must be that to which my hon. friend refers-or perhaps he is misinformed.


Perhaps I may have
been misinformed. That is not what was in my mind. I would be the last person to object to accommodation being given to any one in that way. I understood a portion of the works Mas being used for the manufacture of munitions.


No. If the hon. gentleman knows Prescott, he knows that on the St. Lawrence above our works there is a foundry belonging to some private individual where munitions may be made, but hone of our property is being used for that purpose.


My hon. friend is sure
that no portion of it is being used for that purpose?


Absolutely.


I do not know whether
I am glad or sorry to hear that, because some of it might perhaps have been used to advantage for making munitions. My information was that a company was using a portion of the Government property in connection with its work. I do not know that I would object very much to that if the terms were proper; in fact, I think 1 am a little disappointed that these works, which are larger than will be necessary for some years, have not bqen utilized in the manufacture of munitions. Could my hon. friend tell me how many employees there were in those works in the year 1911 and how many there are now? I think nearly all those who were there in 1911 have gone and new ones have been put in their places, and there is rather a hard feeling amongst many people in the vicinity over the manner in which the employees of the Marine Department 'at Prescott have been used.


I have not got the information here, but I will get it for my hon. friend if he desires to have it.


Will my hon. friend get
for me the same information with regard to Sorel?


I shall be very glad to
do so.


The minister mentioned
a bridge over the St. Lawrence at Montreal. Is that bridge to be built in the far distant future, or now?


I think the Harbour Commissioners are considering it seriously. They are making general plans looking to the future, and I think the not very distant future having regard to the way the business of the port is. developing.


Have any plans been
made?


I believe the Harbour
Commissioners have under consideration a certain plan.


Is there any danger of
obstructing navigation?
Mr'. HAZEN:	If it were an obstruction
it could not be permitted, but I cannot imagine that the Commissioners vested with the control of the harbour will do anything to obstruct navigation.


Is it at some point between St. Helen's Island and the outlet of the Lachine canal?


I believe so.
Salaries and allowances of lightkeepers, $475,000.


The expenditure under
this head in 1913-14 was $415,000, and in 1914-15 it was $449,999. There is naturally an increase from year to year, for new lights are constantly being established, involving the appointment of lighthouse-keepers and the maintenance of the lights. Last year's expenditure was divided as follows, according to provinces:
Nova Scotia	$118,923	01Prince Edward Island..	..	15,218	43New Brunswick	
48,589	53Quebec	
82,680	43District of Montreal	. .	. .	30,512	04Ontario	
91,358	21British Columbia	
62,717	69Total	$449,999 34
The expenditure for the current year up to 31st December last was $337,971.


Why is it that in the
Estimates of this department the revote is not shown as in the case of the Estimates of the Public Works? I refer the hon. minister to page 67 of the Estimates. He will see there a column showing the revotes, and so one can calculate what the expenditure has been.


That has never been the
practice in the Marine and Fisheries Department. All votes lapse and a new vote is asked for. In the case of the Public Works Department there is an estimate for each wharf, bridge or other workl but in the Department of Marine and Fisheries the votes are general, as in this case.


But the hon. gentleman says that for the current year the expenditure is only $337,000.


That is the expenditure up to 31st December, and we have four months to go. As a matter of fact, we spend closely up to the appropriation. It is the habit of our department to put the estimate in this way, and different departments have their different ways of doing these things.


The advantage of the
way followed by the Department of Public Works is that' a member of the committee can see what is the total expenditure of the year. But under this other method we have to ask the minister in every case.


It is no trouble.


But it takes time.


Are improvements made
in the lighthouse system as time goes on?


Yes, our lights are kept
thoroughly modern. This House has never questioned the votes necessary for this service, and I think it can be safely claimed that in Canada we have lights equal to any in the world. The hon. member (Mr. Mar-cil) is familiar with the St. Lawrence, and I need not speak of that. But if one making a trip from Port Arthur to Prescott will observe how the lights show on the American side and on the Canadian side, he cannot but come to the conclusion that our lights are better than those of the United States. So far as the buildings are concerned, and the houses for the lighthouse keepers, the Americans have the best of us-theirs are of more expensive construction than ours; but a comparison of the lights is all in our favour. And not only are new lights being added from time to time, but in the style of lights we keep well abreast of modern improvement.


Is the advisability of
building of concrete, and so making the towers fire-proof, taken into consideration?
* Mr. HAZEN:	All the large modern
towers are .being put up in concrete.


That is particularly important in view of the fact that so many of the lighthouses use coal-oil.


Is electricity used for
lighthouse purposes to any extent?


Hardly at all. The lights
are generally at points far removed from electric plants, and in these out-of-the-way places it would be expensive to maintain 'an electric-lighting plant exclusively for the lighthouse.


I have in mind a place where it might possibly be done.


The chief engineer of my
department, Colonel Anderson, who has been in the department for forty years and has a most intimate knowledge of 'the. lights, has not favoured the use of electric light in lighthouses. He says that some accident might happen to the wiring or in some other way and the light fail in the midst of a storm when it was of the most supreme importance that it should be kept going.


That is just the time
it would fail.


Yes


Have lights been installed on the Hudson bay route?


Yes, we have twelve lights installed.


Are more to be installed?


Not at present.


Last year or the year before I insisted on the importance of lifesaving stations on the lower St. Lawrence. Admiral Kingsmill reported against the idea- But I think that in view of what has happened on the ocean lately, the department might well re-consider its decision. The danger of shipwrecks occurring emphasizes the importance of life-saving stations on the lower St. Lawrence.
Mr. HAZEN I confess that the statement made by the hon. gentleman greatly impressed me. I thought it a reasonable one. But the technical officers of my department do not think such a life-saving station necessary.


Perhaps not in time of
peace but in time of war.


There have been no more wrecks in time of war than in time of peace. But I will take the matter up further with the technical officers, and, in view of that, I would ask the hon. gentleman at what points on the coast he thinks it would be desirable to have these stations?


I would suggest that one be established on the Gasp6 coast, in the vicinity of Cap Rosier and Fame point. It might he well to have others at the lower end of Anticosti, at the entrance of Belle Isle Straits, and at Father point, where the vessels call for and drop their pilots.


I do not see the necessity for one at Father point.


That is where the Empress of Ireland went down, with the loss of hundreds of lives. -


On that occasion our men went out from Father point and rescued many. The suggestion of the hon. gentleman is made in good faith and is worthy of every consideration. I assure him that I will take the matter up again.


I am glad that the minister makes this promise. The St. Lawrence river has been so well equipped dur-

ing the last few years that it is regrettable that it should be faulty in this one respect.


In the matter of the
lighting of the Hudson bay channel, what is the attitude of Mr. Anderson on the whole Hudson bay project?


Has the hon .gentleman
read Mr. Anderson's report of last year?


I read a report, and also, more recently, an interview which has been criticised and commented upon quite freely in the press. The deduction drawn by the press as to what Mr. Anderson's recent remarks meant was that the department is hardly in favour of the Hudson bay scheme, that, according to Mr. Anderson, the season /of navigation would be very short. I do not say that I agree with Mr. Anderson, and it is possible that his remarks have been twisted out of their original meaning. It would be very interesting to the country, however, if the minister who is head- of the department which has charge of the lighting of the channel would give his idea as to the length of the season during which the channel can be used, after it is well lighted and provided with wireless.


It was as an officer of the Hydrographic Survey that Mr. Anderson visited Hudson Bay in 1914 and made the report to which my hon. friend refers. I think that that report has had attached to it a meaning which it does not bear. From its reading one would think that there was a -much shorter period of navigation in Hudson straits than is actually the case, for this reason: the Hydrographic Survey was carried on at points somewhat away from the -main line of travel through the straits. I did not anticipate that this matter would come up to-day, but when the estimates for the Hydrographic Survey are taken up I -shall be -glad to give my hon. friend further information.


With reference to the item for salaries and allowances to lightkeepers, I did not observe that the minister explained the increase of $25,000.


This service increases year by year. New 'lights and lighthouses are constantly being added, and from time to time the lightkeepers get small -additions to their salaries. The amount is provided in order that we shall have a sum sufficiently large to meet -all the requirements of the service.


I do not purpose bringing up the old, threadbare subject of dismissals, but I have in mind the case of a lightkeeper whose dismissal was sought by certain persons. This gentleman had many friends on the Conservative side, and the minister finally decided that he would not dismiss him. In order to satisfy the applicant for the position, the minister appointed him as assistant, and the two are now doing one man's work. I had thought that the minister's heart was not quite as obdurate as it was some years ago, and that he was finding places for those persons who were looking for positions. If it is the general practioe to appoint two men to do the work of one, I can readily see how an increase of $25,000 could come about. Would the minister tell me who is the lightkeeper at Cape St. George, Anti-gonish, whether there is more than one lightkeeper there; if so, who is the second man; what salaries they receive, and when they were appointed?


About a year ago a sad accident occurred in the county of Renfrew between Combermere and Barry's bay, by which several persons lost thear 'lives. Mr. Pringle, who conducted the investigation, made a very strong report as to the unseaworthiness of the vessel, the Mayflower, which would imply faulty inspection.


Not faulty inspection. I understand that the boat should not have been allowed by the Collector of Customs to leave port.


I thought at the time that the boat had been proved to be unseaworthy, even if equipped with all the appliances mentioned.


She did not have proper
boats and life-saving appliances.


She went down through
somebody's fault, with a sad loss of life. I thought that under the circumstances the Government might have seen its way clear as those who were left behind were not in very good circumstances, to give some aid, the wreck having been at least partly due to the neglect of some Government official. Is there any such provision in these estimates?


My recollection is that the Mayflower was wrecked some three years ago on the Madawaska river; that she left during a heavy storm although her captain had been warned of the danger; and, she
did not have proper life boats or apparatus, there was loss of life. I do not remember that there was a suggestion of any liability, legal or moral, attaching to the Government in connection with it. It would not be a matter particularly for my department. I do not remember giving any answer about it before.


I said I thought the Minister of Finance gave an answer.


I have no recollection of
any suggestion of the kind and have not given it any consideration.


I think I made the suggestion myself, and the Minister of Finance 'said the Government would consider it. I do not attempt to make out a case of legal liability on the Government; but I thought that, as some person in the employ of the Government was at fault, the Department of Marine and Fisheries might well recommend a small grant to those who were left behind.


My recollection coincides with that of the hon. member for Renfrew. The inquiry established the fact that the boat should not have been given a license as it was in a dilapidated and dangerous condition. The warning referred to by the minister was given to the captain on the night of the storm. The boat practically foundered.


In what service is the steamer Noreen?


She was in our employ at one time.


I see in the Auditor General's Report a payment to A. B. Crosby, of Halifax, for the rent of this boat.


The former headquarters of the department at Halifax, situated in the dockyard, were required for naval purposes, and we had to move across to the Dartmouth side of the harbour. This boat was employed for a time in ferrying the workmen from Halifax to and from their new place of employment.


A. B. Crosby was paid $2,950 for the hire of this boat from August 31, 1914, to February 28, 1915. That is a very respectable rent for 