Bill No. 69, for the relief of Clarice Smith. Mr. Cash.
said Mondays Government orders shall have precedence after questions and notices of motions for production of papers.


Are we to understand this to mean that the Government have no more measures to bring down?


No others besides those that I mentioned to my right hon. friend. There will he some Supplementary Estimates and there may be a measure in connection w'th the Department of Agriculture, as I mentioned to the right hon. gentleman the other day. I am not aware of anything else.


This motion seems to me premature, for next Monday. 1 have no desire to protract the session; but I would point out tnat there are a good many orders standing in the names of private members which cannot be discussed if this motion carries. My hon. friend from Rouvilie (Mr. Lemieux) has a motion on technical education on which he has had to give way on one or two occasions.


An arrangement was
made with the hon. member for Rouvilie under which he could discuss this subject on the Estimates of the Minister of Labour.


Then, I have no more to say about that. But there are other notices of motion standing in the names of Messrs. McCraney, Carvell, Maclean of Halifax, Sinclair, Burnham, Currie, and others. I think that for the Government to take next Monday would be premature. There would be no objection to their taking the following Monday.


I have just a word to *say with regard to morning sittings. I have not had an opportunity to discuss this matter with my right hon. friend the leader of the Opposition, but personally I question very much the desirability of sitting in the morning. The holding of morning sittings makes our work extremely difficult and tiring; it is simply a means of wearing out the members at the latter part of the session, if they attend to their duties. Besides, it is an interference with the work of the various committees. If more time is needed for our work, I think it would be better for us to meet at two o'clock, leaving the morning free. But what I think would be better still would be to have an understanding between the leaders on either side of the House as to about what time prorogation might conveniently take place, and then let us apply ourselves diligently to carrying on the work of the session. I have

always thought there was no great advantage in morning sittings, for meeting in the morning, afternoon and evening means that everybody is tired out, and the members cannot give the attention to public business that they ought to give.


Personally, I
take a view entirely opposed to that of the hon. member for St. John. My observation concerning morning sittings-and perhaps a medical man has superior opportunities to observe the state of intellect of hon. members than has a member of the legal profession-is that the intellect of members is peculiarly bright in the forenoon, and that, as a rule, we do twice as much work in the forenoon as at any other time. If members did not have the morning sittings towards the end of the session, they would do what they do for a great deal of the previous portion of the session; some of them would go to committees, but a large number of them would sit around, and smoke and hurt their intellects in that way as well as by talking a certain amount dry rot. I think that the old custom of having morning sittings towards the end of the session can be advocated on practical as well as on medical and physiological grounds.


Some committees of great importance are sitting at the present time. I speak particularly of the Pensions Committee, the members of which are desirous of devoting their attention very carefully to the matters under consideration. There are some hon. members of this House who do not go to any committees; therefore it does not make much difference to them whether or not the House sits in the morning. If the suggestion of the hon. member for St. John city is carried out and the leaders confer as to the date when the session should be brought to a conclusion, I am sure that members on both sides will endeavour to see that the public business is got through at that particular date. I am quite sure that under those conditions very much better and more thorough attention would be given to the important subjects that have yet to be considered very seriously before Parliament prorogues.


It seems to be
pretty well understood that Parliament will conclude its labours before the Easter holidays. That being the case, I should like to support the suggestion of the hon. member for St. John city that a conference take

place between the right hon. leader of the Government and the right hon. leader of the Opposition. There would seem to be no good reason, if it is the general feeling that we shall prorogue before the Easter holidays, why an approximate date should not be fixed for prorogation. In that event, I think the business of the House could be disposed of rapidly and more effectively without morning sittings than with them.


I should like to call the attention of the Prime Minister to the motion made by the hon. member for Vancouver (Mr. Stevens), which I had the honour of seconding. I understood that the deputation had obtained from the Premier a promise that ample opportunity would be given for the discussion of this important subject, and that the sense of the House would be taken upon it. I should like to know what the right hon. gentleman intends doing in that regard.


With regard to the observations just made by the hon. member for Bonaventure (Mr. Marcil), we did have a second discussion of the subject on the motion of the hon. member for Kings, P.E.I. (Mr. Hughes). Although it was not a very long discussion, it was a very interesting one. I should suppose that further discussion of that question might very well take place on the Bill which the Minister of Justice has introduced. If, however, my hon. friend presses the point and thinks that anything can be gained by having a discussion upon a resolution which is not consistent with the Bill that the Government has brought down, I would not stand in the way of it, because it certainly was understood that there should be the fullest opportunity to discuss the question. I suggest to my hon. friend, however, that no advantage is to be gained from further debating the resolution, in view of the Bill which has been brought down and upon which ample discussion can take place. So far as this motion is concerned, I would be willing for the present simply to give Government Orders precedence on Mondays. If there is any motion upon the Order Paper which is regarded as important, I will see that an opportunity is given to deal with it in some way. I would remind the right hon. gentleman that every one of these motions has been called at least half a dozen times since they were put on the Order Paper; therefore there would be no great hardship in taking Mondays even if
I did not make that arrangement with my right hon. friend. So I would amend the motion accordingly, and leave the question of morning sittings to one side for the moment.


I am very
glad that my right hon. friend agrees to leave the morning sittings for future consideration. I suggest to him, however, that he should give us next Monday. It is true that a good many of these motions have been called several times, but on every occasion but once they were not taken up because other motions were to take precedence over them. I suggest that we have next Monday, .and that the motion take effect the Mtonday after.


Perhaps the House will
allow me to say, in answer to the Prime Minister, that the motion made by the hon. member for Vancouver is entirely distinct and separate from the Bill which has been introduced by the Minister of Justice. Some people would like to know the opinion of the House with regard to this resolution; then we could deal with the Government Bill afterwards on its merits. I should like very much if the Premier could allow us to get the sense of the House on the motion of the hon. member for Vancouver.


That had
better take place on Monday.


We can only
take it on-Monday by giving it precedence over the others.


I have no
objection to that.


Very good; 1
will allow the motion to stand for the present, since my right hon. friend thinks that there should be another Monday. This motion is always attended with the same result, namely, that one additional Monday is asked and the motion carries for the next. I left the motion later than usual this year, thinking that there would be no objection, but I shall be wiser next year, and make it somewhat earlier.


My right hon. friend will not be any wiser.
Motion stands.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. I wish to refer to



an article in the Daily Telegraph, of St. John, N.B., of Saturday, March 17. The headline is as follows : " Potatoes at $7 per Barrel from Fictitious Firm." In that article I am reported to have said:
If the minister will examine the Auditor General's Report, he will find 1,040 pounds of potatoes supplied the Militia Department at 7 cents per pounds.
That statement is not correct. On page 1974 of Hansard I am reported as follows:
One of the items of that amount was 1,046 pounds of potatoes at 4| cents a pound, which is about ?7 a barrel.
I read from the report of the Auditor General, page Z-68: 10,046 lbs. of potatoes at 41c. per lb., which is about $7 per barrel. I therefore deem it my duty to correct the report by saying that the price I mentioned for the potatoes was, as already stated 41c. per lb., paid to Armstrong & Ferguson, a firm doing business in Newcastle, during August, September and October, 1914, at which time the potatoes in question were sold and delivered at 4ie. per lb. I owe this correction to Messrs. Armstrong & Ferguson as well as to myself.


Mr. Speaker, just a word. I see that the Postmaster General is at his seat and I do not know whether he understood the question which I put to him yesterday; at all events, I have been wrongly reported in the Hansard. What I asked was that papers relative to the dismissal of a Mr. S'ansfagon, postmaster at Louiseville be laid on the table of the House. My inquiry as reported in Hansard relates to the post office at Louiseville.
The hon. T. C. iCASGRAIN: Mr. Speaker, I quite understood the purport of my hon. friend's inquiry; the papers were laid before me this morning and they will be brought down forthwith.


On the Orders of the Day.
Mr. J. IT. SINCLAIR: Some time ago, in answer to an inquiry by myself, the Minister of Militia stated that the report of the Royal Commission appointed to investigate the military hospital at Halifax had been presented, and was then under the consideration of the officers of the department. I should like to know if that report will be available for members. If
[Mr. Doggie. J
not, I think that some assurance should be given by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Militia that conditions have improved at Halifax. The condition of soldiers in the military hospital 'as revealed in the newspaper reports of the investigation, was very alarming to friends of soldiers quartered there, and I think it is due to the country that some assurance should be given that some improvement has been made in the hospital at Halifax.
As my hon.
friend says, and as I recollect, the Minister of Militia said that the report had been received and was under his consideration. A copy of it has not yet been sent to me, but I shall make inquiry, through the acting minister, as to the nature of the report, as to what action, if any, has been taken in consequence of it, and as to conditions generally, and give my hon. friend an answer next week.


On the Orders of the Day:
Have any effective steps been taken to enable coloured citizens of Canada who are desirous of enlisting for service abroad to enlist, or for the formation of a regiment of coloured citizens? I have brought this question before the House on at least tv?o previous occasions, in consequence of representations which were made to me by some coloured citizens of New Brunswick, as well as some from Ontario. The Minister of Militia made the statement that the matter was under consideration. There is a good deal of complaint and a very considerable amount of feeling among our coloured citizens that they have not been treated fairly. They have been told that their services would be accepted, and when they have gone to the recruiting office where they were told to go, they have been sent away without receiving any satisfaction. The Minister of Militia, I think, has in mind the idea that a coloured regiment' might be raised in Canada. I should like to know what steps, if any, have been taken towards this end.


I understand there are a number of coloured people in the various units throughout the country; but I am not aware that any effort has so far been made to organize a unit composed wholly of coloured citizens. Some steps

may have been taken, but I have no information to that effect at present. I shall make inquiries.


On the Orders of the Day:
Two weeks ago an order of the House was passed for a return of correspondence and papers relative to negotiations or an arrangement with the Government of British Columbia relative to assistance to shipbuilding. The answer to the return was brought down yesterday, and is composed simply of a letter addressed to the then Minister of Marine, in 1911, and containing a resolution by the Halifax Board of Trade with regard to the question of giving aid to shipbuilding. I assume that the bringing down of this document in answer to the order of the House is the result of a mistake on somebody's part or of failure on the part of the Secretary of State's Department to call the attention of the various departments to the nature of the order.


I am not sure that the order has not been complied with. I do not at the moment recollect any recent correspondence on the subject. I know that one of the ministers of British Columbia was here not long ago, and the subject was informally discussed. I do not remember any correspondence, but I shall make inquiry.


On the Orders of the Day:
An extraordinary despatch appears in Le Canada this morning. It is dated from Rimouski, and states that the accommodation train which left Riviere du Loup on the 20th, in' the morning, reached Rimouski on the 22nd, and could go no further for want of coal. It says that the coal depot at Rimouski was destroyed last year and has not been replaced, so the locomotive had to proceed, to Ste. Flavie, some eighteen miles farther, to get coal. Thus there was two days' delay in the movement of this accommodation train, which supplies that whole district with freight. Attention is called to the fact that if the recent collision at Val Brilliant had been between passenger trains the medical men of Rimouski, who generally attend the victims of accidents in the Matapedia valley, would have been unable to reach the spot
138}
for want of coal for the locomotives. It says that there is a shortage of coal all along the line. This seems extraordinary.


There are a good many " ifs " in the hon. gentleman's statements. I may say for his information that there is not a shortage of coal at any point along the Intercolonial. Some hon. members made the statement the other day that we had not brought any coal during the last season of navigation up to Levis and Montreal, although I can say, for the information of the hon. member, that we brought up the usual quantity. We also had stored at different points along the Intercolonial the usual quantity of coal. The hon. member knows that the Intercolonial railway has done three or four times more business this year than in any other year of its history, and in addition to that, they have had, one of the severest winters ever known. I discussed this matter with the general manager yesterday. He tells me that there is no place where they have yet been short of coal, although they are bringing coal up on the railway to some of the points where they have had large quantities stored. The case the hon. member refers to may be one in which an engine has been stalled on account of the heavy snowstorm, when the coal would probably be exhausted owing to the c^elay. In addition to that, there is now going on one of the severest storms we have had in that district during the present winter; so that altogether I think the statements that are published in this paper are not justified by the facts.


They say that the coal
depot was destroyed the year before last and has not been rebuilt; that there is no supply of coal kept at Rimouski, which is an important point, and that for that reason the locomotive had to go 18 miles further on.


The House in Committee of Supply, Mr. Rhodes in the Chair.
Peniten tiaries-Kingston, $210,600.
['The hon. gentleman in\nwhose name it stands is not present. Perhaps it had better stand.\nBill stands.\nThe following Bills were considered in Committee, reported, read the third time, and passed without discussion:\nBill No. 32, respecting The Toronto, Hamilton and Buffalo Railway Company.- Mr. T. J. Stewart.\nBill No. 50, for tHe relief of Raymond Conliffe Savage.-Mr. Douglas.\nBill No. 53, for the relief of Robert William Thompson.-Mr. J. A. M. Armstrong.\nBill No. 57, for the relief of Nora Louise Jackson.-Mr. Douglas.']
Who is the present warden?


Mr. Creighton.


How long has he been
warden?


He has been in the penitentiary service for a number of years. He was at one time warden's clerk in one of the

penitentiaries, and was afterwards at the head office here for a number of years in the capacity of chief accountant. From time to time he acted as acting warden at different penitentiaries. He was appointed warden of Kingston about two years ago.


What became of the warden who was transferred from Edmonton?


Col. Irving was transferred from Stony Mountain to the warden-ship of Kingston penitentiary, but he has since died.


Did he die as warden, or was he superannuated before his death?


He was superannuated
very shortly before his death.


Is Inspector Hughes serving in the overseas forces?


Yes, he is serving at
the front, and is in the trenches at the present time. .


Is he drawing his salary as inspector?


He is drawing his salary under the provision of the Order in Council which governed civil servants who enlisted at that time.	[DOT]


What office does he hold in the militia?


He is a Lieutenant-Colonel.


So he draws double pay as colonel and inspector?


Hfe draws double pay under the Order in Council which was passed. I may say that that involves no additional expense to the country, because we have managed, at considerable inconvenience to some of the other officials, to get -along without replacing Colonel Hughes in the position of inspector. Though he draws two salaries, the country pays no more money than if some one else had been appointed to the position of colonel. In any event, he draws the two salaries under a general Order in Council which was passed at the outset of the war, and under which civil servants, to whom permission - was given to volunteer, were allowed to retain their salaries.


He draws a salary which another lieutenant-colonel would have drawn.


It may be an injustice to some other lieutenant-colonel, but it is not costing the country any more money.


Has there been a general decrease in the staff?


No, I cannot say that there has been a decrease in the staff, but there has been an increase in our convict population.


I thought that since the new prison farm was established in Ontario the judges were more prone to give shorter sentences in order that prisoners might go on the prison farm. I was under the impression that the convicts in our penitentiaries had largely decreased since the establishment of the prison farm.


I do not know whether the judges are imposing shorter sentences, but it would appear that more prisoners are being sentenced to long terms, because the convict population of our penitentiaries has increased.


What is the total population of the penitentiaries now, compared with what it was three or four years ago?


I understand that the actual number of convicts, when the last report was made, was 2,064. Last year, I believe, the total was 2,008 or 2,009. The increase is not very great.


Has the cost of maintenance increased relatively .compared with what it was three or four years ago?


During the last two years the cost of maintenance has been the same. The amount we are asking for this year is the same as we asked for last year.


How many convicts have been released from the penitentiaries, since the war began, to sefve in the army, and how many have been recommitted to the penitentiaries?


I cannot give the exact figures; I do not. have them with me; but I am safe in saying that the numbe^ was well under 100. As to re-incarcerations, I cannot speak from memory. There were a few instances, very few, but I will get the exact number.


I suppose that most oi those men who were allowed to enlist were short-term men?


Generally speaking, 1 think that would be correct, but I would

not like to speak positively, as I have not the papers before me. I may say that further reflection upon the whole question, and upon the views of certain military authorities, led us to the conclusion that such releases should be exceedingly rare. I should say that during the past year there have been probably not more than four or five cases. The bulk of them were at the early stage of the war.


Speaking for myself only, and not as a military man in any sense of the word, I would like to congratulate the minister on the change of view, and the change of action, in regard to this matter of the release of prisoners to enable them to undertake military service. I am unable personally to appreciate the advisability of any such action being taken. It is to be presumed that the man who is suffering sentence in a penitentiary is suffering justly for having committed some offence against the well-being of his fellow citizens. After he has been released from the punishment which the law has seen fit to give him, should be time enough to take up the question of accepting his service in aid of the country. It seems to me that the idea of releasing a man from gaol in order that he may enter upon military service indicates a lack of appreciation of the nature, character and importance of the military service that is to be rendered, and of the fact that the man who is rendering military service to his country, under the present circumstances, is not of the less reputable type of citizen, but of the highest type of citizen; the higher the type the better the service. To have it understood that convicted criminals are accepted as volunteers, that they can get immunity for their offences and can be placed in the same position as men who are of the highest and best character and are serving their country from the highest of motives, derogates from the standing and character of the service being rendered by those who are entering under ordinary circumstances. Had not the minister announced that he had reconsidered the original position, I would have desired to enter my most emphatic protest against such action by the Government; and, having heard his expression as to the present policy, I wish to endorse that policy. Of course, it must be admitted that there are exceptional cases which may very well be considered; but to adopt any broad and wholesale policy of that kind would be detrimental to the best interests of the military services as well as to the enforcement of law.


There never was any
wholesale policy in reference to that. My impression is that up to the first of January, 1915, or in the first six or eight months of the war, there were between 60 and 70 of such enlistments. In dealing with these applications discrimination was made. It never was a matter of wholesale policy. In the great majority of cases there were other reasons, such as the length of time the men had served, good conduct, the recommendation of the warden or judge, and such ordinary reasons as would probably have led to a ticket of leave if they had not come forward and offered to undergo this further condition. However, the further this thing advanced the more impressed were we with the idea and which resulted largely from the expressions of opinion of military authorities, to which all deference should be paid, that the release of a prisoner under these circumstances should be a very exceptional occurrence. It will be realized, I think, that you may have a young man specially fitted, who has had training in military affairs, and who has been led into committing some offence which has brought about the punishment of imprisonment, which offence is manifestly his one, solitary slip, and in regard to. whom there is reason to believe that his future conduct will be irreproachable. In a case of that kind it will be fairly recognized that his patriotic willingness to risk his life in the service of his country may perhaps carry some weight in consideration of whether he ought to be released. However, within the last year, the number of cases has been inside half a dozen.


Is the ticket-of-leave system still in operation?


Yes, it is in very active operation. We have from 25 to 30 applications a day.


What is the general policy followed in connection with it?


Of course, nobody can lay down absolute rules. There are many circumstances that have to be taken into consideration in determining the advice to be given. In the first place, the nature of the offence is an important factor, as is also the period of time that a man has served when his application comes before us for consideration. There are also the reports and recommendations of the judges, which are always asked for, and which carry very great weight. There is also the report of the warden of the peni-

tentiary, or the offic ,r in charge of the prison, as to the conduct of the prisoner and as to what judgment can be formed from that conduct as to the probable future conduct of the prisoner should he be released. We endeavour to take all these things into consideration, as well as such circumstances as come before us upon the authority of credible people; and to exercise the best judgment we can. Our recommendations can hardly be at fault to any great extent, if we judge by the percentage of men granted tickets-of-leave and who forfeit them by subsequent offences during the period of time which their sentences have still to run. A person granted a ticket of leave is not absolutely absolved from his sentence. He has to report at stated periods, and, if he is convicted of an offence within the balance of the time of his original sentence, he is liable to forfeit his ticket of leave and to be returned to the penitentiary to serve his sentence. The percentage of persons to whom that happens is very small. I think it is under five per cent.


What do you do with a man on a ticket of leave who leaves the country temporarily [DOT] and returns?


The holder of a ticket of leave has no right to leave the country. He is under obligation to report promptly and to remain within the country. If he leaves in violation of that undertaking and comes back, he is liable to find his ticket-of-leave .forfeited and to be returned to the jail from which he was leleased.


I saw a statement to the effect that that branch of the work of the department is now under the Solicitor General.


The Solicitor General
does deal with these cases. Of course, they have all to come before the minister ultimately for signature. They go first to an officer of the department, then to the Solicitor General, and finally come to the minister.


I see there is a reduction of $1,000 at St. Vincent de Paul and of $15,000 at the British Columbia penitentiary. You are not putting up certain buildings this year and not contemplating certain work?


At St. Vincent de Paul we are carrying on certain building operations. Last year we voted the amount necessary to complete these operations, they are

about being completed now, and we foresee that $1,000 less than we asked for will be sufficient. As regards the $15,000 reduction in British Columbia, that amount has been dropped because certain pavements in front of the property of the penitentiary which we had purposed constructing in order to place the property in the same position as other properties, we not being taxable, are not now being laid.


Will insane women convicts condemned in the province of Quebec still be taken to Kingston?
_ Mr. DOHERTY: I understand there are at present no women convicts from Quebec. But they are sent to Kingston if there are any. We have adopted the policy of gathering the women convicts together at Kingston. Insane convicts are no longer kept at Kingston. We have done away with the insane ward at Kingston, and insane convicts are distributed amongst the asylums in the different provinces. Those in the province of Quebect are sent to St. Jean de Dieu and Beauport.


Even those under life
terms?


Yes.


I notice the salaries paid 'to the various surgeons at the penitentiaries have been $1,700, excepting at Kingston, where it has 'been $2,700. Am I right in stating that the reason why an additional $1,000 was given to the surgeon of Kingston penitentiary was that Kingston penitentiary was the place to which all insane convicts from the various provinces were sent?


That is correct.


I understand that the insane convicts were removed from Kingston penitentiary last June.


On the 14th of July.


If this additional $1,000 was received because of the insane patients at Kingston, and it was not received by the surgeon of any other penitentiary, one would naturally have supposed that the salary would be discontinued when the insane patients were removed from Kingston; but, notwithstanding their removal, I am informed that the surgeon at Kingston penitentiary continued to draw the same salary up to the end of 1915. That strikes me as needing explanation, which I have no doubt the minister can give.


Are the surgeons permitted to carry on outside practice?


No, up t-o the end of last year they were not, but I believe a different arrangement has been made in regard to Kingston penitentiary. Another observation I was going to make was that while the salary of the various penitentiary surgeons, with the exception of the one at Kingston, is $1,700, the number of convicts in the different institutions varies very greatly. For instance, for the year ending March 21,	1914, which is the last
report available, Kingston had 511; St. Vincent de Paul, 401; Saskatchewan, 108; Alberta, 203; British Columbia, 379; Manitoba, 172, and Dorchester, 231. I think the system in regard to the penitentiary surgeons has been entirely wrong. The surgeons should not be prevented from practising their profession outside of the time required for their duties in connection with the penitentiary. A good move has been made at Kingston penitentiary in replacing the former surgeon by two physicians; not only do I think it was a good move to provide two surgeons instead of one, but it was a good move to replace the former surgeon anyway, for he clearly showed his unfitness and incompetence while he was occupying the office. Generally speaking, I think it is a step in the right direction to have two physicians attached to these institutions, particularly the larger ones like Kingston and St. Vincent de Paul. I think also that the surgeons should be allowed to practise their profession outside of the time required for their duties at the penitentiary. There are many reasons for that. With two physicians, each has the advantage of consultation with the other. Again, when an operation has to be performed, at least two surgeons are required, and they would then be officials of the institution; and there are many other reasons which might be mentioned. The minister has seen fit to make the change and appoint two physicians at Kingston. It is ia good move, which I think should be followed in all the other institutions throughout the country. The salaries of penitentiary surgeons might reasonably, perhaps, be cut down in some of the smaller institutions, and I have no doubt the surgeons would be willing to accept a reduction if they were allowed to follow their profession outside. That is all I wish to say on that particular phase of the penitentiaary problem. I should like
an explanation from the minister why Dr. Phelan's salary was continued for the balance of 1915, if the insane convicts had been removed in July.


As the hon. member
has said, the insane patients were removed from the insane ward, which was abolished, and placed in the different insane asylums on July 14, 1915. That, of course, brought about a situation which in effect abolished the office held by Dr. Phelan, so far as that office consisted in the superintendency oi the penitentiary, for which an allowance of $1,000 was made. That would 4 p.m. have left intact his position as surgeon to the penitentiary, to which was attached a salary of $1,700; but at that time, in addition to the abolition oi his position of superintendent, it was thought advisable to adopt the new system which the hon. member has mentioned with .regard to surgeons, and which I am very happy to know meets with his approval; that is to say, instead of a surgeon being bound to give his entire time to the service of the penitentiary and receiving a salary of $1,700, it was decided, as was permitted to us under the statute, to allow the gentleman whom we should retain as surgeon to the penitentiary to carry on a general practice, and to reduce his salary by twenty per cent. That change, involving the abolition of the position to which Dr. Phelan had been appointed, and had held for a great many years, we found ourselves in the position where, as the office as a whole was about to be abolished, Dr. Phelan's services to the institution would cease. Under these circumstances, as has been usual with regard to persons who have held office for a long period of time and have reached a certain age, Dr. Phelan, previous to his ceasing to perform his functions, was given three months' leave of absence. As an actual fact, I think the patients left on the 14th of July, and Dr. Phelan's leave ran from the 25th of July to the 25th of October. It had been anticipated that during that interval the change with regard to the employment of a physician or surgeon would have been made and Dr. Phelan replaced. The matter of selection of physicians, not merely from the point of view of the person to be appointed to replace Dr. Phelan, but also from the point of view of the system to be adopted, called for some consideration. I felt that there was room for improvement in the system that had prevailed. I had before me a suggestion of the Investigating

Commission, that I should appoint a resident physician, which, as I understand it, is some one to live within the building, and a visiting physician. I had also before me another suggestion which I thought, and still think, had a great deal of merit, though it was not finally acted upon; and that was that I should have three doctors acting in consultation. All these suggestions called for consideration, and the selection of persons to fill the positions was a matter that I felt should be carefully dealt with. The result was that when Dr. Phelan's leave of absence expired his position had not been filled. We were expecting to fill it, and to bring the matter to a close, day after day. His engagement therefore ran on, and when it was terminated the position was dealt with as one position; and, of *course, if we were right 'hi granting the leave of absence it would apply to him as holding an office with these two branches which was being termin.afd. For the sub- [DOT] sequent period, from' the 25th October until the end of December, there was delay in .filling the position, so far as that ef physician is concerned, and during that delay it had not seemed desirable that we should do. otherwise than avail ourselves of the services of Dr. Phelan as physician and surgeon to the establishment. The result was that the whole matter was dealt with in December-I have forgotten the exact date of the Order in 'Council, but it was made to take effect on December 31. I may say that it was by inadvertence of my own that Dr. Phelan .received, after the expiry of his leave of absence for a couple of months, the salary attaching to his position as superintendent of the insane ward. But it did occur to me that it was not a proper thing that he should be paid for the duties of an office that had expired. However, if he was not to have his salary to the end of the year, he was certainly entitled to his superannuation allowance under the statute. I looked into the question and found that for the period between the expiry of his leave of absence on the 25th October, and the final termination of his holding of office as surgeon the differ. ence between paying him his salary and paying him the superannuation allowance to which he was entitled would come to $80 and some odd cents. 1 found that, although the position of superintendent of the 'insane ward had been abolished, Dr. Phelan had, in that period, rendered us service which would otherwise have-been rendered by a physician 
specially employed, one competent to deal with insqne patients. For instance we had occasion to examine at the St. Jean de Dieu asylum a patient concerning whose insanity a difference of opinion had arisen. This man, iGodbout, had been sent to St. Jean de Dieu, to which institution the insane are sent who are sentenced from the district of Montreal; but the doctors there questioned his insanity. Dr. iPhelan made the examination. In addition, there was a convict, Martinuk, who had been sentenced to death, but whose sentence had been commuted on a question of insanity, and it was necessary to have his condition determined within three months of his going into the asylum, in order to entitle this Government to return him to the care of the Provincial Government should he be found insane. Dr. Phelan made that examination and report. He also dealt with the convict Bonner, who was transferred as insane to the Guelph infirmary. Further, he made an examination of Percy Scott, a prisoner in the Manitoba penitentiary, under sentence of death. In view of these services having been rendered, and in view of the difference involved as between paying the salary, or paying the retiring allowance, it seemed to me that that difference certainly was not an exaggerated remuneration for the services Tendered by Dr. Phelan during that period. The hon. gentleman will realize that if we had employed an outside physician to render these services the cost to us would have been very much more than that sum.
As regards the suggestion of our extending the change in the manner of employing the physicians to the penitentiaries generally, I am quite prepared to say that that represents my own view of the subject But I thought it wise, as we were making the change at Kingston, to wait a little and see whether it worked out as satisfactorily as I have every reason to anticipate it will, before making it of general applica-t.on. There is another consideration that arises with regard to the question of having a gentleman as surgeon who will give Ins entire time, as compared with having one take a smaller salary, trusting to outside practice, and that is the consideration of the locality of the penitentiary. At Kingston, and at some other places, the plan can readily be carried out, because we have at our door a city where a physician who gives part of 'his time to our institution will find fair opportunity-I think excellent op-

portunity-for general practice. But when you come to deal with the penitentiary at St. Vincent de Paul, a small village, or the penitentiary at' Dorchester, which is in the same position, or the penitentiary at Stoney Mountain, which is a certain distance from Winnipeg, it is more difficult to find a gentleman willing to give us only a part of hie time, and certainly it will not be easy to find two gentlemen willing to engage at the present small salary. If we find that we can make satisfactory arrangements at these penitentiaries, I shall be very glad to extend the system. With regard to the remark about the similarity of salaries in all the penitentiaries without regard to the number of patients, there is no doubt that there is an anomaly there. The salaries, however, are fixed by the statute. It is not impossible that when the statute was enacted it might have been well if consideration had been given to the fact that a different quantum of service is called for in the different penitentiaries. Over against that was this:	the system was
adopted of making all the salaries identical in all the penitentiaries, because it was thought wise that we should not attach a man in any permanent way to one institution; that we should have the officers all at our disposal, so that a man could be transferred if it was found that he could be more useful in another penitentiary than that in which he was employed. There would be great difficulty in carrying that out if the salaries were different in the different institutions. I am prepared to concede that that consideration is not of as direct application to the surgeons as it is to the regular disciplinary officers of the institution. I am not prepared to say that if thought had been given at the time the salaries were fixed to the difference between the professional gentlemen who attend the penitentiaries and those who are properly called the officers of the penitentiaries, it might not have been wise to make a difference in the salaries at the different institutions, based in some way upon the relative amount of work to be done at each.


(Translation.) Mt. Chairman, I see by the report of the inspector of penitentiaries for the fiscal year ending the 31st of March, 1914, of the Inspector of Penitentiaries for the cost of maintenance per convict is quite high. At Kingston, the cost per head is $313.48; at St. Vincent de Paul, $392.21; at Dorchester, $430.98; in Manitoba, $411.85; in British Columbia, $.350.02; for Alberta, $472.33, while for Saskatchewan it goes up to
$961.75. As my hon. friend, the member for Edmonton (Mr. Oliver)-who I notice is not in his seat just now-is preaching economy, I think he might suggest the means of diminishing the cost of the maintenance of convicts in his province, because it comes to about double what obtains elsewhere under like conditions.
In going over the items for maintenance, it seems to me that the excessive cost is due in, the main to the wages paid to the staff of the penitentiary. It is possible that such a condition of things was merely temporary, but I am not aware of that as I have not seen the report of the inspector for 1915. But in 1914, the difference in the cost as compared with the expenditure in other penitentiaries, is so great as to call for an explanation.
As my hon. friend from Frontenac (Mr. Edwards) whom I now see in his seat, is always anxious to promote the best interests of the French-Canadians, I should like to ask him a favour for the province of Ontario; I should like him to ask the Government or suggest to his friends, the appointment of a few more French-speaking employees at the Kingston penitentiary. In looking over the staff, I find only one French name out of a list of 96 employees. Not that I care to see more of my people appointed in penitentiaries rather than elsewhere; but as a matter of public convenience, the French-speaking people of Ontario amount to one-twelfth, and there must unfortunately be in the penitentiary some French-speaking convicts, who would welcome among the officers some that could understand them. I know -that among -the French element in Ontario, chiefly in the east, there are a certain number who do not understand the English language. Should any of them be incarcerated-it is painful enough for them to have to undergo a sentence-their fate could be somewhat alleviated by those employees who could speak to them in their own language. I believe we have there a serious grievance not only as to the French-Canadians of Ontario but with respect to French convicts from other provinces. I therefore appeal to our friends from Ontario to deal more fairly with the French-Canadians in that respect.
I now desire to call the attention of the Minister of Justice to another point. While going through the Dorchester penitentiary, in New Brunswick, I found there yount; men 12 or 15 years of age interned with oldeT criminals. I called it to the attention of

the officer who was seeing me through the institution. I think he told me that there were no reformatories for younger delinquents in New Brunswick. Here is ample room for improvement and I call the minister's especial notice to it. I think it is not in the interest of'.morality well conceived, to place juvenile offenders with older convicts. If the Government has power to do it, some means ought to foe found of taking those young men out of the penitentiary and confining them in other special institutions where they would get a chance of reforming. In the penitentiaries, they come Unto contact with older cr.minals, and there is a greater opportunity for them of getting lost completely instead of reforming.
At Dorchester also, I noticed that there was no one to understand French, I would have liked to obtain more information, but I could not get them to understand me.


(Translation.) For the hon. member's information as to the relative oo<st of the maintenance of convicts in Saskatchewan, as compared with the other provinces, I will ask him to consider one point which probably has escaped his attention. The figures he has mentioned do not represent the cost of maintenance of each particular convict, font are obtained by taking the total expenditure of each institution and dividing it by the number of convicts therein. So that, as the hon. member will readily see, where the number oi convicts is less, the necessary result is a higher cost per head. In every one of those establishments the buildings have to be kept up and the officers and employees paid. It follows that in dividing the total maintenance between four to five hundred convicts, the ratio per head is much smaller than where the number of convicts is much less. No doubt the maintenance of the prisoners in the western provinces, and especially in Saskatchewan, costs higher than elsewhere, but the difference does not lie where the hon. member thinks.
Now, as to the inquiry which the hon. member for Bimouski made to the hon. member for Frontenac, I leave it to the latter to answer for himself.
'My hon. friend from Bimouski has brought to my notice the establishment oi jails, reformatories >and houses of detention for prisoners sentenced to less than two years. The establishment and maintenance of such institutions come within the ex-

elusive jurisdiction, of the provinces. So that I am afraid the Government cannot intervene to redress the grievances he mentions.
Now I am surprised to hear from the hon. gentleman that he had found no one to speak to him in French in the Dorchester penitentiary. I know that I for one appointed some French-speaking employees, and there must be others whose names, at any rate are French^Canadian or Acadian names. It was a misfortune that- none should have happened around when he went through. However, it is far from us to wish to discriminate against the Frenchspeaking people.


(Translation.) Does it happen only in the Maritime Provinces that children from. 12 to 15 years of age are put in penitentiaries?	,


(Translation.) I did not understand the member for Bimouski to mention children from 12 to 15 years of age. However, I may say that in certain sections in New Brunswick-I have been informed by some judges that they prefer to send the. young culprits to the penitentiary, because they state, in their opinion, the conditions in some of the jails of the province are such as to make it desirable in the interest of the children themselves. But I do not think there can be found a large number of children as young as that in the penitentiaries. In the different provinces, and I believe in the case of New Brunswick, special houses and reformatories have been established, and I should be very much surprised1 if there existed a more than insignificant number of cases such as were mentioned by the hon. member. At any rate, that does not come within Federal jurisdiction. We have, -according to law, to provide for the' convicts which the courts send us.


(Translation.) Here in Ontario, we have reformatories for boys and for girls, and even for Catholic and for Protestant children. If some of the provinces have not seen fit to build those reformatories, it might be good for this Parliament to amend the Criminal Code so -as to forbid the courts sentencing children to the penitentiary.


The Dorchester penitentiary, while a Dominion institution, is in the constituency which I have the honour to represent, and I am therefore interested in anything which refers to the conduct of its

affairs. As I understood the hon. member for Rimouski (Mr. Boulay), he complains that there are very few if any, Acadians employed in the institution.


I said that while I noticed that on the list of employees about one out of six were French, when I visited the institution I could not find one French employee.


I do not know where the
French employees would be on the day my hon. friend was there, but from the list I notice there are a