After the vote was taken at yesterday's sitting on the amendment proposed by Mr. Bennett on Mr. Stevens's resolution, I decided that, the amendment having been voted in the affirmative, there was no need to again propose the principal motion as amended to the House.
I have since carefully examined this question and I have ascertained by referring to authors that the question as amended should have again been placed before the House.
Here is what May says, at page 291, 11th edition:
If the House resolve " that the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question," the original question is put; but if they resolve that such words should not stand part of the question by negativing that proposition when put, the next question proposed is that the words proposed to be substituted, be inserted or added instead thereof. This latter question being resolved in the affirmative, the main question so amended is put.
Bourinot, at page 439, 3rd edition, says:
If the amendment be negatived, the Speaker will again propose the main question, and a debate may ensue thereon or another amendment may then be submitted. On the other hand, If the House adopt the amendment, then the Speaker will again propose the question in these words: " Is It the pleasure of the House to adopt the main motion so amended."
There are also numerous precedents, amongst others, at the sitting of the 6th June, 1904, as reported at page 431 of the Votes and Proceedings of that year, on a motion of Mr. Champagne, that Bill No. 110, " An Act respecting the Ottawa Electric Company," be read a third time, Mr. Puttee moved in amendment that all the word's after the word " that " in the main motion be left out and that other words be substituted therefor. This amendment of Mr. Puttee having been voted in the affirmative, the principal motion, as amended, was again submitted to the House.
Another precedent is found in the Votes and Proceedings of the session of 1906-07, at page 185. On a motion of Mr. Heron, Mr. Knowles presented an amendment

which proposed to omit all the words of the principal motion after that, to add other words. There was a vote on that amendment of Mir. Knowles' and it was voted in the affirmative. After this vote on the amendment, the motion as amended was' submitted to the House and accepted on division.
After the vote taken at yesterday's sitting, Sir Robert Borden proposed the adjournment of the House and nothing prevented making this motion; but Mr. Stevens' motion, as amended, is still pending and should be on the Orders of the Day to be taken at another sitting, and I have given instructions to the Clerk to reinstate the motion on the Orders of the Day in its proper place.


Will the motion of the
hon. member for Vancouver (Mr. Stevens) be treated as a private member's motion, or will it be included among the Government Orders? If it is left in public Bills and Orders, it will never be called.


It will not
change its place, because that is where it was before. If, however, there is any great desire to have a vote upon it, I think we shall endeavour to find some convenient time to take one. I suppose the point of my hon. friend's suggestion is that some hon. members who voted against the amendment may vote for the original motion as amended. If any hon. gentlemen feel that they would like to make apparent their position in that regard, we will afford an opportunity of having a vote upon it.


I have no reason to suppose that any members are desirous of changing their votes; I simply wanted to make the procedure complete.


The procedure
is complete enough as far as it has gone, because the motion has been restored to the Order Paper. The only possible additional procedure would be a vote upon the main motion. Of course, that vote would not be taken unless Public Bills and Orders were reached, or unless we should move to proceed to Public Bills and Orders for the purpose of having it taken up again.


May I suggest that a vote be taken at the end of the division which will take place on the motion before the House to-day, in regard to the Shell Committee?


I will consider that suggestion.


Sir ROBERT BORDEN laid on the table of the House an Order in Council with regard to the exportation of nickel. He said: I have not laid on the table of the House the report of Mr. Graham Bell, but I will send a copy of it to my right hon. friend.
Bill No. 72, for the relief of Charles William Wilson.-Mr. Fripp.
Bill No. 73 for the relief of Aimee Rita Elliott.-Mr. Douglas.
Mr. P. A. iSEIGUIN: (l'Assomption) Mr. 'Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. I read this morning in the Citizen the following paragraph in its report of the proceedings of the House yesterday:'
Mr. P. A. Sfeguin, of l'Assomption, said he was against prohibition in any form. It was worse than licensed liquor selling because it led to the establishment of blind pigs. People whq had voted for prohibition in many parts of the province of Quebec, said Mr. Sfiguin, would not do so again.
I did not say I was against prohibition in any form, but that I was1 Opposed to local prohibition, claiming that so long as alcoholic liquors are manufactured and imported in the country, people will drink, and if there is no licensed liquor selling, there will be blind pigs or other places where the liquor will be sold secretly, and where, not only drunkards will go and satisfy their deadly craving, but where also our boys will go and get addicted to drinking and a thousand other evils and degradations even more disgraceful. I stated I was in favour 'of prohibiting the manufacture and importation of alcoholic liquors under certain restrictions, believing that there will be found the remedy to the evil we deplore.
The Citizen makes me say also that in many sections of Quebec those who voted for prohibition would how vote the other way if they were given the chance. I simply said that in certain sections of the province of Quebec, many electors had given
a vote favourable to prohibition because they had no opportunity to consider whether that system was a proper remedy for the evil complained of, and that they were rather guided by the men favourable to this measure of local prohibition, who told them not to listen to the voice of those who opposed prohibition, charging that the latter's motives were rather irreligious.
On the Orders of the Day:
I wish very briefly to make a statement as a question of privilege. Shortly after the debate upon the resolution of my right hon. friend concerning the Shell Committee I wrote a letter to the Chairman of the Imperial Munitions Board with reference to certain statements made by the hon. Solicitor General and myself, as follows:
March 17, 1916.
J. W. Flavelle, Esq.,
Chairman Munitions Board,
Ottawa, Ontario.
Dear Mr. Flavelle:
I am enclosing herewith two tabulated statements with reference to the companies furnishing shells and fuses referred to by the Hon. Mr. Meighen in his remarks in Parliament on Tuesday, March 14.
I will be very much obliged indeed if you will fill in the different columns in order that we may have first hand information on the subjects.
Yours very sincerely.
Accompanying that was a tabulated statement which I now hold in my hand. The Chairman of the Munitions Board very kindly asked me to go to his office to receive the information, and in my presence he filled in a few of the memoranda in pencil. The remainder was filled in before he gave it to me, I know not whether by himself or by his clerks. However, it was official. In order that there anay be no question whatever about the actual facts of this case, or as to who might be right and who might be wrong, I wish to read this statement coming from the Imperial Munitions Board. It ie as follows:

s :
r- U '


Order. I think that the hon. member, before he proceeds further, should state to the House the question of privilege.


All right; I am ready.


Do not be too sure of that.


The question of privilege was that I intended to give the actual facts as furnished by the Imperial Munitions Board about the dates of deliveries of the shells referred to by myself and the hon. Solicitor General. It is a question of veracity as between the Solicitor General and myself. I want the House to know the facts.


If I am permitted to
have the same privilege when the hon; gentleman is through, I have certainly no objection. I am prepared to stand by every statement I made, and I am prepared to produce the proof of them. However, nothing can be plainer than that to have this altercation at this stage is a flagrant violation of the rules of the House. If it is allowed, I only ask that it work both ways.


I think I am within my rights. I am making no comment whatever; I am simply giving the facts.


The hon. gentleman is
making a personal explanation in answer to a statement which he attributes to the hon. Solicitor General.


Yes.


I read in Bourinot:
But such explanations must he confined to a statement of the words actually used, when a member's language is misquoted or misconceived, or to a statement of the meaning of his language, when it has been misunderstood by the House; for the Speaker will call him to order the moment he goes beyond that explanation, and replies to the remarks of members in the debate; or attempts to censure others; or proceeds to state what he was going to say, but did not; or to give the motives which operated in his mind to induce him to form the opinion which he had expressed; or to explain the language of other members.
So I think the hon. gentleman is out of order.


Of course, I am compelled to take the ruling of the Chair. There was only one other company the statement concerning which I was going to Tead, but if the Solicitor General and the House do not want the facts-


I have the facts all
right.


I assure you that I can get the matter before the House in another way.


On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to call the attention of the Government, and especially that of the Acting Minister of Militia and Defence, to an incident which occurred lately in Montreal in connection with enlistment. I have received letters from one of my old constituents now living in Montreal, complaining of the way enlistment is being carried on, especially in Montreal. I would like to submit these letters to the House, especially to the Acting Minister of Militia. I shall translate the letters, which were sent to me in French. On March 3, 1916, I received the following letter:
Mr. Ethier,
Advocate.
March 3, 1916.
Dear Sir,-I have a serious affair to settle and I am confident you might have it settled amicably. I have a boy named Edouard who is not yet 15 years old, who enlisted in the 150th Regiment, without my permission, and I want him back home. I called at the headquarters four times and was badly received. The officers threatened to have the boy arrested for perjury and put in jail for seven years if I insisted on having him back. Col. Barre promised us by 'phone on Friday afternoon last to keep the boy in Montreal and the same night he was sent to Amherst.
On Saturday his mother called at headquarters, with his certificate of baptism, but she was put out doors, the boy being en route for Amherst. It is very insulting to be treated in such a way after having/Sacrificed already one of my sons who has been in the trenches in Belgium for six months and who belongs to the 22nd Regiment. It seems they should be more polite towards us. The reason why we object to his enlistment is that the boy is too young and will not stand the training. He does not know what he is doing. He will be 15 years old on the 4th May next.
I may tell the minister that I have here the official certificate of the birth of the boy and that I am prepared to file it.
Will you write to Major General Sir Sam Hughes to ask for his discharge. I could not see him during the last days preceding his departure.
If the boy wishes to be enlisted in the home guard in Canada, I have no objection but I am opposed to his going overseas to the battlefields as he is too young.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) Emdrie Paquette.
Having received that letter of the 3rd March, before the sudden departure of the



Minister of Militia and Defence, I saw him personally.


If the hon. gentleman wants to put a question-


Yes, but I want to submit the correspondence, and then to ask the Government what they intend to do.


It would be out of order to enter upon a debate.


I do not intend to do that.


The proper procedure for the hon, gentleman is to put his question.


I only wish to give the facts and then to ask the Government what they intend to do. I saw the minister, I think, on the Tuesday before his unexpected departure, and he promised me that the boy would be sent back home. Then I received the following letter.
Minister's Office,
Ottawa, March 11, 1916.
Dear Mr. Ethier:
With reference to Edouard Paquette, I herewith return his birth certificate, and I am pleased to inform you that General Wilson has given instructions to Lt.-Col. Barre. to return Paquette to his family.
Trusting this will be satisfactory,
Tours faithfully,
(Sgd.) Harold Daly, Captain,
for Private Secretary.
Confident that these instructions would be carried out, I wrote to my friend that his boy would be returned home. On the 27th March, however, I received the following letter:
J. A. C. Ethier.
Dear Sir,-I herewith return you my son's certificate of baptism as the boy has not yet been returned. I strongly insist that they should bring me back my child because he is too young and enlisted without my permission. I proved his age to Co!. Barre and Major Bisonnette and they answered he was enlisted and they would keep him.
X went to the headquarters and they told me I had no business there, and if I did not go out they would put me out. The child is gone to Amherst and we did not even see him. You see the manner in which the officers of regiments are acting towards the public; it is really revolting to see such solicitations to our young boys. X made all efforts to have the matter settled without trouble. At noon the day before the boy left, he was brought to the place where I worked, accompanied by an officer to ask permission to leave and I then forbade the officer to take him. But they did not pay any attention to my refusal. Well, we must have our rights and I hope you will invoke them in our favour. I am convinced that you will show to these people that we are the

masters of our children and that they have not the right to do what they like with them and that the parents should be respected.
Tours truly,
(Sgd.) Emfirie Paquette.
Now, I wish to ask the Government what they intend to do in. such a case as this. I received another letter from Mr. Paquette stating that he is the father of ten children, one of whom has been in Belgium for seven months, and that he has not the means to take proceedings before the courts, to have this child brought hack home. I ask the Government if they intend to fulfil the engagement which appears by the letter of the 11th of March signed by Captain Harold Daly, for the private secretary, stating that General Wilson had given instructions to Col. Barre to return the boy to his family. Do the Government intend to carry out this undertaking, or shall I be obliged to take proceedings in the courts in Montreal and get a judgment, such as was rendered last week by Judge Dugas in habeas corpus proceedings which were taken before him. I put the question to iascertain if the Government intend to carry out the undertaking contained in the letter of the 11th of March and not force a boy 14 years of age to enlist, especially as this family has already sent one of its older sons to the trenches.


Order.


I understand from the memorandum which the hon. gentleman has read to the House that the private secretary of my hon. friend the Minister of Militia and Defence (Sir Sam Hughes) has already given instructions to have the boy returned, owing, no doubt, to his age, which, I believe, is 15 years. There has been some miscarriage, because otherwise the instructions which the minister gave to his priva e secretary would have been carried out. I have no information on the subject other than what the hon. gentleman has given to the House, and I can assure him that as soon as I get a copy of his observations in Hansard I will take the matter up and try and remedy the difficulty.


Consideration of the proposed motion ot Sir Wilfrid Laurier for a committee to inquire into purchases of shells or other muni-

tions or goods by the Shell Committee, resumed, from Tuesday, March 14.
Mr. Speaker, having regard to the resolution and the amendment now before the House, one point that stands out perfectly plainly and clearly is the fact that the hon. Minister of Militia and Defence (Sir Sam Hughes) stated in this House not many weeks ago that he was the father and originator of the defunct Shell Committee, and he took to himself great credit for the fact that it was he who started the manufacture of shells and brought it to a certain- degree of perfection, the movement culminating in the appointment of the Shell Committee. The first thing that is to be distinctly kept in mind,, and that I think is fairly imbedded in the public mind, is that the Government is responsible, through its Minister of Militia, for the creation of the Shell Committee. Up to the time that the minister spoke, and before this resolution and the amendment thereto were brought to the attention of this House, the minister took great credit to- himself for that committee. His followers backed him up in that assertion, but so soon as charges were made, so soon as the resolution and the amendment were brought" down, nobody seemed to be responsible for the Shell Committee as appointed by this Government. The Government, in their anxiety to shelve their troubles on to others, now say: " This was an Imperial committee; we had nothing whatever to do with it; and as a consequence we can grant no investigation." I repeat that, as long as the Shell Committee was supposed to be doing all that it ought to do, the Minister of Militia-and if the Minister of Militia, then, constitutionally, the rest of the members of the Cabinet-took great credit for appointing that committee; but the minute anything appeared to be wrong, they shelved the fesponsibility on to somebody else.
I submit that, so far as this question has gone, an absolute case has been made out by the right hon. leader of the Opposition. The Solicitor General said that the charges were vague and general; that there was nothing in them that had not been heard on the floor of the House practically every day; and that he saw no reason why a committee should be granted. I am absolutely satisfied that the right hon. leader of the Opposition has proved his case to the hilt, and, as far as I am concerned, I purpose to stand behind him. Does the Solicitor General call it an every-day matter that the
members of the Shell Committee, who were the appointed trustees of the people of this country, and were responsible for [DOT] the amount of money spent on Canada's share of the munitions ordered, should be charged by the right hon. leader of the Opposition with buying and selling among themselves? Does he call it an ordinary charge that the members of the Shell Committee could not be entrusted with the giving of shell contracts? General Bertram himself admitted that he did not trust the other members of the Shell Committee in the giving of orders; he said they were largely interested in those orders, and he therefore [DOT]>
carried on the work of giving out the orders himself. Are those charges specific or otherwise? Would any one say -for one single minute " that these charges were vague or ordinary with regard to a committee that was spending millions of dollars on munitions, for a proportionate share of which the people of this country are responsible, -as the Minister of Finance has said? Would any one say that it was an every-day thing for a man eminent in public life, and the leader of a great party, to charge the Shell Committee with buying and selling between themselves? The -chairman of the committee -admitted, not practically, but absolutely, that he had to give out the contracts without consulting his colleagues, for the reason that they" were in the business, and ought not to know what was -going on in the Shell Committee. Could anything be more specific than those charges? If nothing else had come out during this whole debate, I say that those two charges would be absolutely sufficient to warrant the Government in granting the investigation we have asked for. But are there no more specific charges? Will any one say that the hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Carvell), has not made charges specific enough for an investigation to be granted? Would -any one say that the charge of the hon. member for St. John (Mr. Pugsley), that $80,000,000 of the money of the people of this country had been wasted in the manner I shall describe later on, was not a charge specific enough to warrant the Government granting an investigation? The facts stand out as plainly as any facts could stand out. Specific charges have been made of the gravest character against the trustees who were appointed by this Government to spend the people's money. Yet the Solicitor General in an easy, off-hand way, says: " Oh, these charges are vague; they amount to nothing; we hear that kind of

charges thrown across the floor' of the House every day; there is absolutely nothing 'to investigate, and consequently the Government will not grant the committee that is asked for. The Solicitor General said: " Oh, you cannot deceive the House of Commons." If that is the view he takes let me tell him that the view I take is this: go where you will, in public places, on the train or elsewhere, the one thing that is discussed to-day by the people of this country-at least, I may speak for Ontario-is the charges that have been made against the Shell Committee by the hon. member for Carleton.
I want to say to the Solicitor General just as strongly as I can that the Government cannot deceive the people of this Dominion in their reasons for not granting a committee to investigate the charges against the Shell Committee. The people of this country know that charges such as have been made in this House would not have been levelled had there not been some foundation for them. The people of this country take the view that as their money is being spent -and it is-they have the right to know how that money is being spent.
The Solicitor General says that we should be exposing the resources of this country if a committee were granted. The Prime Minister says the same thing. Now, I should like to ask in all seriousness-and I am asking for information-how, in the name of all that is good and great, could you expose the resources of the Dominion of Canada by showing that the Shell, Committee had wrongly expended $80,000,000? The same answer was given to a question I put on the Order Paper asking the number of horses that have been bought in the United States and Canada. The answer was that the information could not be given because it would expose the resources of the country. Why, the farmers of this country would only be too delighted to find out just how many horses have been purchased by the British Government in the United States market while our Canadian horses were eating their heads off. Give the resources of the country away! The people of this country would be only too pleased to find out our resources along those lines, and why the Government is not helping them to get rid of those resources. Those are some of the reasons that have been given why an investigation should not be granted.
I desire to close this part of the subject with one remark. This Government accepted the responsibility of organizing the Shell

Committee. The Minister of Militia was the president of that Committee; duties were assigned him in the way of looking after shells; and as a consequence, this Government became wholly responsible for that committee. The Prime Minister himself also fathered the Shell Committee. It appears to me that it was of no interest to this House, nor of any particular interest to the people of this country, that the Prime Minister, in the remarks he made in opposing this resolution, should have read a long letter from some prominent manufacturer, or somebody of that kind, showing the difficulty in the way of manufacturing shells. The Prime Minister in the course of hi3 speech eulogized the manufacturers of Canada, saying that they had done such wonderful work that the people of Canada ought to be proud of them. I agfee with every word that the Prime Minister says along those lines; but, that being so, why did not the manufacturers of	Canada get	more orders and
more help than they did in certain ways? The Prime Minister also told us that the Shell Committee had done everything that one could ask them to do. That may be so; but, if the Shell Committee did everything they ought to have done, and if they merited an absolutely clean bill of health from the Prime Minister and the Solicitor General, why did Mr. Thomas come to Canada, and why, when 'he did come, was the Shell Committee dissolved?
After Mr. Thomas came here, the committee was reorganized and it entered upon a new phase. According to the Prime Minister and the Solicitor General the Shell Committee had done splendidly, but the committee was nevertheless put out of business. There never yet was a funeral that the pallbearers did not speak well of the corpse. Hichens, and Thomas, and the Prime Minister, and the Solicitor General, with crape around their hats, bore the Shell Committee to its last resting place, and they thanked Heaven that the remains were interred. What was the matter with the Shell Committee? The fact is that the charges which have been made here come close home to it, and it was thought well that a new committee with Imperial sanction should be appointed, so that when the crash came the Government might say: We have nothing to do with that committee; we have handed it over to the Imperial authorities. The Solicitor General says: " If they ask us to hold an investigation, we shall be only too delighted to do so,

but in the meantime we have put the old Shell Committee to rest in the graveyard; fire away at the new committee, if you like; we can get away from it on an Imperial excuse." I ask seriously: When in the name of Heaven is Canada, under this Government, going to stand on her own feet? Are we always to swell out our chests	and listen to our
good friends on the opposite side of the House saying:	Under the good
old Tory regime this Canada of ours is a nation within a nation, and yet we are afraid to investigate the expenditure of out own money, and give to the people an accounting for it. That is the true story. From beginning to end of the Premier's speech there was, in my opinion, absolutely no justification for the refusal of an investigation. From beginning to end of the Solicitor General's speech the one thing that he proved to his own satisfaction and to the eminent satisfaction of his friends was that the hon. member for Carleton had given wrong figures as to the deliveries of shells.


They were fundamentally wrong all the way through.


That observation of the
Solicitor General only clinches my argument that, according to the Solicitor General, everything was right and nothing was wrong with the Shell Committee, and that it was only the hon. member for Carleton who was wrong. If the hon. member was wrong, then why in heaven's name does the Government not grant us the investigation and take the crSdit for showing that he was wrong? Is not the investigation denied because the Government knows m its heart of hearts that an investigation will show that the Shell Committee was not all it was painted by hon. gentlemen opposite? There is no question as to that, and there is little question in the minds of the people about it.
Mr. Thomas made a speech; it was rather a peculiar speech, and it would look as if he was going to say something, but he finally decided that he would be satisfied to leave it with an innuendo. All he would say was: Could I but tell you all I know; could I but raise the veil a little the people of Canada would know and would realize.
One strange and peculiar thing about the speeches that have been made by hon. gentlemen opposite is that, although we heard one eulogy pronounced in this House upon the Shell Committee that was beautiful in the extreme, the real gem of the Government eulogies was that pronounced on one J. Wesley Allison by the Minister of Militia. To hear the Minister of Militia one would think that what J. Wesley Allison has done for this country would fill a large book. He has saved millions here; he has [DOT] saved millions there; he was the wise counsellor, friend, and confidant of the Minister of Militia, as the minister himself acknowledges. When anything went wrong,
J. Wesley Allison was rung up; he stepped into the breach, and the people of Canada, and incidentally the people of the whole Empire, were saved the expenditure ol millions of dollars, and J. Wesley Allison, in the goodness of his heart, said: Ah, this is all done by me so that I may prove my devotion to the British Empire and to the Minister of Militia; get thee behind me with any temptation in the way of offers;
I am working for Canada and Canada alone. Yet this is the same man who down at the town of Morrisburg had practically free customs entry for goods for long days at a time; who brought in there at the order of the Customs Department heaven only knows how much dutiable goods, and heaven .only knows how much good duty this Government and this country were deprived of. This is the man who, day after day, has evaded the service of a subpoena to appear before the Public Accounts Committee who want him to tell what he knows. This is the man who feigned illness in New York in order to evade that subpoena, and who yet was ready to meet the Minister of Militia on his arrival in that city the other night; this is the man upon whom a eulogy was pronounced by the Minister of Militia, and as the minister has taken him to his heart, so the Government as a whole has taken him to its heart, and so J. Wesley Allison is accepted by them all. I notice that the Solicitor General does not repudiate him. Does he accept him?


I have nothing to do
with him.


Nothing to do with him?


Has the hon. gentleman anything to do with him?


This is just one of those cases where the foster father is-now in the old land and has left another baby in the person of J. Wesley Allison, and none of the ministers want him at all. There are babies belonging to the Minister of Militia lying all around, and no one on the


In view of the professed policy of the Opposition to assist this Government in every way, why does not the hon. gentlemajn .throw out the life-line?


When so eminent a follower of the Prime Minister makes such a speech as that, in which he admits that they are in distress and want the life-line, I think I can do no better than leave his own argument with him. I think the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bennett) is not alone; there are a lot more who think the same thing; but, unlike him, they will not get up and say so.
Then, taking up the speech of the Prime Minister, he paid the highest tribute that could be paid to men when he spoke of the manufacturers of Canada, and with that I have no quarrel-I hope that the right hon. gentleman and his followers will always have the same faith in Canadian >
adaptability and Canadian intelligence

which he professed in that part of his speech. But if the Canadian manufacturer is all that the right hon. gentleman said- arid he is-I would like to ask why, when a contract was to be let for $22,000,000 worth of fuses, the sum of $3,750,000 should be sent to the United States to establish there manufactories of fuses, to the exclusion of the manufacturers of this Dominion? If there is one thing more than another that is the bounden duty of this Government, it is to stop the economic waste that goes on, and to build up this country by giving every encouragement possible to the producers of all sorts of things, and [DOT] the distribution of wealth among those who most deserve it. But this Government gave $3,750,000 to manufacturers in the United States, to enable them to provide factories to manufacture fuses, though factories could have 'been built up at far less cost in the Dominion of Canada to do the same work, and do it just as well. In that connection, I want to read just one paragraph from the Toronto Globe:
Ifhe order to the first company was placed at $4.50 per fuse and to the second at $4, and t}ie contracts aggregated over $22,000,000. The prices were known to he excessive, but were given because the Allies were dangerously short of projectiles, and the fuses were the most difficult part of the shell to manufacture.
Then it goes on to say:
Why was this amazing contract given? What part was played by Col. Allison?
Col. Allison is always about when there is money about.
These are questions that will not down. All the sophistries of Mr. R. B. Bennett will not prevent the electors from demanding that they be answered. The fuses could have -been made quickly and satisfactorily, and made at a factory cost which would have yielded a profit of not less than four or five million dollars to the makers. This has been proved conclusively during the past three months by Mr. T. A. Russell, of the Russell Motor Company of Toronto. General Bertram did not believe fuses could be made in Canada. To representatives of Canadian firms who asked for fuse contracts, Sir Alexander declared emphatically that they could not be produced.
Why was Sir Alexander Bertram so very certain that fuses could not be produced in the Dominion of Canada? Were proper inquiries made? Were manufacturers called in, in order to find out, or was it simply the case that the sum of three and three-quarter million dollars was, with common consent, handed over, holus bolus, to the people of the United States, the Shell Committee saying:	"We cannot manufacture
in Canada; we send this order to you to see what you can do with it." These are pertinent questions, and ought to be cleared up. These are questions which the people of Canada want to have answered. The Globe continues:
To representatives of Canadian firms who asked for fuse contracts, Sir Alexander declared emphatically that they could not be produced. Some four or five months after the letting of the prodigal New York contract, when no deliveries were forthcoming, and vast quantities of uncompleted shell cases were piling up in Canada, General Bertram's Shell Committee let a contract for fuses to the Russell Motor Company of this city at a price about a dollar per fuse less than the rate allowed to the New York companies.
Tl)at is perfectly true.
Mr. Russell at once arranged for floor space elsewhere than in the motor factory, installed over a quarter of a million dollars' worth of special automatic machinery, scoured the country for competent male and female workers, and early in the month of January began to turn out the fuses without which Canadian shells were useless. Between January Id and March 1, Mr. Russell produced 50,000 contact fuses which stood all tests, and the fac ory now producing 4,000 a day and will ultimately turn out 5,000 a day. Time fuses will also be
mannfn otlirfid.
Why was not Mr. Russell consulted in the first place? Why did not Canadian industry get the benefit of that three and three-quarter million of dollars of orders at a price much less than that at which the New York firm took the contract? Why were those things not done? As I understand it, although I stand subject to correction, no time fuses have ever been delivered from New York.


Wrong again.


Wrong again? Have time fuses been delivered?


Oh, yes.


Since when?


Perhaps as many as you could carry in your ha-t.


What was the number of time fuses in the order? Was it three and three-quarter millions?


Whose order?


Did not the Government, or the minister, or the Shell Committee, give an order in New York for 3,000,000 time fuses?


My hon. friend, I
thought, would have that information be-

fore this; he should have all the facts if he had read the speech which I delivered.


Not the facts.


The Shell Committee gave two orders for time fuses: One to the American Ammunition Company, for 833,334; and two orders, that is, one for each of two different kinds of fuses, to the International Arms Company, with which, no doubt, my hon. friend is acquainted, amounting entirely to two and one-half millions.


And there have been about
8,000	fuses delivered altogether!


You said there were none.


Oh, oh.


That is the size of the Solicitor General.


Mr. Speaker, after an almost unbroken, and may I not say more or less discreet silence since I had the honour of occupying a seat in this House, I feel that I may now take up some of its time without offering any apology for so doing At the outset I want to say that this discussion at this particular time in the history of the Empire is to me distasteful, but so long as hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House can be found to precipitate discussions of this kind, which lead to more or less party controversy, somebody on this side of the House must be found to answer the charges that they see fit to make. I would like also to say that I am very conscious indeed of my inability to carry on this debate upon the high plane which has been set by those who have preceded me on this * side of the House. If there ever was a time in my life when I should be glad to possess the oratorical ability and force of the hon. member for Calgary (Mr. Bennett) or the eloquence, the logical and analytical ability and the irresistible power of reasoning of the Solicitor General, that moment is surely now. For I feel, Sir, that with the brief that belongs to any man who desires to oppose the resolution of the right hon. leader of the Opposition, he should not have a very difficult task in convincing the country that he is taking the right stand. During my time in this House I have had occasion to watch with the greatest interest and concern my
honoured leader. Since I have been here I have learned to feel that I have the right to place absolute confidence in the judgment that he has shown on many matters that have come before him during that period. I feel that if I had no other reason for offering my objections to this resolution, that in itself would be sufficient. But my honoured leader has given to this House definite and distinct reasons why this resolution should not carry, and in those reasons I heartily concur.
Let me refer to the speech made by the right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) who introduced the resolution. It seems to me that in the short -address he made to this House, all that he said was very fairly put, and what he did say with respect to the Shell Committee does not altogether -agree with the remarks of some of the gentlemen who have spoken on the other side of the House, many of whom take the position that the Shell Committee was appointed by the Minister of Militia. I observe that the right hon. leader of the Opposition does not take that position. On page 1566 of Hansard he is reported as having -said:
The attitude taken by the Solicitor General here is that he and the Government wash their hands completely of responsibility for the actions of the Shell Committee. Though my hon. friend admits that the committee was appointed by the Imperial Government, I believe we can all agree that the members of the Shell Committee, whose names I shall read, respectable though those names be, were not selected on their merits by the Imperial authorities, but upon the recommendation of the Government of Canada. I take issue with the Solicitor General upon the point raised. As this Government has given its recommendation to the Imperial authorities, then, notwithstanding his views that the members of the Shell Committee are responsible to the Imperial authorities, I say that the Government that made that recommendation, and that gave that advice is responsible to this House and to the people of this country.
I observe that the right hon. gentleman does not contend that the committee was appointed by the Minister of Militia; he simply says that the members of that committee were selected upon the recommendation of the Government of Canada. It seems to me that he is correct in taking that stand. Those who suggest the opposite cannot give any good reason for their contention. Would the Minister of Militia have any right to appoint a committee except by Act of Parliament or by Order in Council? It has not been suggested that either of these courses was taken. Is the fact that the Minister of Militia saw fit to

recommend certain gentlemen to act in that capacity any reason why the Department of Militia, or the Government of this country, should be charged with all the doings of the Shell Committee, no matter what they might be? I submit not. Surely the matter is purely one of principal and agent. The suggestion coming from the opposite side of the House is this: A person is asked for a recommendation in the matter of the selection of an agent. In good faith he makes that recommendation, and on the strength of it a man is appointed agent. Negotiations and business relations between the principal and the agent are carried on to the satisfaction of the principal, the one who is responsible. A third party comes along and says, I demand an investigation. Is that not the exact situation here? Surety if anybody has the right to demand an investigation in this case, it is the principal who appoints the agent, and who is in every way responsible for the acts of that agent. Can it be suggested for one moment -it as not suggested by the right hon. lead,er of' the Opposition-that this committee was appointed by the Minister of Militia r Surety, having regard to the fact that the members of that committee were merely recommended by the Minister of Militia, the only people who are responsible are the authorities in the British War Office. If they want an investigation, the country has been told that this Government is ready to assist in every possible way with that investigation.
The hon. member for West Lambton (Mr. Pardee), who has just taken his seat, has given us a quotation or two from the Conservative press. It might, perhaps, be well to give him a dose of his own medicine. I did think that the hon. member for Pictou (Mr. E. M. Macdonald) was to precede me. A most interesting article appears in the issue of March 10 of the Eastern Chronicle, with which I have no doubt he is familiar, and which, I am told, is a Liberal journal published in New Glasgow, in Pictou county. It is very interesting, and I think that this would, perhaps, be an opportune time to refer to it.
The Government In Ottawa led the majority-in Parliament in voting down a motion of Sir Wilfrid's for an investigation into the shell making by the " Committee on Shell." We cannot understand what was to have been gained by such an investigation; but it was probably unwise to refuse it.
I am not reading the whole of the article.
In Great Britain the Government advanced money to any reputable firm which should un-

dertake to manufacture shells. In Canada there was no assistance offered. The firm undertaking the manufacture had to put up its own money for plant. When the question was put to the steel men of Canada they were told that Great Britain would pay such a price for shells and be thankful to get them. When the steel men agreed to try the manufacture the Minister of Militia recommended that a certain number of them be appointed a committee to take charge of the work. Was it strange that this committee was composed of steel experts? Would it not be strange if a committee of politicians or lumbermen, or grocers or farmers, was appointed? This committee had nothing to do with the price; that was fixed in Great Britain. What the committee had to do was to manufacture shells at a stated price. They undertook the'work and carried it through successfully. Who else in Canada could have done it? The business by private firms was new in Great Britain as well as in Canada. Very well, said the authorities, " we appoint you gentlemen a committee to inaugurate and carry on the work. If you are successful in manufacturing shells we will pay you a certain price for them."
That which follows is perhaps the most interesting part:
The Liberal leaders in Ottawa acted on general principles during this session like a lot of children. They chatter enough, they call names, they make charges, many of which are undoubtedly true, but before beginning to do these school children tricks they throw away the club that alone will keep tyrants, corruptionists and constitutional traitors in order. For all the good they do now they would better come home and let the Government do its worst; it will do it anyway.


I did not catch the date of that article.


Well, I would like you to
catch it-March 10, 1916, Eastern Chronicle, published in New Glasgow.


The date is the only definite thing about it to catch.


Well, I hope you caught it. That answer is almost as childish as the action which is referred to in the article. 1 expected my hon. friend from West Lamb-ton, at all events, to show that the arguments of the Solicitor General and the information that he gave to the House two weeks ago were wrong. I thought there had been ample opportunity to point out wherein this information was wrong and yet the hon. member who has just taken his seat has not ventured-he certainly has the ability-to point to one single statement in which the Solicitor General has made a mistake in his somewhat severe arraignment of the hon. member for Carleton. Would I not have the right to assume that he did not do it because he could not? I am aware that the hon. member himself rose in this House to a question of privilege and

sought to place upon Hansard-I think he has partly done so-a statement received from the Munitions Board dealing with his ten charges. I sent over to the hon. gentleman and asked him if he would be good enough to allow me to have that statement, but he did not see fit to do so. I suppose he takes the position that because he was not permitted to give it to the House in its fullness I should not have it.


I want to inform my
hon. friend that I was not allowed to put the last four items on Hansard. I was not allowed to put anything on record in regard to fuses. I referred to both shells and fuses. If I had been allowed to put those matters on record I would only have been too happy to have sent the statements to the hon. gentleman.	.


When you repeat a statement that, I presume, you have confidence in, is there any good reason why you should not send it over if you want to give it to the House? .


You will get it in a few minutes.


I know that we are always going to get something from you, but it does not come. You frequently have the habit of standing up in your place, and-


Order, order.


The 'hon. gentleman frequently stands in his place in this House and announces that if given the opportunity he is' going to prove this, that and the other thing-that he never makes a statement without having the goods to deliver. I wish he would deliver the goods now. I wonder how it is that he could not have handed this statement to the hon. member for West Lambton so that he might have given it to the House. We would then perhaps have had an opportunity of discussing it.


Have patience.


I would like to get it now in order that I might have an opportunity of dealing with it while I am on my feet.
Now, let me refer to the speech of the hon. member for St. John (Mr. Pugsley). I would like to call the attention of the House to that part of it wherein he referred to the speech of the hon. member for Calgary (Mr. Bennett). Here is what he said as found at page 1790 of Hansard;
Well, Sir, that hon. gentleman has not ventured to challenge the accuracy of the figures which were presented to this House by the hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Carvell). Need I argue that it was because it could not be done? The hon. member for Calgary is industrious and is most able and most intelligent, and if it had been possible to question the accuracy of the figures or statements presented by that hon. member, you may depend, and I am sure th a House will agree with me, that the hon. member for Calgary would have devoted himself to that task. He did not do so.
Because he did not do so, the hon. member for St. John, without attempting to verify the figures presented or the statements made by the hon. member for Carleton, proceeded to adopt them holus-bolus. That is about the only argument we got from him in so far as his remarks in regard to this matter were concerned.
Now, let us look at the matter in the light of what took place when the Solicitor General made his speech. The hon. member for Carleton had made a statement that the Canadian General Electric Company had not received an order. He was very much aggrieved over that. He said, at page 1598:
So far as my information goes, the Canadian General Electric Company did not get an order until away down in the summer of 1915, and then it was for only 25,000 18-pounder high-explosive shells.
I miss a line or two.
If there is a manufacturing concern in Canada with which I am intimately acquainted, it is the Canadian General Electric Company. I have done business with them for the last 12 years; I know that they are able to manufacture anything tha