Annual report of the Topographical Surveys Branch for the year ended March 31, wi5.-Mr. Roche.
Bill No. 96, for the relief of David Whim-sfer Rhodes.-Mr. Boys.
Hon. J. D. REID (Minister of Railways and Canals) moved the first reading of Bill No 96, respecting rentals payable to the

Mount Royal Tunnel and Terminal Company, Limited.
This is a Government
Bill; will some one on the Government side explain?


As I understand it, this is really a declaratory Bill to make perfectly plain the provisions of an Act passed about two years ago, and as to which some legal point has been taken.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
On the Orders of the Day:
I am informed by the Deputy Minister of Militia and Defence that Private Wallace, whose case was brought to the attention of the House by the hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Carvell) has received his discharge, being under age. With regard to another matter which was mentioned, the case of Private Dougall Curry, there has been received a further telegram dated 26th April, and addressed to the Adjutant General from the General Officer Commanding the Military District. The telegram reads as follows:
Reference headquarter telegram of 24th O-apt. Calder states delay in seeing Dougall Curry caused by not getting word from hospital until noon following day. Impossible to say what person or persons are exactly responsible for this delay. Formerly one of hospital staff always notified him when military patient was admitted. In this case nurses say they did not know whom to notify. Captain Munro states he was unab'e to get St. Joseph Hospital by telephone till li a.m. following day owing to the line being out of order.
With regard to the case mentioned by the hon. member for Moosejaw (Mr. Knowles), I am informed by the Deputy Minister of Militia that a telegram has been sent to the commanding officer requesting an immediate investigation and report by wire. I am also informed, with regard to the case mentioned by the hon. member for Guysborough (Mr. Sinclair), that an investigation has been ordered and is now in progress.


I presume the officer
to whom the telegram was sent i'n the matter to which I referred was an officer at Winnipeg?


I really could
not say at the moment.


Surely not the officer
who was implicated, in case the rumour is correct?


The report that came .to me was that an investigation in the ordinary course had been ordered. I shall ascertain as to the character of the investigation and the person by whom it is to be made.


The Prime Minister
said that a wire had been sent to the officer asking for a report. I presume it goes without saying that the report will not be made by the officer upon whom I have made my observations.


If I remember the memorandum I had before me, it spoke not only of a report but of an investigation.


On the Orders of the Day:
I am informed from the county of Soulanges that at the convention which took place last week for the selection of a Conservative candidate in the pending provincial election, the superintendent of the canal, his whole staff, and the employees of the canal, attended the convention and took part in it. I have always understood that the policy of this Government was that there should be no offensive partisanship on the part of employees of the Government, and I call the attention of my right hon. friend the Prime Minister to the matter.
-Sir ROBERT BORDEN:	I will direct
the attention of the Acting Minister of Railways and Canals to it at once.


On the Orders of the Day:
Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM:	On Friday last, in the absence of the Prime Minister, I inquired what had become of the joint resolution of the two Houses of Parliament praying that an amendment be made to the British North America Act providing for the extension of the life of Parliament. AVould the Prime Minister give us some information with regard to that matter?
It was sent forward at once by the Governor General. I also wrote Sir George Perley, enclosing copies of the debates on the subject that
204*
had taken place in this House and in the Senate, that he might be afforded any necessary information as to the grounds upon which the resolution had proceeded.. I understand that it is in progress over there, but I do not know what progress has been made. Everything that was necessary to be done, as far as the Government is concerned, has been done.


I wish to ask the hon. Acting Minister of Militia and Defence if applications for the Fenian Raid bounty will be considered if made prior to the expiry of the delay fixed by the Government, which, I think, was on the 31st July last, but from persons who were unable, before that date, to make the required proof.


I cannot give my hon. friend an answer at the moment, but I will make inquiry of the deputy minister as to what the policy of the department has been, and give an answer as soon as possible.


[Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.]
1.	How many persons are employed by the Secretary of State's Department as translators, apart from the official and permanent staff?
2.	What are their names, occupations, residences and salaries?
3.	Is one Arthur SauvS so employed as a special or other translator?
4.	If so, is the said Arthur Sauvfi the member for the county of Two Mountains in the Quebec Legislature?
5.	Who recommended him as translator, and on what date?
6.	What is the character of the documents that have been sent to the said Arthur Sauvfi for translation at his home?
7.	What amount has such translation cost, and how much has the said Arthur Sauvfi received to date on account of such translation?


1.	There are no persons employed in the Department of the Secretary of State of Canada as translators.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Arthur. Sauve is not employed by the
Department of the Secretary of State of Canada.	,
4.	5, 6 and 7. Answered by No. 3.


Do the wives of civil servants who have enlisted, whether as privates or officers, receive a separation allowance?


No, unless the civil service foregoes his Civil 'Government salary, in which case he would draw all military pay and allowances.


1.	Who were the persons employed in purchasing horses, hay and oats in Alberta for the Department of Militia ?
2.	How much were they paid in each case?


1.	Lieut.-Colonel A. D. McRae.
2.	Pay of rank and expenses.


Has the Postmaster General decided to reopen the New Richmond West post office? If not, why not?


The question of the reopening of the New Richmond West postoffice has been under consideration. As far as can be at present ascertained, there does not appear to be any urgent necessity for reopening this office. The department has obtained the opinion of 86 householders, the majority of whom are in favour of rural mail delivery. Fifteen families located on range 5 have not yet been visited. They are, however, said to be in favour of rural mail delivery since they are far from any posit office at all. The former patrons of the New Richmond West post office ask that the office may be reopened to be served by special courier from New Richmond as heretofore. They do not accept as satisfactory any supply thereof by the rural mail delivery courier. All the patrons of the New Richmond West post office, with the exception of 10, though residing immediately on as well as being within the scope of letter carrier delivery, could easily subscribe for boxes if they are so disposed.


1.	Was Robert E. Steelman employed by the Army Service Corps at Regina at any time since the commencement of the war? If so, in what capacity was he employed?
2.	What wages did the said Robert E. Sted-man receive, and what were his duties in such employment?
fMr. Blondin.)


1.	Yes, as private in No. 20 company, Canadian Army Service Corps.
2.	$1.10 per diem pay and 75c subsistence.


1.	How much per toise did the stone used for the military drill hall sidewalk at LSvis cost?
2.	By whom was such stone supplied, and what amount was paid therefor?
3.	How many toise of stone were supplied for the said sidewalk?


1.	No price asked for per toise.
2.	Jos. St. Pierre; amount paid, $862.50.
3.	No price per toise, ;but price per cubic yard obtained from Jos. St. Pierre was $1.50.


Mr. Oliver.-For a return showing all transactions entered into by the Government of Canada to clear up squatter's rights to the Banff Hot Springs; together with a statement of payments made on such account, and to whom paid.
Mr. McCrea.-For a copy of all Orders ini Council, departmental orders, and of ail correspondence in respect of the embargo on the export of tan bark from Canada to United States.
Mr. Graham.-For a copy of the lease made by the Militia Department, or other department of the Government, with Lindsay and McCluskey, for a building situated in the town of North Bay.
Mr. Michaud.-For a copy of all correspondence between the Minister of Justice, the mayor of the town of Edmundston, N.B., the police magistrate of the said town, and others, in reference to one Antoine Levesque.
Mr. Buchanan.-For a copy of all papers, telegrams, letters and other documents in connection with the decision to locate an interior storage elevator at Calgary, Alberta.
Mr. Buchanan.-For a copy of all correspondence and papers relating to the change in the location of the post office at Roseberg. Alta.
Mr. Devlin.-For a copy of all papers, correspondence, documents, petitions and communications between the Post Office Department and the postmaster, or any other person, in connection with the Aylmer, Quebec, post office, received or sent by the department since October, 1911, relating to complaints, changes or dismissals and appointments to the said post office.
Mr. Ethier.-For a return showing the names of the tenderers for the different mail carrying contracts in connection with the rural mail delivery recently established in the county of Two Mountains; the amount of each of such tenders, the name of each tenderer to whom a contract has been granted, and the price to be paid to him if there were any contracts given without tender; if so, to whom, for how much, and on whose recommendation; if any indemnity has been allowed to mail conductors for the transportation of rural mail boxes; if so.

to whom, and for what amount; if any indemnity was allowed to any mail conductors who had discontinued the service before the expiration of the three months' notice required by the contracts for the carrying of mails, if so, to whom, and for what amount?
On motion of Sir Robert Borden (Acting Minister of Militia), the House went into committee to consider the following proposed resolutions, Mr. Rhodes in the Chair:
1.	That it is. expedient to provide that a sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000) be granted to His Majesty towards defraying any expenses that may be incurred by or under the authority of the Governor in Council during the year ending the 31st day of March, 1917, for:
(a)	The defence and security of Canada;
(b)	The conduct of naval or military operations in or beyond Canada;
(c)	Promoting the continuance of trade, industry and business communications, whether by means of insurance or indemnity against war risk or otherwise;
(d)	The carrying out of any measures deemed necessary or advisable by the Governor in Council in consequence of the existence of a state of war; and
(e)	Payments made for the said purposes during the fiscal years ending respectively the thirty-first day of March, nineteen hundred and fifteen and th6
- thirty-first day of March, nineteen hundred and sixteen, in excess of the amounts authorized by the War Appropriation Act, 1914, and the War Appropriation Act, 1915.
2.	That the Governor in Council be empowered to raise by way of loan, temporary or otherwise, such sums of money as are required for the purpose of making any payment authorized by any Act founded on these resolutions.
3.	That the principal raised by way of loan under this Act and the interest thereon shall be chargeable on the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
Before the consideration of this resolution is taken up in the ordinary way, it is desirable that I should give some explanations which may naturally be expected at. this stage. In the	first,
place I desire to point out that the work of the Department of Militia and Defence before the war began was of an insignificant character and volume, as compared with the work it has been called upon to undertake since August, 1914, and particularly during the past year, when our forces have been so greatly augmented. Before the war the organization of that department was designed for dealing with a permanent force of about 3,000, which was under arms during the whole period' of the year, and the training of from 50,000 to
60,000	men, for varying periods, usually
from twelve to sixteen days during the year. The organization was adequate for that purpose; and the Headquarters Staff was organized for dealing with a somewhat larger force in case of war. The organization, however, was entirely inadequate in the first instance for the tremendous strain which was thrown upon it by the events of the war. We all recall that within six weeks after the war broke out a force of 33,000 men was mobilized at Valcartier camp, organized, trained, and equipped ready for active service. It went overseas early in October, 1914, with a surplus of guns and ammunition which were placed at the service of the Imperial Government.
The necessities of the war have, from time to time, called for very large increases in our forces, and as the Orders in Council authorizing these increases have been laid on the table of the House in printed form, and are available to hon. gentlemen, I need not recount them. The enlistments have proceeded upon a scale far beyond what any of us had in mind in August, 1914. Up to the 15th of April of the present year the total number of men enlisted was 309,616, of whom 102,455 joined the colours between the 1st day of January and the 15th day of April.	.
If we compare the organization which the Department of Militia and Defence has been thus called upon to undertake, with the military organization of the whole Empire before the war broke out, we shall have some adequate idea of the burden and the responsibility imposed upon the Government of this country, and especially upon the Minister of Militia and Defence, and the officers of his department. For example, the establishment of the British regular army, according to a statement which has been handed to me by General Gwatkin, Chief of the General Staff, amounted, before the war, to 127,368 men in Great Britain; in India (including only British troops) 77,317 men and distributed in different parts of the Empire other than the British Isles and India, 49,076, or a total of 253,762.
That constituted the regular army of the United Kingdom; but to that of course must be added the establishment of native troops in 'India. Excluding the native troops in India, it will be seen that the total forces of the Empire, as organized in the United Kingdom, were some
60,000	less than the number of troops which have been enlisted in Canada for active service overseas and .otherwise,

steps have been taken and machinery has been provided for the purpose of co-ordinating the work of this branch of the Canadian Expeditionary Force in Canada with similar work which is necessarily carried on in Great Britain and in France.
I now take up the work of the Assistant Adjutant General No. 2, Lieut.-Col. Palmer. The memorandum that I have before me contains the information that since the war no change has been made in the organization of this division, but it has been expanded to meet requirements as .far as possible. The work has been increased by the provisional appointments of officers to units of the Canadian Expeditionary Force and by the large number of new appointments to the Canadian Militia, as all officers before joining a unit of the Canadian Expeditionary Force, if they do not'already belong to the Canadian Militia, are appointed to some unit thereof. There are now some 11,000 or 12,000 officers in the Canadian Expeditionary Force. The Assistant Adjutant General No. 2 has himself dealt with all provisional appointments, promotions and retirement of officers in the Canadian Expeditionary Force and all correspondence relating thereto. As units of the Canadian Expeditionary Force sail for England, lists of officers are mailed in duplicate to His Royal Highness the Governor General; the Secretary of the War Office, London, England; the General Officer Commanding Canadians, Shorncliffe; the Officer in charge, Canadian Records, London, Eng.; the Director of Recruiting and Organiation, Folkestone.
-The next part of the organization to which I direct attention is the administration of the medical branch. It is not necessary to advert to what that organization was in time of peace. The general organization remains practically the same throughout Canada. The Central Army Medical School has been discontinued, as well as the Central Laboratory of Hygiene, the work carried out by these organizations being now dealt with in military districts. Civil hospitals have been largely utilized throughout Canada for the oare of the sick, as the military hospitals available were not sufficient for the sick in troops mobilized. The Central Medical Stores remain in operation, and all technical medical equipment for overseas units is supplied through them. The arrangements for the purchase of medical supplies generally has been somewhat

changed, as the War Purchasing Commission now carries out all such purchases.
The Permanent Army Medical Corps has sent overseas most of its officers and nursing sisters and a number of non-commissioned officers and men, leaving, for the most part, the carrying out of the medical services in Canada to the Army Medical Corps.
The organization of the Army Medical (Corps remains the same, with the exception that the dental surgeons are now no longer a part of the Army Medical Corps, but are a special corps.
All medical officers are now appointed to the Army Medical Corps, and are not of the regimental service. Medical units of the active militia have been kept on foot, but increased efforts have been given to securing personnel for overseas medical units.
Voluntary aid detachments have been formed and registered as applied for.
The general scheme of the organization has provided sufficient machinery to carry on the medical services in Canada, but a great deal of inconvenience has been experienced owing to the medical officers most experienced in military matters having been sent overseas with the earliest contingents. Newly appointed officers have been called upon to fill posts for which they have had little training.
Training depots for the Army Medical Corps, to provide reinforcements for the overseas Canadian Army Medical Corps have been established in military districts 1, 2, 4, 10, 11, 13. In addition to providing reinforcements, they assist in carrying on the medical services, especially in places where a medical officer of the Army Medical Cbrps is not available.
Civilian medical practitioners have in many cases been utilized to carry out the medical examination of recruits. There has been no lack t>f officers, nursing sisters, and men for this branch of the service.
The establishing of the Military Hospitals* Commission really creates a new division of the medical service, and had this not been established the Medical Service would have had, to a large extent, to carry on the work which that Commission is now performing. The organization of the medical services was such that the securing of sufficient personnel and allcting them to various duties has been more necessary than the establishing of special new divisions.
The duties of medical officers, as far as

Canada is concerned, compared with the duties of medical officers in time of peace, have been very greatly increased, and with special reference to the care of troops on active service.
The selection of officers for various duties has been made with due regard to their special qualifications and experience, but, in most cases, personnel of all ranks has had to be trained for the duties to be performed.
In speaking of the co-ordination of the Service in Canada with the services overseas, the following observations are to be made from the report which I hold in my hand:
The machinery at present utilized to coordinate the work of the medical services in Canada with that overseas has been the medium of letters, cables, reports, etc., passed between the office of the Director General of Medical Services and the Director of Medical Services, Canadian Expeditionary Force. In every case where problems arising in Canada appear to have any bearing on those overseas, the Director of Medical Services, Canadian Expeditionary Force, is communicated with.
I shall now allude briefly to the Teport regarding the Canadian Army Dental Corps.
The Canadian Army Dental Corps service is divided into two branches, the one dealing with the services necessary to the recruit on enlistment and the soldier in training; the other with the casualty branch or that dealing with the returned, wounded, and invalided soldier.
I have been informed, not only from this report but during my visit overseas last summer, that the value of the work of this corps can hardly he over estimated. It is a service I believe, to which not very great attention was given in the British establishment before the outbreak of the war, and I am informed that there is less attention paid to this subject by the British military authorities than has been thought desirable in this country. The report goes on to observe:
In the early months of the Corps' existence its time was largely taken up wth the first branch, viz., treatment of recruits and soldiers in training, but, as is inevitable in a war of this kind, the casualty branch has been increased by leaps and bounds, while the former service has not been lessened in the smallest degree.
With regard to the evolution and development of this corps, the report continues:
With the proportion of men rejeoted on enlistment, greater, for dental defects, than for any other cause, the need for just such a unit as the Canadian Army Dental Corps impressed itself on the authorities. So important have been its services that the disability existing at first, in regard to enlistment, has been entirely removed and tens of thousands of men are serving in the trenches to-day who owe their presence there to these. very services.
The personnel of- the Corps has increased from the modest beginnings of 57 to the number of almost 1,000 to-day. New divisions have been created overseas and a corresponding increase in our Corps takes place with each new division. The total personnel for each new division is 96. The duties cover dental services to every unit in the service, wherever permission can be obtained to post Canadian Army Dental Corps officers.
No provision had been made at the inception of the Corps for its services to be utilized in Canada, and this has been since done, and the Canadian force now consists of nearly 400 all told.
Practically all the administrative work falls on the office of the Corps Headquarters, Ottawa, and the difficulties of administration in a unit whose territory extends from Victoria, B.C., to Great Britain, France, Cairo in Egypt, and Salonika are easily discernible.
Dental history sheets have been provided so that where a man goes overseas before having his work completed, the uncompleted portion is carried out on his arrival over there.


Would the right hon. gentleman give us some information about the transfer to the Government of France of Canadian hospitals in France? T saw by a newspaper report the other day that Sir George Perley, the High Commissioner for Canada, had gone to France to be present at the ceremony of transferring these hospitals.


In the answer I am about to give I shall not speak of the hospitals which form part of the regular establishment of an army in the field. We have, of course, hospitals of 4 p.m. that character, which have been established in France from the first. I saw no fewer than five of them when I was in France last summer, and nearly all, at that time, were near Boulogne. But in addition to that we have three hospitals to which probably my hon. friend alludes. One of them, under the command of Colonel Mignault, is at St. Cloud, and that hospital has been placed entirely at the disposal of the French Government. It is true that Sir George Perley went to France to be present at the opening of the hospital, and I think that occasion was also honoured by the presence of the President of the French Republic. That hospital has been placed entirely at the disposal of the French Government to be used for French soldiers who have been wounded at the front and require hospital care.


The Canadian staff is
retained?


Oh yes. The staff is entirely Canadian; in fact entirely French Canadian.


Is that not the gift of the Canadian Government to the French Government?


Yes, that ds the gift of the Canadian Government to the French Government. The arrangements were made for it last summer while I was overseas.


Is there not also another hospital at Dinard?


There is also another hospital at Boulogne and one at Dinard. Of the three hospitals, the one at St. Cloud is a Freneh-Canadian hospital, as I have explained. The efficers, surgeons, every one connected with it, are from the province of Quebec. That hospital has been accepted by the French Government and is maintained by the Government of Canada. There are two others to which my hon. friend perhaps alludes, at Boulogne and Dinard. One of these ie a hospital which was organized by the University of McGill, and the other one is a FrencffiCanadian hospital, organized somewhat along the line, I suppose, of the hospital at St. Cloud. So there are these three hospitals, in addition to the regular establishment of military hospitals necessary for the purposes of to army in the field. I am very glad indeed that they have been established. I am sure that not only the British Government but the French Government as well have received their establishment with a great deal of appreciation, and I am also confident that their work will be up to the highest standard, and will reflect credit not only upon those who are responsible for their management but upon this country as a whole.


The reason I mentioned Dinard is that I have received letters from a French friend, who is also a friend of Canada, being a large investor in the West, and he speaks most highly of the Canadian hospital at Dinard. He says it its a most creditable institution.


My experience of the Canadian hospitals that I had the honour to visit while I was overseas, corresponds entirely with what my hon. friend has Just said. I do not know that there are anywhere in Europe to-day hospitals better organized or betteT equipped than

the hospitals established by Canada, including the three I have alluded to.
The next branch to which T shall refer is the Record Office. I have very voluminous reports here with regard to that branch. It is difficult to appreciate the enormous amount of work which devolves upon that particular office unless one is brought closely in touch with it. In time of peace the Record office itself has an establishment of four clerks. It has now an establishment of 360 clerks. The separation allowance branch had no organization before the war; that branch has now a staff of 270. To illustrate the amount of work that some of these departments have to perform, I was informed to-day by the Accountant and Paymaster General that in connection with the assigned pay and separation allowances, no less than 5,000 cheques have to be issued daily, while
1,000	letters have to be written daily. Then there is the Contracts Branch. In time of peace it consisted of a personnel of 30; this has been increased to 250, all of whom are working very hard, as I am informed. The Accountant's Branch in time of peace had a personnel of 35; to-day is has a personnel of 108. The Superintendent of Stationery Branch in time of peace had a personnel of 10; to-day it has a personnel of 24. At the outbreak of war all these branches had a personnel of 79. To-day they number 1,042. In many of these ' branches, a great deal of the work has to be done at all hours of the day and night. For example, the separation and assigned pay branch is obliged to work in three shifts of eight hours each; because the work has to proceed during the whole 24 hours.
However, I was going to speak of the work of the Record Branch more particularly. I must omit the greater part of the report which I have received, but there are a few details to which attention should be directed. The staff works in two shifts; the day staff from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m., and the night staff from 5.30 p.m. till midnight, and often later, when the work of the office requires it. Each section is in chaige of a clerk specially selected to supervise its work, who is assisted, when necessary, by other senior clerks.
It is further observed that when the troops proceeded to France and the casualties commenced to come in, it became necessary to engage a special staff of typists for night work, owing to the fact that practically all cablegrams reporting casualties

reached the department after 6 p.m. The next of kin in each case are informed of the casualty by telegram, and an arrangement has been arrived at with both telegraph companies to report to the Record Office when delivery had been made, thus ensuring that no information relating to any casualty is communicated to the pub-lie press until the next of kin has received notification. For some months the work of the Record Office was carried on under great difficulties, owing to the fact that the available space in the department was very limited, and this handicap was felt severely when some 6,000 casualties were reported at the battles of St. Julien and Langemarck. Notwithstanding this, however, by working until between 3 and 4 a.m. each day, they were handled at the rate of not less than 500 per day. The particulars on each attestation paper are recorded on a card, so as to render the information readily accessible, not only for the purpose of furnishing information to the next of kin, but also to enable inquiries from all parts of the Dominion, which average 150 per' day, to be promptly answered. At the present time over 200,000 index cards have been written and filed in alphabetical order.
The discharge documents of men who have been returned to Canada as medically unfit, undesirable, etc., are recordel and filed alphabetically. The particulars in each case are recorded on a card as well as entered on a form specially drawn up for the purpose, which is placed on each man's file, so that the necessary information is readily available for any one who deals with the case. Lists of men discharged in the different districts are received at headquarters daily. These lists are carefully checked and compiled, and a copy is furnished each day to the Military Hospitals Commission, to several branches of the Canadian Patriotic Fund, and to different large firms and companies who are retaining their employees on their pay rolls whilst overseas. A cable is received each week from England giving the names and classifications of all men who are to be returned to Canada as medically unfit, undesirable, or for other cause. Copies have to be made and forwarded to the different officers commanding military districts, to the Military Hospitals Commission, to discharge depots, and to several branches of the Canadian Patriotic Fund, as well as to various staff officers at headquarters. As the number of men enlisted increases, and casualties increase, so does the work in this section increase correspondingly. At present the average number of letters sent out daily is 300, and this number is considerably augmented after each important engagement in which Canadian troops have taken part.
With regard to personal effects and wills, up to a month ago, that is, prior to the organization of the .Estates Branch, all questions relating to personal effects, wills, etc., including the distribution of property, were dealt with in the Record Office. An arrangement was made with all express [DOT] companies operating in the Dominion, to transport in Canada, free of charge, the personal effects of deceased soldiers. There is now, however, a special branch which deals with the estates of deceased soldiers, and which is carried on by competent men and under adequate supervision.
With regard to missing men: at the present time the Record Office is dealing with the cases of men who have been missing for a period of six months or over. The number reported missing, whose next of kin reside in Canada, is about 500. A letter has been written to the next of kin, in each case, asking if any information has been received, from any source, which would lead to the belief that the soldier is still alive. In addition to the letter to each next of kin, a communication is addressed to the officer in charge of records, England, with the view of obtaining like information. From time to time lists of men who are prisoners of war have been prepared and issued to different societies formed especially to look after their welfare. We have taken upon ourselves the responsibility of arranging, through Sir George Perley, that any supplies of necessaries, which may be required by prisoners of war or persons interned in enemy countries, shall be provided for them, and we have received many grateful letters from these unfortunate persons acknowledging the excellence of this arrangement.
Inquiries from insurance companies are very numerous and they include the furnishing of death certificates and certified copies of attestation papers. Extracts have to be made from burial reports, giving the exact date and place of burial and particulars as to the location of the grave, and forwarded to all concerned.
I also have a memorandum in regard to the Pensions and Claims Board, but as that subject is under consideration by a committee of the House I do not think it

necessary to go into it more fully at the moment.
I shall allude very briefly to the duties of the Quartermaster General. The Quartermaster General is responsible for a great number of services among which are. the following:
(1)	The organization, administration and technical training of all transport, remount, railway supply, barrack, ordnance and veterinary services.
(2)	Settling the reserves of food, clothing, equipment, general stores and material to he held in depots, garrisons or mobilization stores, and the scales of such articles to he in the possession of the troops.
(3)	The patterns of clothing, equipment and ordnance stores.
(4)	Holding and issuing all military stores.
(5)	Compensation for injuries to animals or material.
(6)	Selection of officers for employment in the above services.
(1) Arrangements for postal services.
(8)	Advising and assisting the Deputy Minister, Militia and Defence, in making arrangements for contracts for the above services.
(9)	Preparation, jointly with the Finance Minister of estimates for the above services.
There is a statement in this report as to the personnel of. the staff which I need not read. The duties of the various administrative heads who are connected with this branch may be briefly referred to. For example, the Director General of Supplies and Transports, among 19 different administrative duties, of which he is in charge, deals with the following:
Appropration and occupation of barracks, hospitals, offices, armouries, drill halls, etc.
Supplies of food, forage, paillasse straw, fuel and disenfectants. Questions as to the amount of water or light allowed in barracks, and of the supply of oil, carbide, etc., for the production of light in barracks and camps.
Supply arrangements in connection with mobilization and defence schemes.
Ail questions in connection with transport and conveyance of stores.
Provision, repair and administration of transport vessels'
Arrangements for the execution of postal services in war, and in camps (when necessary).
This branch is represented in each district by an assistant director of supplies and transports, who is, in most instances, an officer of the Canadian Permanent Army Service Corps, and who is in charge of the above services in his district. He is assisted, wherever possible, by a small detachment of officers, non-commissioned officers and men of the Canadian Permanent Army Service Corps. The Assistant Director of Supplies and Transports also commands and administers the Active Militia companies of the Army Service Corps ,n his district who are employed in the

annual training camps in carrying out the necessary administrative services. There is also a statement of the other officers connected with the service whom I need not specifically mention at the moment. In addition to the duties already enumerated, this director has performed all work in connection with the chartering of ships for the conveyance of troops overseas and the passing of the accounts in connection therewith.
There-is a Director of Supplies and Transport in England, whose duties there are analogous to those of the Director of Supplies and Transport here, viz.: The feeding and transportation of the Canadian troops in England. He has also'charge of the Army Service Corps reinforcements sent from Canada from time to time from which the wastage both in officers and men at the front is supplied. This officer is attached to and comes under the control of the General Officer Commanding Overseas Canadians.	[DOT]
There is also associated with the Quartermaster General's department the general directorship of clothing and equipment. The Director General has charge of some twelve administrative matters but there are only three of them that I need mention:
All questions in connection with clothing and necessaries, such as mobilization reserves, thefts, losses and scales of issues.
Preparation of estimates for clothing and necessaries.
. Disposal of worn-out colours, clothing, etc.
Then there is the Principal Ordnance Officer who has charge of ten cervices, only three of which need be referred to:
The administration, distribution and corps training of the Canadian Ordnance Corps, and inspection of the same.
Preparation of War Office requisitions and contract demands for all clothing and necessaries.
The maintenance of reserves of stores and of mobilization stores.
The principal duties of the Canadian Ordnance Corps are the receiving, storing, accounting for and distribution of all clothing, necessaries, stores, guns, ammunition, vehicles and all other warlike stores except those of a technical medical nature. The corps is also charged with the maintenance and repair of the above stores, etc.	[DOT]
The director of stores has charge of eight different services, to only three of which I shall allude:
The preparation of annual and other esti-matis for all equipment and general stores required for the militia during time of peaes. and

for the Canadian Expeditionary Force during-war. The provision of all sudh equipment and stores, e.g., personal equipment of soldiers, camp equipment, harness and saddlery, tools, signalling equipment, and materials, barrack and hospital stores, miscellaneous stores, etc.
To arrange for the selection, approval and sealing as standards of all patterns to govern future supplies and to provide specifications for same.
Preparation of mobilization store tables and the revision from time to time to govern issues of equipment to units in the field; and the compilation of tables -and other regulations governing issues of equipment and stores to the permanent and non-permanent militia, Rifle Associations and Cadet Corps.
There are also the duties of the Headquarters Branch of the Mechanical Transport Section, Canadian Permanent Army Service Corps. It has charge of twelve services to only a few of which I shall allude:
Administration of Headquarters Detachment, Mechanical Transport Section C.P.A.S.C., including the Mechanical Transport School of Instruction.
Inspection of motor trucks, cars, ambulances, motorcycles, bicycles and spare parts for same.
Motor trucks. The chasses, tires, bodies, cowls, tool boxes, etc., are received from the various manufacturers and are assembled into complete motor trucks for shipment overseas.
Local transport. In conjunction with the testing of motor trucks for overseas, an average of 150 tons per day departmental stores are handled by this branch between the various railroads, inspection rooms and Ordnance stores.
School of Mechanical Transport instruction for officers being ^ sent overseas, previously carried on by the training depot at Toronto, is now directly under this branch and carried on at the Victoria garage.
That gives & very rough and imperfect estimate of the work that is being carried on under the direction of the Quartermaster General.
I next come to the work of the Master General of the Ordnance. The organization of this branch resolves itself into two divisions or directorates, supervised by (1) Director of Artillery, (2) Director General of Engineer Services. In regard to the organization since the war I have the following observations in a report from Brigadier General Elliott:
No changes in the organization have been made since the commencement of the war, except that the Master General of the Ordnance also performs the duties of the Director of Artillery, the latter officer being on service in France. An Inspector of Artillery Stores, with an assistant, has been added to the branch. The work has increased enormously but the present staff has so far been able to cope with it by working much longer hours.
The development that' has taken place since the commencement of the war is
divided into two main branches: (1) the mobilization and training of the various units and drafts of engineers for overseas; (2) Engineer Services-construction and maintenance of military works and buildings as in peace time, with the addition of housing of troops mobilized in Canada in winter, and fitting up their training areas in summer, as, for example, at Valcartier and the various training oamps in Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia.
The total trained and sent overseas amounts to 322 officers and 6,321 non-commissioned officers and men. For this purpose an Engineer Training Depot was organized in Ottawa, where all non-commissioned officers and men were sent from districts to be trained before proceeding overseas. __The officers are drawn from the existing peace units of engineer and regimental lists.
In addition, a School of Signals is attached to the Training Depot to train and provide the signal units and drafts.
In addition to the duties carried out by the Engineer Services in .peace time, much extra work has been entailed in the arranging for housing of troops in winter, fitting up large training camps, which continue for about five months, and the construction of certain fortifications, defence lights and munition buildings not otherwise provided for. To co-ordinate the work of this branch in England and in France in its relation to the Canadian Expeditionary Force, an Engineer Training Depot has also been organized at Shorncliffe, England, to further train and make up the engineer units for the front.
Owing to the immense drain on engineer personnel, the staffs .have been reduced to a minimum, and this entails a greatly increased amount of work at Militia Headquarters. Nevertheless, the difficult and responsible duties have been satisfactorily carried out by all ranks, more especially that of housing of the troops.
Then there is a Small Arms Inspection Branch at Quebec, charged with the duties of inspection of all materials for the manufacture of small arms and ammunition, also machine guns, instructional and other stores. They have the custody of sealed patterns, specifications, samples, standard gauges, drawings, and models of all stores to be inspected. They conduct firing proofs of small arms and small arms ammunition. Inspections are also carried out at factories.-
So far as the Dominion arsenal at

Quebec is concerned, the personnel consists of a superintendent, one assistant superintendent, and one medical officer; also a supernumerary staff consisting of chemist and staff, including laboratory foreman, and foremen of the different departments of the arsenal. Since the commencement of the war, in addition to the woTk devolving upon it in time of peace, the arsenal has manufactured a greatly increased quantity of field gun ammunition and stores in connection with the inspection and proof of War Office ammunition; also material for the training of the Expeditionary Force. On account of the large amount of additional work devolving upon it the supernumerary staff has had to be increased.	[DOT]
With regard to the work of the Accountant and Paymaster General, there are now five divisions in this branch. The following table shows the number employed in each on three different dates, viz.: August 1, 1914; January 1, 1915; and April 1, 1916:
August January April
1, 1914. 1, 1915. 1, 1916.
Accounts division	14	25	50Pay audit division	10	25	70Separation allowance	and assigned pay	division	42	250Stores audit division...	ii	13	15Pension division. . ..	7Total	35	105	392
At the outbreak of war in August, 1914, there was a Permanent Force of 3,000 troops, and the total Militia expenditure -was at the rate of nearly $12,000,000 a year. There are at present 300,000 troops in the field, and the expenditure has increased to $250,000,000 a year.
There -were no radical changes to be made in the system of carrying on the work, but rather a quick expansion of the one in operation; and the great difficulty at first was to find trained men. There were but few of these to be found, and the only solution was to get the best available, and train them.
Regimental paymasters have been a source of trouble from the start, and still are, but as we have now a number of trained and experienced paymasters we are using some of these as instructors and inspectors, and in this way the situation is improving, as inefficient regimental paymasters are soon discovered and either given instruction or relieved of their duties altogether.
The chief paymaster, Canadian Expedi-
[Sdr Robert Borden.]
tionary Force, London, England, is treated the same as a district paymaster in Canada. Ete is* provided with funds through the High Commissioner, but reports to the Paymaster General, and accounts directly to him for all expenditure.
One or two observations as to the very great stress that has been imposed upon the officers of the department might he useful at the moment. A pretty full memorandum on this subject was prepared in December last. It is very lengthy, and when a copy of it has been prepared, I shall be glad to lay it on the table of the House, but there are one or two extracts I might read to the committee. The Director of Contracts, speaking of the very urgent work of great magnitude that was imposed upon his branch at the outbreak ,of war in connection with the hurried despatch of the first contingent, says:
All this work for the first contingent was therefore disposed of by the ordinary staff, with some additional inspectors and half a dozen additional junior clerics. Of necessity the usual methods, the ordinary safeguards and precautions were not always practicable. In peace time goods were bought usually after competitive tenders had first been obtained, unless the purchase was under a previously made contract still in force. In the early days of the war competitive tenders took much valuable time; sometimes they were got by telephone, occasionally they had to he disposed with. In general, every possible short cut was taken to ensure the prime object-delivery of the goods in time. The hours of work were extended to the uttermost-the working day varied from 10 to 20 hours, and the average must have been at least 70 hours weekly for many months. The continuous strain of working at long tension under great pressure and with the knowledge that the time was far too short to allow proper attention to he given any transaction, even the most important, taxed the nervous and physical strength of all to the limit. Under these circumstances some irregularities were unavoidable, and it is surprising that so few occurred.
He goes on:
The months of February, March and April (of last year) were times of absolute paralysis and congestion. The various parliamentary and other committees of inquiry and investigation absorbed practically all my time and that of the most valuable of my assistants, either in attendance thereon, or in preparation of papers and information called for. The work of the branch remained, perforce, at a standstill; although the necessity for it continued unabated. The arrears thus accumulated took months to overtake, after work was resumed and the staff had been enlarged.
To give an idea of what 'had been imposed upon his branch at the first, the following partial list of clothing, etc., purchased since August 1, 1914, will serve to

give some idea of the magnitude of the business:
Greatcoats, 229,100; cloaks, 70,500; serge jackets, 401,500 ; serge trousers, 298,000; flannel shirts, 650,000 ; suits underwear, 732,000 ; service shirts, 278,000 ; service trousers, 205,700; sweaters, 398,225; socks, 1,969,100; forage caps, 313,000 ; puttees, 474,800 ; caps, comforter, 515,000; blankets, 746,500; boots, 670,000.
These fifteen, items alone have an approximate value of 515,929,845. For the making of uniform cloithing, 