I move, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Cochrane:
That the following gentlemen compose the board of selection to appoint members of local tribunals under section 6 of the Military Service Act, 1917:
Ontario: A. E. Fripp, M.P., Ottawa; W. A. Boys, M.P., Barrie ; Sir John Gibson, Hamilton; A. B. Lowe, 41 Glenn Street, Ottawa.
Quebec: Joseph H. Rainville, M.P., St. Lambert ; Romeo Langlois, K.C., Quebec; Hon. S. N. Parent, Montreal; Hon. Sydney Fisher, Knowlton.
Nova Scotia: George S. Campbell, Halifax; D. A. Cameron, Sydney, C.B.
New Brunswick: Mariner G. Teed, St. John ; John McCaffery, Fredericton.
Manitoba: Senator W. H. Sharp, Manitou; Sir Donald MacMillan, Winnipeg.
Saskatchewan: Senator H. W. Laird, Regina; Arthur Hitchcock, Moosejaw.
Alberta:	R. B. Bennett, M.P., Calgary;
Alfred H. Clarke, K.C., Calgary.
British Columbia: R. F. Green, M.P., Victoria; Hon. James Horace King, Victoria.
Yukon: Lieut.-Col. A. Thompson, M.D., M.P., Ottawa; F. C. Wade, Vancouver.
Prince Edward Island: William L. Cotton, Charlottetown; James J. Johnston, K.C., Charlottetown.


If is of course to be understood from the remarks I made on a previous occasion, that we on this side of the House offer no opposition to this motion. Oil the contrary, I intimated that I would consent to concur in the selection of the men who are to appoint the members of the tribunals which are to administer the Act.
I must say, however, once more that I deeply regret that the Government has thought it advisable to apply this law of conscription before the people have had occasion to pronounce upon it. I think, and my opinion is con-

firmed more and more, as time passes, that it would have been more in the interest of the country at large if at least the people had been consulted before the law was applied. I must say frankly that if I had followed my first inclination I would not have given countenance to any participation in the administration of the Act. But, on the whole, I believe that it is always better to minimize the evil effect of a bad law by the wisest administration of it so that effort may be directed to making the application of it fair to all parties and to getting out of it the largest possible measure of justice compatible with its provisions.
I have therefore given consideration to the selection of the members to compose the board of selection, and in so doing I have endeavoured to recommeend men whose standing in the community will be a guarantee that as far as they are concerned the Act will be applied with fairness, and a determination to do justice to all.


Might I ask my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) how he would explain the further delay to be occasioned by his proposition in enforcing this Military Service Act? I doubt very much if, owing to the delay already occasioned there will be a battalion at the front under this Act before the war is over and peace concluded. If the right hon. gentleman were returned to power, how would he provide for meeting this emergency?


If the soldiers are not to get to the front till the war is over, better consult the people at once.


Motion agreed to.
Sir GEORGE FOSTER moved that a message be sent to the Senate to inform their honours that this House has passed the following resolution :
Resolved by the House of Commons of Canada, that the following gentlemen do compose the board of selection to appoint members of local tribunals under section 6 of the Military Service Act 1917 :
Ontario:	A. E. Fripp, M.P., Ottawa; W. A.
Boys, M.P., Barrie, Ont.; Sir John Gibson, Hamilton, Ont.; A. B. Lowe, 41 Glenn St., Ottawa.
Quebec:	Joseph Rainville, M.P., St. Lambert ; Romeo Langlois, K.C., Quebec; Hon. S. N. Parent, Montreal, Que.; Hon. Sidney Fisher, Knowlton, Quebec.
Nova Scotia:	Geo. S. Campbell, Halifax,
N.S.; D. A. Cameron, Barrister, Sydney, C.B.
New Brunswick:	Mariner G. Teed, St. John,
N.B.; John McCaffrey, Fredericton, N.B.
Manitoba :	Senator W. H. Sharp, Manitou ;
Sir Donald MacMillan, Winnipeg, Man.
Saskatchewan: Senator H. W. Laird, Regina; Arthur Hitchcock, Moosejaw, Sask.
Alberta:	R. B. Bennett, M.P., Calgary;
Alfred H. Clarke, K.C., Calgary, Alberta.
British Columbia:	R. F. Green, M.P., Victoria, B.C.; Hon. James Horace King, Victoria, B.C.
Yukon:	Lt.-Col. A. Thompson, M.D., M.P.,
Ottawa; F. C. Wade, Vancouver.
Prince Edward Island:	Wm. L. Cotton,
Charlottetown; James J. Johnston, K.C., Charlottetown, P.E.I.
And requesting that their honours will unite with this House in the said resolution by filling up the blank therein with the words "Senate and."	.
Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day:
I desire to bring to the attention of the House a misapprehension in reference to a question which I addressed to the hon. Secretary of State (Mr. Meighen) when he was presenting the Franchise Bill yesterday. I asked if provision had been made for the taking of the votes of the wives and female relatives of soldiers who themselves were overseas. I did not mean the wives or relatives of soldiers who- were in Canada but I referred to those who were themselves overseas and I desired to ask if provision had been made for their voting The answer given by my hon. friend the Secretary of State was apparently given under a misapprehension as to the meaning of my question. I would like to put the question now in its proper form and as I intended it.


Questions such as this
ought properly to go on the Order Paper because, if they did1 no mistake would arise.
Mr. MEI'GHEN:	The question as put
referred to soldier's wives who, themselves, were overseas. It was intended to be a question as to the eligibility to vote of the female relatives who were overseas and in that latter form the answer is " no."


The House proceeded to consider the amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 117, to authorize the levying of a war tax upon certain incomes.-Sir Thomas White.
This order involves the consideration of amendments by the Senate to Bill No. 117, being an Act to authorize the levying of a war tax upon certain incomes. The hon. the Senate has made certain amendments of which I shall now inform the House. In section 3 of the Bill, instead of

the words "annual profit or gain," the Senate has inserted the word "net" before the word "profit," so that, for the purposes of the Act, "income" means the "annual net profit or gain or gratuity." That is the only change made in subsection 1 section .'5 with the exception of striking out the following words:
-with the following exemptions and deductions :
(a)	the value of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise or descent;
(b)	the proceeds of life insurance policies paid upon the death of the person insured, or payments made or credited to the insured on life insurance endowment or annuity contracts upon the maturity of the term mentioned in the contract or upon the surrender of the contract:
Instead of those words, the Senate has substituted the following:
Including the income from but not the value of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise or descent; and including the income from but not the proceeds of life insurance policies paid upon the death of the person insured or payments made or credited to the insured on life insurance endowment or annuity contracts upon the maturity of the term mentioned in the contract or upon the surrender of the contract; with the following exemptions and deductions.
And then follow the exemptions and deductions included in subsections c, d, e, and f of section 3 of the Bill.


Would the minister read the first part again?


Perhaps I had better explain it. As the Bill left the House of Commons, "income" meant the annual profit or gain or gratuity derived as stated in the Act, with among other exemptions, those which I have just read, a and b. The idea was to exempt from the income which a person derived during the year the amount of money or value which he might receive on a devise or bequest, or in respect of a life insurance policy. When we were debating the matter in the House, it seems clear to all here that what we were exempting was the principal, and if, by chance, that principal was invested, then the income derived from it would, Oif course be income under the Act. The Senate has endeavoured to make that clear so that while the principal of life insurance policies and of any devise or bequest is exempted, income derived in respect of that principal becomes income for the purposes of the Act.
Then, further, the Senate has inserted, after subsection 1 of section 3, the following:
Provided, however, that in determining the income the personal and living expenses shall not be taken into consideration.

Then, further, they have made an amendment to section 6. That section as it left this House provided that:
All persons in whacever capacity acting, having the control, receipt, disposal or payment of fixed or determinable annual periodical
gains, profits, or income of any taxpayer	
shall, on behalf of such taxpayer, deduct and withhold an amount equal to the tax payable on the same under this Act.
The Senate has inserted before the word "tax" the word "normal," so that now those having control of the income of others shall deduct and forward to the minister only the normal tax. I think their reason for doing that was because they apprehended there would be difficulty in determining the amount of tax, normal and super-tax. But, of course, the party himself would be liable in respect of the supertax upon his income as the Bill now reads.
Further, the Senate has inserted a rather important provision in section 19. I may say that section 19 is as follows:
No assessment shall be set aside by a Board or by the court upon the ground that there has been any error or omission in connection with any proceedings required to be taken under this Act or any regulation hereunder, but such Board or Court in any case that may come before it may determine the true and proper amount of the tax to be paid hereunder.
The Senate has added this proviso:
a. All the proceedings of the Board and of the Exchequer Court shall he held in camera if requested by the taxpayer.
I am aware that there is a difference of opinion as to the powers of the Senate under our constitutional usages in respect to a taxation measure; but we are near the end o' this session, there is a great deal of business before both Houses, and this is an important enactment providing for the raising of moneys which we shall require in connection with the prosecution of the war, and in the circumstances I propose to move:
That the House do concur in the amendments made by the Senate.
But I should like to make this statement in connection with my motion, in order that it may appear upon Hansard: That as there are differences of opinion respecting the powers of the Senate in amending a taxation measure, our concurrence in these amendments is not to be regarded as a precedent binding upon this House in any future legislation. It seems to me that that leaves the question fairly as regards the privileges ,f this House, and not unfairly as resped.s the action taken by the Senate.

The amendments are not of great consequence, and neither the legislation nor its administration will, I think, be materially affected thereby.


The amendment to subsection (f) is capable of two constructions:
Provided, however, that in determining the income, the personal and living expenses shall not be taken into consideration.
Which construction are we to put on it- that the living expenses will not be deducted before the net income is arrived at, or that they will?


I am clear that it will be construed that they are not to be deducted. If we' were not so close to the end of the session I would be disposed either to amend this amendment or to move to strike it out; but in the circumstances, by reason of the importance of the Bill, I think it preferable to move to concur. In administering the Act we shall undoubtedly interpret it that the personal and living expenses are not to be deducted, which is, I think, the meaning the Senate had in view.


' The uncertainty still exists.


Do you think that
is a sound proposition?


Yes, because I think that is the true interpretation.


Does the minister think it is a proper principle that they should not be deducted?


If my hon. friend has an income of $10,000 I am certainly of the opinion that he should not be allowed to deduct his living and personal expenses from that amount, in order to ascertain the amount of his income which would be assessable under this Act. My hon. friend might have an income of $10,000 a year, and might spend $9,000 of it, perhaps part of it very luxuriously, and another hon. gentleman might have an income of $10,000 and might spend only $2,000 for personal and living expenses. According to my hon. friend's view, the latter gentleman would be taxed on an income of $8,000, whereas my hon. friend from Pictou (Mr. Macdonald) would be assessed for only $1,000.


The Bill provides that out of every income $3,000 is to be deducted. I suppose that would be for living expenses. Are. a man's living expenses to be deducted in addition to that?


No.


What is the meaning of the amendment?


A person's living expenses shall not be taken into consideration. The intention of the Senate is, undoubtedly, that the living expenses are not to be deducted from the income. The $3,000 exemption still stands. The Senate has not touched that.


But do you add
to this the living expenses?


No.


I would not think that, as a matter of constitutional practice, my hon. friend can recognize the right of the Senate to amend taxation legislation passed by this House. As a matter of fact, under our constitution the Senate either has the power to amend .a tax Bill which goes from this House to them, or it has not. If the Senate has not that right to amend then this House cannot waive its constitutional right by concurrence in these amendments as is proposed by the hon. Minister of Finance. My hon. friend is proceeding in a very peculiar manner in regard to a very important principle.


What would you do about it?


My hon. friend gives as a reason for setting aside the constitution, if he thinks the constitution is being set aside, as I gather he does: that we are getting near the close of the session, and that therefore, we should concede the right of the Senate to amend a tax measure. There are many important measures before the Senate, and if the principle stated by my hon. friend is sound I presume he will follow it in regard to any other Bill that comes before us, no matter what it may be.


I desire to correct my hon. friend. I did not express any definite view on the question. I stated that there were differences of opinion, and, that being so, I thought that, in view of the importance of the situation, and considering the fact that the session is drawing to a close, we should concur in the amendment, placing, at the same time, upon Hansard the statement which I made that it would not be regarded as a precedent. I may say that in 1874 a similar course was followed.


Then my hon. friend expresses no opinion as to the eonstitu-

tio-nality of the question, whether taxation measures oan be amended by the Senate. My hon. friend sets 'aside that point by saying: "We are getting near the close of the session, 'and I am going to content myself, so far as the constitutional rights of the other branch of Parliament are concerned, by saying something and placing it on Hansard." There is a number of important measures before the Senate, which may come back to us before prorogation, and I assume the Minister of Finance will follow that same principle whether it be opposed to the contitution or not. If the Senate has not the right to amend this measure, my hon. friend is not justified in the course he has -adopted. I have not been able to gather, in the short statement -made by the Minister of Finance, the whole effect of these amendments, but I say that the importance of this measure requires that full attention should be paid by this House to the amendments the Senate has made. I see no reason why there should be -any proceedings in camera in determining the amount of income on which a man -should be taxed. There is no reason why the whole question	as
to taxation should not be conducted openly and aboveboard. If certain people in this country who are in receipt of large incomes are to be permitted to have a hole-and-corner tribunal to hear their cases, and the public are not going to know anything about the investigation, it will be an unfortunate thing. I say this Bill has not gone far enough in dealing with the contribution to the expense of this war by people who are in position to pay. I think, by comparison with taxation measures in other countries, that, as pointed out by the hon. member for Lambton (Mr. Pardee) when the Bill was before the House sometime ago, we have not begun to take the course we should adopt in dealing with this question. When my hon. friend tells us, that this measure has been considered by this Parliament, that the man of very large income is to be protected, the public i-s debarred, from -any knowledge as to whether or not he has been dealt with in a proper way by the tribunal, and this man is permitted to -say: " I desire this investigation to be -a private one," I say that my hon. friend is asserting a principal which is not sound. The public in this country have a right to know whether or not a man of large income has been properly dealt with, and whether, the evidence given in regard to that income justifies the finding of the tribunal. It may be urged that it is not 
a pleasant thing for one's personal -affairs to be investigated by. the public, but that is no answer. The conditions to-day are such that these problems, so far as delicacy is concerned, have to be disregarded, and if we are to permit a stipulation in this Bill, under which a man of large income can escape liability without -the public knowing whether an investigation has been held, I -say it is a pernicious principle. I am opposed to permitting the Senate to introduce such a provision, and I am opposed to this House accepting it. I think the House should debate these questions fully. I only know the purport of two amendments, but we are not in such great haste that we cannot take full time to consider the effects of these amendments, and what our rights and position in Parliament are with reference to- this whole question. What possible motive can there be for amending this Bill by inserting such a provision? Why should it be done?
The minister has given no good reason for the adoption of the course he suggests. This House is not going to -rise to-morrow or on Monday. There are on the Order Paper a large number of important Bills which have occupied the attention of the House for many days; some of them are now engaging the attention of the other branch of Parliament. We should' give this matter that attention which the people expect us to give to measures of such great importance. Moreover, it is understood that if this measure leaves Parliament in the terms proposed by the Minister of Finance the business profits- w-ar tax will he continued another year? We h-ave two conflicting statements on that point. We were told at one time that the business profits war tax -would cease at the end of this year.


I would remind the hon. member that the motion before the House is that certain amendments made by the Senate to a certain Bill be concurred in. It is not in order for the hon. member to now discuss the general principle of the Bill.


I was not discussing the general principle of the Bill. With all due deference to you, Sir, I submit that the attitude of the Government with reference to the problem of taxation is involved in the matter that we are now discussing. I was pointing out that conflicting statements had been made in regard to the -business profits war tax, and I was making inquiry as to the policy of the Government in the matter.


The Bill itself has been considered in this House and we are now considering certain amendments made by the Senate. I would point out to the House that we are not now in committee and so hon. members are limited to one speech. I have somewhat relaxed the rule in the case of the Minister of Finance, in order that a proper explanation might be made.


If there is a discussion on the subject, I assume that the minister will reply. If he does not, I hope that some other member of the Government will do so, because I want the Government to tell us what their position is in regard to this matter. The question whether this House should accept certain amendments made by the Senate to this important measure is I submit, relevant to the matter that we are now considering. The principle involved in this amendment, that the personal expenses of the individual are not to be taken into consideration in determining his net income for the purposes of taxation is a matter closely related to the whole policy of the Government as to taxation; therefore an inquiry as to the Government's policy is germane to the discussion. As to the constitutionality of the action of the Senate, I object to the Minister of Finance binding this House by putting anything on Hansard on the subject, one way or the other. That is not the way constitutional assemblies deal with things of-this kind. The last amendment made by the Senate was the only one that I had opportunity of understanding clearly. For myself I object to the proposal that appeals should be heard before these tribunals in camera in order that the amount of taxation to be paid by any wealthy person may be ascertained. As to the amendment regarding net income. I was not able to understand the ministers explanation. I do not think that members of this House are really seized of what the amendments are; it is difficult, therefore, for hon. gentlemen really to understand them.


It is a wellknown principle that the Upper Chamber can reject any Bill, even though it deals with financial matters, that has been passed by this House. The Senate can reject the Supply Bill; it can reject a Bill adopted by the Committee of Ways and Means of this House, but it cannot amend such Bills. This principle ihas been affirmed over and over again. I submit that the
motion of the Minister of Finance is out of order. Rule 78 says:
All aids and supplies granted to His Majesty by the Parliament of Canada are the sole gift of the House of Commons, and all Bills for granting such aids and supplies ought to begin with the House, as it is the undoubted right of the House to direct, limit, and appoint in all such Bills, the ends, purposes, considerations, conditions, limitations and qualifications of such grants, which are not alterable by the Senate.
This rule covers all Bills passed by the House of Commons dealing with financial matters, including those Bills the purpose of which is the raising of revenue through taxation.


May I ask the right
ihon. gentleman if he will deal with rule 87, page 44, while he is discussing this point of order?


I will come to that. A motion has been made that the House concur in amendments made by the Senate to a Bill the purpose of which is to impose taxation. I submit that, under the terms laid down in Rule 78, such a motion is out if order. I now come to rule 87, which is in these terms:
In order to expedite the business of Parliament, the House will not insist on the privilege claimed and exercised by them, of laying aside Bills sent from the Senate because they impose pecuniary penalties;
That would not apply in this case, because the Bill in question is one which was passed by this House and sent to the Senate, not one which was passed by the Senate and sent to this House. The rule continues:
nor of laying aside amendments made by the Senate because they introduce into or alter pecuniary penalties in Bills sent to them by this House;
This Bill does not impose or introduce any penalties; therefore it does not come within the purview of that part of the rule. (Reading):
provided that all such penalties thereby imposed, are only to punish or prevent crimes and offences, and do not tend to lay a' burden on the subject, either as aid or supply to His Majesty, or for any general or special purposes, by rates, tolls, assessments or otherwise.
Under rule 78 the Senate has no right to amend or to alter in any way a money Bill sent to them from this House. This House alone has the privilege of dealing with money Bills. The only right the Senate has is that of rejecting or assenting to such money Bills. That rule has been confirmed over and over again in England. The cases



to which rule 87 applies have reference to Bills coming from the Senate which deal in -seme way not with charges upon the revenue, hut with penalties imposed upon the subject. I think, therefore, that my point of order is well taken; that the House has no power to assent to any alteration made by the Senate in a money Bill sent from this House to the Senate.


I was going to suggest that in any event consideration of the Senate amendments to this Bill might be postponed until to-morrow. Personally, I could not follow very well the amendments as they were read by the minister. The first, I think, is rather unimportant; I - doubt whether it changes materially the effect of the section. I refer to the addition of the word "net" in section 3. The second amendment is rather involved, and it was impossible to follow the sense of it from the reading of it by the minister. The last amendment, having reference to the proceedings of the tribunals created under the statute to hear appeals in camera, is a very important one.
I think# therefore, the House should have time to consider the matter before giving or refusing assent. I agree with the view the minister has taken in regard to the Senate amendments. He was inclined to agree to the same, because any other course might delay the proceedings of the House. If we deem it wise "not to assent to the' Senate amendments, the procedure is very simple: We refuse to agree to them. If that does not meet with favour in the Senate, a conference is possible. I rise chiefly to suggest that the consideration of the Senate amendments to this Bill be postponed until to-morrow, so that we may have an opportunity to look into them. It is quite possible the minister himself has not had an opportunity to give due consideration to them, and these amendments may substantially affect other sections.


In respect to the point of order raised by the right hon. leader of the Opposition, it would appear from the opportunity I have had of looking into the matter, that it would be competent for this House to make a reservation such as was proposed by the Minister of Finance, because apparently, in May, 1874, we have a precedent in this Parliament. In the Journals of 1874 this entry is to be found with respect to a Bill entitled "An Act respecting the appropriation of certain Dominion lands in Manitoba," to which the Senate made certain amendments:

On motion of the Hon. Mr. Mackenzie, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Dorion, resolved, that this House doth concur in the said amendments ; while doing so, it does not think it necessary, at this late period of the session, to insist on its privileges in respect thereto, hut that the waiver of the said privileges in this case be not, however, drawn into a precedent.
Ordered, that the Clerk do carry back the Bill to the Senate, and acquaint their honours that this House hath agreed to their amendments.


Your Honour is not giving a ruling?


No. Without giving a
ruling upon the main point, I consider it would be competent for this House, if it so desires, by making a reservation, to avoid a precedent being created.


It so happens-


Before giving a ruling, I would prefer to give the main question much more consideration than I have had opportunity to give it.


It so happens that in 1874, I was a member of this House. I was, of course, a very young member then, but 1 have a vague recollection of the discussion that took place. The Act was not an Appropriation Act; it was a Land Act. There was quite an important and lengthy debate as to whether or not the Act could be assimilated to- the appropriation of money, and it was a dubious point whether or not a land grant came within the sole privilege of this House and it was on account of this uncertainty that the motion was passed reserving the rights of this House. It is forty years ago since that debate took place, but I think my recollection is correct, and if Your Honour will look into the matter, you will find that there was a discussion as to whether the land had been taken by appropriation or not. .


This is a very important matter. I shall take the earliest opportunity of going into the question quite fully, but I still hold the view that this House can preserve all its rights and privileges by a special statement to that effect.


I quite agree with the
remarks of the leader of the Opposition. This is one of the ancient privileges of the House of Commons and I do not think it has been violated during the last forty years. It is the undoubted right of this House to originate all money Bills, and the Senate cannot add to, subtract from or vary any money Bill. For that reason, I

think, as the point is a very important one, we ought to adjourn the discussion so as to enable the Speaker to consult the authorities as is the custom in order that the rights of this House may be maintained. This is a very important right and, I do not think this House should agree to any change in its rights and privileges. We are putting up with a great deal 4 p.m. from the Senate, and we shall have to put up with a great deal more if we give way in this case.


I have before me Bouri-not, who deals with the decision in regard to the Land Act of 1874. It will be found by an examination of Bourinot that in this case there was very grave doubt among the leaders of the House of Commons as to whether or not the Land Bill was really in the nature of a money Bill and whether this was an infringement of the rule. What the Senate did was to increase the land grants to settlers, and there was an uncertainty as to whether or not that was an infringement of the rule. It will never be doubted that if it was a clear infringement of rule 78, as this is, the House would have taken the course which it did. The question is one. of the very gravest importance, because what is determined upon to-day is a precedent for to-morrow. I should think the resolution should riot be passed simply upon the statement of the Minister of Finance that, in his opinion, it should not be a precedent. The House should have something to say with regard to the matter. The House might give notice to suspend rule 78 in order to allow the action of the Senate to be concurred in. That, however, would be a very grave thing to do.


The considerations put forward here appealed to me, and I consulted the parliamentary counsel respecting them. It was drawn to my attention that in 1874 a Bill was returned from the Senate with an amendment providing for an increase in the quantity of land granted to settlers in the Northwest. That is the case which has been referred to. I quote from Bourinot, page 492:
The Premier and other members doubted the right of the Senate to increase a grant of land-the public lands being, in the opinion of the House, in the same position as the public revenues. The amendment was only adopted with an entry in the Journals that the Commons did not think it "necessary, at that late period of the session, to insist on its privileges in respect thereto but that the waiver of the privileges was not to be drawn into a precedent."
It seemed to me, in view of the extreme importance of this Bill and the lateness of. the session, as was the case in 1874, and as *the amendments were not of vital importance, that we might adopt the same course? that was then adopted, namely, concur hr the amendments and reserve such privileges as the House has. As, however, the point of order has been raised, and as you, Sir, desire to have time to look up the authorities and give your ruling in respect of it, it would be a waste of time to continue the debate.
On the motion of Hon. Mr. Sevigny, the debate was adjourned.


House again in Committee on Bill No 130, relating to Wax Charities-Mr. Rainville in the Chair.
On section 3 Prohibition against raising money for war charities unless registered:
Would this section apply to the ordinary Red Cross Societies throughout the country?


Yes.


What is the object of the Bill?	.


The object of the Bill is to prevent frauds upon the public by people making appeals for real or alleged war charities. There has been considerable abuse along these lines, and this Bill is to remedy such abuse. I would point out to my hon. friend that no difficulty can arise in the case of well-established charities, because, by subsection 4 of section 3, the minister may exempt any war charity from registration under the Act. A well-established war charity would experience no difficulty under this measure.


I have not had an opportunity of reading the Bill, but it looks to me unnecessary to expose our Red Cross societies, which are in every village and hamlet in the country, to be prosecuted under an Act of Parliament. They are doing a great deal of good, and are generally carried on by the women. I suppose the Secretary of State may exempt Red Cross societies generally without particularizing them.


Yes.


Would this Bill cover the case of tag days? Sometimes we read of the proceeds of tag days being looted, which
i

would indicate that it is possible for people who had an ulterior object in view to institute a tag day under false pretenses, so to speak.


Those tag days must be authorized by* the different muni-*eipalities.


No, not in all cases.
There are hospital tag days, for instance-


But they have
to get the permission of the municipal councils.


No.


They do in the cities.


This applies only to	appeals	for	the purpose	ofraising or attempting to raise money for any war charity by promoting any bazaar,	sale, entertainment	or
exhibition, or by any similar means. On the face of it, I should say it would not apply to a tag day, because that is not the raising of money by a bazaar, sale, entertainment, or exhibition.


It does not seem to me
that it has been made altogether clear just what object the Government desires to atr tain by this legislation. Clause (a) of subsection 1 of section 3 provides that the war charity is either exempt from registration or is registered under the Act. What are the conditions that exempt a war charity from registration? I have read clause (b) of subsection 1 several times and I am unable to understand what it is there for or what is intended to be accomplished by it. I would like the minister to say definitely what is the object sought to be attained.


The purpose is
to protect the public against appeals which, although purporting to be for war funds, may not as a matter of fact be for war funds but for the benefit of individuals. The Bill has a further object the placing of the organizations in this country which are appealing to the public for contributions in respect of war charities, within the knowledge of the Government. This, I think, is a very necessary step.
In Great Britain they have an Act similar to this. It has been necessary since the outbreak of the war to cause these war charities to be registered. Otherwise, my hon. friend will, I think, admit that it may be that we will have organizations purporting to be raising money for the war and in reality raising money for themselves.
	. j vj QX
My remarks, of course, would not apply to a great fund such as the Patriotic Fund or the Red Cross Fund to whom the minister will, as a matter of course, grant exemption from registration. But it is thcught advisable by the Government that it should be aware of these organizations making appeals for funds, and, secondly, that the public should be protected, in so far as it is possible to protect them by a legislative enactment such as this, from frauds which may be practised upon them.


Has it come to the knowledge of the minister that there have been any frauds practised to any extent in Canada since the war broke out?


Not to my personal knowledge. There have been brought to my attention certain frauds in connection with the administration of a particular fund.


The objection I see to
this is that it seems to interfere with those spontaneous efforts which are made by people all over the country by means of which large amounts have been raised since the war began. I take it that it would apply to fetes where the people are invited to join together and contribute and where they do contribute. These innocent opportunities of raising money have resulted in very considerable sums being contributed. If it is proposed to prevent affairs of that kind without registering and obtaining the authority of the minister, it is going to interfere to a very considerable extent with those splendid spontaneous efforts which the people have been making since the war began.


I personally agree with
the objects of the Bill because I think it is wise that there should be some regulation of these various charities that are gotten up. I suppose that organizations like the Daughters of the Empire and the Red Cross could be exempted as a whole and action would not be necessary for each particular section to secure exemption. Nearly all the charities are gotten up under the auspices of the Red Cross or the Daughters of the Empire. I suppose it will not interfere with any particular section acting under the association. It would appear to me as if the intent of the Bill is good if it does not interfere with that sort of organization. In reading it over, I do not see that it does.


It must be conceded that 6inee the w.ar began there have been several instances where it would have been desirable if Government supervision or regu-

lation had occurred. At the beginning of the war some very enthusiastic person started to raise a fundi to buy hospital ships. After this movement had gone along for awhile it was discovered that it was all nonsense, that there was no necessity for a hospital ship. The whole thing was the inspiration of some very worthy person who thought it would be a good idea. Then we had the idea propagated all over the country of getting up a subscription for machine guns. The newspapers proceeded on this question, and demands were made upon the public. Everybody who suggested that this was a matter that the Government ought to deal with, just as much as the supply of rifles, was pilloried as disloyal and guilty of all sorts of crimes and misdemeanours. A tremendous amount of money was collected all over the country and sent in to Ottawa and every now and then you hear of some municipality which wants to know what has become of the money. These movements were promoted by a species of hysteria, and that is what actuates similar efforts in a great many cases. It is a step in the right direction if the Bill is intended to prevent things of that bind. But when you say that:
It shall not be lawful to make any appeal to the public for donations or subscriptions in money or in kind for any war charity as hereinbefore defined, or to raise or attempt to raise money for any such war charity by promoting any bazaar, sale, entertainment or exhibition, or by any similar means-
-unless the charity is exempt from registration or registration takes place under the Act, you are going too far. In my own part of the country, where battalions have been formed we have had the wives and relatives of the boys1 holding entertainments and making appeals to provide comforts for them and help them along. There was a Highland battalion raised in our province, the distinctive mark of which was the wearing of a feather in the bonnet, and in com sequence of that the Blue Feather Club was organized. In every hamlet and village from which a few boys had gone they had entertainments and gatherings for the purpose of raising money. That is a sentiment that you could not interfere with, but it will be an absolute prohibitive thing to say to a number of people in a small place who want to get together to do something for the men who have gone to the front that they would be liable to a penalty unless they registered. Are a few people in some distant part of the Dominion, who desire to meet together for that
purpose, to be held up until they apply to Ottawa to be registered or to secure permission to hold their entertainments? I do not know who is responsible for the drafting of them, but a great many of the Bills which have been presented to this House in the last week or two are Bills which require a great deal of changing before they can be deemed to be fit or proper legislation.
' Sir THOMAS WHITE: Might I call my hen. friend's attention to the definition of the word "charity" which I think he has overlooked?


The remarks I made were made in view of the definition of "war charities."


It means any fund, institution or association.


I will give you an illustration of the trouble we will have in Nova Scotia over the Blue Feather Club or the Red Feather Club. Technically, it would seem to be a club organized for the purpose of raising money, and it would come within the meaning of the Act. This measure is not well drafted. We know what the intention is in so far as it concerns the idea of regulating the inauguration of wholesale funds which are the development of some idea not based upon any proper consideration of the whole circumstances. That is one thing. That is what I think is the intent of the Act. But, we do not want every pie social and tea fight in the Dominion to be deemed illegal unless the promoters of those entertainments obtain registration under this Act. Yet, that is the way the Bill is drawn. Take the Bill in regard to the War-Time Elections Act which was introduced yesterday. I do not hesitate to say that that proposed legislation, in the way it is drafted and presented to the House, is a disgrace to the man who wrote it, considered as a piece of parliamentary drafting. It presents an elaboration of all the language which can be applied to create the greatest possible difficulty. The whole Bill ought to redrafted in order to get at the real "intent.


I do not agree with my hon. friend that this Act applies to every local attempt to raise money, owing to the definition of war charities. The definition is:
Any fund, institution or association, whether established before or after the commencement of this Act, having for its object or among its objects the relief of suffering or distress, or

the supplying of needs or comforts to sufferers from the war, or to soldiers, returned soldiers or their families or dependents, or any other charitable purpose connected with the present European war.
By .section 4, provision is made for local registration so that even in the case he mentions no difficulty would arise. The measure, I think, is in the public interest. I am informed that frauds have been perpetrated upon the public by appeals in aid of war charities, and there would seem to be no objection to the principle of the Bill. The minister is authorized to exempt any war charity from registration under the Act. That will save all the well-known funds and associations. Then a simple method is provided for registration locally so i.'s to avoid difficulty to these asiociu-tions of a minor character which are making local appeals in aid of war charities.
Mr. MARCH,: What does the' minister mean by local registration? Is it registration with the registrar or municipal authorities? In my constituency there are ladies' clubs which hold entertainments and so on and send parcels to the boys at the front. Would an organization of that kind come under this Bill?


If it is an association having certain definite objects as mentioned in section 2, it would. No difficulty could arise, because the minister could exempt that organization from registration under the Act. By section 4, the minister can appoint a local committee to attend to local registration. I do not apprehend any serious difficulty in connection with these associations which are bona fide carrying on the work of raising money or rendering assistance to war charities. The object of the Bill is to protect the public against associations which are not bona fide appealing to public sympathy. In framing an Act to protect the public in this way it is necessary to deal generally with associations making such appeals.


Does the minister not
think that the churches would come under the definition of association?


A church is not an association.


It is an institution. In fact I think it comes under both terms. Will it be necessary for each church to register or will the churches be subject to the penalty of $500 fine if they do not register? Supposing a church gives a large social purely for war purposes, under what section would it be exempt?


Because of the definition of war purposes.


That is it is not formed for that purpose?


Therefore it is not a charity.


I think that the framer of the Bill had something of this in mind, because on page 2 we have the section:
This section shall not apply to any collection at Divine service in a place of public worship.
Then what about the other collections of the church?


I do not agree with my hon. friend, because certainly it is not the object of the church "to relieve suffering or distress


Oh yes it is.


What church do you go to?
Sir THOMAS WHITE-" or the suffering of needs or comforts to sufferers from the war, or to returned soldiers and so on, or to any other charitable purpose connected with the present European war." That is not the object of the church.


Oh yes.


The church does that incidentally, but that is not the object of the church; and if a church which is organized for other objects incidentally assists in connection with the war, I should say that this Act does not apply to it.


Nothing can more generally discourage public charity than frauds p:r-petrated upon the public in connection with charity, and experience during this war has shown that there have - been occasions when unscrupulous organizations and people have made collections to defraud the public. I rather agree with the hon. member for Pictou (Mr. Macdonald) that this Bill, as drafted, does not nearly cover the objects intended. I do not deny tnat the objects in view are desirable and in some senses necessary, but the point raised by the hon. member for Lambton (Mr. Pardee) was in my mind before he spoke, that the very fact that, in subsection 2 of section 3, provision is made to exempt collections made at divine service, would seem to indicate that other collections by the church would not be exempted. It speaks of any fund, and it would seem that a fund collected by a church and set aside

especially for the purpose of war charity would be covered by the Act, and that registration would be necessary. My hon. friend from North Oxford (Mr. Nesbitt) has referred to such organizations as the Daughters of the Empire and others of a [DOT]national character, which are recognized as responsible and whose energy throughout the whole of this war is greatly to be commended. Amendments might be made which would greatly improve the Bill in respect to such matters as have just, been referred to, so that it should not apply to such organizations as the Daughters of the Empire, or to funds raised under the direction of a church organization.
I think it would put the churches to unnecessary trouble, and would, to some extent, retard voluntary efforts in charities, even if registration were necessary, or legal dispensation, or whatever might be provided. I think, generally speaking, organization for charities of this kind, where they are under the direct control of the church or under the direct control of some national organization such as the Daughters of the Empire, might be defined rigidly, and recognized branches of a national order of that kind might be properly defined. Notwithstanding that, I think we must admit that there is a real necessity for putting some curb on the efforts of unscrupulous individuals to collect funds from the public, presumably for purposes of war charities, and yet directly for the purpose of defrauding the public. I think the Bill, with the object it has in view is desirable, but I think it is crudely drawn to cover these objects, and would be a very troublesome Bill to administer. It might be amended in committee to cover the necessities of the case. In its present shape, I do not think it meets the requirements of the country.


It may be that, in a
measure, I should assume some responsibility for the introduction of this Bill, because in the discussion I think, of the taxation proposals I made the statement that there ought to be some regulation of the 'various appeals to the people. It appeared that too many people were passing the hat, and that all the good was not accomplished that might be accomplished by constant appeals to the people for a little subscription to this and a little subscription to that, some contributors who might give large amounts being satisfied with giving but very little to minor subscriptions. I agree with a good deal that has been said, and I do not know the legal effect of the Bill, but there should be some measure of
this kind, because 1 think it is, perhaps, more necessary this year than in former years. All the money we can raise should be devoted to the exact purpose for which the people intended it. namely, to carry on our charities, as well as our taxation contribution