Bill No. 104, respecting The Vancouver Life Insurance Company.-Mr. Stevens.
Bill No. 105, to incorporate The English Valley and Hudson Bay Railway Company. -Mr. Webster.
Bill No. 106, for the relief of Rozilla Lamb. -Mr. Douglas.
Mr. ROCHE moved that the House on to-morrow take into consideration the following proposed resolution:
That the resolution of April 23, to establish a Board, to be called the Soldier Settlement Board and to effect the other objects set out in the said resolution be amended and that the maximum amount that the Board may loan to settlers be increased from two thousand dollars to two thousand five hundred dollars.
Motion agreed to. .
On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of Labour (Mr. Crothers) a few questions on. a matter of urgent importance. Yesterday there was laid on the table of the House an Order in Council appointing Mr. Armstrong of Vancouver to look after the qperation of mines in western Canada. As I understand it, he is first to make inquiries and investigations which will delay the operation of the mines. I had understood that the Government had fully decided to take over and operate the mines and that Mr. Armstrong had been placed in charge of this work. I want to know whether these investigations and inquiries are to be made and whether the operation of the mines is to be delayed. I would think that the Government had sufficient information, now to decide what is the best policy to pursue.
I am also advised that the gentleman who has been appointed is not a friend of organized labour, but that, on the contrary he has been opposed to organized labour. If that is the case, I would suggest that it is a bad appointment to make in dealing
with a labour problem in western Canada. I would also ask the minister, in fairness to the House and the country, to make a complete statement in regard to the negotiations and efforts to bring about a settlement of the strike. I think Parliament and the country are entitled to a full statement especially when the Government has in view, such drastic action in connection with the, operation of the mines.


The statement of my hon. friend about the Director of Coal Operations in district No. 18 being opposed to organized labour is the first intimation of that sort that I have had concerning Mr. Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong reached Calgary yesterday, and his instructions are to have operations resumed at once. -No inquiry will be neces-sarj? further than to ascertain the general condition there before the men will go to work. I had a wire from him to-day to say that he would wire me to-morrow definitely. I expect he will succeed in getting the men to go to work at once, and he will make whatever inquiries are necessary afterwards. As to the full statement that my hon. friend desires, I may say to him that the House has made an order for a return of all the correspondence concerning this matter, which is very voluminous. It is being prepared now, and when it is laid on the Table he will have the disclosure of the negotiations which he desires.


I would like to ask the minister if, in ordering the men to return to work, they are to have their demands complied with by the commissioner representing the Government. Are they to be paid what they have been asking for?


I expect that the
director will settle that matter. I do not know the terms upon which they are returning to work, but I am satisfied they will return to work right away.


I notice in the Order in Council that was laid on the Table yester-* day that authority was conferred on the gentleman appointed to control mines in southern Alberta and southeast Kootenay. I wish to know just what is the condition in regard to the mines in Northern Alberta.


I have not the Order in Council before me, but my recollection is that it takes in -the southeasterly part of British Columbia and the southwesterly part of Alberta, covering what'is generally known in that part of the country as district

No. 18. I am not quite certain how far north that extends.


I would respectfully ask the minister to inform the House at the earliest convenient date how far this Order does extend. It is probably the most remarkable Order that has yet been issued in Canada, and there is a very great difference created between those mines that are under it and those that are not. It is of great importance that we should know which mines are under the Order and which, if any, are not. In view of the importance of this Order and of the action that necessarily follows it, it is essential that this House and the country should know, not by a return laid on the Table of papers which do not carry their own explanation, but on the responsibility of the Minister of Labour, what the negotiations between the parties were, and why and how those negotiations failed to come to a satisfactory conclusion. This country is going into a tremendous experiment, and we have a right to begin at the beginning and know why.


Consideration of the motion of the Right Hon. Sir Robert Borden (Prime Minister) for the second reading of Bill No. 75, Military Service Act, 1917, and the amendment of Sir Wilfrid Laurier thereto, and the amendment to the amendment by Mr. Bar-ette, resumed from Monday, June 25.
From- your own
party.


gent was proposed, many of our people thought it was entirely unnecessary. This number has been increased from time to time, until, according to the figures that we now have before us, 420,000 men have enlisted. During the fall of
1915,	and the beginning of the spring of
1916,	an extraordinary effort was put forward, through most of the provinces of Canada, for recruiting. Hundreds of men and women gave their services voluntarily and freely to help this cause. Hundreds ,of thousands of dollars were subscribed by private parties to this end. Meetings were held in every city, town and hamlet in Ontario, and many other provinces, and the result was that we raised many battalions in a very short time. But the number of men willing to enlist decreased, and eventually, it became very difficult to secure recruits. Some pepple say that politics was the reason why voluntary recruiting failed. There may be something in that, Mr. Speaker, but if there is, the blame lies, not upon the party on this side of the House, but upon those on the other side, whp repeatedly went round, declaring that the whole game was "Tun along political lines. However, the real reasons for this falling off were; in the first place, in some parts, particularly the province of Ontario, that every available man had gone to the front. It was npt thought possible to secure more recruits, because they were not there, and, in the other case, the only men who were left were men who were absolutely essential to the workings of the farm and the industries in that part of the province.


The same in Quebec.


The recruits from the portion of Quebec province fropi which my hon. friend comes, were not very great in number. But the principal cause was, Mr. Speaker-and there is no use beating about the bush-that the man who was available refused to go until he saw the slacker enlisting. In my riding hundreds of ablebodied men, French Canadians mostly-I am sorry to say this, but I have to say it in all fairness-were brought in to take the places of men who had voluntarily gone to defend the Empire, and when the recruiting officer asked others to enlist the answer he received was: " When you get these slackers to do their duty, I will certainly go also." It was not because these men were afraid to go forward, but they saw the absolute unfairness of the system whereby the slackers could stay at home,
[Mr. Arthurs.!
and their brothers, fathers, and cousins went forward. While we were proud of the voluntary system, I .might say that it is always unfair, and its unfairness became more marked as the long war dragged along. Under the voluntary system, a father enlists, leaving in many cases, a large family, which is a charge upon the country, while the able bodied slacker remains at home. Under this voluntary system, the only son of a widow goes forward to do his duty, while three, four, or five sons on an adjoining farm remain at home. These are conditions which are inevitable under the voluntary system. But, Mr. Speaker, there are thousands of men in Canada who, to-day, could go forward and do their duty. These men are not engaged in agriculture, or in trades essential to the prosecution of this war, and they are, to-day, perhaps, frequenting the pool-rooms and other places of amusement. These are the men at whom this Bill aims.
I might say, however, that if the province of Quebec had done its duty, this Bill would have been entirely unnecessary, and the required 500,000 men would have been raised. Why did Quebec not do its duty? Some of the reasons given, I may say, are very childish. The leader of the Oppositiop stated, as one of his principal reasons why the men of the province of Quebec had not enlisted as freely as he would have desired, that some men were disarmed in 1760, during the continuance of a war then existing, and a few days after the surrender of Montreal to the British. He did not say that this ancient law-which as a matter of fact was a mere regulation- continued to exist, or that it had any effect afterwards. He also stated, in contrasting the enlistment of the British born, the English Canadian born, and the French Canadian born, that the English born enlisted more freely because they had not been so long in Canada. He also said that the English Canadian horn had enlisted more freely than the French Canadian born because they had not been so long in the country as the French. I cannot see how a French Canadian of eighteen, twenty, or twenty-five years of age can possibly have- been any longer in this country than an English Canadian born at the same time, but that is the kind of reasoning which we have from some hon. members. The hon. member for Rouville (Mr. Lemieux) says:	While the French
Canadians have not enlisted-and he is quite willing to admit that they have not-wait until the Hun arrives on the shores of the

St. Lawrence and they will be on hand to' do their duty. He also states that the French Canadians did not enlist because the right men were not sent to ask them to enlist. I noticed from a statement made in a speech the other day that a decided effort had been put forward by the one man who, the hon. member for Rouville said, was necessary in order to conduct a successful recruiting campaign in Quebec. Col. Blondin and Major General Lessard conducted a campaign in Quebec, and while somebody was good enough to say that they had recruited 211 men, from an analysis of the figures we find that in all this campaign only 92 of those men enlisted from Quebec. This took place before the Conscription Bill was brought down; it was during the time when my hon. friend from St. John (Mr. Pugsley) said that recruiting was going on well under the voluntary system. In spite, however, of the fact that the people of Quebec had General Lessard, the most acceptable man who was available for that province, and that his efforts were backed up by those of a member of the Government, who undoubtedly tried to do his duty, during that campaign the total enlistment from Quebec was only 92.


The hon. member is giving the lie to the Postmaster General (Mr. Blondin) himself.


He was sent too late.


If he was sent too late, how is recruiting under the voluntary sys=-tern good at the present time? The real reason why the enlistments from Quebec are not in proportion to the enlistments from the other provinces is because the Liberal party in Quebec have been playing the political game, and the political game only. It was said openly in Quebec: This is the Englishman's war; let the Ontario man go, so much the better for us.


That is similar to-what was said in 1911 by the Nationalists.


It was said and published in Quebec that: Unless the Englishspeaking people give us what we want, we will not enlist. What the French-speaking people wanted was the right to defy or to alter materially a law of Ontario. There is no question about that. The other night the hon. member for Brantford (Mr. Cock-shutt) was making an appeal to hon. members from Quebec to go home to their province and carry on an active recruiting campaign for a couple of weeks in order to see
if this matter could not be settled by a last effort to secure, under the voluntary system, the needed reinforcements. The hon. member for Montcalm (Mr. Lafortune) interrupted him with this remark:
Mr. Lafortune:	If we in Quebec do as the
hon. member from Brantford suggests will the Government repeal the 'School Act of Ontario?
Mr. Cockshutt:	I am hardly ready to discuss the bilingual question on the present occasion.
Mr. Lafortune:	And we are not ready to
go.
This is the true secret why Quebec has not done her duty. According to a Teturn brought down in this House, the number of French Canadians enlisted in the province of Quebec is 6,979.


14,000.


I will refer to the 14,000 later on; I am speaking of enlistments in Quebec province. The total French Canadian population of Quebec is approximately 1,600,000, so that the rate of enlistment is rather less than one-half of one per cent. The total enlistment of French Canadians in all Canada amounts to 14,100. This-is the official list and I believe it to be correct. In my battalion I enlisted a number of French Canadians, many of whom after enlisting were transferred to Quebec battalions, either upon their own request or upon the request of the militia authorities at Ottawa. Many made all sorts of excuses in order to procure their discharge, and in some cases evidence was produced that the same man had previously pretended to suffer from every disease from lunacy to housemaid's knee so that he might procure his discharge. Many deserted. Desertion was rendered easy because, as a rule, these men were well behaved soldiers, and I know that in my battalion when leave was requested, there was no reasonable excuse why a soldier from Quebec should not receive exactly the same treatment as a soldier from Ontario, and the soldier would go to visit his friends in Quebec, but he never came back. In the majority of cases, I honestly believe that these men joined some Quebec battalion; I think they were too brave and too good men absolutely to desert in the ordinary sense of the word, and I do not think they did. If, as I presume, they joined some Quebec battalion, they would thereby double the number of so-called French Canadians enlistments.


Is the inference we are to draw from the hon. member's remarks, that the French Canadians in the batu.

he raised were men who, originally came from Quebec?	[DOT]


I do not know whether they did or not; I presume they did. In my riding, there is a large French Canadian population, and we are glad of it.


The hon. member has just stated that French Canadians left his battalion to go home to Quebec.


That is quite true.


Then they must have come from Quebec.


In some eases they went to visit their friends in Quebec, and in other cases they went to Quebec to join battalions in which their friends were. These men work in the mills; they are not all permanent residents of the district which I have the honour to represent. The majority are voters in my riding, although they may have friends and relatives in Quebec, and if they had enough money coming to them, I saw no reason why they should not visit their friends in Quebec, just as any soldier from my county might visit his friends in Ontario. I endeavoured to treat every man in my battalion in an equally fair manner, and although I had experience of men deserting in this way, I still gave men permission to visit their friends or relatives, because I saw no reason for detaining one well conducted man because another man had not done what was right. Personally, I have nothing to say against those men; I believe in the majority of cases they were honest, conscientious men. The French Canadians who went overseas with me and who fought in France, were as good as any other soldiers and were true Canadians. The unfortunate thing is that we have not enough of them.


The inference we must draw from the hon. gentleman's reference to the Quebec men who joined his battalion at Parry Sound is that Quebec men were credited as residents of Ontario.


The Quebec men who enlisted in my battalion were credited as French Canadians enlisted in Canada. I made more than one return. While the ex-Minister of Militia was minister, the military authorities requested me to give them week by week the number of French Canadians who enlisted in my battalion. I was also requested to transfer to Quebec battalion French Canadians who enlisted

in my battalion. I did so for a time, but later on I refused to do so, and the balance of the French Canadians in my battalion went over with me to England or France. That is the exact situation; I do not wish any misapprehension in the matter.


How many
French Canadians went to war with you to France?


Very few.


I am asking
for the number.


I suppose there would be about 20 or 25. I can let my hon. friend know the exact number later, if he wants to know. There were also a couple of cases in my battalion of French Canadians who had enlisted no less than four times in different regiments. This is another reason why the enlistment figures for French Canadians are abnormally puffed up. These two men had enlisted as early as in the 22nd Battalion from Quebeo; they deserted and eventually drifted into my battalion. They deserted again, and I had the honour not long ago of arresting one of them in the city of Ottawa; and I think he is still behind the bars. The fact remains that the province of Quebec with its 1,600,000 French Canadian inhabitants has sent to the front to-day only one battalion, the 22nd, comprising in round figures 1,000 men. I have nothing but praise for the 22nd Battalion and the other battalions who are engaged with the Canadians at the front at the present time, but I think it is a shame that hon. members from the province of Quebec should oppose this Bill instead of being actively engaged in securing the men that are required to reinforce the 22nd Battalion.
There is in England one reserve battalion composed entirely of French Canadians. I was in close touch with them for a week or two when I was in England, and I know that the battalion is largely composed of officers and n.o.o's; there are Very few privates in the battalions.


Wlhat has become of
the rest of the 8,000 men who enlisted in the province of Quebec?


The hon. member will
remember that I have stated that according to the figures I have, only 6,900 enlisted in the province of Quebec.


What has become of the balance anyway?


Probably they deserted
too. It must be remembered that the enlistment of 6,900 men does not necessarily mean that number of men at the front. Many men after enlistment become unfit. They are subject to sickness, accident, disease and death just as are men who have not enlisted, and the forces are continually being depleted from these causes, if from no other. Desertions also account for a considerable number.
According to the figures given by the Premier the other evening, 325,000 in all have been sent overseas. About 126.000 are still in England or were in England on the 14tn of May, and of these, 27,000 were available for immediate service in France. In his speech last night the hon. member for St. John, using suppositious figures, placed the number of men in Canada at 17,000. and the number who could be obtained under the present system at 80,000. He then said, "Here are sufficient reinforcements in Canada to last for a whole year." That is an absolute fallacy. The 126,000 men in England are not 126,000 men newly sent over from Canada. They are what is left of the 326,000 men who have already gone forward, and include the staff, which is quite large in England, those in hospitals, amounting to between 18,000 and 20,000, and the Army Service Corps, which must be maintained in England, and which numbers many .thousands. The various noncombatant units have also to be kept up. So the actual number of men fit to fight must necessarily be small as compared with the total number in reserve in England at any particular time.
There are in England about 12,900 men who should be returned to Canada. Personally I do not believe that any man .should be kept in England who is unfit to fight in France, or about to become unfit. Every man in Class B now in England should be returned to Canada in order to provide the necessary labour requirea on our farms and in our factories. These men are perfectly fit in the ordinary sense of the word, but unfit for service in France simply through some minor defect in their eyesight, hearing, feet, or something of that kind, and which probably has been discovered after their enlistment. To my mind there is no earthly reason why these 12,900 men should be kept in England, except that if our losses should be as large in the future as they have been in the past, it would be absolutely necessary to send these men to France unless the needed reinforcements went forward from Canada.
Just a word about the referendum. I did not intend to say anything about this, for I do not think it is necessary. To my mind the referendum is a farce. We have only had one referendum in Canada, and that was on the prohibition question. On that occasion the leader of the Opposition in words just as eloquent as he used the other day, said he would give the country a referendum and if the people decided in favour of prohibition, prohibition they should have. The referendum was held and the people decided in favour of prohibition by a considerable majority. One of the provinces of the Dominion of Canada, however decided they did not want prohibition, and the result was that the right hon. leader said: "We cannot pass this Act because all the provinces are not in favour of it." That situation is exactly the opposite of what we have to-day. I can see no reason why we should get any further ahead by having a referendum to-day, than we did on that occasion. After all, what is the referendum to decide? We are all agreed-I think the leader of the Opposition and every man behind him are agreed-that it is absolutely necessary to send forward reinforcements for our men at the front. The hon. member for St. John last night very eloquently said that this Bill would tear the child from its mother, the husband from his wife, and the lover from his sweetheart. This Bill is for the very purpose of preventing that. We believe that under selective conscription we shall get the number of men required, and they will be the men who can most easily De spared. The Compulsory Service Act will avoid the very trouble that was in the mind of the hon. member for St. John. There is not a man within sound of my voice who does not know of hundreds of cases where it was an absolute shame to have men go to the front leaving their wives and families a charge upon the public. It is to avoid this very condition that the Conscription Bill is brought in. Both .sides of the House are agreed that it is absolutely necessary to get the men, and I say quite frankly that all a referendum could decide would be what class of men should go forward.
In order to prove the .absolute necessity for reinforcements, I will read a short extract from a letter sent by General Currie the other day to the Prime Minister of this Dominion. General Currie is the greatest Canadian soldier to-day. He is the man who has charge of all our Canadians at the front, the man who is responsible for their well-being, for their leadership and for

everything connected with them so far as France is concerned. This is what he said:
I note with special gratification your assurance that the troops in the field can rely upon Canada giving them all necessary support. They have given of their blood freely to maintain their nation's honour and now confidently expect that the full fruits of their sacrifice will not be prejudiced. It is an imperative and urgent necessity that steps be immediately taken to ensure that sufficient drafts of officers and men are sent from Canada to keep the corps at its full strength.
Mr. Speaker, this Bill is necessary because many men at the front have been without a day's leave for over twelve months, some of theip for over eighteen months. Men are in the line in France who should have medical attendance for diseases and minor ailments .and who .are compelled to take their places in the trenches without such attendance, as the officers cannot afford to allow them the necessary time. Platoons and corps go up into the line far under strength, which makes the work much harder for those who go. There should be reserves right at hand, and I agree with the former Minister of Militia (Sir Sam Hughes), who said in his recent speech that it would be far wiser to have our reserves close behind the lines in France rather than in England, for various reasons. I have spoken to hundreds of our men in France, and I did not meet one who did not ask for conscription, not because they were afraid for themselves, but because they see the absolute unfairness of the voluntary system. Their fathers are working overtime on the farm while others on adjoining farms keep their sons at home. Slackers are' taking their jobs in factories at from $4 to $8 a day, while they are working hard in France, risking their lives, and are paid the magnificent sum of twenty cents a day-that is all that the soldier gets to-day in France. It is absolutely unfair to the Canadians in France that they should not be supported, that they should not have the necessary rest, or that they should not know that every man in Canada is doing his duty as they themselves are.


I know the hon. member (Mr. Arthurs) does not wish to leave a wrong impression. A soldier in France gets more than twenty cents a day-the balance over that amount is credited to him.


The soldier is paid
thirty-five francs a month. The 'balance, as stated by the ex-Minister of Militia (Sir Sam Hughes) is placed at his credit. If the poor fellow lives long enough, he. gets 
it when he comes back. But all he gets in France is approximately twenty cents a day.
I have been quoted by some newspapers in the province of Quebec, copied, I believe, by the Toronto Star, as being opposed to conscription. I have always been in favour of compulsory service, and I am now. I am in favour of this Bill, and I will support it regardless of political or any .other consequences, because I feel that in doing so I am voicing the opinion of the great majority of loyal Canadians, and I am doing what ninety-nine per cent of the men at the front wish me to do. I have been requested by all I came in contact with in France to support compulsory service and make all do their fair share.
I have seen our boys enduring all sorts of hardships at the front. I have seen a battalion of our men twelve days in the front line, in mud .often knee deep, standing in mud and water all night without relief, every night for that time. I have seen our brave boys wounded, thousands of them, and never heard a groan or a complaint. I have seen them die, bravely, cheerfully facing the enemy, and cheering for Canada. The cemeteries of France shall always be dear to Canadians. I should not be doing my duty to these men; I should not be worthy of my place in this House if I did not vote for this Bill which is necessary to give our boys the support now needed and to ensure tnat those who have died shall not have. sacrificed their lives in vain.


Mr. Speaker, my views upon this question have received so much publicity that I trust that I shall not need to trespass upon the time of the House at too great length. 1 do not think that there is any doubt anywhere as to where I stand. I shall support the Government's measure; support it with a clear conscience and a stout heart, believing that it is absolutely in the best interests of the country, of the Empire, of the world, and of the cause of civilization for which we are fighting.
I desire to approach the consideration of the question in the cold light cf facts and Teason, and to avoid altogether the language of passion or recrimination. There is no man in this House or in this country who is more opposed by nature and by training to compulsion-unnecessary compulsion-than I am. But I think that if there is one lesson which every sensible man has learned in the last three years it is that in the course of a war like this no

one connected with it can afford to cling to his previous predilections and to refuse to adapt himself to the circumstances and exigencies of the time. I heard my Tight hon. friend and leader (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) criticise, or rather oppose conscription, as I understood him, on the ground that the Prime Minister (Sir Robert Borden) had said we would never resort to it. Well, I do not know whether the Prime Minister ever said any thing so strong as that. If he did, and is resorting to conscription, I am grateful, Sir, that he is greater in his gifts of patriotism than in his gifts of prophecy.
Think of what we have seen in the course of this war. England, that true home of freedom and of individualism, has been turned into a State-run bureaucracy. The Government has taken hold of mines and forests, of farms and factories, and the war is being better prosecuted because they have done it than if these things had remained in private hands. We must distinguish very sharply on the question between peace and war, and between conscription in peace and conscription in war. Conscription in peace is part of the machinery of a militaristic state, it is part and parcel of that militarism which-we are told on all hands, as we have been told by my right hon. friends on both sides of this House-it is the object of this war to put an end to. Conscription in war is the expedient of a country which is in dire extremity and must take the steps necessary to put forth its greatest efforts. I take it that that distinction is perfectly cleaT. I take it that the fact that we were not in favour of conscription before the war measures that we were not militarists before the war; but being in a war like this, and every man being in it, I believe it becomes the part of common sense to adapt ourselves to the needs of the moment. That is exactly the case wdth Mr. Lloyd George. There is no man in this House who is a stronger anti-con-scriptionist that Mr. Lloyd George was; there is no man in the world who is a stronger anti-militarist than Mr. Lloyd George is at the present moment, but, he has put aside all his previous predilections and become the chief advocate of conscription because he realizes that this is a war to end war, and so a man may be thoroughly logical and true to his previous convictions if he adopts conscription to put an end to conscription.
Exactly the same thing is happening in the United States.. Does any one contend
that the United States is turning its back on its whole pacific history? Does any one contend tnat the people of the United States to-day are more in favour of the war than, ever they were? We have noted the reluctance with which they went to war, the slow steps by which the President led the people up to the inevitable decision. I contend that the United States is in exactly the same position as Mr. Lloyd George at the present time. They are as pacific as ever they were when they adopt conscription, and the procession of men on the day when registration took place must have filled every impartial and thoughtful mind with admiration for that great peop'e.
If there is anything that should inspire us it is to see those 10,000,000 young Americans who left their homes under compulsion-or under the President's call, shall I say?-to register their names as citizens of a common country, and soldiers, if need be to fight and die for that country.
Conscription is the only fair method in the last analysis under circumstances such as those we find ourselves in now. It is the only method under which we can fill up the gaps in our ranks. Who can go on the platform in this country and plead that it is fair, that it is even decent, that one family in one district, or one province-and I do not name any province-should be able to shelter in comfort and prosperity beneath the flag, that other people, other provinces, and other men are fighting for? It is the * only practical method. In Britain it is notorious that whole battalions which had enlisted under the voluntary principle had to be brought back from Franceto Lancashire because it was found in the course of the war that these men were more useful in Lancashire than in France. That is a very important consideration. Conscription is necessary at this stage of the war to say who shall stay at home as well as to say who shall go. It is the method by which you are going to organize your nation and get the last ounce of strength out of the nation either for service at home or for service abroad as the wisdom of those making the choice shall dictate.
It is said in some parts of the country, and my right hon. friend and leader rather indicated a predilection for that doctrine,
I think, by the quotations he made from the Militia Act: that the proper place for a Canadian to fight is on the soil of Canada. In the same quarters of the country where this is said, it is called England's war. As an Englishman with a vein of Scotch in

me

Scotch logic I mean-it surely is permissible for me to ask the question: Is England fighting her battle on England's soil? England, Sir, is fighting this war wherever she sees the turban of a Turk or a helmet of a Teuton. She is fighting it in Egypt, in Mesopotamia, in Macedonia, in Belgium, but she is fighting it most of all in France It is there that she is pouring out her bl iod in small rivers. My friends will forgive me

I know they will forgive me-when I oay to them that if there is one consideration that should have made every drop of French Mocd in Canada course more rap' 1-ly, it is the consideration that Englishmen by the million are on the soil where the language of France is spoken and where the literature of France is produced, of which literature we have men as proud in Canada as they are proud of it in France herself.
Talk about not sending the right recruiting agents to one part of the country or the other! Who w.as the recruiting agent that the led the .sons of the Empire to leap to the colours in every portion of the world and to come trooping across the seven seas? I will tell you in one word-it was Belgium. That was the recruiting agent. Belgium, guaranteed her neutrality and independence by Britain, and therefore by the British Empire-guaranteed it also by Germany-Belgium was trodden under foot by Germany and to every full-blooded man under the flag that meant that there was" only one course for him to pursue. They felt: If the Huns trod Belgium under foot we mustaneet them with our last man and our last dollar, fight on the opposite side of the ditch and see that Belgium was restored to all that could be restored to her. And, if Belgium needed no assistance in the way of a recruiting agent what shall be said of the north east of France? Those who have been on the spot know what is happening in that country-the beautiful fields turned under, the very inside of the earth turned up, the villages desolated. These things have happened and what is happening there to-day?
I wonder if those who hesitate about what they should do on this Bill reflect that the present moment in France, as the Teuton is compelled to retire, he is taking with him every French female above the age of 14 years to work, to suffer, and God knows what else. These are the recruiting agents that appealed to the wide dominions of this Empire. May I add, not uncharitably, I hope, that if men will not listen

to this, neither would they listen to one risen from the dead.
I have referred to Germany's methods of wax at the present moment. Do I need to impress upon this House that the events of the moment on the battlefront, demand this Bill. Have we all read the figures on the bulletin to-day of the casualties in the last raid on London-150 dead in the heart of the Empire where the flag floats that floats over us-'and, we are as morally bound to act as men in support of the flag as they are in London.
One hundred and fifty killed and four hundred and thirty injured in the last German air raid, most of the killed women and children, little children going to school! That is going on now. Cargoes of Canadian produce going to Britain are being sent to the bottom of the sea at the present moment by the thousand tons. That is going on now. That cargo which we sell now is as important to us as to the British who are going to buy it, as a commercial transaction; it is more important to them from the eating point of view, of course. That is how close the war is to us at the moment. Those are the circumstances that we are living through.
And watch the diplomacy of the Huns to-day, following exactly the traditions that came down from that old blackguard -whom I could never understand God Almighty letting die in his bed, Frederick the Great, called Great because, as we all know who have read anything of his history, he was so great in defeat. At the end of the Seven Years War, beaten on the field past all hope of redemption, he tried to win his way by diplomacy, and, unfor-. tunately, by his diplomacy he fooled Great Britain at the moment. History is repeating itself to-day. There is no doubt that we are gradually getting the better of them on the field, very gradually and very slowly, and what do they do then? The powers that be in Germany use the very socialists whom they hate, and whose view's they hate, and try to get them into Russia and into Stockholm and into other places to mix with their fellow workmen, and so to win by diplomacy what they can not win by arms. That is going on at the moment, and if we removed our hand from the plough in this matter we would be faced by the danger, one of the greatest that could possibly threaten the world, of an early and therefore an inconclusive peace. That is the greatest danger to the world at this moment: that the war-weariness of the

nations will compel the people to come together, and that an inconclusive peace will be arranged. But from all I have seen of Canadians, I do not think they will take any part in that business.
And if we had an inconclusive peace, what would it mean? It would mean that the Romanoffs would be replaced upon the throne of Russia; that Constantine would probably go back to the throne of Greece, that the Hohenzollerns' hold upon the necks of the German people would be tightened and renewed, and that of the Hapsburgs upon the people of Austria. And for ourselves, what would it mean? It would mean that, just as surely as the next generation of men come around, this would have to be done again by our children or our grandchildren. May I make a personal allusion? I have a little toddling grandchild on my farm out West to-day, whose father was stricken with a gunshot wound in the neck two weeks ago. I say to you, Sir, that on my soul and conscience, I support this Bill because I believe it is part of the necessary machinery which will save that little fellow, a born Canuck, and thousands of others like him, from ever going through what his father and his uncles are going through at the present time.
I was surprised at so astute a gentleman as my hon. friend from St. John (Mr. Pugs-ley) using an argument last evening which appears to me to be the very weakest argument that could 'be addressed to the Canadian nation. I am only talking about his argument, I never talk personalities at all. The hon. member for St. John said that there was no need foT hurry-as I understood him, although I have not Hansard by me-now that America was in the field. Well, I am proud that America is in the field. There is a nation in this world which has never fought except to conquer or at least to come out of the contest with the honours divided, except in one case, when she was not conquered, but withdrew her troops from the field, and that is the little nation of Great Britain. But America's record in regard to wars is even greater, because in the beginning of her history, much against her will, she resisted what I consider were the false fiscal proposals of British statesmen of that time, and won her independence from the Mother Country. In the middle of the last century her sons waded in their own blood to keep the unity of their nation and to free the slave; and it is a magnificent spectacle to see that
great nation, at the beginning of the twentieth century, coming at last to be possibly the decisive factor in this greatest of all world wars. A splendid history, the spectacle is grand to look at. But it is only [DOT]half the spectacle. The other picture- the old mother who lost the great colony by acts of statesmen's folly at the time, reunited [DOT]once more to her heart and in spirit and in soul and in purpose, and the two great empires marching out together with our Allies to save the world's civilization. Is that the moment that I as a Canadian am to be told that we should go a little more easily? The majority of Canadians, Sir, are not built that way. A great example never deters a well set up man from doing his duty, it leads him to do it more strongly and better. Where should Canada be when the British Empire and the United States [DOT]are marching side by 6ide? She should be where she has been from the beginning, in the front of the battle-she will be there. The glories of this little people were not exhausted at Courcelette, at Vimy Ridge or at any other of the battles where they have, won immortal glory for themselves- the glories of this little people are going to be extended, but not, by taking advantage of the entry of the United States into the war, to go a little more slowly.
We are told that organized labour is against this Bill. Well, I do not think so; I do not believe it; I think it is a slander. If it were so it would be a very unfortunate thing for organized labour, and I agree with my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and, Commerce (Sir George Foster) on this point. We approach our way of thinking from different points. I do not [DOT]know that he was ever a radical in the English sense of the term, but in the school of polities in which I was raised, I did not believe in calling a lord by'a big "L;" neither do I believe in pronouncing labour with a big "L." 'Either labour or lord, or anything between the two, is just as good as he is himself; I value a man for what ihe is and what he is capable of. And organized labour, after all, has only 65,000 enrolled members in this country. A great many of those thousands we can say are not opposed to this Bill, because we have had the evidence of the gallant gentleman who preceded me (Mr. Arthurs) that nearly every man at the front wants the Bill, wants conscription, wants compulsory service, and there are thousands of organized labourers in the trenches in France and Flanders.
But to the extent that that view has prevailed with the leaders of organized labour,
[DOT]2S64

it is a most unfortunate, and, I think, indefensible viewpoint-indefensible, in the first place, because, if Germany won this war, it would be bad enough for all of us, but there are none for whom it would be so bad as the organized labourer. He would then get conscription with a vengeance, morning, noon and night, every day in the year. In the second place, I cannot understand how organized labour can be opposed to compulsory service, because they are themselves, as members of trades unions, very considerable conscriptionists. If a man in their trade does not join the union, does not work the hours of the union, or if he works when the union does not want him to work at all, he is called a black-leg. I do not want to use that term in regard to anybody in Canada, least of all to the leaders of organized labour, but I will permit myself to say that the national blacklegs, if there are such things, are not in France and Flanders to-day. They must be somewhere else. Organized labour should be the easiest people in the world to persuade that conscription for national purposes is a good thing. Surely, according to their own tenets, if they conscript in the interests of their trade-using the very considerable compulsion of trades union rules in the interests of their trade-the greater includes the less, and we must be logical, and we must really have taken up their position when we propose to conscript in the interests of the nation.
On this head, however, I have endeavoured to learn what labour men are thinking, and what I think is that they are opposed to this Bill, as if it were the only thing that the Government were going to do in the coming months to bring about that, after all, we need at the moment, and that is an organization of the moral power, an organization, and a mobilization, shall I say, of the moral power, material power, and the man power of Canada. That is what we need at the present moment. I told the Government a few months ago that their strength in regard to this measure is that it is aimed to put Canada on all fours with Britain and the United States, and practically every other belligerent country, and that is a very great strength. The weakness of the Government is in this, if I may say - so, that, while they copy the United States and Great Britain in bringing in this Bill for the organization and mobilization erf our man power, they have been tardy and backward in regard to what I consider the proper methods of taxation for fMr. M. Clark.]
such a time as we are passing through. I was not long in placing myself oa record on this question. In the first short war session, lasting five days, I expressed regret that the Minister of Finance did not introduce an income tax. The value of such a tax, and the absolute duty of introducing it has been impressed upon the minister every session since the war began, and the reason is obvious. We cannot fight this war on the principle of limited liability. We are in it to the last man and the last dollar, and we must not stop. We must get the dollar. The other belligerent countries are taxing themselves until they suffer, and no one has suffered, sacrificed and served more freely and more splendidly than the very richest people in England. Many of them are sitting up nights in the House of Commons to vote the heaviest taxes upon themselves which have ever been placed upon the shoulders of human beings, and that is an example of patriotism that falls only short, as, of course, it must fall short, of the sacrifice which is made by the man who goes into the trenches and lays down his life for his friend, his flag and his country. These heavy burdens are being imposed on the people in England, and we should follow suit.
While I am speaking in regard to organized labour, I would suggest very seriously and in a friendly spirit to the Government, that they will make their passage through the country much smoother, if they give due weight to this proposition: Sweep all patronage out of the military service.
The Government has done an excellent thing in appointing food and fuel controllers. That is along the line of the organization of material resources. From my point of view, I say to the Government-You would do a still better thing if you gave fuel and food free of customs duties, and then you would give these controllers something to organize about? I am afraid, Sir, that the doctrine of free fuel would not find absolute acceptance, even on my own side of the House. Do some of these things, do anything else that you can, following the example of the countries with whom you are in alliance, and beside whom you are fighting, and you will disarm a great deal of the opposition of organized labour, such as it is.
I listened to the hon. gentleman (Mr. Arthurs) who preceded me, with very great pleasure. He referred to the number of men in England not needed there. If they are not needed there they should get back to the habits of their early boyhood, and go on

a farm. I could do with some of them out in the West. I would put a very fine comb very liberally through the men in khaki both in England and in Canada, and see that every man wearing khaki and drawing pay is giving services to the country, or I would get rid of him.
I have indicated, I think, in a way that will be understood, that I am supporting the Bill. It follows, of course, that I am not in much sympathy with the referendum. I was taught not to be in sympathy with referendum for I have been >a very good follower of my hon. friend the leader of the Opposition, perhaps a little skittish, as he might call me, and difficult to control at times, but I will remind him at this moment that, when he came back to the old House defeated, I was one of the first of his followers in the Chamber to tell him I never received anything from him, and never wanted anything, but I was prouder of him in defeat than I had ever been before, because he stood for a principle and died politically for a principle. That was not an attitude of unfriendliness on my part. We had a naval debate some years ago, and if my memory does not fail me, there was something in the nature of a referendum moved at that time. Referen-dums seem to take origin in Quebec. The hon. Mr. Monk moved a. referendum, and my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) had not much use for it.


That was in 1910.


It does not matter if 