1.	Has Dr. Neilly, of New Glasgow, N.S., been connected with the Overseas Dental Corps?
2.	If so, is he still so connected?
3.	Is he on leave?
4.	If so, when does such leave expire?


1.	Yes.
2 and 3 ansiwered by No. 1.
4. On July 23rd, 1917.


1.	Have Ludovic Poitras and Zephirin Gagnon, who claim to have suffered injury in an accident at OhaudiSre, on the Intercolonial Railway, made a claim from the Department of Justice for a Petition of Right?
2.	If so, at what date?	*
3.	Has such request been acceded to? If not, why not?


1.	Yes.
2.	May 7, 1917.
3.	No. The Minister of Justice has not yet received the necessary information and papers relating to the claims set forth in the said petitions of right to enable him to decide whether or not he should recommend the granting of fiats upon the petitions.


On the Orders of the Day:
I rise to a question of privilege. My attention has been
drawn to an editorial in the Toronto Globe which is founded upon wholly erroneous information and which reflects somewhat on me as Minister of Finance. It is headed ''Where the Money Goes." I quote:
Within twelve months the Dominion Gov-ermr^nt has paid to a few favoured industries, chiefly for the production of iron and steel, the sum of $21,669,965.
In his Budget statement on April 24 the Finance Minister reported that the entire yield of the business profits tax in twelve months had been $15,000,000. The revenue from the same source in the current accounting period of twelve months is estimated at $20,000,000.
After dealing with the bounty system, the editorial goes on:
On the eve of a measure to conscript the manhood of the country the case for a more courageous and progressive financial policy at Ottawa is unanswerable.
Similar statements as to the payment out of $20,000,000 in bounties during the past yeaT have been made in the Montreal Journal of Commerce, and in many otheT papers throughout Canada. With reference to this Globe editorial and the other editorials to which I have referred, 1 desire to say that the bounties upon iron and steel expired five years ago, in 1911, and have not been renewed. The result is that no money has been paid out by way of bounty upon iron and steel production in Canada for the past five years. The Montreal Journal of Commerce, in its issue of June 26, made a complete withdrawal of the statement which it had published in an earlier issue respecting the matter. I draw this matter to the attention of the House because the sum is so large and because, as I have stated, it seems to reflect on the administration of the Finance Department.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. On June 20, I received the following telegram from Mr. Mark H. Irish:	.
Toronto, Ont., June 20, 1917 Lieut.-General Hon. Sir Sam Hughes, K.C.B., House of Commons,
Ottawa, Ont.
Press reports of your speech in the House yesterday credit you with saying that I urged the Prime Minister some months back to let un on recruiting. I have never spoken to Sir Robert nor any other Minister of the Crown either Federal or Provincial on the subject of recruiting. I do not and never have held the views you attribute to me. In my opinion recruiting properly done is a stimulus not a retardant to the production of munitions. You

should not have made the statement you did regarding me because such statement is not founded on facts.
Mark H. Irish.
Passing over the paternalism and general tone assumed by the outfit to which that gentleman belongs, I shall read my reply, which I sent immediately, without looking up Hansard.
Ottawa, June 20, 1917. Mark H Irish, M.P.P.,
Toronto.
Replying to yours. You spoke to me many times on the question of scarcity of labour for munitions and advocated some plan of control. The assertions made by you then all pointed to a limitation within definite lines of service, something bordering on controlling employment of men thus interfering with the will of men in recruiting. I did not intend to say you spoke to Sir Robert. You spoke with me repeatedly *on the subject.
Sam Hughes.
I have looked up Hansard and I find, on page 2546, that I said:
Mark Irish of the Imperial Munitions Board, Mr. Plavelle of the Imperial Munitions Board and others have been insistent in their demands that these men would not be taken.
This statement follows a sentence to the *effect that the Finance Minister had told the Prime Minister that there was a perfect storm brewing in Toronto:
And that agitation was due to the fact that men could not be obtained as workers.
The two sentences are entirely distinct, and every statement I made is absolutely true. Not only did Mr. Irish speak to me once, but twenty times, till I told him he was becoming a perfect nuisance in his agitation, which was not to stop recruiting, but to prevent men who' were wanted on the Munitions Board recruiting. I assured him then, as I assure the country to-day, that there were tens of thousands of men not working, who were anxious to work, but could not get work.


Who sent that telegram?


The telegram I have read was from Mark H. Irish who is connected with the Munitions Board.


On the 20th of April, 1917, I asked a question of the Secretary of State (Mr. Patenaude) and received a promise from the minister. The discussion in Hansard is as follows:
Mr- Knowles:	To what extent does the
Moosejaw News obtain patronage as a result of the minister's discretion?

Mr. Patenaude:	I can bring down the information.
Mr. Knowles:	Will the minister let me
know early next week how much the Moosejaw News has received lately?
Mr; Patenaude:	Yes.
That is over a month ago and I have recently written asking for the information, and have not even had an acknowledgment. I draw the matter to the attention of the Government, and desire to have the information placed in Hansard.


On the Orders of the Bay:
On May 31, 1917, I asked the following question :
Mr. W. E. Knowles:	Will the Acting Postmaster General tell us what is to be done with regard to the prospective salary increases for the postal clerks, including carriers? The hon. gentleman is no doubt aware that the different associations have been asking for increases.
The answer given me at that time appears in Hansard as follows:
Hon. Mr. Patenaude:	I shall probably be
able to answer my hon. friend in two or three days.
That occurred in May, and I would ask if some information could not be furnished at the present time. The answer to the former question will require some consideration, perhaps, but the latter question might be answered now.


With regard to the last mentioned question, since it has fallen upon my shoulders to bear the burden of the Postmaster General's Department, I have taken up the matter, and I will have, presently, ready for submission to council, a suggestion looking to an improvement in the smaller salaries of the employees of the post office, which I hope will be dealt with very promptly.


On the Orders of the Day:
Some weeks ago I asked the question, which was passed as an order for return. The return asked for was in regard to the employees (Si the Interior and Indian Departments who had enlisted for overseas service, and the arrangements made with them by the department.. So far as I am aware, that return has not yet been produced. It is important that it should be forthcoming dur-

mg the course of the present discussion on the Military Service Bill. I ask the minister to liave it brought down without delay.


On the Orders of the Day:
I rise to a
question of privilege. In the Montreal Gazette of to-day I observe a headline which
reads:
Mr. Bureau wants Laurier and Gouin to tour the province.
I never expressed any such desire. On the contrary I appealed to the member for North Grey (Mr. Middlebro) and the Prime Minister to tour the province of Ontario and try to stop the campaign that was waged against Quebec. I make this declaration, so that I will not be told that I never denied it.


Consideration of the motion of the right hon. Sir Robert Borden (Prime Minister) for the second reading of Bill 75, Military Service Act, 1917, and the amendment thereto, and the amendment to the amendment by Mr. Baratte, resumed from Tuesday, June 26th.
Mr. Speaker, As my position on this very important matter is perhaps not as well known as that of my hon. colleague from Red Deer (Mr. Clark), I feel it is incumbent upon me, in view of the position I intend to take, to state in the simplest and shortest language possible, the views which I entertain, and the vote which I intend to give, on this very important measure which is now before the House of Commons. I find myself, perhaps, in the most peculiar position of any member in this House, from the fact that for the past two years and a half no m.an has criticised the conduct of the Government, in the management of the war, to the extent that I have. I honestly believed in my 'criticism, and I aan convinced that I had good ground for making every statement which I made. I believed that partisanship was running rampant all over the Dominion of Canada in the conduct of this war, and, as a member of Parliament, to whose knowledge these matters had come, I felt it my duty to make them public, and I made them
public in as forcible a manner as I knew how. I have no apology to make, and take back nothing which I have said. I only wish to say that in the future, notwithstanding the attitude I may take to-day, if in my judgment, the conduct of this war by the Government is such as to require criticism, I hope I shall have the courage to perform the duties for which I was sent to this Parliament. I have nothing further to say regarding what has taken place in the past.
I look upon the condition of affairs at present, and on what may take place in the future, as of very much more importance than what has taken place during the past two or three years of war. I have taken a very serious view of this war from the beginning-perhaps too serious-but, Sir, it has been in my thoughts constantly, as I think it will be, until the closing scenes of this great drama. I was attending court in St. John on the 4th August, 1914, and on the morning of that day I read in the newspapers that war had been declared, and I immediately sent a telegram to my chief (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) telling him that in my judgment he should offer the Government his full support in anything that was necessary, in order that Canada should do her duty in the conduct of the war. I have taken that attitude, both privately and publicly, ever since that time, and I still take that attitude. I think there is nothing which Canada is so much interested in at the present time as that we should do our full duty to bring the war to a successful conclusion, in order that liberty, justice and. righteousness may have a chance upon the earth in the future.
The Prime Minister, who is charged with the responsibility of conducting the affairs of this country in this crisis, came back from the seat of the Empire a month or six weeks ago, and he made the statement that /they needed more men at the front, and he also stated, it is said without consultation with his political friends-and I know without consultation with my political friends- that the only way to get those men was to introduce a Bill for compulsory military service. It has been said by many of my friends that in doing so he was actuated by political motives. I know nothing about that, Sir, and for the purposes of my argument I care very little. The Prime Minister of this country declares we need more men. Every responsible official, both civil and military, of the two great nations, France and England, who are really waging

Bangor, Maine. I met bankers, professional men, lawyers, business men and labouring men, and I never heard a man talk about the war who did not stand up and say: "We are in this thing and are going to see it through." I was over there on the last day of their wonderful Liberty Loan, when between two and three billion dollars were raised, and every man who had been able to contribute seemed to he proud that he had done something to put his nation and the Allies in a position to win this great war. Perhaps I would not be considered out of order if I related one little incident 'in connection with some labouring men. I was in a garage, where a man besmeared with grease was on the floor under my car. A fellow workman came along and said: "Did you get your notice last night from the Government?" "Yes," was the reply. "What are you going to do about it?" "I am going to do just what they tell -me to do." That was the spirit I found in every part of the United States that I visited. I only wish I could find the same spirit all over Canada.


Hear, hear.


I hope that some of my hon. friends who cheer that remark and are so much affected with Quebec-phobia will not think I am referring altogether to Quebec, for there are. slackers all over Canada, and it is because of the condition of affairs not only in the province of Quebec but in Canada as a whole that I am constrained to stand behind the Government on this momentous question.
I sympathize and sympathize heartily, perhaps to a greater extent than any .other man in this House, with the right hon. gentleman who has been my esteemed leader ever since I have known anything about politics in Canada-a man in whose judgment and integrity I have absolute and supreme confidence, a man whose one aim in life has been to weld into one great whole the two great races in this country.
I realize to as great an extent at least as any other man in this House the position which he occupies to-day and has occupied ever since this measure was introduced. Knowing the position which he occupies, and the position which, his friends and my friends occupy, I am better able to sympathize with him than are gentlemen who are not so intimately acquainted with the real condition of affairs. My right hon. leader realizes, as I think every person in Canada must realize, that this Bill is extremely unpopular in his native province
'
of Quebec. I do not think there is any use in dissembling that; there is np question whatever about its being true. I am not going to hark back and say who is responsible for the condition of affairs which unhappily exists at the present time. But we do know that certain English-speaking Canadians in 1910 and 1911 spent their money, ndt by tens of thousands, but by hundreds of thousands of dollars, to sow broadcast throughout Quebec and amongst the French-speaking people of Canada, the doctrine that they owed nothing to England and that the whole policy of Laurier and his party was to introduce conscription in the province of Quebec. For seven long years they have spent their money and assiduously preached that seditious doctrine in that part of the country; and to-day they are reaping the whirlwind. Canada is also reaping the whirlwind, and my right hon. leader finds himself in the position he is in to-day very largely because of the attitude of the gentlemen whose names have heretofore been mentioned in this House, and who are pretty well known in Canada as the men who have been guilty of the conduct to which I have alluded.
But, Sir, that does not change the fact that we are up against a really serious problem; it does not change the fact that Canada must raise mpre men, and, as I said before, the whole question is, how shall Canada get the men? Shall she go on with the voluntary system, or introduce compulsory service?
My right hon. leader proposes a referendum, and pledges that if a referendum is held and the vote is in favour of conscription, he will ask his people to support it and to recognize it as the law of the land.
I think the most depressing day of my life was yesterday when I sat here and listened to three speeches in particular, which in my judgment revealed a condition of affairs in Canada for which every true Canadian should be sorry, and for which he should try to seek a remedy. I have listened to one hon. gentleman who has been a soldier and has returned from the front, practically branding every French Canadian who enlisted in his regiment as a renegade and a deserter.


Shame on him.


I listened to another
hon. gentleman who I believe hopes to be Minister of Agriculture in the near future comparing the French race in Canada with the red man. and the comparison he made

was very much in favour of the red man. Then I heard another hon. gentleman, my good friend from Three Rivers (Mr. Bureau), practically say to the people of Canada that because the people of Ontario were insulting the French Canadians, the French Canadians were not going to enlist and do their duty in this war.


Shame again.


When Great Britain decided to go into the war in August, 1914, they did not first take the opinion of the people by means of a referendum. They hardly even called Parliament together. The heads of the nation got together and had hurried consultations. They decided that their duty was to go ahead, that Britain should stand by her treaties and protect her neighbours. And they did. The Canadian Government did not call for a referendum when the war broke out; they called for volunteers. Then Parliament was assembled, and when we came together, we voted everything that the Government wanted, we passed the War Measures Act, and in effect said to the Government-; Go ahead, do your duty. The United States did not ask for a referendum when they decided to go into the war. There had lwen	an election
only a few months before.	And, as well
as I can judge, having been in New York and other American cities during that campaign-, President Wilson ran more as a pacifist than as an advocate of war, and I believe that more men opposed to war in the United States voted for him than voted for his opponent. Yet when the time came that the United States felt that they ought to engage in the war, there was no referendum. They called together their elected representatives in Congress, and Congress said: Go ahead. An-d they went ahead. In what position are we in Canada different from Britain, France, Italy, or the United States? True, I admit, this is a moribund Parliament. I rather agree that we all made a mistake in voting to extend the life ' of Parliament a year ago. However, we did it unanimously and we believed we were working for the beet. But we are, as things stand to-day, the Parliament of Canada. This country is at war, and the war is the most terrible that the world has ever known. We are called upon to act and to bear our responsibilities as long as vre form the Canadian Parliament, and the man who is not ready to face his duty in this matter is not fit to foe a member of this Parliament.
My logical friend from Welland (Mr. German) the other night said he was in favour of a referendum. Yet he said that we must have men, and more men, and still more men, in order to win the war. And his logical mind told him that he must believe that a referendum would result in favour of the Conscription Bill. Sir, I am not the keeper of my brother's conscience;
I am the last m-an in the world to force any other man to vote with me who does

not wish to vote with me. I hope I am big enough to give any man who differs from me the credit of being just as honest in his convictions as I am honest in mine. And I have, just as much respect for the honesty of the man who declares he will vote for the referendum as I have for my own. But I cannot help asking:	Should
the referendum be defeated, what then? That is a question I cannot get around. I do -not say it will be defeated. I do not say that Parliament ought to pass a law if it is sure that in doing so it is going against. the will of the people. But again I come back to my first proposition: This country is at war and must have men; this country must go on doing its duty. Again I say: Suppose the referendum is defeated-, what then? And,' not being the keeper of any other man's conscience, I have no fault to find with the man who says he is willing to take this chance. But so far as I am concerned, I can only say, it is not good enough for me. Therefore, I am constrained to vote against my leader on this question of referendum, and those of us who feel that way must logically be compelled to go on and vote for the second reading o-f the Bill.
Perhaps the one incident in the whole history of things during the last two or three years which has created the greatest impression on my mind, and which has led me to the conclusion at which I have arrived, is what took place in this Chamber just two or three weeks ago when that great French statesman, Rene Viviani, addressed the House of Commons and Senate. Unfortunately, I was not able to understand every word that that distinguished gentleman said although I could follow him fairly well and could tell what he was talking about. But, I have read and re-read the translated report of his speech in Hansard and I must say that I felt the inspiration of his eloquence and earnestness. It seemed to me as I sat here and listened to him that he closed every period of his speech by the appeal: For God's sake come over and help us. I almost felt the desperation of the man as he seemed to say: We have stood out against this onslaught for the last three years; we cannot hold out much longer; won't you give us material support in men and money? France, the most chivalrous nation in the world has supported the burden for three years; millions of her men have faced the enemy; they have been mown down by thousands and hundreds of thousands; a large portion of the country has been made desolate and this distin-

guished representative of that great nation comes to us and says: Come over and help us. As far as I am concerned, I am not the man who will refuse to respond to the call to action which that man addressed to us.
But, Sir, while my intention is to vote for this Bill, I do not think there is any man in Canada to whom the word "conscription" is as repugnant as it is to me. Many hon. members have said that in their judgment conscription is the proper form of raising an army and from the purely ma-
4 p.m. terial standpoint of getting the men who ought to go and leaving the men who ought to remain, probably that is correct. But had this Bill been proposed a year ago, I would not have voted for it. I do not believe in conscription. I believe in freedom as far as it is possible to have freedom upon the earth. I am glad that up to -the present time it has not been necessary to attempt to take away from any man in Canada the freedom which is bestowed upon him by the constitution. So long as ws were getting all the men we reasonably required by the voluntary system I was opposed to conscription, and if I believed to-day that we could geo all toe men we might require I would still be opposed to conscription. Believing that the voluntary system has not been honestly carried out, I do hope that the Government will delay the practical enforcement of this Act until voluntary enlistment has had a fair chance. I am not going to hark back to past events or to point out to the Government its sins of omission or commission, but I must say that all over the country the Government has not done its duty. The petty, party patronage system has militated against the best interests of recruiting in all parts of Canada. I ,do not know what the condition may be in other parts of Canada, but I know that in eastern Canada party patronage has been the greatest curse that this country has ever known.
I do not know that we have all done our duty, but I do know that by a united, concerted effort, coupled with the abolition of the party system, in the last three years, very much more could have been done throughout eastern Canada than has been done, and I believe that the same is true all over Canada. I hope the Government will give voluntary recruiting one more chance. Let the men of Canada get together. Every man who is a Canadian, every man who wants to see the country prosper, every man who wants to see the
war won, every Liberal, every 'Conservative, every Frenchman, every Englishman, men of every nationality and of every colour and race-let people get together and make one great, mighty attempt to get the number of men required. I do ask that this legislation shall not be put into force until after that is done. But if we fail, then you have my full consent to get the men, to get them by any means possible. I -do hope that be-fore^this is done an honest, united effort will be made and thus avoid the necessity of applying this Act, which most of us, I think, on both sides of the House, hate to support at the present time.
I do not know whether most of the members of this House realize what it means to me to vote against my leader. I believe very few do. I think very few men realize what it means to vote against the man whom you have followed as loyally as I have, and in whose judgment you have had such supreme confidence as I have had in that of my leader since I have -been a member of this House, now some thirteen years. But, Sir, as I view the matter, -and for the reasons which I have given, I feel constrained to take the course which I have indicated. At the same time I want my friends to feel, and I want my opponent to feel, that I still have faith in the honesty, integrity, loyalty and uprightness of the great man who has led the Liberal party foT the last thirty years, and who I hope will lead it on to greater victories in the future than have been achieved ini the past.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to preface my remarks this afternoon by again placing on Hansard the touching lines which were quoted by the hon. member for South Wellington (Mr. Guthrie), in his admirable address:-
In Flanders' Fields.
In Flanders' fields the poppies blow Between the crosses, row on row,
That mark our place, and in the sky The larks still bravely singing, fly.
Scarce heard amidst the guns below.
We are the Dead. Short days ago We lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow, Loved and were loved, and now we lie In Flanders' fields.
Take up our quarrel with the foe,
To you from falling hands we throw The torch,-be yours to hold it high;
If ye break faith with us who die.
We shall not sleep though poppies grow In Flanders' fields.
Beneath these crosses erected amongst the poppies of Flanders fields lie some of the men from the county of Frontenac-too many I am sorry to say-and I regard the



lines of this Canadian soldier, written on the field of battle, as a direct appeal to me as the representative of the county of Fro.ntenac, and one which I am expected to pass on to the people of my county, that we may not forget the men who have given their lives in this great cause; that we will not break faith with the men still living, but, that we will give them the -reinforcements which they need in order to carry on this great struggle.
I regard it as a direct appeal to me and I have no hesitation in saying that it is my intention to give this Bill my very hearty and cordial support because I believe it is the only means whereby we can do our duty to the men who have gone to the front and who are at present fighting in this great cause. It is up to us, as the representatives of the Canadian people, to consider the position in which our country is placed and to consider the conditions at the present time. The conditions as they are to-day in Canada, have not been created in the last twenty-four hours, nor in the last two or three years. These conditions are not satisfactory to-day, and I will venture to say that in making that statement every member of this House will agree with me. Conditions, such as there are in this country, are not the result of what has transpired during the last two or three years but as the result of years and years of wrong teaching and wrong directing.
If we, as representatives of the people, are to do our full duty, we must look matters fairly and squarely in the face, state facts as we find them, and draw conclusions from those facts fairly and honestly. It will be necessary for me to place a few figures on Hansard with respect to recruiting in this country. Every preceding speaker has made reference to recruiting and enlistment and has given his opinion, adverse or otherwise, of the means and methods adopted by this Government in securing recruits by the voluntary system. I must place on Hansard some figures in order to make my future remarks intelligible. The enlistments by provinces up to May, 15th of this year, according to a return brought down in this House, were:
Province.	Enlistments.
Ontario	 173,078
Quebec	 to,277
Maritime	Provinces	
38,200Manitoba	and	Saskatchewan .. ..	79,779Alberta	
35,477British Columbia	40,264Yukon	
2,327Total	
414,402

On the 1st of January, 1916, the right hon. the Prime Minister announced the authorizing of the raising of half a million men in Canada. The legitimate or fair share of each province in that half million men asked for, according to population, would be as follows:
Province.	Proportion of
Recruits.
Ontario	 170,213
Quebec	 138,298
Maritime Provinces	   65,957
Manitoba and iSaskatchewan .. ..	70,213
Alberta	 34,517
British Columbia	 29,787
Total	 508,985
If you take those figures in conjunction with those I gave as enlistments, it will be seen that Ontario has contributed 101 per cent of the number which, according to population, that province should contribute to the half million men authorized. Quebec has contributed only 32 per cent; the Maritime Provinces 58 per cent; Manitoba and Saskatchewan 112 per cent; Alberta 102 per cent; and British Columbia 137 per cent. If Quebec had recruited as well as the Maritime Provinces, it would have meant 34,935 more men in uniform to-day, and would bring our total up to 449,367 men. If Quebec had done as vtfell as Ontario, our total enlistment to-day would be 508,805 men.
I want to ask two questions, both of which I think are pertinent: 1, Why should not Quebec do as well as any of the other provinces? and, 2, why has Quebec not done as well as any of the other provinces? I think I may ask these questions of many hon. gentlemen here without being accused of raising race issues. It is a question of fact, it is a matter for us, as members of this House of Parliament, representatives of the people, to task ourselves calmly why this is the case. There must be reasons for it, and it is our duty to try to find out what those reasons are, and to apply a remedy if it is within our power to do so.
I wish to consider this matter from another standpoint. According to the last census, the French population of Canada was 2,054,890. Of these, 1,605,339 were in the province of Quebec, and 449,551 were in the other provinces. A return tabled on June 14, and signed by the Adjutant Genera], says that from the outbreak of the war until April 30, 1911, only 14,100 French Canadians had enlisted from all Canada and proceeded overseas. That is seven-tenths of one per cent of the French population of

Canada. Sir, how many of these were from Quebec? According to the same return, 6,917, exclusive of those who went with the first contingent, were from the province of Quebec. If we add to that 6,917 the 1,217 French Canadians who were with the First Contingent, according to that return, crediting the whole J .217 to the province of Quebec, it will give 8,131 men overseas from the province of Quebec, out of a population of 1,605,339, or about one-half of one per cent. If we credit the half of that 1,217 to Quebec, it would give us about 7,500 French-Canadians from that province overseas, or less than one-half of one per cent.
What of the French Canadians who enlisted outside of Quebec? The returns show that 6,512 French Canadians have answered the call from outside the province of Quebec, out of a population of 449,551, or nearly one and one-half per cent. If the French Canadians of Quebec had responded as well as the French Canadians in the provinces outside of Quebec, they would have had some 17,000 more men overseas than they have at the present time, 17,000 more representatives of their race in France, sharing in and adding to the glories which their compatriots gained at Cour-celette and other places along the western battle front. I may ask, I think, without being accused of any wrong motive, why there is this difference of sentiment amongst the French Canadians outside of Quebec and those within that province, and I say it is our duty to endeavour to find an honest answer to that question and to apply a proper remedy to that condition. Out of a population of 3,564,792 English-speaking Canadians born in Canada, 125,245 have proceeded overseas, or over three and one-half per cent. Out of a population of 813,714 of English-speaking people born outside of Canada, 155,095, or 19 per cent, have answered the call of King and country. And let me say that I endorse most heartily the words of approval and commendation uttered by the hon. member for Carleton, N.B. (Mr. Carvell) of the conduct of British-born Canadians in responding to the call of their King and country. We have been wont in the past to sneer somewhat at some of the oddities of the Englishman who comes to this country, and who perhaps affects an eyeglass. Well, the Englishman in the future can come to this country, and he can wear a ring in his nose if he wants to, and one in each ear.
173*
I will take off my hat to the Englishman, when it comes to a matter of his doing his duty, and responding to the call of his country in the great cause. Up to April, 1917, 44,937 men had enlisted from Quebec. That is 32 per cent of Quebec's allotment or fair share of the half million men authorized. It is certainly most remarkable that the French Canadians, who comprise 78 per cent of the population of Quebec, should supply less than one-fifth of the enlistments of that province, while the English- speaking men of the province of Quebec, who comprise 15 per cent of its population, should supply over four-fifths of the recruits from that province. Again I say this is a matter for us to inquire into, to endeavour to find a remedy for it. In this connection, allow me to add that, of the 316,103 English in Quebec, from whom four-fifths of the recruits of that province have been drawn, 245,212 were born in Canada, and 70,891 in the United Kingdom, or other parts of the British Empire. These are plain, cold, hard facts, and if we find the Quebec recruiting figures unsatisfactory- and I think we do-it is up to us to try and ascertain the cause of this condition of things, and to honestly try to apply a remedy.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw attention to the statements made by the right hon. leader of the Opposition, in the course of his speech in this debate. Referring to a statement of the Prime Minister he said:
I say that he (the Prime Minister) could not under the Act as it is send anybody across the ocean to serve in the war.
I do not read the Militia Act in that way, but I am not a lawyer. However, I want to quote the opinion given by a very eminent lawyer and statesman on this very point. There appeared in the Toronto Globe on October 4, 1899, a statement made by the right hon. leader of the Opposition, in regard to our sending troops to South Africa at the outbreak of the Boer war. The following statement is attributed to the right hon. gentleman:
"There exists a great deal of misconception in the country regarding the powers of the Government in the present crisis. As I understand the Militia Act, and I may say that X have given it some study of late, our volunteers are enrolled to be used in the defence of the Dominion. They are Canadian troops to be used to fight for Canada's defence. Perhaps the most widespread misapprehension is that they cannot be sent out of Canada. To my - mind H is clear that cases might arise when they might be sent to a foreign land to fight. To postulate a case:	Suppose that Spain
should declare war upon Great Britain. Spain

..-;iay, or had, a navy, and that navy might be being got ready to assail Canada as part of the Empire. Sometimes the best method of defending one's self is to attack, and in that case Canadian soldiers might certainly be sent to Spain, and it is quite certain that they legally might be so despatched to the Iberian Peninsula. The case of the South African: Republic is not analagous.
I might say that, in the brief [DOT] session of 1914, when we had under consideration the resolution for the appropriation of $50,000,000 for war purposes, the right hon. gentleman paid particular attention to matters in connection with that vote. He called attention to the fact that the money was voted for the conduct of military or naval operations in or beyond Canada, and for the carrying out of any measures, deemed necessary or advisable by the Governor in Council, in consequence of the existence of a state of war. I maintain this is one of the measures deemed necessary by the Governor in Council to be carried out in consequence of this country being in a state of war, and I think an expression of opinion of that kind by the right hon. leader of the Opposition was, in itself, an endorsation * of the power of the Government to send troops overseas.
It has been said that the Prime Minister, speaking in this House, expressed himself against conscription. No doubt that is true.
I think I am correct in saying that Lloyd George, the present Prime Minister of England, when conscription was first suggested in England, went so far as to threaten to resign from the British Cabinet if that suggestion were carried into effect, and yet the Bight Hon. Lloyd George came to see the necessity of conscription as the only means of providing the men required to maintain the English forces ini France. I might also say that not only is there a strong feeling among the men overseas, the rank and file, that more men are required, but I am sure I am Tight in saying that the men who are at the head of our forces in France to-day, General Turner and General Currie, both bf whom, I am told, are Liberals, are very' emphatic and urgent in their request that more men should be sent overseas, and sent as speedily as it is possible to send them.
I want to draw attention to another statement made by the right hon. leader of the Opposition in discussing this question in the debate. He said:
He <the Prime Minister) said the other day, and he has just repeated it, that the first line of our defence to-day is in Flanders and France. I claim against him that there never was any danger of invasion of Canada on the

part of Germany. If I have taken the position I have hitherto taken it is not because I feared an invasion of Canada by Germany.
These are the words of the right hon. gentleman uttered in this House a short time ago. I want this House to contrast those sentences with the expression of opinion by the same right hon. gentleman, in that brief session of Parliament, held at the outbreak of the war, 19th August, 1914. His words as recorded in Hansard are:
"Our territory is liable to attack and invasion. No one pretends that our maritime cities on the Pacific and Atlantic are free from the possibility of insult by an audacious corsair who descending suddenly upon our shores might subject them to an insolent raid and decamp with his booty before punishment could reach him. This is not an unfounded dread of danger; this Is no mere illusion; it is a real and indeed aproximate danger, since it is a matter of notoriety that both on the Pacific and on the Atlantic there are German cruisers whose mission is to inflict all the injury they can upon our commerce, and even to raid our cities should they find our harbours unguarded."
Those were the words of the right hsn. gentleman who leads the Opposition and who has proposed this referendum, and I say that those words are in direct contrast to his statement of a few days ago, where he said that he did not believe there was ever any danger of invasion of Canada on the part of Germany. Be that as it may, if this country is not to be invaded by Germany, it will be because we make things so hot for the Germans over in Flanders on that western front that they will not have time to come over here and invade us. The first line of Canada's defence is in Flanders, and is it not far better for us that we maintain that line and prevent the Germans from breaking through and subsequently attacking this country? We do not want any atrocities committed in Canada such as the Germans have committed in Belgium and in Northeastern France.
The right hon. gentleman (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) has given certain reasons why conscription should not be enforced in Canada. I want to give a reason which he placed on Hansard on January 17, 1916, when he said:
Apart from any other, one paramount reason, which is on top of ail the others, is that we could not adopt conscription in Canada without giving a severe blow to our policy of immigration.
That was the reason advanced against conscription by the right hon. gentleman on January 17, 1916. Well, if Germany wins the war, neither the right hon. gentleman nor anybody else will need to concern him-

self about an immigration policy for Canada. Germany will look after that part of it; Germany will conduct a vigorous immigration policy if she wins in this war. The right hon. gentleman went on to say:-
But if it were to be known that conscription existed in Canada, it would, I repeat, deal a severe blow to our hopes in that respect. Why, the very thought of conscription has had a detrimental effect on our settlements in the north-west.
He went on to quote a report published in an American newspaper, stating that certain American farmers who had made their way into the Canadian Northwest had, on the outbreak of war, taken fright and gone back across the boundary line into the United States. May 1 ask what people are going to be scared from emigrating to Canada because of conscription? Not the people of the United States, because they have conscription there, and they know what it means. Not the people of the British Isles, for they have conscription there also. Not the people of France, Russia, or Italy, for each of those countries have concription. What peoples, then, are likely to be prevented from coming into Canada after the war is over because of our having adopted a policy of conscription? I maintain that there is absolutely nothing in that argument advanced by the right hon. gentleman.
The right hon. gentleman advanced other reasons, which were not so much against conscription, I take it, as they were reasons why enlistments had failed so lamentably in the province of Quebec. He said that when the war broke out both parties in the House agreed that it was the duty of the Canadian people to participate in the war to the fulness of our resources. " To the fulness of our resources " includes men as well as everything else. He went on to say:-
I must make an exception to that. The ratification was not unanimous. There has been a minority which has always protested against our attitude, and that minority is the Nationalist party in the province of Quebec, who took the position from the start that it was a crime for the Canadian people to participate in this war. Not only did they use that strong language, but again and again in the Nationalist press they have asserted, and still assert, that we have taken our present position simply because we are subject to the imperious dictation of the British authorities.
Further he said that these
same Nationalists would deny us the liberty, when we see Prance threatened with dismantlement, when we see Belgium actually under the foot of the conqueror, of helping in the defence of France and of Belgium.
He said further:-	*
It is not because they hate France, it is not because they hate Belgium, but because we cannot in this war help France or help Belgium without at the same time helping England.
Further on he said that the Nationalists asserted that Canada had no direct or material interest in this war. He continued :-
And, every day we read in their press that if Germany were to triumph it would be of no material injury to Canada, that Canada would remain just in the position that Canada is in to-day.
I think I am right in drawing the conclusion that in these expressions regarding the minority in Quebec we have a reason, in part at least, why men have not enlisted in greater numbers in that province.
The right hon. gentleman also said:-
Should Germany triumph there would be nations that would rue the day of their indifference and eupineness.
May I not also say that should Germany-triumph, Quebec would rue the day of its ~ indifference and supineness in the matter of enlistment? Mr. Speaker, I honestly believe that the worst enemies of Quebec and of the French Canadians are those men in and out of that province who have tried to prevent the French Canadians of Quebec from enlisting as they should enlist, having regard to their numbers. I care not whether they live in Quebec or are members of this House; I say that the men who have by word or deed encouraged men in Quebec not to enlist are the worst enemies of that province. I believe that, in time, the people of Quebec, realizing that, will look upon these men not as their champions and friends, but as their worst enemies.


Do you mean by those words that the Nationalists of 1911 who are now sitting on the Treasury benches are responsible for this condition?


That is a question that ought to be answered, and that I will answer; I have no intention of evading it.
I am going to refer to the Nationalists, and I am going to refer also to some who are not Nationalists, including the hon. gentleman who has just sat down. I do not want to be misunderstood in my references to the Nationalists; I have no use for them-and I have said so in this House before now.


But your leader
seems to have had some use for them.


And your leader seems to have a good deal of use for them now.


Oh, no.


Let us come out into the open, face to face, and find out where we on this side and hon. gentlemen on the other side, including the leader of the Opposition, stand in regard to the matter. I believe it is my duty as a representative of the Canadian people to place these matters squarely before the House and the country as I see them; and if I am wrong, I shall be glad to be corrected and to be shown wherein I am in error. Where does the right hon. gentleman, stand, and where has he stood, in regard to Canada's participation in Britain's wars? Where did he stand in regard to Canada's participation in the South African war? Is it not an historical fact that he held back on that occasion. until public sentiment practically compelled him to send our soldiers overseas- and that he then sent them on the c.o.d. principle? I may be accused of recrimination when I make that assertion, but it is either true or not true. I make it because I believe that it is true, and if hon. gentlemen challenge it, I want them to show me in what respect it is wrong; I want them not to abuse me because I state what I believe to be a fact.
Where did the right hon. gentleman stand in regard to Canada's participation in the wars of the Empire when he attended the Imperial conferences in London? Did he line up with those who want to prosecute the war to a finish, or was not his stand at those conferences more in line with the first plank of the Nationalist platform, which is, " No participation by Canada in the wars of Great Britain? What was his position in regard to the proposal of the Government for contributing three dreadnoughts to the British navy? Was he for participation? Was not his stand exactly in line with the first plank of the Nationalist platform? Accuse the Nationalists, if you like, -and I am with you in regard to the first plank of their platform, which is absolutely indefensible; but do not think that by abusing the Nationalists you can exculpate the right hon. leader of the Opposition in regard to the doctrines which he has repeatedly endorsed in this House and country. How did 'the German press regard the action of the Canadian Senate in voting against the three dreadnoughts? We know what the naval expert of the British Government said in regard to the

battle of Jutland, that great battle of Beattie's:	" If we had had three
or four more dreadnoughts on that occasion we could have wiped out the German navy." Why did not we have three or four dreadnoughts there, and why was not the German navy wiped out? It was because the right hon. leader of the Opposition was opposed (to (Canada giving three dreadnoughts, and because his partisan Senate did his bidding and killed the Bill. What did the German press say about the action of the Canadian Senate? On June 5, 1913, the Hamburger Nachriohten said:
Whatever may be decided upon later, the actual decision of the Canadian Senate means at any rate a heavy moral and material loss for the defence of the Empire, for Mr. Borden's promise had been foolishly enough counted on. His offer made an enormous impression on the whole world. This impression will not only now be destroyed but people will everywhere obtain the conviction that England cannot depend upon such help from her colonies.
The Morning Post, an English newspaper, said:
By rivals and enemies the decision will be eagerly welcomed. By friends it will be regarded as ominous. The impression must inevitably be created that the solidarity of the Empire is a myth and that those powers which would like to see the overthrow of British naval supremacy need not he discouraged with their efforts by the thought that their challenge would be met by the united resources of the mother country and of every one of the daughter States.
Is not Germany to-day getting encourageme