Eighth Annual Report of the Commission of Conservation, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1917.-Hon. Mr. Burrell.
Bill No. 129, to amend the Companies Act so as to provide for the incorporation by Letters Patent of Corporations for purposes other than that of gain-Sir Thomas White.
Bill No. 130, relating to War Charities.- Sir Thomas White.
On the Orders of the Day:
A special cable to the Ottawa Journal, dated London, August 31, contains the following:
The (British) Government cannot purchase in Canada bacon and lard owing to the limitations placed on it by the Imperial Treasury, as America is ready to finance contracts while Canada is not. As regards private buying, the Canadian prices are too high for Britain.
I would ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce if there is any foundation for this dispatch?


I do not think the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Sir George Foster) would have been in a position to answer, because 
that is merely a newspaper report which may or may not be authentic. I think I can say that the Government has no definite information in respect to the matter.


The House in Committee of Ways and Means, Mr. Rainville in the Chair.
That towards making good the Supply granted to His Majesty on account of certain expenses of the public service for the financial year ending 31st March, 1918, the sum of $51,681,871.90 be granted out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada.


Motion agreed to.
That towards making good the Supply granted to His Majesty on account of certain expenses of the public service for the financial year ending 31st March, 1917, the sum of $4,821,217.80 be granted out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada.


Motion agreed to.
Resolutions reported and concurred in.
Sir THOMAS WHITE thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 128 for granting to His Majesty certain sums of money for the public service for the financial year ending 31st March, 1918.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
House again in Committee of Supply, Mr. Dugald Stewart in the chair.
Department of the Secretary of State-To provide for one clerkship in First Division, Subdivision A, $2,800; to provide for four clerkships in Second Division, Subdivision B, 2 at $1,250,
2 at $1,150, $4,800 ; to provide for the administration of the Companies' Act, $5,000-$12,600.
['2139-3186. " VI: 5271-6094.']
I presume on account of the increased work in the Department of the Secretary of State, additional clerkships have been provided. There is an item here of $5,000 to provide for the administration of the Companies Act. What is that vote for?


The $5,000 for the administration of the Companies Act is to be withdrawn. A revision of the Companies Act has been introduced by the leader of the Senate, and it has b^en found impossible to go on with it this session. So this item will be withdrawn.


Then there is a motion to reduce the amount to $7,600?


Yes, it will be reduced to that amount. The hon. member for Russell (Mr. Murphy) was not quite right in regard to the additional -clerkships. This is simply to provide for the promotion of certain clerks, and this item is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Act to amend the Civil Service Act. I move to strike out the item of $5,000.


Motion agreed to.
Miscellaneous expenses under the Canada Temperance Act-further * amount required, $5,000.
['Yes, it will be reduced to that amount. The hon. member for Russell (Mr. Murphy) was not quite right in regard to the additional -clerkships. This is simply to provide for the promotion of certain clerks, and this item is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Act to amend the Civil Service Act. I move to strike out the item of $5,000.']
It is impossible to tell,
I am informed, so far in advance, what moneys will be required for the administration of this Act, for the reason that we cannot tell how many counties will ask for the vote to be taken on the adoption of the Act. These moneys are required for six constituencies in which a vote is now to be taken, but- chiefly to take care of the constituencies of Quebec and Quebec City. In view of the opposition there, it is necessary to hold an inquiry called an enquete, and the expenditure there will be considerable. The other constituencies are Compton and Missisquoi, in Quebec; Fredericton and Sunbury and Charlotte in New Brunswick.


Could the hon. gentleman give me any information as to the position of the Bill in the Senate? I suppose I can hardly expect an answer to that question now. There is a provision in the Bill which passed this House and went to the Senate which affects my own constituency, and that is the reason I ask the question. A prohibitory law came into effect in New Brunswick on 1st May, but it does not take effect until these counties which have adopted the Canada Temperance Act -get that Act out of the way. There was a -proposal that, in many cases, we might suspend the operation of the Canada Temperance Act by an Order in Council, and provision to that effect is included in the Bill. A petition has been sent to the Secretary of State-I do not know whether it is in Ottawa yet-from the counties of Charlotte and Carleton, Now Brunswick. The vote was to take place in Charlotte on 21st September. I have received a number of letters in the last ten days inquiring as to what was going to be done. Have we to go on and hold the election, in order to get rid of the Canada Temperance Act, or can we get rid of it by Order in Council?


The Bill my hon. friend
refers to passed this House, but is not yet through the Senate?


I believe it is not yet through the Senate.


I will make inquiry. The matter might be spoken to on the Orders of the Day on Monday or Tuesday next.


If it passes the Senate, what then?
Mr. MfilGHEN: I could not say what the Government's course would be. We would have no power at all until it passes the Senate. I will make inquiry, and I will endeavour to obtain an answer.


I have a letter from the chief inspector of the province, pleading for an answer to the question, and I am unable to tell him exactly what might happen.


I would like to know the policy of the Government with regard to this matter, as it affects my constituency. The Canada Temperance Act is in force in the constituency I have the honour to represent, and some of the people are opposed to having it repealed. There appears to he a difference of opinion as to whether it would be wise to repeal it or not.
I want to know if it is the intention of the Government, by Order in Council, to repeal the Canada Temperance Act without any reference to the people of the constituency, or the county council, or any authority in the constituency?


I would be glad to ascertain the views of the people if I could, and do anything I could to assist the minister in dealing with the question, but I must say that I do not altogether like the provisions. The policy of local option is a good one, and when the people vote for a measure and have it made law in the county it would be a little extreme to abolish it without any reference to them. But I am not sure what is the best policy to adopt. I would like to know whether

the Government intend to take that step without any reference to the authorities in the county concerned?


The minister will pardon me for .answering a question that is not directed to me. I think I can assist him to some extent. Under the Canada Temperance Act there must be -<a petition signed by twenty-five per cent of the qualified' electors asking the Government to submit to the people a proposal either to adopt or to repeal the Act. We in New Brunswick have asked that when we have complied with these conditions precedent and have finished the petition signed by the necessary twenty-five per cent of the electors, the Government shall suspend the operation of the Act by Order in Council. The result would be that the Prohibition Act would automatically come into force. The reason why we have asked for that is that there is a provision in the New Brunswick legislation that there shall be a plebiscite upon the question whether or not the prohibition law shall continue. If t'he general prohibition law should be defeated, we would rather fall back upon the Canada Temperance Act by having the Order in Council repealed. That is the proceeding that we are trying to work out in New Brunswick, and I am sure it was what was in the mind of the Government when this Bill was introduced.


As I understand the
hon. gentleman's explanation, it is this: Action by the Government merely suspends, whereas action by a vote of the constituency permanently repeals. It follows, he says, that where there is a petition of twenty-five per cent of the electors in the county in favour of such procedure, it is preferable that the Government should act by suspension rather than wait for the vote.


I did not understand the explanation given by the minister with regard to what was intended to be done in Quebec.


The Government has no special policy, of course, with regard to that province.


Applications have been received from some constituencies, I understand, in Quebec.


From the constituencies of Quebec city, Compton and Missisquoi.


What is to be done in Compton and Missisquoi?


Elections under the
Canada Temperance Act are to take place in the three constituencies that I have named. We are providing $5,000 to cover the expense of these elections, particularly that of the election in Quebec, where there is very much opposition. The $5,000 covers the cost of administering these three elections and the three in New Brunswick.


The Canada Temperance Act is not in force in Missisquoi at present?


No.


,1 see in the Gazette today a notice that a petition has been received from Quebec city signed by over 8,000 electors; that Mr. Antoine Gobeil has been appointed returning officer, and that voting has been fixed for the 4th of October. Is that information correct?


I have no reason to think that it is incorrect.


Mr. Gobeil was the former Deputy Minister of Public Works in the province of Quebec. I am glad to know that a vote is to be taken in Quebec city, because there would be some difficulty in taking the vote under the provincial Act. There is a provision in that Act that there shall be only one polling booth in the whole city. I suppose that under the Canada Temperance Act the polling booths would be numerous and the vote would be taken under rules similar to those which prevail in a Dominion election?


I think so.


There are only two counties in Nova Scotia now under the operation of the Canada Temperance Act, and I do not think it would make much difference whether the Canada Temperance Act were revoked by Order in Council or by reference to the people. We have a prohibition law in Nova Scotia, and when the Canada Temperance Act goes out, -the other comes in. If application were made to the Government for the putting out of the Canada Temperance Actv there would be a saving to the Government if the necessary action were taken by Order in Council. I think the people of Nova Scotia are inclined to believe that they will not have the license system there in future. There can be no such thing as local option in Nova Scotia to-day. There was what was known as the Nova Scotia Temperance Act, but when the Canada Temperance Act was voted out of existence in any particular county, the

Nova Scotia License Act came into force. They did have licenses in a few municipalities, but to-day there can be no licenses at all.
Miscellaneous-to provide tor the expenses of the Commissioners, and other disbursements in connection with the Royal Commission to review the findings of the Hon. Mr. Justice Galt, $5,500.


Will the minister explain this item?
Mr. ME1GHEN: The commission sat in Montreal for thirty-five days. The expenditure is not all settled, but so far it amounts to $4,800. It covers the expenses of one commissioner, $835, the official reporter, $696; counsel, $2,156; secretary, $800, rent of office, $215, incidentals, $100. There still remain the expenses of the other commissioner and a few incidentals.


Upon what ground is this Parliament asked to vote money to pay for expenditures in connection with that commission?


Because the commission was appointed under the authority of Parliament.


Under the authority of this Government, not of this Parliament.


Parliament passed the
Inquiries Act; this Commission was appointed under that Act.


Is this ta matter of Dominion jurisdiction.


Yes.


I thought it related to
Manitoba affairs.


It does not refer to
Manitoba legislation.


Under what provision of the Inquiries Act can there be an inquiry into an investigation held under commission by a government of >a province.


I have not the Inquiries Act before me, but I am pretty sure that the Order in Council authorizing this inquiry purports to be under the authority of the Inquiries Act. The Inquiries Act is very wide.


If I remember rightly,
the Inquiries Act has reference only to matters connected with management of a . department of the Dominion Government. I do not see how the report of a Commissioner
appointed by a provincial Government has anything to do with any of the departments of the federal Government.


It would appear to the ordinary mind that the report of a King's Bench judge of a province reflecting seriously on the head of a department of Canada would form the subject of an inquiry that this House would be concerned with.


That is true, but this House might perhaps appoint a committee to inquire into such a matter. This does not affect the head of the department as such; it affects the minister only when he was a member of a provincial government; it relates to conduct some years ago when he was not connected with this Government at all. A commission might just as well issue to investigate the conduct of any member of this House when he was in charge of some office not connected with the Government of Canada at all.


I remember that was
the stand taken by my hon. friend' (Mr. Pugsley) some years ago. He is quite consistent now in taking the same stand; but then as now, we take higher ground. We take the ground that the previous public conduct of a minister of the Crown is a matter of present importance if the man concerned is still a minister of the Crown.


That is not
the position which was taken years ago.


That was the position
taken in 1910 by this side of the House.


Quite the reverse.


Oh, no.


Oh, yes.


The position taken then on this side was, and the position taken in England has always been, that anything that affects the honour of a public man elevated to the post of minister of the Crown, although the matter may have antedated his elevation to the post of minister of the Crown, was a matter of immediate public importance; that there really was no distinction in time arising from the fact that the subjects in question did antedate his elevation any more than should they be immediately concerning the conduct of his present department.


The position
which was taken years ago by the Conservative side of the House in regard to a commission headed by Mr. Justice Landry to

investigate the conduct of some members of the New Brunswick Government was that the report of that commission was a judgment, that the commission was a court of justice and that therefore the decision of that court was not revisable by tbis Parliament. This Parliament has no right to revise a decision of a court of justice. The position taken by the present Minister of Labour (Mr. Crothers) at that time was exactly what I said, namely, that the commission was a court of law, and that its judgment was final. He would not even look into the evidence. He took the judgment just as it was and contended that this Parliament had to accept it just as it was. We then, sitting on the other side, did not admit that at all. During this session I stated that the report of a commission is simply the opinion of a man of high character as to certain events which took place at a certain time. I do not think even the Minister of Labour will contend otherwise. The very fact that lie acquiesced in having the opinion of Mr. Justice Galt revised by this commission is proof positive that, in his opinion, the judgment of Mr. Justice Galt was not equivalent to a judgment of a court of law. When the hon. gentleman who was then Minister of Public Works was not satisfied with that report, the Parliament of Canada was not entrusted with the matter of reviewing the findings, but the Government chose to take action under the authority of the Inquiries Act. I am not prepared at the present moment to say whether the Government had or had not jurisdiction. We can discuss that point later on, because I presume, before we separate, the Government will set a day for the discussion of the new report which was laid upon the table of the House.


I think my statement
of the position taken then was. correct. It is true, we took the stand that the judgment of Mr. Commissioner Landry of that date was of the nature of a judgment of a court of law, although not in precise terms such a judgment. Consequently, while it stood, Parliament could not shut its eyes to it. But that does not say that Parliament should reverse it. We have not reversed it here; we treat it simply as being in the nature of a judgment of a court of law and subject to the incidents of any judgment of any court of law, namely, subject to revision by a tribunal of the same nature but of higher status. We did not presume ourselves to sit in judgment over the findings of Mr. Justice Galt. We appoint a tribunal of similar character, but

of higher status, to review that judgment. That is all. The same stand as we took then we take now. While that judgment-stands, Parliament cannot shut its eyes to it. That is the doctrine followed in England, and we follow it here. When it is reversed by a judgment of a tribunal of similar character but of a higher status


How is the
present tribunal higher than that of Mr. Justice Galt?


It was higher first of all in that the senior member of the tribunal was the Chief Justice of a province-the Chief Justice of Manitoba is surely higher than Mr. Justice Galt. Secondly, the tribunal was higher in point of-numbers.


How is the Chief Justice of Manitoba higher than a judge of t)he King's Bench of Manitoba?


The Chief Justice oi
Manitoba is higher than a judge of the King's Bench of Manitoba.


But the judges in question are of different provinces.


The provinces are equal. Therefore it follows mathematically that the status of the same courts are equal. The King's Bench of Manitoba is not the highest court of that province. There is a court above that; and above that again, there is the Chief Justice.


Why did you not appoint him?


We appointed a man ot the same status. I do not think my hon. friend does very great credit to his province when he says that the Chief Justice of New Brunswick is not of the same status as the Chief Justice of Manitoba. I do not think he would be thanked by the Bench or Baa- of New Brunswick for that statement.


The minister cannot take that ground with regard to Mr. Justice Tel-lier. He has ceased to be a judge; he has retired.


I do not think his status falls or his qualifications are diminished on account of his retirement. The status of the other commissioner was undoubtedly equal to, if not higher than that of Mr. Justice Galt, and from the point of numbers., of course, they 'had a right to review, on the same principle that in various provinces in Canada a court en banc sits as a court of appeal over the judgments of mem-

bers of a court of the same status-simply by virtue of numbers, they become a higher tribunal.


The minister says that the Chief Justice of New Brunswick has a higher status than a judge of the King's Bench of Manitoba. Would he suggest for a single moment that any person could appeal from the judgment of a judge of the King's Bench of Manitoba to the Chief Justice of another province?


He could not unless
Parliament authorized him to do so.


Parliament has not that power.


Yes, acting under the Inquiries Act, passed by this Parliament, we have that power. If my hon. friend will read the Order in Council, which recites the Inquiries Act, he will find he had a basis for it.


Let me read the section of the Inquiries Act, chapter 124 of the Revised Statutes of Canada:
The Governor in Council may, whenever he deems it expedient, cause inquiry to be made into and concerning any matter connected with the good government of Canada or the conduct of any part of the public business thereof.
It does seem to me a most absurd thing to say that this Government could appoint a commission to reverse the report-or rather the expressed opinion, because as my hon. friend has stated, it was only an opinion-of a commissioner appointed by the provincial government to inquire into certain transactions connected with the administration of the affairs of that province. What the Inquiries Act provides is that in any matter connected with the good government of the Dominion, a subject over which this Parliament has jurisdiction, or connected with the public business of Canada, there may be inquiry. I should think that the Government of Manitoba could to-morrow, with equal reason, appoint another judge to revise and express an opinion upon the report of Chief Justice McLeod and Mr. Justice Tellier. And what a farce that would be ! It seems to me the only proper course to take would be the course that was taken in 1909, when this Parliament was asked to inquire into the evidence and form its judgment upon the question whether a person occupying a seat in the Government was worthy to be continued in that office. But the result of this Government appointing commissioners to revise the opinions of commissioners appointment by a provincial government can only be of the most farcical character. I understand that $2,100 is to be paid to counsel. Who appointed counsel?


The commissioners.


The counsel was Mr. Teed?


Yes.


I do not intend to discuss this question now, because my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) has intimated that there will be another opportunity. What I cannot understand is this: suppose that the two members of the Bench whom the Government appointed to revise the finding in a purely local affair in the province of Manitoba had brought in a report that did not suit the Government; would there be any objection to appointing three more judges to see if they could bring in a decision that would suit the Government?


We would never do that.


If my hon. friend would take that ground, and not the ground that this was in the interest of the public, he would get along very much better. While the Solicitor General (Mr. Meighen) has a very acute legal mind, and argued his case as well 'as he possibly could, he must have realized that it was hard going to argue that the Chief Justice of New Brunswick and a retired judge of the province of Quebec formed a court that in some way had a right to reverse the finding made by a Manitoba judge, without calling witnesses and without going over the evidence thoroughly. Mr. Justice Galt made a finding after he had bad the opportunity of seeing the witnesses and observing their demeanour on the stand, which helped him form an opinion whether they were telling the truth or not. It is an elementary principle of law, which every lawyer in the House learnt in his first year when he was at Blackstone, that except in a very flagrant case a court of review will not interfere with the finding of facts made by a judge in the first instance on the ground that he had the ad* vantage ot observing the demeanour of witnesses in coming to his conclusions. Mr. Justice Galt came to a certain conclusion,^partly from certain evidence that was taken before him, and partly from the manner of the witnesses in giving their evidence. Then this Government appoints two other men, who never saw one of the witnesses, and who could not possibly have
\

gone over all the evidence in that time- they may have glanced over it, but they could not possibly have had time to read all the evidence, all the exhibits, and everything like that. Then these two judges say, "We find differently." What weight can be attached to a finding under those circumstances? But I am not going to discuss that now. I should like to know on what reasoning this Government asks this country to pay $5,500 to defray the expenses of this commission. I think I am correct in saying that when this commission was appointed some member of the Government informed the House that the commissioners were acting without salary. I know from personal knowledge that one of the commissioners was acting without salary. Where, then, does the $5,500 come in? My hon. friend says that counsel was appointed. Counsel for whom? Counsel to assist the gentleman whose conduct was being investigated? No counsel was appointed for the country, because nothing was done; they did not call witnesses, except the gentleman whose conduct was being investigated, who, I understand, appeared before the commissioners and made a statement. No witnesses were called, and there was no argument. The public does not know what took place, or whom counsel represented, if it was not the gentleman whose conduct was under examination. Does the Government ask this country to pay $5,500 to defray the expenses of counsel for the Hon. Mr. Rogers? That is about what it means. I know that one counsel who was there was not representing the gentleman whose conduct was being investigated; he was not there representing the people. I cannot reveal personal matters, but I will take the responsibility for saying that he was there simply to assist Mr. Justice McLeod. Now if Mr. Justice McLeod was receiving no salary, by what right does the Government appoint somebody else to go in and do his business?-because that is what it amounts to.
I have no objection whatever to the gentleman who received the salary. He is one of the best lawyers in Canada, and no doubt rendered valuable services. I hope he got a good fee out of it. (I may say that I adjourned legal actions in order to give him an opportunity to finish up this matter.) At the same time. I must seriously object to the people of Canada being called upon at this late date to reimburse the men who paid those fees. I think we ought to have a pretty clear explanation from the minister as to who employed these gentlemen,

how much they were receiving, the conditions of their employment, and generally, the reasons why the country is being called upon to pay the expenses of defending the gentlemen who were attacked.


I would like to say a word in reply to the reference made by my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) to a motion made in this House in May, 1909, asking the House in substance to express its disapproval of the conduct of the then Minister of Public Works as set forth in a report made by Judge Landry ,and two others. My right hon. friend repeated here to-day what he said a few weeks ago, that that motion was founded entirely upon the report, and that there was no reference whatever to the evidence.


Hear, hear.


My right hon. friend is quite mistaken in that. Speaking on this subject a few weeks ago, he quoted some remarks I made at the time I had the honour, or otherwise of launching the motion. It is quite true as he quoted the remarks I made then, that I took the position that there was a report of this tribunal very solemnly constituted, as my right hon. friend will remember.


Very solemnly constituted.


Very solemnly constituted, by a special Act of the legislature, i took the position that so long as that report stood we were warranted in concluding it was right, and that if there was any objection to it it was the duty of the person chiefly involved .to take steps to have it set aside.


How could that be done?


I was just going to refer to that. My hon. friend from St. John (Mr. Pugsley) took the position then that he knew how it could be done, and he told us he had already taken steps before the courts to have it done. He told us that he had already issued a writ in the courts of New Brunswick asking for certain accounting which would bring before the courts the whole matter that was investigated by that commission. I am advised, however, that he never went any further than issuing the writ. My right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) was quite right in citing some remarks I made on that occasion, but he is quite wrong when he says the

whole motion rested on the report and not on the evidence. He will remember very-well that we had all the evidence before Parliament at that time and that the hon. member for St. John had it in his possession, hut refused to refer to it.
Mr. PUGSLEY Who had the evidence?


My hon. friend from St. John (Mr. Pugsley).


I refused to refer to the evidence?


Yes.


My hon. friend's memory is entirely wrong. I demanded that the evidence should be quoted.


I have my hon. friend's speech under my hand. If he will refer to page- 5710 of Hansard for 1909 he will find:
Mr. Pugsley:	Mr. Speaker, before recess I
was pointing out some statements contained in the report, which statements show how little reliance is to be placed upon this report. I am doing this without troubling the House by referring to the evidence. I may say I could not refer to the evidence even if I desired to do so because I have not been able to obtain a full copy. X have copies of, I think, two volumes, but have not been able to obtain the rest.
There were only two volumes, and the hon. gentleman admitted he had two volumes, so he had the whole of the evidence; therefore he said, in so many words "I will not refer to the evidence at all."


Will my hon. friend pardon me a moment?


Not unless you ask
me a question. I do not want you to make a speech. You will have an opportunity when I sit down.


I simply want to correct my hon. friend.


Order.


I rise to a point of order.


What is your point of order?


My point of order is that my hon. friend is making a statement which is not in accordance with the facts.


That is not a point of order.


As a matter of fact I had certain of the evidence. I also stated that the provincial government had been requested to lay the entire evidence upon
the table of the provincial legislature, which they had refused to do


Order.
Mr. PUGSLEY-and I quoted from all the evidence I had available.


I have my hon. friend's speech before me, and there is no quotation whatever from the evidence throughout the whole of it. I remember very well that the present Mr. Justice Crocket, then a member of this House, followed my hon. friend. Reference to his speech will corroborate what I am saying. He said that the ihon. member for St. John admitted having two volumes of the evidence, and that there were only two volumes, and that the hon. member did not refer to any portion of ^he evidence in ihis speech. I have read the speech very carefully and if any hon. gentleman in this House is sufficiently interested in this matter to look it up in Hansard he will find that my hon. friend did not refer to the evidence at all, although he had the whole of it in his possession. The present Judge Crocket also had the evidence. My hon. friend from St. John spoke for four hours and a half on the subject, without referring to the evidence once. Mr. Crocket spoke for five ihours and a half and is reported in 69 columns of Hansard, a large portion of which is taken up with extracts from the evidence. Yet, notwithstanding these facts, my right hon. friend (Sir Wilfrid Laurier), either through inadvertence or lack of memory states that this motion went forward in the House in 1909 without any reference to the evidence.


That is what I said.


But, that is not the fact. The fact is, as appears by Hansard, that the present Judge Crocket cited column after column .from the evidence.


He referred to the evidence after I had done so. His reference was in answer to mine.


My hon. friend from St. John never referred to the evidence at all. 1 would like to say a word in reply to what my hon. friend from Carleton (Mr. Carvell) said in regard to the evidence. I admit he is a good lawyer, and has enjoyed a large practice for many years. He will agree with me, I think, that on a question of evidence a court of appeal will not consider a matter -Where there is a conflict of evidence, or where it is a question of the

weight of evidence. This is especially so in regard to the finding of a jury, which has the advantage of seeing the witnesses, of observing their manner in the box/and so on. So far as my memory goes, however, it is not the practice in a case where there is absolutely no evidence.


I hope my hon. friend does not contend that is the case in the Galt report?


Yes, I do. If my hon. friend has read the evidence at all-


I have


-and the findings of the two judges who considered the matter in Montreal. They did not discuss it as a conflict of evidence; they said that there was absolutely no evidence to warrant the inference drawn; that there was no direct evidence at all, and no evidence warranting the inference. They did not rule on a question of weight of evidence, but they ruled that there was no evidence warranting any such inference.


My hon.
friend remembers and admits that he introduced the resolution of censure against the hon. member for St. John (Mr. Pugsley) in 1909. He spoke of everybody's speech except his own.


No, I spoke of mine.


You spoke oi the speeches of the hon. member for St. John, -and of Mr. *Crocket, now Judge Crocket.


I admitted that you correctly quoted what I said on that occasion.


My hon. friend took a position exactly the reverse of his position to-day. In presenting his motion he took this position: I refuse to look at the evidence; here is the judgment of a court of law, I shall not go beyond the judgment; upon that judgment I ask a vote of censure upon the hon. member for St. John. My hon. friend (Mr. Pugsley) very properly said: This is not the judgment of a court but only the opinion of Mr. Justice ' So-and-So, and I am prepared to say that in many respects the opinion of the commission is in error. Then there was a discussion between the hon. member for St. John and Mr. Crocket revising the evidence adduced before the commission. If I drew attention to that it was simply to say
| Mr. Crotliers.]
that the opinion held at that time by the gentlemen now -sitting on the Treasury benches was that a commission of that kind was a court of law, that its finding was the judgment of a court of law, and that if it was such a judgnient, it could not be revised by this Parliament. But all of this is now discarded; it is -sophistry; the commission of Mr. Justice Landry was not a court of law, the -commission of Mr. Justice Galt was not a court of law. The commission of Mr. Justice Tellier and Mr. Justice McLeod was not a court of law, but simply a commission of gentlemen entrusted to do what Mr. Justice Galt was entrusted to do, to investigate certain facts. He made the investigation; he had witnesses brought before him; he could have reported to the Government without an expression of opinion, but he expressed an opinion.


The question between my right hon. friend and me is not any thing about Judge Galt. The quest'on is whether he s-tated that we did not use the evidence at all on the motion made in this House in 1909, and if 'he d-id make that statement, was it correct?


I say that my friend who made the motion- never used the evidence.


That is not the question. You said the evidenoe was not used.


That was the question as presented to the House, but my hon. friend from St. John riddled the speech of the Minister of Labour; he showed that the commission was not a court of law or its findings -a judgment, but that its finding was only -the opinion of Mr. Justice Landry and of gentlemen associated with him; and he proceeded to Tiddle the report made, and there was a controversy between him and Mr. Crocket. No one pretended-I never pretended-that the opinion of Mr. Justice Galt was final. It was simply the opinion- of Mr. Justice Galt, a man of high character, at one time an eminent member of the bar, a man selected by the Government to be a justice , of the court of Manitoba-and I think it was a good appointment according to everybody. He gave his opinion. But I never contended that the opinion of Mr. Justice Galt was final; it could be discussed and it will be for Parliament, or fo-r the Legislature of Manitoba primarily, to determine whether or not the report is well founded. The Government have taken the position that the opinion of Mr. Justice Tellier and Mr. SEPTEMBER 1, 1917
Justice McLeod is final; 'but their opinion has no more weight than the opinion of Mr. Justice Galt. It has to be laid; upon the table of the House, it has to be discussed by the House, because it is the result of action taken by the Government, and the Government having taken that action, rightly or wrongly, the result is subject to be revised by this Parliament. But between the report of one judge and the report of two judges, there is no difference whatever. When my friends say that the judgment of Mr. Justice Galt has been revised by a court of higher jurisdiction, that is all sophistry and fallacy. Mr. Justice Tellier and Mr. Justice McLeod occupy no higher standing than Mr. Justice Galt. What is the chief justice of any court? He has no more power than any other judge; he has the same rank and standing. The only difference between one report and the other is that, in the case of the latter commission, the late Minister of Public Works was a party to choosing the two men who sat upon the report of Mr. Justice Galt.


My right hon. friend, by making a long speech concerning Mr. Justice Galt, cannot get away from the statement made the other day and repeated to-day.


Which?


That there was no reference to the evidence on the motion made in this House in 1909-that we did not rely upon the evidence. That is not according to facts, although the right hon. gentleman has repeated it to-day.


We may discuss that.


You find in Judge Crocket's speech column after column of references to the evidence. My right hon. friend knows that, and yet he said in the House a month ago, and repeated to-day, that our motion was not founded on evidence, and that there was no reference to the evidence.


If you pass me the volume I shall quote your own words.


I admit that I launched the motion, and that I had not the evidence before me; I made my speech on the report.


That is what I said the other day.


But it does not follow from that that the motion was not supported" by evidence. It was supported by evidence quoted by Mr. Crocket during four and one-half hours. When the statement is made that it was not. referred to by Mr. Crocket, although !he had it in his possession, the inference is that he knew his statements would not be corroborated by the evidence.


The inference is that my hon. friend had the evidence and would not use it because it was against his own motion.


What was said or was
not said, what was done or not done, in 1909 will not answer the question asked by the hon. member for Halifax (Mr. A. K. Maclean). This discussion arose out of that hon. gentleman's question. He asked what authority the Government had for asking this House to pay the $5,500 set out in this item. The Secretary of State (Mr. Meighen) replied that the Government had the authority of Parliament. When pressed he ex-piained that by that reply he meant that Parliament had passed the Inquiries Act and that, as the Commission which whitewashed the late Minister of Public Works was appointed under the Inquiries Act, therefore the Government had the authority of Parliament for doing what it did. My hon. friend the member for St. John joined issue with the Secretary of State upon that reply, and I submit that the position taken by the hon. member for St. John is entirely correct, and that it is borne out by the terms of the submission or reference to the McLeod-Tellier Commission. I have not the terms of the Order in Council here-the Secretary of State referred to them- but I have under my hand the report of the judges Tellier and McLeod. The first paragraph of that report recites the facts and circumstances relating to their appointment, and referring to the Order in Council appointing them, which was based upon the Inquiries Act, they state that by that Order they were empowered and directed to conduct an inquiry and investigation for the purpose of reviewing and considering the evidence taken by Mr. Justice Galt, and to review and consider his report and findings on such evidence, and to report whether such evidence sustains or supports the findings of the said Commissioner as set forth in suGh report in so far as they reflect upon or prejudicially affect the honour or integrity of the Honourable Robert Rogers, or the honesty of his dealings or transactions.



The very terms of the Order in Council appointing the Commission, I submit, bear out the contention of the hon. gentleman from St. John that, in this case, the Government is straining the Inquiries Act beyond its uttermost limits when it seeks to justify itself in asking this House to vote a sum of money to pay these gentlemen for the services they rendered in connection with this Commission. Obviously, as the hon. gentleman from St. John pointed out, the Inquiries Act relates only to matters over which this Parliament has jurisdiction. This Commission was not appointed to consider anything of that kind. It was appointed to consider matters arising out of Mr. Rogers' connection with other things, when he was a member of another Government, before he came to Ottawa at all. I submit, the very terms of the Order in Council itself, which are referred to, and briefly extracted in the first paragraph of the Tellier-McLeod report, establish the soundness of the position taken by the hon. gentleman from St. John, and justify the question asked by the hon. gentleman from Halifax.


I cannot understand why the matter of the report of Mr. Justice Landry, of the Supreme Court in New Brunswick, should be referred to in connection with this vote. Neither do I understand why the matters which were the subject of a debate in connection with that report should be dragged into this discussion.
There is obviously a great distinction between the two matters. In the discussion upon the New Brunswick report, the conduct of the present member for St. John- formerly a minister of the Crown-was in question. It is true it had relation to matters which occurred in the administration of provincial affairs. This Parliament is supreme in anything in reference to the conduct of a member of Parliament. It might be quite competent for this House to declare that the conduct of a sitting member at any time in his career was of such a nature as to debar him from sitting in the House, and in that respect and for that Teason, it might be contended at least that this Parliament bad absolute jurisdiction to discuss such matters, and that they might do so with propriety. But this case is altogether different. The judgment of Mr. Justice Galt was not questioned in this Parliament. It was not a subject of discussion here. No charges were preferred against the late Minister of Public Works, Hon. iMr. Rogers, in connection with his 
administration of public affairs in the province of Manitoba. Nobody here in Parliament asked for the appointment of a parliamentary committee, or moved that it be referred to a commission of judges. He was not asked to defend himself in this House. Parliament never asked for the appointment of a commission. The Government appointed the commission themselves, and I say they had no right or authority to do so and it was absolutely improper. Nothing has been gained by the appointment of the commission. The report does not illuminate the matters at issue in the province of Manitoba. The late Minister of Public Works was to blame a great deal in not being represented at the inquiry in Manitoba. He should have been represented by counsel. The inquiry at Montreal the other day was an ex parte affair. The Government of Manitoba denied the jurisdiction of the commission to make the inquiry- at least they denied the propriety of the inquiry. I say that, on no ground whatever should we be asked to vote this money. If Parliament had asked for an inquiry, all very well and good, we probably should pay the expenses of the commissioner. Parliament never asked for the appointment of a commission; it was the former Minister of Public Works himself who asked the 'Government to appoint such a commission. I submit that it is an unjustifiable thing for Parliament to vote this $5,000. I say, further, the committee should not be asked to vote it, and I move that this amount be struck from the resolution.


Parliament is the custodian of the honour of its members, and the Government to that extent represents Parliament. A minister of the Crown, and a member of this House, had been found, by a tribunal appointed by the province of Manitoba, to be guilty of certain grave offences, which, if true, would disentitle him, in my judgment, to occupy an office under the Crown, or possibly a seat in this chamber. This Parliament, through its Government, appointed this commission. Every member of this House acceded to the request of the hon. member for an enquiry when he pointed out that these charges had been made, and that these unfounded conclusions had been arrived at by the tribunal who considered them. He askeid, not so imuch that the evidence be reviewed, as that two men of eminence should determine whether or not there was any evidence upon which he could be found guilty of the charges made. It is common

ground, it seems to me, to every lawyer in this House, that when a verdict is reached by a jury against evidence you may go to the Court of Appeal, and when the verdict is against the weight of evidence you may go to the 'Court of Appeal, and in either of these two cases you must consider the ques-ion of the sufficiency, so to speak, of the evidence to establish the charges. But there is another ground common to all members of this House engaged in the practice of the legal profession, and that is whether or not there is any evidence at all to submit to the jury, and if there be no evidence to submit to the jury any judgment founded upon that state of facts must inevitably be set aside. Within he last two years I presented unsuccessfully to the Supreme Court here, on behalf of the appellant a case in which the Grand Trunk Pacific was the respondent and in that case the learned judge had left to the jury the question of negligence. The issue in the Supreme Court was whether or not there was any evidence at all to go to the jury upon that issue, and the court here held that the mere fact that the ladder had slipped, was not in itself evidence of negligence, and therefore the verdict of the jury, and the judgment of the court based upon such verdict, must be set aside, because there was no evidence to go to the jury.
They did not enter into any discussion with respect to the credibility of the witnesses; they did not enter into any discussion of the character of the evidence; they merely determined, on a perusal of the record, that there was no evidence whatever to leave to the jury. In this case the Government of this country, speaking for every member of Parliament, determined that the accused minister, in view of the statements made by him, was entitled to have a court of appeal determine whether or not there was any evidence to be left to the jury. Two gentlemen of eminence, one the Chief Justice of New Brunswick and the other an ex-Justice of Quebec, reviewed the evidence, went over the findings, considered the conclusions. Any lawyer in this House, however biased his opinion, or however prejudiced his views may he, will agree that in the testimony referred to in the report of Mr. Justice McLeod and Mr. Justice Tellier there is not a single scintilla of evidence upon which an appellate tribunal would determine that there was any evidence to go to the jury. Of course, as the member for Halifax (Mr. A. K. Maclean) has said, the ex-Minister of Public Works should have been represented, 332*
but he was not. Serene in the consciousness of his own innocence with respect to the charges preferred against him, he was willing that the matter should be heard without his being represented by counsel. Having regard to the circumstanoes, and to the high state of party feeling which prevailed at the time of the hearing before Commissioner Galt, the judges who sat as the appelate court properly concluded that the views of counsel had obtained over the evidence. The counsel who presented the case on behalf of the province did it so powerfully and so strongly that they were able to convince the learned Commissioner Galt that certain charges had been well preferred; that they had been established to his satisfaction.
Hon. gentlemen in this House must put themselves in exactly the same position as that in which the ex-minister found himself. Unfounded in fact, without a scintilla of evidence, without there being a line of testimony to support it, the conclusion arrived at by a tribunal properly constituted by the province of Manitoba was that there was evidence of guilt, when in fact there was none. Would hon. gentlemen not expect the Government of the day, under these circumstances, to ask that a commission be appointed for the purpose of reviewing that testimony-not of reviewing it in the broad sense' of th