I have the honour to inform the House that I have received from the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery the original order of the result of the recount for the Electoral District of the Yukon Territory.


On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to draw the attention of the Government to this article which was published in the Montreal Star of yesterday, and which is entitled: "America will not agree to replace released troops":
The War Department has declined to accede to French proposals whereby some of the French army would be released for agriculture or industries and be replaced at the front by United States troops. This was learned to-day to be the outcome of recent discussions of man-power.
The Government feels that both France and Britain should increase, rather than diminish, their military forces and that they should not expect the United States to furnish soldiers to release Allied soldiers for industry.
The recent revelations in the Maurice-Lloyd George controversy spell to Government authorities the significant fact that Britain had not radically increased her army in the past year. They believe she should have done so, and they think she and France should prepare to make further increases while the United States proceeds with its increase in overseas shipments.
War Department plans contemplate getting 1,500,000 to 2,000,000 men overseas this year. But it is pointed out that in time the American shipments are likely not to exceed replacement needs.


Order. I would ask the hon. member to summarize the article instead of reading it in its entirety, and then put his question.


Just two lines more and I have finished.
Hence, when the United States army reaches 2,000,000, it is likely not to go beyond that figure for some time, unless shipping facilities are much extended.
I wish to ask the Government whether they have any information as to the accuracy of this statement.


I have no official information on the subject, except, of course, we have official information that the various classes in Great Britain have been combed and recombed over and over again in the desire to put into the fighting line every available man. We have been

informed that that has been done to the extent of most seriously interfering with a great many highly important industries of Great Britain.


On the Orders of the Day:
I should like to call the attention of the House to an extract from an article published in the Daily Ontarion, Belleville, under date of Thursday, May 16. The article quotes an extract from Hansard in connection with the Bill respecting the Belleville-Prince Edward Bridge Company, to which my hon. friend from Maisonneuve (Mr. Lemieux) called attention. The article which is under the heading, "Who supplied the misinformation," contains the following extract from Hansard:
Mr. Lemieux: Was Mr. Parliament, the local member for Prince Edward, a party to the
arrangement?
Mr. Richardson: He was a party to it.
Mr. Lemieux: Did he accept the tolls agreed upon, and also the price?
Mr. Richardson: He did.
Mr. Lemieux: And the new conditions?
Mr. Richardson: He accepted the price and the tolls. The ex-reeve of the municipality was also present and also agreed that the tolls were reasonable.
Mr. Lemieux: Then the objecting parties were satisfied?
Mr. Richardson: Yes.
The mistake that happened was this. There was some noise in the House, and when my hon. friend from Maisonneuve asked the question whether Mr. Parliament was a party to the matter, I thought he said "Mr. Porter," the hon. member for West Hastings, who asked me to take charge of the Bill during his absence while attending the assizes in his county. I regret to confess my ignorance, but I did not know that such a gentleman as Mr. Parliament existed, and thinking that my hon. friend said "Mr. Porter," I said, "yes." I do not know Mr. Parliament at all, and I wish to make this explanation in justice to him.


I am very glad for the explanation given by my hon, friend from Springfield, because the day before yesterday I received a telegram from Mr. Parliament denying the statement made by the hon. gentleman, but I knew that a misunderstanding had occurred.


I see, according to the newspapers, he does deny it. There was another little inaccuracy. I stated that the matter had been submitted to the "Ontario"
Government and that the Ontario Government had agreed to give assistance, but I find that the Hansard report says the "Imperial Government." It is easily understood that is an error.


That is an obvious misprint.


On the Orders of the Day:
A few days ago I placed a question on the Order Paper, and I thought that the answer I received was rather peculiar. Am I in order in saying a few words with regard to that.


The hon. member may ask a question, but it is not in order to enter into a discussion. If the hon. member will put a question, he will be in order.


There were several questions. The first question was:
What are the names of the parties who have Connaught Rifle Range rented for pasturing cattle?
The answer was:
Robert Richardson.
The reason I asked the question was because I thought it was beneath the dignity of this country to turn this rifle range into a cattle ranch. The next question was:
What is the amount .paid for rent?
And the answer was:
$925 per annum.
In answer to my question as to the duty of Mr. Holbrook, who lives on the range, I was told that he is caretaker and receives $90 per month, with free house and grounds. What struck me as very curious was that it should take $1,080 to collect $925. There must surely be something wrong.


Order. The hon. member is now proceeding to enter into an argument, and he is, therefore, not in order.


Am I called to order?


The hon. member may put ,a supplemental question on the Order Paper and get his answer in that way.


There will not be time.


The hon. member should proceed in the usual way and put a supplemental question on the Order Paper.
2m


I do not want to be called to order, because I have not spoken very often.


I shall just make one veply.


Order.


On the Orders of the Day:
Has the Prime Minister been handed a certain communication which was addressed to His Excellency the Governor General regarding the last convention of farmers held at Ottawa?


I understood it was to he referred to me, but it has not yet arrived so far as I am aware.


Will the Prime Minister lay it on the Table when he receives it?


I will make any necessary announcement in that regard at a later date.


On the motion of Sir Robert Borden (Prime Minister), Bill No. 97, respecting the Halifax Relief Commission, was Tead the second time and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
On section 1-Act of Nova Scotia ratified:
The purpose of this Bill is merely to confirm an Act of the legislature of the province of Nova Scotia conferring certain powers on the Halifax Relief Commission, and also to provide that the accounts of the commission shall be audited 'by such persons as the Governor in Council may appoint on the recommendation of the Auditor General of Canada. The provincial Act conferred upon the Halifax Relief Commission power to make certain alterations in the streets of the city. My right hon. friend, who knows the city fairly well, will recollect that in the north end the streets run directly up a very steep hill from the water. It is proposed that as that district has Ibeen completely devastated, the commission shall have power to run certain of the main arteries of the city diagonally along the hill so as to secure a much better grade, and that for that pur-
[CIr. Speaker.]
pose they shall have power to acquire or expropriate the land that is necessary for making these alterations. Those are the principal features of the Bill. The provincial Act confers! upon the Halifax Relief Commission certain powers which could not properly, in the first instance at least, be conferred by this Parliament.


As I understand the explanation of the Prime Minister, this Bill is simply to confirm, so far as our confirmation may be necessary, an Act passed 'by the legislature of Nova Scotia.


And to provide that the' accounts of the commission shall be audited.


When a decision' has been reached by the Commission, which I do not at all criticise, will it be submitted to the Council?


Oh, yes.


I see by the newspapers that the Commission intend to do some modern town planning in Halifax, something which very generally occurs after a big fine in a large city. For instance, some years ago a fire destroyed the city of Trois Rivieres, which is possibly one of the oldest cities in Canada. After the fire the city authorities decided to remodel the town plan and to have modern improvements, which have been of great benefit to the city itself. I suppose the Halifax Relief Cbmmission will do something of the same kind. If so, a large expenditure will be involved, and I should like to know whether the Commission, which we can trust to act honestly and intelligently, will submit the proposed expenditure to the Governor in 'Council. Will Council have the final say before the expenditure is made?


The 'Commission have always reported to the 'Governor in Council before taking any step that involves a considerable expenditure. One of [DOT]their reports, which has been confirmed by Order in Council, was laid on the table of the House early lin the session. Before proceeding further along 'the line which I have just indicated, the lObairanan of the Commission came to Ottawa and1 made an oral (Statement to (Council, in which he outlined certain proposals, andi this will be followed later by a written report. As to expropriating the land, the opinion of the Commission is that very little expenditure will he occasioned; that is to say, the land acquired will pretty nearly, if not alto-

gether, compensate tor the land that rer quires to be expropriated. As far as town planning is concerned, if it is carried out under the direction of the Commission so that buildings (and the material and labour for buildings can be contracted for on a large scale, it is believed the work can be done with much less expenditure than if it were undertaken by individuals. Furthermore, the improvement in the appearance of the town 'and the comfort of the people will be very decidedly enhanced.


If I might touch on a subject which is germane to the matter under discussion, I would ask my hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries if his department, after the revelations that were made at the investigation into the Halifax disaster, has taken drastic measures to prevent similar accidents in the future. I am told that the Halifax Pilotage Commission managed its business very badly, -and that the minister has received reports tending to show that only by a miracle have similar accidents been averted . before. As we are going to spend a very large sum of money to repair the damage that was done, and Canada will willingly bear this expenditure, yet, may we expect that the Department of Marine and Fisheries will exercise proper supervision over the pilotage system in ihe harbour of Halifax?


I am very
glad to give that information. The commission appointed some months ago made [DOT] a very thorough investigation into the pilotage system at the port of Halifax, and I thought hon. members were all aware that after the report of th-.t commission which I promptly laid on the table of the House, the pilotage system of Halifax was taken directly under the control of my department, bringing Halifax into exactly the same position in that respect, as the ports of Montreal and Quebec. I have appointed a very capable man as superintendent of the Halifax pilotage system in the person of Captain Lindsay, who has had very many years of seafaring experience and holds a master mariner's certificate. For a great number of years he had charge of some of the largest ocean-going steamers of the White Star line, and is most competent in every way. He has direct charge of the pilots of the port of Halifax, and he reports to the Department of Marine and Fisheries. The commission-which is investigating the pilotage systems in this country is now on its way to the Pacific coast, where it will
thoroughly investigate the system in vogue at Vancouver, Victoria and Nanaimo harbours, and if the commission reports in favour of placing the pilotage systems at these ports under a superintendent of pilots, as is now the case in Montreal, Quebec and Halifax, I can assure my hon. friend I shall see that that is done.
In regard to the handling of high explosives in the port of Montreal, I informed the hon. member some months ago that I had taken immediate steps to see that all high explosives were loaded many miles east of Montreal. Special sheds have already been constructed at that point and high explosives will be safeguarded in every possible way so as to avoid the recurrence of such a terrible catastrophe as occurred in Halifax. I have had drawn up stringent regulations, governing not only the handling of these high explosives at Pointe aux Trembles east of Montreal, but also the movement of munitions ships coming in and going out of the port of Montreal and while in the channel between Montreal to Quebec. These regulations are now in force .and I can assure the hon. member that every precaution is being taken.


I am very well satisfied with the explanation given by my hon. friend with the rider that he has ingeniously shifted the explosives from Montreal, where he resides and which he represents, partly to my own bonstituency of Maison-neuve. I do not know why these explosives should be shifted to Maisonneuve. At all events, I have full confidence in my hon. friend's, regulations and I hope that extra precautions will be taken to safeguard the Pointe aux Trembles and Longue Pointe people against any possible accident. Since the castastrophe at Halifax I have heard any number of people in Montreal expressing their fear that a similar accident might happen on the island of Montreal, but I am satisfied that the regulations enacted by my hon. friend will prevent that.
Mr. BALLAINiTYNiE:	My hon. friend
knows the location of the port of Montreal very well. I /would not want him or any citizen of Maisonneuve to think that any high explosives are going to be loaded there. They are going to be loaded four or five miles below.
Bill reported.
On the motion for the third reading.


I forgot to ask my right hon. friend the Prime Minister if any limit

was put on the amount to be expended at 'Halifax.
'Sir ROBERT BORDEN: Yes. So far as this Government is concerned, there is a limit fixed by Order in Council. The sum amounts altogether to $12,000,000.
(Mr. LEMIEUX: Wh.at was received from the various provinces and states? I understand there were large subscriptions made.


Speaking from recollection-I will not .be sure of this-the total amount is in the neighbourhood of $20,000,000.


And these moneys are administered by this commission?


By this commission.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the third time.


On the motion of Sir George Foster (Minister of Trade and Commerce) that the amendments imade by the Senate to Bill No. 20, to amend the Inspection and Sale Act (Hay and Straw Inspection), be concurred in:
What are the amendments, please?


The first amendment made was in section. 340, adding two standards for dyke hay. That was particularly for the Maritime Provinces. There was no such standard provided for in the Bill as it .passed this House. On representations which were made from the growers of dyke and marsh hay in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, two standards for dyke hay were established, as follows:
(h)	No. 1 Dyke shall he timothy and couch with not more than one-eighth of clover or other tame grasses mixed;
(i)	No. 2 Dyke shall, ibe timothy and couch with not more than one-third of clover or other tame grasses mixed, of fair colour, sound and well cured.
In the same section, in paragraph (i), the word " or " has been, placed between the words "grassy" and "stained," so as to make it read " grassy or stained." In consequence of the addition of (h) and (i) in reference to. dyke hay, there is a change in the lettering of the different subsections. After section 340E there has been added section 340F, which provides that:
"34'OE. Every seller of baled hay or straw in Canada shall affix to every bale of hay or straw 
sold or offered for sale, a tag having thereon plainly written and ligible, .his name and business address, and the weight of the hale. Such tag shall be securely fastened to -the .bale and shall be of not less than one and one-half inches in width and three inches in length.
A penalty of $5 for each violation of this provision is attached.
Amendments concurred in.


On the motion, of the Hon, O. J. Doherty, (Minister of Justice), Bill No. 99, to amend the Act of the present session intituled: an Act to amend tlhe Supreme Court Act, was read a second time and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Boivin in the chair.
Will the minister explain the purpose of this Bill?


The Committee will recollect that during the present session we passed an Act to amend the Supreme Court Act, and one of the provisions of that Act made applicable to the other provinces the restrictions upon the right of appeal contained in the Supreme Court Act with regard to the province of Ontario. After the Act had been passed, the suggestion came from some of the judiciary in the province of Nova Scotia, that it would deprive the parties in certain pending cases of the right of appeal; and the purpose of the present Bill is to add to the Act which recently passed, a provision that the particular section in question shall not apply to pending cases. I rather think that the weight of authority in jurisprudence leads to the belief that this provision is not necessary, and that the Act would not apply to pending cases in any event, but there can be no harm done in making quite clear that such :s the intention of Parliament. I think it would be obviously unfair to deprive the man, whose action has, already been instituted under a particular condition of the law, of a recourse to which he was entitled before he instituted his suit.


Since the appointment of ad hoc judges has been authorized by recent legislation, have any such judges sat in the Supreme Court?


I must admit that I have hot followed the sittings of the court, and I am not in a position to answer the question at present, but I will make inquiry and acquaint the hon. gentleman with the result.
Bill reported and read the third time.


On the motion of Hon. Mr. Doherty, Bill No. 98 (Letter V of the Senate) to amend the Canadian Patriotic Fund Act, 1914, was read the second time, and the House went into Committee thereon.
On section 1-Objects of the corporation:
Will the Minister of Justice explain the change made by this provision.


The change consists simply in making it clear that the " residence " required, is residence on the part of the beneficiaries. Personally I have no doubt that the section as it stood meant residence on the part of beneficiaries, but from the way in which the phrase was constructed it was possible to suggest that the relatives residing anywhere, of a man who happened to be resident in Canada when he joined the forces, were entitled to the benefit of this fund. That is not what was intended, and that is not what was carried out, but as recently there has been a suggestion that that was what ought to have been done, it has been deemed desirable to make it perfectly clear that the fund is to be for the benefit of relatives of soldiers -wives, children, and so forth-resident in Canada.


I do not see the Acting Minister of Finance in his seat or my friend from St. Antoine (Sir Herbert Ames) who is the chairman of the Patriotic Fund. I may say that the Canadian Patriotic Fund has accomplished wonders since the beginning of the war. To my own personal knowledge, the fund has extended its bounty, not only to tihe families in Canada, of our own soldiers, but also to the familier of Belgian and French reservists. With these latter I am more especially concerned, because in Montreal I have had several interviews with members of such families, and the Patriotic Fund has always responded generously to the request for assistance made by them. The other day a question was mooted during the Budget debate by the hon. member for St. Antoine, and since then I have received a letter asking for my views as one of the incorporators of the Patriotic Fund-which possibly was sent all the other incorporators in Canada-regarding the future policy as to the Patriotic Fund. In other words, should the Patriotic Fund moneys be collected in future from the public, or should
the Government inaugurate the imposition of a special tax upon the whole of the people of the Dominion for the purpose of maintaining this fund. I have answered unhesitatingly that after four years' experience of individual subscriptions, gathered from all parts of Canada, though it might be an excellent incentive to future generosity to depend upon the public, the Canadian Patriotic Fund was an organization which, in my opinion, should be supported by a special tax levied by the Cam adian Government. It seems to me that it is only fair that the responsibility of caring for the families of our soldiers should be borne by the state.
It is not fair that a few individuals be specially singled out to subscribe and others ignored. Summing up my argument, I think that the levy of a special tax of one mill on the dollar for instance would be received with pleasure by the whole people of Canada. I know that many people in very ordinary circumstances have hesitated to subscribe because they thought their subscription was too modest, whilst the names of large subscribers were being paraded before the public. Every year a whirlwind campaign is organized in our large cities, and the names of the same large subscribers, with the amount of their contributions, are published'. I do not say that our well-to-do people subscribe for the pleasure of parading their names before the public. Far be it from my mind to suggest such a thing. My contention is that it is not fair that only one class of the public should be publicly assessed for the maintenance of the Canadian Patriotic Fund. I hope the Government next session will accept as its policy the recommendation made this year by our colleague from St. * Antoine (Sir Herbert Ames), the able chairman of the Canadian Patriotic Fund, and impose a special tax, small though it may be, to enable the whole of our people to share in the benevolent work accomplished by that fund. I do not make a special plea for the well-to-do classes or for the middle classes. But I cannot help stating that the people who are specially reached by the income tax and the business tax, and the various municipal and provincial taxes, are the same people who generally speaking, are providing funds for the Canadian Patriotic Fund. I must say too that the poorer classes have heen very generous. They have subscribed anonymously and, after all, the anonymous subscription is perhaps the-most worthy. I believe the country would be pleased to

see a new policy inaugurated by which the fund would be maintained through a small taxation on the whole of the people. I was present in August, 1914, at the special meeting , called by the then 'Governor General, His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught, when the Canadian Patriotic Fund was organized, and I have often thought of the remark made by the right hon. gentleman who leads the Opposition (Sir Wilfrid Laurier) when his views were asked by His Royal Highness as to the method to be pursued in raising the moneys for that fund. Though the right honi. gentleman favoured the incorporation and organization of the Patriotic Fund, and though Ihe said that the public, generally speaking, would respond .magnificently to the requests made to replenish its coffers, yet he stated that before long there would be an urgent request on the part of the public that the assessments be levied generally by the state. The families of the soldiers are the care of the state, and it is its duty to see that they are maintained in proper comfort. I throw out tfhese few remarks in the hope that the Government next session will adopt the views expressed by the chairman of the Canadian Patriotic Fund1, and will adopt the wise policy of making the -state responsible for the -main-tenianoe of itftie families o-f our soldiers who are in need.


May I have a word about this -section? I quite agree "with the principle enunciated by the last speaker, that the country at large should1 now take over the fund and provide for it. Looking at the meaning of this section, I am ' somewhat -alarmed about it. I would like to ask the minister if I am to understand that [DOT]the section means that the Patriotic Fund in future shall apply to the wife or family of every French reservist, every Italian reservist-


Yes, as it always has in the past.


-every Portuguese reservist-


It will apply to the wife of every man who is fighting in the Allied armies-


-every Russian reservist-


-if that wife is resident in Canada. And I may say it .always has so applied.


, I was not aware that it always had so applied. It seems to me that
 '
the Government should hesitate a little. This country will have enormous burdens to hear both through the Patriotic Fund and in every other way. I think Canada is pledging itself now quite prematurely, at least until -we know the kind of immigration we will have. Are w-e to provide for every indigent of Europe, sim-ply because of the fact that a soldier's wife happens to come here, probably sent here by the country in which she lives, to get rid of her, she probably not being the most desirable individual? The proposition- staggers me. I do n-o-t think that legislation of this kind should go too fast. I would wait a hit. This matter can afford to wait. If the wife of every Italian -s-oldier must be provided for by Canada, it will be an incentive to- Italy to get rid of them and send them here and put them upon our fund. The same applies to- those of every Allied force, including Russia. I apeak full of patriotism, and in favour of this country doing what it can for our friends the allied nations.
This section might well stand until next session, when the future policy of the Government will -be laid down and when Canada's needs in. the matter of pensions will be better known, If the principle is- laid down that the Patriotic Fund shall he paid to relatives -of soldiers in any of the allied armies, how long will it toe before pensions are paid on the same basis?


The section that is
-being amended describes- the objects ot tne association: to distribute among the wives, relatives and dependents resident in Canada of soldiers actually serving in the armies -of the Allies. I do not pretend to give the exact wording, tout there is- no doubt that provision has reference to wives and . relatives resident in Canada.


The amendment -says,
"who may become -resident in Canada."
.-Mr. DOHERTY: "Resident in Canada" in the section as it stood was .considered to apply to those resident in Canada not merely -at the time the soldier went away, tout also at the time the assistance was extended. This amendment is- not creating -an obligation on the part of the Patriotic Fund to pay -money to every relative resident in -Canada; it is simply conferring a power. It is true that if we created an obligation on, the part of the fund to distribute its moneys among all relatives of soldiers in the allied f orces who might come here, a flood of people might come to this country in order to obtain -a share of that fund. But we are only defining the classes

of persons to whom it is permissible to distribute the money of the Patriotic Fund. The hon.. member suggested that some of those to whom money might toe distributed might toe most unworthy. I have no doubt that the administrators of the Patriotic Fund will not distribute their money to people of that kind). This amendment is sought toy the administrators of the Patriotic Fund, and it is only to satisfy them that their understanding of the law is correct, and that it is permissible for them to give money to relatives resident in Canada of soldiers who themselves might not have been actually resident here when they enlisted.
12 noon. I do not think that we are exposed to the consequences which the hon. member suggests merely because we make quite clear what are the classes of persons to whom this money may be distributed.


Another provision in
the Act of incorporation makes optional the giving of aid by the Patriotic Fund to any family. The organization is most elaborate. When a request is made by a family for aid, the Patriotic Fund at once sends a committee of two or three ladies to inquire into the circumstances of that family, and in many cases, for good reasons, aid is refused or delayed. Great care is taken to ensure that no aid is granted if it is not needed. The fund has been admirably administered in the district of Montreal. I -said that some of the families of French and Belgian reservists had been helped by the fund. The consuls and their wiv.es, together with members of the Patriotic Fund in Montreal, saw that such families of reservists who needed protection received it. Certainly no abuse was permitted in the administration of the fund.


The point raised by the member for North Perth (Mr. Morp'hy) is well taken, particularly if we have regard to the suggestion made by the member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Lemieux) a little while *ago that the Patriotic Fund should be raised by taxation. That has- always been my own view. 1 do not agree with the member for Maisonneuve that the wealthy are providing the great bulk of the money. The poor people of Canada have given much more largely in proportion to what they have than the wealthy people.


I said that the poor
people had subscribed, but anonymously, and that it was not fair that only certain names should appear before the public.
This taxation should be equalized, and it follows from this argument that the State should provide for the families of our soldiers.


I agree with that. In
all probability steps may be taken next session in that direction. If that is done, why should we tell the officers of the Patriotic Fund that they may pay out this money to relatives of soldiers of the allied armies who never lived in Canada? Why should such persons draw from the moneys raised either by voluntary subscription or by taxation from the Canadian people? Surely our obligations are piling up quickly .enough and largely enough to suggest that if we attend to the relatives of our own soldiers through the patriotic and other funds, we shall be doing our full duty. I agree that the relatives Of French or Belgian reservists resident in Canada who go to fight for the Allies should be looked after. But why should we burden ourselves with the responsibility if looking after relatives of Italians who join their army in their own country, and whose wives or families subsequently come to Canada?
The Minister of Justice says that this provision is not compulsory; that we are simply saying that the officers who handle the Patriotic Fund may assist those people. Why should we give directions at all in the matter? Why not leave the Act as it is at present? The Patriotic Fund is now, if necessary, assisting relatives resident in Canada of soldiers in the different Allied armies. Surely that is sufficient; but for us to give directions that such assistance may toe given to a soldier's relatives who may come into this country in the future after he had enlisted in the Allied forces, is, to my mind, absolutely outside of our duty altogether, and we shall be making a great mistake if we pass this amendment.


I should like to endeavour to make this matter clear. As the hon. member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Lemieux) has pointed out, there is in the existing Act a subsequent provision, which says that there is no right vested in anybody to get the money, and this section simply defines those to whom it may be permissible to pay the money. The principal object of this section is not to include, but to exclude, people. If the interpretation which the hon. member would like to see continued possible, remains possible, our Patriotic Fund will toe liable, so far as there can be liability, or, at least, subject to claims being made-and such claims have been made,-that we should give aid



and assistance to women and children and other dependent relatives living in all parts of the habitable glebe, because the man at the time he enlisted was in Canada. Do hon. gentlemen think that is a more desirable situation, even if there were a question of obligation? As I said before, it is beyond possibility of doubt that whoever may be benefited, nobody is being given an absolute right to be benefited. Do hon. gentlemen think it is desirable that there should be in this country, for instance, dependent relatives of a British soldier, or a French soldier, or a soldier of any other Allied country which is taking part in this war, who are destitute, starving, and that this fund should have tc say: We cannot give you anything; we have no power to give you anything? 'It is not a question of saying, what the hon. gentleman apprehended, namely, that any soldier's relatives who may flock in here will have the right to demand such assistance?


I never said anything of the kind. The minister is wrong. The minister knows that.


That is what I understood to be the apprenension.


I think the minister is endeavouring to becloud the issue.


I shall leave that to the appreciation of the committee. If I am making that endeavour, I hope I shall not be successful. What I was endeavouring to point out, in order to pierce through the clouds-


The matter is- quite clear.


-that have been caused to circulate in the atmosphere, was that all that we are trying to do is to remove the suggestion that it may be impossible for the Patriotic Fund to assist dependents, actually resident in 'Canada, of our own soldiers, if it happened that such soldiers were not in Canada when they enlisted. You may have the case of a Canadian absent from Canada, because there are known cases of Canadian men who have enlisted on the other side and whose dependents are here, and it would not be impossible for it to be contended, if the other interpretation is necessarily right, that such relatives would not be entitled to relief. I hope to make the matter clear, notwithstanding the motive that is attributed to me, that there is no question of creating an obligation of any kind, nor of creating an absolute right of any kind. All that is sought to be made clear is that the Patri-
IMr Dothert y. ]
otic Fund is not precluded from assisting, is not in a position where it is impossible for it to do anything for the wives and children or other dependents residing in Canada of a man who is in the Allied fighting forces engaged in the present war.


The minister has sought to convey the impression that hon. members opposing the amendment have pretended to argue that a right is given. No one has argued that, and I think the minister might as well get that out of his head at once and get down to the proper meaning of the section.


The right is inferred.


It is, of course, inferred. It may or may not be exercised. The section reads:
The objects of the Corporation shall be to collect, administer and distribute the fund hereinbefore mentioned for the assistance in case of need of such waves, children and dependent relatives as are or may become resident in Canada, of officers and men who, during the present war, may be on active service with the naval and military forces of the British Empire and Great Britain's allies."
That covers the whole gamut. It takes in the Japanese. A subject of Japan in the naval or military service of that country comes under the scope of this section. Will the minister tell me what Japan has done for Canada in the way of establishing a patriotic fund to take care of Canadians stranded in that country? The Italian is taken care of under this section. Has corresponding legislation been passed in Italy to take care of Canadians who may be forcibly detained there, unable to get home and compelled to seek a living in that country? Have the authorities in the loyal parts of Russia made a reciprocal provision to provide for stranded Canadians? Whence springs this unbounded generosity of the Canadian people that, in this time of stress, we must, for all time to come, put upon the statute books a provision which is heralded to the world that we, of Canada, are so affluent, and rolling in wealth, so unburdened by the stress of war, that we can say to the world: Send all your dependents here; we do not promise to take care of them, but we have a provision which says: If you are worthy, we shall take care of you? If it does not say that, it does not say anything. I object to the principle of the Bill being put forward at the present. This is no time for us to hold out these invitations to come here and get under the wing of the Canadian Patriotic Fund. Let me put this argument to the minister: The

minister has argued that this section gives no right. Will he deny that, if there are 150,000 soldiers' wives and children, relatives and dependents, coming into Canada, and if they are deserving, this section means that they shall be helped? I submit it does. It would be cruel to argue in any other way. That being the meaning of the section, what I object to is the probable, and prospective burden Canada is assuming at a time which, far from being in affluent circumstances and untouched by the stress of war, we are straining every effort to assist our own dependent people.
At a time when our soldiers -say they are not getting big enough pensions, when their widows siay they are not being properly taken care of, when the dependents of our soldiers are none too well taken care of, I object to the principle of this Bill, which would launch us out on a scheme of indiscriminately taking care of every Italian soldiier, every Portuguese soldier, every Japanese soldier, every French soldier, the soldiers, in fact, of all the Allied armies and their wives and dependent children. The principle is too altruistic, too premature. Let us wait a little. Let us see how our balance sheet stands and provide for those for whom it is our bounden duty to provide, before extending the scheme to others.


The hon. member for Perth and the hon. member for Assini-boia object to the principle of this Bill. May I remind them that they have already agreed during this session to the principle of a Bill which goes a great deal further than this Bill? The Bill before us empowers the Patriotic Fund to assist the wives, children and dependent relatives of officers and men who during the present war may be on active service with the naval and military forces of the British Empire and Great Britain's allies. Earlier in the session we passed a Bill intituled " An Act respecting the Department of Soldiers Civil Re-Establishment, which created a department and set up machinery for the purpose not only of assisting the dependents of the allied soldiers during the war but of looking after the comfort and welfare of the soldiers of all allied countries, and their dependents, who have fought during the war, whether now resident in Canada or whether they come to Canada after the war. Section 5 of that Bill reads:
The Minister shall have the management and control of all matters relating to the re-establishment in civil life and activities of all persons who have served in the naval or military forces of His Majesty or any of His Majesty's
139}
allies during the present war, and the dependents of such persons, and the administration of any statutes or of any regulations or orders enacted or made by the Governor in Council for such purpose. [DOT]
When that Bill was before the House I took the liberty of drawing attention of hon. members to the fact that we were consecrating ourselves to a very serious principle indeed. I said we were entering into a very large contract in undertaking such a scheme, but the views I then expressed were not supported iby any other member of the House, and everybody seemed to agree that this country should look after the welfare of all soldiers who have fought in the Allied armies during the war, whether they came to this country after the war or not. Surely there is a great deal less objection on our part to helping the dependents in this country of any of the soldiers of the Allied armies than to helping the dependents of soldieTs who may not become residents of this country until after the war, and as I have already pointed out, this House unanimously agreed to do the latter when the Soldiers' Civil Re-establishment Bill was passed.


It seejns to me the objection taken to this Bill arises either from a misapprehension of the whole scheme of the Patriotic Fund, or from the fact that the gentlemen who raise these objections have not had very much experience with the practical administration of the Act. If the apprehensions of the hon. member for North Perth were justified, it would mean that the intention of the Act was that people should be assisted from the Patriotic Fund year after year, on and on and on, or as the hon. member expressed it, forever without limitation. The Patriotic Fund has as its expressed object the giving of assistance to relatives and dependents of soldiers only while they are on active service, and not beyond the duration of the war. As the Act has nothing whatever to do with assisting the dependents of soldiers or the soldiers themselves after the war is over that seems to cut away the ground on which the hon. gentleman (Mr. iMorphy) built up his argument that we were assuming an obligation for which we would be responsible year after year without limitation. My understanding of the Patriotic Fund is that our implied obligation ceases, even in the case of our own soldiers, as soon as they are discharged from the army. Let me say, as one who has had something to do with the practical administration of the fund in Northern Ontario, that the very thing this clause seems to me to be designed to over-

come has been a very great source of confusion in the past. Misunderstandings have frequently arisen as to whether we had the right under the Act to take care of the families and dependents of French or Italian reservists, for instance, who happened to be resident in this country, and I have always taken the ground that it mattered not whether the soldier was Belgian, French, Italian, or Japanese, if you wish, so long as he was fighting for the Allies in one of the the theatres of war and' his dependents were domiciled in Canada.


We do not object to that.


The amendment to this Act cannot override the principle of the Patriotic Fund itself. It is simply interpreting what may be done under the Act. The operation of the Act at the present time, as I understand it, is confined, to the relatives and dependents' of men who are actually at war and does not go beyond the duration of the war, but if the hon. member for North Perth were correct and the operation of the Act was to continue indefinitely year after year I would certainly say that we must stop and consider, because in that case we could not undertake to pay suitable pensions to our soldiers and their dependents and help them from the Patriotic Fund as well and as a matter of fact we are not doing that now. I have had to deal with many cases myself where the contribution from the Patriotic Fund ceased immediately the soldier who was discharged from the army had his pension fixed.


I am thoroughly out of accord with what the hon. member for Lunenburg has just said, because his proposal would cut out the French and Belgian reservists.


It would also cut out the British soldier.


In my county there was a French reservist, a man over forty, with a wife and a number of children, who was called to the colours. His family have been helped by the Patriotic Fund, and' everybody is delighted to help them because they should be helped. I believe I express the feeling of the House when I say that we are all willing to take care of the families of the soldiers of our Allies who were resident in Canada at the time they left to join the colours. But this law goes a little further. It is true it does not oblige us to help the families of soldiers who have come in since the war, the heads of whose families may never have lived in Canada. To illustrate that, let me take the special case in my county. Suppose the wife of that French reservist had a sister living in France, and it is left to the generosity of the Patriotic Fund in Canada to take care of that sister and her children. She says: "I will move out to Canada and establish myself there." If 'they come they will be welcome, and any persons who want to help them should be free to do so, but the country should not assume, or infer, an obligation of that kind. The Minister of Justice is an old law professor of mine, and I would not set up my legal opinion against his for one moment.


Why not?


Because I am a modest man. There is no obligation stipulated, but there is an obligation inferred. If we create a corporation for the express purpose of distributing money among people who may become resident in Canada, although their fathers or brothers have never lived in Canada, we certainly invite people to come to Canada in the expectation of receiving some benefit from this fund. If the hypothetical woman, whom I have mentioned for the purpose of illustration, comes to Canada and establishes herself next door to her sister, in my county of Brome, would she not feel that under this law the Patriotic Fund should give her something? She would be quite reasonable in taking that view. It is a mistake to hold out any illusory hopes of that sort. I want to support the suggestion made by the hon. member from Saskatchewan (Mr. Turriff), whose

constituency I have forgotten, but whose constituency I should have known because he was on our side of the House last year. He says that the Patriotic Fund should not depend on private subscription but on taxation. He is quite right. So long as the	country	raised its armed
forces by the voluntary system, there was no reason why we should not raise money to help the relatives of soldiers through the voluntary system, but once we adopted the .system of compulsory military service, surely it is only right that the same principle should he followed for the purpose of raising a fund to support and help the relatives of soldiers. As>
a matter of fact what is often urged, is that conscription is a matter of taxation. You would never think of raising money for public purpose by private subscription. That was an argument used by the oonscriptionist. This is a conscriptionist Government and it should be logical and consistent with itself. If we raise an, army by compulsion, and if we raise money to look after the wives and children of the soldiers who are in that araiy, I would, consider that to he an obligation of the state just the same as the soldier's pay is an obligation of the state. You should he consistent in this and raise the money required for looking after the wives and relatives, of soldiers by taxation. The way the Patriotic Fund is raised now is largely a matter of certain people, representing no one 'but themselves, assessing their fellow-citizens-. When a patriotic committee of rich .and powerful people, many of them rich bankers, go out, among the business people of a large city and collect subscriptions, .for the Patriotic Fund, they are not appealing, to. the spirit of benevolence. They are practically, in many cases, .assessing their fellow-citizens and telling them, if you will allow a vulgar expression, to come across with a certain amount of money. I do not like, that way of raising money by ordinary voluntary procedure. I think it 'best that money for State purposes should, be raised by the State itself.


I am sorry I was not in when this Bill was introduced in order that I might have found out why this .amendment was proposed. As far as I have heard, the Patriotic Fund has been well administered and has been working out very satisfactorily. This, clause may be construed to mean that the Patriotic Fund may be continued after the man has returned. My hon. friend from East Algoma (Mr. G. B.
Nicholson) pointed out that that was not the intention. My experience is the same as his. When the men return, get their three .months' pay with their discharge, and get their pension, the Patriotic Fund no. longer supplies them. I would like to say a word in reference to what the hon,. gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. MoMaster) has, said as to the method of collecting the Patriotic Fund. I have long thought that voluntary subscriptions were largely a .matter of coercion. In the section of the country from which I come we only once took up an ordinary voluntary subscription. After that we adopted the plan of raising the fund by municipal taxation. That plan has been very satisfactory, and it has been most satisfactory in, so far as the administration is concerned. I absolutely agree with the suggestion that the fund should be raised by taxation. If the Dominion Government are in a position to- collect a tax for it, they are surely the ones to do it. I do- not think it should toe called any longer a Patriotic Fund. I think the money should be given in the form of extra separation allowance in accordance with the number of children in a 