On Motions being-called:
May I ask the indulgence of
the House for just a moment while I read a letter which reached me on Saturday last, and which I think expresses so admirably the spirit of the young men of Canada that it is desirable to give it publicity at this time. I shall not give the name or the address of the writer, a boy of sixteen years, because I know he did not write the letter in order that his name might come before the public. It is as follows:

Toronto, Onit., April 18, 1918. Sir Robert Borden,
Ottawa.
Dear Sir,

I am asking- yon a favour to help me get in the army. I am only a boy of 16 years and want to give my life for my country. I have tried' many times but failed1. Why I am asking you is because you are like a King to Canada and' if you said' a word It would help me more than anything else. My dad has been to the Front and now hie is back again, and you have taken my brother, and now I am the only one left to do something for .my country. And, Sir, if you only knew how I am going crazy to do something to gain honour. I am strong and healthy, I have never had any sicknes in my life. I was just reading the paper this morning and saw what you said "Canadians must hold the line." They oanniot do it without men. Please will you give me a position in that line I don't call myself a man but I might help to hold that line. So please give me a chance, the line is more valuable -than my life.
Tours very truly. -
The boy lived on Melinda street, in Toronto. Two sentences struck me as really remarkable-the one in which (he sayS, " now I am the only one left to do something for my country." He might naturally and most reasonably have said, " I am the only one left to do something for my family," but he did not say that; he said, " I am the only one left to do something for my country." And then observe the last words of the letter, " the line is more valuable than my life." .
I am s-ure that that letter does indeed express the spirit of the Canadian people, and as long as that spirit endures, and I am confident it will always endure, we need have no fear for the destiny of our country whether in this war or after the war.


Report of Hydrometric Surveys (Stream measurements for the calendar year 1916).- Hon. Mr. Meighen.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by asterisks.)
1.	What has been the cost, respectively, of
(a)	dredging, (b) construction of wharves, (c) breakwaters, and (d) repairs, in connection with the harbours of Halifax, N.S., St. John, N.B., Victoria, B.C., and Vancouver, B.C., since October, 1911, to the present dale?
2.	What has been the total expenditure in connection with the construction and repairs of dry docks in the harbours of Halifax, N.S., and St. John, N.B. ?


1.	Railways and Canals:
(a)	St. John Long Wharf.. ..$	10,642 68
Halifax-in connection with
foundations and berths-
Ocean Terminals	 2,149,829 57
(b) Construction of Wharves-	-
St. John	 Ni]
Halifax-Pier 2 and Shed .. 1,285,452 24
Halifax Ocean Terminal Wharves, not including Ailing from Ocean Terminals, Railways or expenditures on
railways	_.. 4,026,835 83
(c)	Breakwaters-St John..'.. Nil Breakwaters, Halifax	 401,656 57
(d) Repairs to wharves and Sheds-
St. John, not including elevator
and conveyors	
Halifax	
Public Works :
Halifax, N.S. .. Nil.
St. John, N.B. :
(a) . . ..	.... $5,352,277	12
(b).. ..		97
(c).. ..	. . . . 1,372,037	49(d).. ..	. . .. 4,857	04
39,606 93 68,408 67

ram.uuvci,	.
(a)	$1,496704	03(b)	
2,685,683	28(c)	
Nil.(d)	
Nil.
4,182,387 31
Victoria, B.C.:
(a)	$1,104,771	77(b)	
2,641,918	06(c)	
2,310,525	57(d)	
1,322'	46
6,058,537 86
Grand Total	$20,384,370 79
Marine and Fisheries:
(b) The Department of Marine :
Dartmouth, N.S.:
1915- 16	$ 16,019 79
1916- 17	 2,964 46

St. John, N.B.:
1911-12	$ 69,000 00
1913-	14	
118,033	881914-	15	
80,349	221915-	16. . . .-	
58,937	461916-	17	
11,392	22

Victoria, B.C., Depot :
1914- 15		25,415 65
1915- 16	 655 27
1916- 17		22,493 80-

2.	No expenditure in so far as the Department of Railways and Canals -is concerned.
The Department of Marine has no information.
Public Works:
Halifax old Graving Dock: This dock was *built in 1889 by the Halifax Graving Dock Co., Ltd., and has received from this department, under authority of Act 45 Viet.,

ch. 17, an annual subsidy' of $10,000 for the twenty years ended 30th September, 1909. Damages caused by the explosion of 6th December, 1917, are now being attended to and paid lby this department; expenditures tO' 31st March, 1918, $15,745.
Halifax new Graving Dock: Preliminaries, etc., $4,451.52.
This department has expended no money on any graving docks at St. John, N. B.
St. LAMBERT POSTMASTER.


1.	Has the Government been made aware that in the federal election of 1917, liquor was stored in the home of the Postmast#! of St. Lambert, in the county of Lfrvis?
2,	Does the Government know that said liquor has been seized by Excise officers?


1.	No information.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
present date, and how many of such men were British born, and how many Canadian bom?
3.	How many men per province, were liable to Military service under the provisions of The Military Service Act?
4.	How many of these men, per province, reported for Military service up to the present
date?
5.	- How many, per province, claimed exemption before the Local Exemption Boards?
6.	How many claims, per province, were granted by the Local Exemption Boards?
7.	How many appeals were taken by the Military authorities against such exemption?
8.	How many men, per province, claimed their exemption and were subsequently ordered to report?


1.	Militia and Defence: Enlistments under the voluntary system from the beginning of the war until the proclamation putting into force the Military Service Act, i.e., 13th October, 1917, are not available, but the following are the figures to 31st October, 1917:-


1.	Has there been since August, 1914, a person named Jais. Starratt Marshall, of Spa Springs, Annapolis County, in the Active Militia of Canada?
2.	If not, when did he leave the service?
3.	If so, when did he join the service, and what has been his occupation?
4.	What amount has he received during the period in which he was employed?
5.	Has the Government any information as to whether or not whilst in the service he carried on the work of laundryman either in his public or private oapacity?
6.	If in the former capacity, what extra pay did he receive?
Major-General MEWBURN:
1.	Yes.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Appointed to the 69th Annapolis Regiment as 2nd lieutenant on the 8th September, 1896, and is now a captain in that regiment.
4.	No record of this officer having been given any special employment other than as an officer of the regiment when called out for annual training during peace times, when he would receive the pay of his rank.
5.	No.
6.	Answered by No. 5.


1. How many men, per province, enlisted under the voluntary system, from the beginning of the war until the proclamation putting into force The Military Service Act, and how many of such men were British born, and how many Canadian born?
2. How many men per province, enlisted voluntarily since the said proclamation to the
Ontario	
Quebec	
Nova Scotia and P.E.I	
New Brunswick	
Manitoba	
Saskatchewan	
Alberta	
British Columbia and Yukon..
191,632
48,934
23,4136
18,022
52,784
26,111
36,279
42,608
Nationalities-
Canadian born.... British born .... Other nationalities
439,806
197,473
215,769
26,564
439,806
2.	Militia and Defence: Voluntary enlistments since the said proclamation up to and including March 31st, 1918, are not available, but the following are the figures from 31st October, 1917, to 31st March, 1918:
Ontario"	
Quebec	
Nova Scotia and
P.E.I	
New Brunswick ..
Manitoba	
Saskatchewan. ..
Alberta	
British Columbia and Yukon 

8,081, inc. from U.S.A. 3,727,	"	"636,	"	"763,	"	"2,966,	"	"98,	"	"415,	"	"2,021,	"	"
5,618
1,611
212
1,208

Included in this number are 6,775 Class 1 men voluntarily reporting since the said proclamation.
At the present time information with regard to country of birth of these men is not available.
3.	Justice: The information asked for will be found in the Report of Military Service Council laid on the Table and distributed to members.

4.	Militia and Defence: Number of men who have reported for military service who were liable under the provisions of the Military Service Act up to and including March 31, 1918:
Ontario	 13,295
Quebec [DOT]	 3,284
Nova Scotia and	P.E.1	 1,70)9
New Brunswick	 1,502
Manitoba	 4,149
Saskatchewan	 2,609
Alberta	 1,632
British Columbia	and	Yukon.. 2,888
31,068
5,	6, 7 and 8. Justice: The information asked for will be found in the Report of Military Service Council laid on the Table and distributed to members.


Mr. D'ANJOU:
1.	Is Senator (Lt.-Col.) Geo. H. Bradbury receiving a pension from the Pensions Board In Canada ?
2- If so, what is the amount [per annum he is receiving?
3.	On what date was the pension granted? Was it before or after Union Government was formed?
4.	What is the reason given for granting the pension?
5.	Did Lt.-Cbl. Geo, H. Bradbury serve in France?
6.	If so, for what period?
Mr. MoCURDY:
1.	Yes.
2.	$780 per annum.
3.	February 27th, 1918. After.
4.	For disability incurred on service.
5.	Yes.
6.	About two weeks.
'Mr. DESLAURIERS:
1.	What companies manufacturing explosives have loaded their products on board ships in the harbour of Montreal during the last season of navigation?
2* Is the Government aware that on account of a fire which started in one of! the ships in the harbour of (Montreal, a disaster somewhat similar to the Halifax disaster was barely averted?
3.	Is the Government aware that on another occasion, in the harbour of Montreal, when explosives were toeing put on board, a large quantity of said explosives fell to the bottom of a ship, through the breakage of a cable, thereby again exposing Montreal to a great peril?
4.	If so, will the Government bind' these companies bo effect their loadings outside the limits of Montreal for the present season of navigation?
5.	Is the Government taking necessary steps towards protecting war munition depots, as well as the people residing in their vicinity, by establishing lightning rods or adopting some other means of counteracting the effects of lightning?
iMr. Burrell. 1
1.	The Government have no information.
2.	No.
3.	No.
4.	Under consideration.
5.	The Government will continue to protect munition depots.


1.	What amount, if any, was paid April, 1917, to the Crow's Nest Pasis Coal Company?
2.	Who recommended said amount to be paid to the company?
3.	Under what authority was said amount paid?
4.	For what purpose was it paid?
5.	Is said amount to toe refunded to the Government?


1.	$18,559.88.	.
2.	The Minister of Labour.
3.	That of the Governor General in Council.
4.	To enable the prompt payment to the miners for the period November 16, 1916, to February 5, 1917, of the wage bonus recommended by a commission appointed to report on the cost of living. This action was taken with a view to lessening the danger of a cessation of work in the collieries concerned, such cessation involving a public calamity.
5.	The amounts were advanced to the different mining companies concerned on the understanding that the money would be so far as possible collected from the consumers, the mining companies not being themselves in a position to increase the prices for coal which had been delivered. A considerable amount has been collected from the consumers, hut it has not been possible in dealing with the sums received always to determine if the dealings of a particular consumer have related exclusively to a particular colliery.


1.	Was (Mr. O'Connor, K.C., late Cost of Living Commissioner, ait the time of his appointment, required to report to superior authority in case of trouble with or change in his staff?
2.	Was the said iMr. O'Connor free to make and make public, and as a matter of fact, did he make and make public such reports as he deemed it necessary to make as said Commissioner?


1.	Mr. O'Connor was and is a secretary in the Department of Justice, as to part of hie time, was loaned to. the Department of Labour without any reference to "superior authority."
2.	Yes.


1.	Is H. B. Tremain, M.P., for Hants, Nova Scotia, in the employ of tht Militia Department?
2.	If so, what pay is he drawing?
3.	When was he appointed?
4.	What amount of money has he received?
5.	Is his wife drawing separation allowance?
6.	If so, how much has 'been paid to her to date?
Major-General MEWBURN:
1.	Lt.JColonel H. B. Tremain, M.P., is an officer of the Canadian Expeditionary Force, and is at present on leave without pay.
2.	No pay.
3.	November 9, 1915.
4.	This information is being obtained from the Overseas Military Forces cf Canada.
5 andi 6. Separation allowance has been paid to the wife of this officer, from November 3, 1915, to April 30, 1917. Total payments, $1,076. The account is now closed.


1.	Who is the secretary of the (Minister of Labour?
2.	What is his name?
3.	When was he appointed, and at what salary ?
4.	What is his salary now?
5.	Where is he from?


1 and 2. J. C. McKellar.
3.	April, 1912; $1,600.
4.	$2,000.
5.	St. Thomas.


On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to make an inquiry of the Government with reference to an article in this morning's Montreal Gazette relating to the matter of fixing the price of cheese in Canada for 1918. It is reported that the Dairy Produce Commission yesterday, in Montreal, authorized that the,price of cheese be fixed as follows for the year 1918: 23 cents per pound for No. 1 grade, f.o.b. steamer at Montreal; 22J cents per pound for No. 2 grade, and 22 cents for No. 3 grade. After fully considering the whole situation, the commission unanimously approved of the proposal. A committee was also appointed to take into consideration the matter of fixing the price of condensed milk. The price of condensed milk has an important bearing on the price of cheese, and I wanted to inquire-


The hon. member cannot enter into a discussion of the matter. If he wishes to put a question, he may do so.


Am I in order in reading the statement as it is?


I do not think so. .The hon. member may call the attention of the (Government to the Statement, and put a question with regard to it.


May I ask the Government whether the facts as reported in the Gazette are correct? Is it the intention of the Government to fix the price of other dairy product's so that they will be on a parity with the price fixed for cheese?


In the absence of the Minister of Agriculture, I cannot say definitely whether the report is correct or not; I assume that it is so far as the fixing of the price of cheese is concerned. I will call the attention of the Minister of Agriculture to the remaining portion of my hon. friend's question.	[DOT]


On the orders of the day:
Mr. J. E. PREVOS'T (Terrebonne) (translation) :	Mr. Speaker, before the Orders
of the Day are called, I beg to point out to the Government the following facts as they were reported to me in a letter which I have just received.
It is in further reference to the brutal unjust dealings of the Federal police officers in the carrying out of the Compulsory Military Service Act. Here is the letter addressed to me by a notable citizen of TeTrebonne, in my own county, and which is dated April 24.
Mr. J. E. PrSvost, M.P.,
Ottawa.
Sir,
Since this morning, on the 23rd, there are in Terrebonne-
Order. The hon. member is not in order. If he wishes to put a question to the Government, he may do so; he cannot read a letter.


With your permission, I shall ask the Government whether they have any knowledge of the facts which are pointed out to me in this letter. There would have been in Terrebonne, in my county, since the 23rd instant, some twenty-five Federal policemen who are, so it is said, looking after some shirkers under this Act. On the 23rd, they arrested a young man who was the bearer, since the autumn previous, of a certificate of exemption from the local tribunal of Terrebonne. This certificate was taiken away from him, at noon, while he was going back to his work, and they refused to return it to him under the pretence that it was worthless. When he passed by in the evening, he was arrested and detained, as a prisoner, until a late hour in the evening, when certain interested friends of his telephoned to the registrar, Mr. Godin, who ordered his release. They also attempted to take away the papers from another youth who resisted and refused to part with them as he would then have been without any means of showing that he was not transgressing the Military Service Act. Several

of these officers are thus overzealous in apprehending young conscripts. The young man, whose exemption papers were thus taken away from him, resides at Saint Franqois de Sales, in the county of Laval and Two Mountains. I do ask the Government whether they are cognizant of these facts and, if hot, whether they propose fully investigating them. Moreover, I suggest that they should see to it that an end is put t-o .such ruthless proceedings in the carrying out of warrants. They are in themselves an explanation of the dissatisfaction which is widespread throughout the country.	[DOT]


Order. I must ask hon. members not to abuse the privilege which allows questions on urgent matters to be put before the Orders of the Day are called. Quite frequently questions are put which should more properly go on the Order paper in the ordinary course, so that the Government may have notice of them. There can be no objection to an important question regarding a matter of policy. But matters dealing with individual eases should not be brought up on the Orders of the Day.


On the Orders of the Day:
I desire to call attention to an error in the Hansard report. Yesterday I put the following question to the Minister of Militia:
Are the men In Class "E" exempted under medical certificates obliged1 to report under the new Order in Council which has been passed ?
The report says class " D ", but what I wanted to know was whether men in class E, medically unfit, were required to report under the new Order 'in Council. As the question is reported, some confusion might be created. I understand that men in class D are those temporarily unfit, while those in class E are permanently unfit for service. Further on, speaking about the medical certificate, what I meant-and what I think I said, though it may have been misunderstood-was would the medical certificate of the Military Board appointed for the purpose be sufficient to exempt a man declared medically unfit. From the reply made to me by the minister, I think he understood my question aright.
Major-General MEWBLTRN: I understand the hon. gentleman to refer to men in the lower category-I think he said E.

, -Mr. BUREAU: Yes.
Major-General MEWBURN: Category E consists of men not likely to become fit within six months; that is the regulation laid "down by the medical people. What I intended to say in answer to my hon. friend was this: in calling up these classes of 20, 21 and 22 years, we were not asking to report at present those men already registered, and who had not been put in class A by the Medical Boards. All we require is -men of -class A who are fit for service at the front. The categories laid down by the medical board are: A, fit for general service; B, fit for service abroad, but not for -gene'ral service-that would be forestry, and so on; D, temporarily unfit, but possibly becoming A or B within six months-that is, men in convalescent homes, and so on; E, not likely to become fit in six months.


E is the class I was referring to.
Major-General MEWBURN: We had no intention of calling them. If things get worse, some of these men within the ages of 20, 21 and 22 may have to undergo another medical examination. We have, however, no intention of disturbing any of the men already declared not to be in class A.


M-ay I expect an answer from the hon. minister relative to the facts which I have stated?


Had not the hon. member from Three Rivers (Mr. Bureau) so hastily interfered, my intention was to answer my honourable friend from Terrebonne.
I must say that the Government have no knowledge of the two incidents referred to by the hon. member. If he will -give us the names of the interested parties or the names of the officers-should they be known to him-that would! help us a great -deal in taking the necessary steps, so as to ascertain whether his statements were true. As to the necessity of giving orders so that there should be no high-handed dealings, I must say that all the officers have received-the most express and formal instructions to avoid all that could be even described as partaking of, the n-atu-re of. such behaviour on the part of men so inclined.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to direct the attention
of the hon. the Minister of Militia and Defence to a matter which may be of more than local importance? Reports- in the press indicate that there has been a considerable outbreak of smallpox in the district of Cape Island in the western part of Nova Scotia and that the disease has been taken into that district by returned sqldiers. I venture to suggest that the hon. gentleman will, through his medidaL officers, make inquiry into the matter not only in justice to the people of the district at present concerned but because, if the report be found to be correct, it is- evident that there is danger of similar troubles occurring in other parts of the country to which returned soldiers go. I deem it my duty to bring this matter to the attention of the hon. gentleman as, if true, it indicates that there is need of a more rigid examination, first, on the part of the quarantine authorities at the ports of landing and on the part of the medical gentlemen connected with our own Department of Militia and Defence. The hon. gentleman h'as probably not heard of . it and all I desire to do is to call his- attention to-it and to ask that the matter be investigated through his medical officers.
Major-General MEWBURN (Minister of Militia and Defence):	I most assuredly
will do what my hon. friend- (Mr. Fielding) suggests. I have not had my attention called to it so far. If the hon. gentleman could give me any further information that he has I would appreciate it.


My only information is that which I have learned from the public press. The trouble has occurred in the district of Cape Island in Shelburne county in the western part o-f Nova Scotia. Cape Sable Island is in my district although it is not to be confused with Sable Island, the graveyard of the Atlantic. It is in the southern part of Nova Scotia where Cape Sable juts out into the Atlantic. There, quite a number of cases have occurred. It is treated, as a matter of course, as if the disease had been taken into that district by returned soldiers. That assumption may not be well founded. I am not asserting that it is but I merely ask my hon. friend to see that the matter receives attention.


Bill No. 66, to correct a clerical error in the French version of the Naturalizatiori Act, 1914-Hon. Mr. Doherty.
House again in committee on Bill No. 20, to amend the Inspection and Sale Act (Hay and Straw Inspection), Mr. Boivin in the Chair, continued from April 24, 1918.
On section 340f-bales to be tagged showing weight:
We had reached clause 340f of the Bill and Sir George Foster had moved that the clause be struck out. The hon. member for Joliette (Mr. Denis) had moved in amendment:
That clause 340F be replaced by the following :
340F. Every seller of hay or straw in Canada shall affix to every bale of hiay' or straw sold or offered for sale a tag, having thereon, plainly written and legible, the name of the seller and the weight of the bale.
Amendment negatived and section 340f stricken from the Bill.
On subsection 340 H-How railways are to facilitate inspection:


I move to strike out this subsection.


Motion agreed to.
On subsection 341-Governor in Council empowered to prescribe fees for inspection:
The present law provides that a fee of twenty cents a ton shall be charged by the inspector. I am at a loss to understand why the present law is not maintained, and what reason there is for making the proposed change under which the Governor in Council is given power to prescribe fees. Is it the intention of the Minister of Trade and Commerce to so regulate matters that different fees will be charged in different sections in the country?


My hon. friend has, I think, the right idea. Sections where inspection may he carried out may differ very largely as to the quantity of hay which is inspected in each district. An inspector is paid by fees, hut it is impossible to get an inspector, or to keep him, unless he derives sufficient remuneration from those fees, that being the only payment made to him. It may he impossible in some districts to even get an inspector, although he may be wanted there, unless a higher fee be fixed than in a district requiring a large number of inspections. That is one reason. The other reason is this : If there are many inspections and the experience of the year shows -that after the expenses have been met

and a fair remuneration made to the inspector there is too large a surplus, so that the inspector may be getting more than he ought to, in that case the fee may be reduced somewhat so as to bring the amount derived up to a reasonable remuneration. That is the object sought to .be accomplished.


My opinion was that in certain cases the fee was high enough, or even too high.


Yes.


The minister's explanation is quite intelligible to me, and therefore I have no objection to offer.
Mr. MAH1ARG:	Are we to understand
from the minister that the inspection fee may vary according to districts?


Yes.


Does the minister not
think that that is a very unfair principle? It does not apply to other products of the farm, for example, all kinds of grain and stock. In such cases the inspection fee is a flat rate, and I understand the inspectors are paid a fixed salary. If there is any shortage the Government makes good the deficit, and if there should be a surplus it stands to the Government's credit. I think the change proposed will work a hardship and prevent an. inspection from *being had where it is really wanted.


The whole system of inspection, so far as this. Act is concerned', is based on its not being compulsory; no one is obliged, to pay the fee. unless he so wishes. The system is also based on the .principle of payment by fee, and not by salary, so that my hon. friend (Mr. Maharg) will see that in some cases unless the fee were fairly good it would be impossible for the district to get the services of an inspector, whilst in other districts, where there was a large quantity of hay to be inspected, a fixed fee might take more from the sellers than would be advisable and might yield a larger salary to the inspector than he should reasonably ask. Taking into account the differences in districts, it is almost impossible to prescribe a fixed fee unless you give a salary which shall work equitably. That is the reason for the provision to fix the fee by Order in Council. I think my hon. friend (Mr. Maharg) will see that unless you pay salaries there is no other equitable w.ay by which in the first place you could get good inspectors, and in the second place make provision

that the inspectors should sufficiently be paid in certain cases, and not paid too much in others.


Mr. Chairman, after the discussion raised by the remarks of my (hon. friend from Lapraii'ie and Napierville (Mr. Lanctot) in connection with section, 340f of this Bill, the hon. Minister of Trade and -Commerce has deemed it proper to strike out that section. After further discussion, it was thought proper by the . hon. member for Joliette (Mr. Denis) to move an amendment to that section providing for the identification of hay when it has reached its destination. The hon. minister thought it proper to have the discussion adjourned on this motion.
Section 341 now under consideration deals with such fees as shall be charged by the inspector. I have read' the Bill through over and over again, and 'I must confess that, apart from section 341, the Bill under consideration does not in any respect differ from the Act passed in 1906; the only requisite provision and the one which is the most -essential-I mean the clause providing for identification of the hay-has been cut out by, the honourable minister himself, and he has also discarded the clause which provides for the official grading of hay and of straw. I cannot see what is the use of a Bill like this which is really a repetition of the Act passed in 1906. If the intention is only to change the inspectors' salaries, why not proceed in the usual way, i.e., by amendments or by Order in Council?


I think it is very desirable that the fees to be charged by inspectors should, if possible, be enumerated in the Act-.' The minister himself doubtless understands that the interested parties would like to have the fees to be charged inserted in the Act, and, of course, the cost of inspection is a very important part of the proceedings. Now the sellers on consulting the Act, if passed in its present form, will be unable to learn how much the inspection is going to cost them, or what the Act means, unless they get a copy of the Order in Council which is referred to. It is always desirable to have an Act of Parliament complete in itself and to embody all its requirements within its four corners. I would, therefore, urge upon the minister to carry out my suggestion. Let the Bill stand- over for a few days until the nature of the Order in Council has been determined, and then incorporate in it the requirements of that Order in Council. I am sure that the whole country will
then appreciate very much better the provisions of the law, and the interested parties- be saved the trouble of looking around in order to ascertain what may or may not be in the Order in Council. It might be fixed in this way: in the schedule of fees the amount could be fixed at so much per ton, not to exceed so much per day. If a man, at the rate of 20 cents a ton, would make too much pay for one day, a maximum amount which he could not exceed could be put in the Bill. And, if there is not sufficient tonnage to be inspected to yield a fair day's pay at the rate per ton, there could be a provision in the schedule that he is to receive not less than a minimum amount per day. If a man requires an inspector to inspect, say three tons of hay, it could be provided that the inspector would receive half a day's pay or more, as the case may be.
Sir GEORGE FOSTETt: Who will pay that?


The man who hires the inspector.


In that case, if the man hires- the inspector on a day that there is not much hay to be inspected, he will pay the inspector a large amount. If he gets his hay inspected on a day when there is a large amount, then he will get the inspection -for a very small amount. My hon. friend will see that it is practically impossible to let the Bill stand over for a day, or several days, on that account. Take, for instance,, my hon. friend's own locality. There is -a difference between Sydney, or North Sydney-which is the hub down there -and Montreal. You appoint an inspector for Montreal, and say that he shall receive 20 cents for every ton inspected. Montr real, I suppose, in the course of the season may possibly handle 30,000 to 50,000 tons of hay. Sydney would require inspection for comparatively a much smaller amount. It is impossible to fix in the law the amount which would be reasonable for Montreal -and which would -also be reasonable for -North Sydney, and it is impossible to find out just how many districts there may be with varying capacities of h.ay to be inspected, and to fix the fees according to the capacity of inspection. I think my hon. friend will see that, with all the desire possible to ha,ve everything in the Act that can be pu-t in, it is impossible to put the fees in the Act and have an equitable arrangement.


I cannot see, Mr. Chairman, how it is possible to put an equitable

fee in an Order in Council which it is not possible to put in an Act.


I will explain. My hon. friend, or the people in North Sydney, demand an inspection district. We get, as far as possible, statistics with reference to the amount of hay that is sold on the market in North Sydney, and an estimate will be made from that as to what proportion of that hay will be inspected when it is sold, because inspection is not compulsory. The Order in Council will then fix the fee at a rate which would give the man who is to be appointed as inspector at North Sydney a reasonable amount for his time and labour. You could not get a man in any other way, it seems to me. So, you have to take the circumstances of the district into account in fixing the fee. That you cannot do in the Bill.


As I understand it- and I am not familiar with the old Act- the present fee is 20 cents a ton. Perhaps the minister h-as had some complaints about it. I have not heard of any general complaint about that fee being too small or too great. It is evidently regarded as a fair charge. Why change the condition?


I will tell my hon. friend. We hope and I think everybody wishes, that more and more we should get into the habit of appraising our hay by standards and selling it by standards, and on inspection. It is better for the farmer, the dealer, and the consumer as well. It gives the latter a protection. At the present time, inspection is only carried on at three places in Canada, namely, Toronto, Montreal, and', I think, Kingston. It is only at 'these large centres that we have had any experience as a basis to work on. You fix the fee which may be proper for these large centres. Then a small district applies to have inspection put in force. It finds the fee fixed in the law but you cannot get a competent man to do the work in the small section, with a small quantity to be inspected, for that-fixed fee. Then if it is necessary and considered advisable to arrange an inspection district in that other district, you would have to grade the fee according to the probable amount to be inspected, with a view to giving the man something worth his trouble for inspection. That is the reason.


I quite understand that, and am not going to press the matter,
I am still of the opinion that what I suggest would carry out the idea, and enable a seller to get an inspector. In the larger

districts, 20 cents a ton has been found to be a satisfactory and workable fee under the Act. But, I suppose, the minister does not wish to be bothered creating new districts every day. He is prepared to create a new district, and to arrange from time to time a rate of fees for inspection in that new district. But, if he had a maximum and minimum charge for any district in the Bill, all he would have to do would be to create his district, and the fees would come into effect. In North Sydney, where there is not very much inspection of hay, if the inspector has twenty or thirty tons, or even less, to inspect, the farmer knows that quantity will take perhaps half a day, and he knows he will have to pay at the rate of 20 cents a ton, but at the most not more than two or three dollars to the inspector. Where the rate per ton would not be sufficient remuneration, there is the minimum charge for a day's work provided for. My particular desire is that this Bill should be complete in itself and have all the machinery in it. So far as I am personally concerned in my county it does not concern me very much, but I do know as a lawyer that a law should be as complete as possible.


If it is possible.
Mr. LAN'CTOT: Inspection is carried on at Montreal for the hay purchased by the Department of Agriculture at the present time, I understand. In the local market my experience is that, in very few cases, have we been obliged to go to an inspector. The difficulty is always settled without an inspector, if the seller knows hay and the buyer knows it too. During the discussion of this Bill yesterday, many opinions were expressed, one especially by an hon. member from British Columbia. I think I may be permitted to refer to the whole discussion in a few minutes, if possible. We were discussing one clause regarding stained hay and rotten hay. Some hon. members from this side of the House claimed that that sort of hay should be allowed on the market. I object to that, Mr. Chairman, because I stand for the reputation of Canadian hay. It does the farmer no good to put poor or rotten hay on the market. Now, the minister seems to be struck with the inspection phase :>f the matter and nothing else. The dealers and the farmers do not care much about the classification of hay, because, as I said yesterday, that is made by the dealer. We sell by the grade. But what we want left in the Bill is the clause which has been

struck out, No. 340f, to hold the farmer responsible for the hay that he has pressed from his barn. You know very well, Mr. Chairman, that the dealer buys the hay from the farmer, and in my section of the country 95 per cent of the farmers have presses of their own. When there is a large crop of hay in our section or in the whole country, we have stacked hay all over the country. We buy the barn hay and the stacked hay on condition that the farmer will pay attention to the pressing, and do it when the weather is fine. Supposing a presser comes to a farm today, and the weather is fine. The farmer tells him to put his hay press near some stacks of hay which he has in the field. The presser does so, and he starts the machine. The next day it .rains perhaps only a very little. The presser, who may have three or four men working for him, says: It is true it is raining a little, but we are going to finish pressing this stack to-day. They do so. That hay is then put into the barn, and perhaps owing to the scarcity of cars, which we have had in this country for the last year or two, that hay may remain in the bam all winter. What will happen? That hay, if it has been pressed in bad condition, will freeze in the barn when the cold weather comes. When it is finally taken to the car, a man who knows his business can immeddatly tell if the hay is in bad shape or not, and he will say: the bales are like pieces of ice or iron. But if a man who does not know *anything about hay, is handling it, he will simply take the tally of the hay and throw it into the car, and it will be taken to (Chicago, or New York, or elsewhere. Three or four weeks later, the man to whom the hay has been delivered will make a complaint that the hay is in such bad shape that he cannot sell it for sufficient to cover the freight and duty. The farmers throughout the country should be made aware of this Bill for their own benefit in the future, so that they will not press hay when the weather is unsuitable, and so that they will press hay only when it is in good condition. The Minister of Public *Works (Mr. Carvell) is a farmer himself and he knows I am speaking for the benefit of the farmers of this country.


How is the hon. member going to stop the farmers from pressing *hay?


If some one is there,
il	am speaking, however, for the hay dealer who ibuys hay over a section of thirty, or forty, or fifty square miles.


Yes.


I did not desire to. interrupt the hon. member, but the very interesting address which we have just heard has absolutely nothing to do with the clause 341 which is under consideration, and which refers only to the fees.


I have spoken for the benefit of the farmers.


I accept at once the principle that it would hardly be fair to have an equal standard rate throughout the country, and I think every one admits that; but, as suggested by the hon. member for North Cape Breton (Mr. McKenzie), the law should be made clear. Before Orders in Council are passed determining the fees that are to be paid in different sections of this country, information will have to he gathered. This information may already he available to the minister. Consequently, for the sake of having a clear and good law, and a law in which the fees will be well determined, why not, if the information is available, fix the fees now, and have- a schedule at the end of the Bill, or dispose of the matter in any other way in which the minister may see fit, so as to determine what the fees are to be? Otherwise, we shall not know what the fees are. As a lawyer, I should he in an awkward position if a man

came to me and said: I have some hay on my farm in a certain locality, and I want to know what the fee is for inspecting it. I should not know what the fee is unless I wrote to the Government for the information.


The hon. member will only have t6 keep on file a copy of the Canada Gazette, and I imagine he does so.


Yes, but supposing I could answer the question, the average trader could not do it.


The average
trader is not likely to have a copy of the statute. My hon. friend, of course, always keeps that by him.


When the fees are written in the statute, the matter will always be plain.


That is absolutely impossible, because my hon. friend goes on the assumption that we have mapped out this country into districts, and that we have obtained the information with
4 p.m. reference to the different districts. We are not going to map out and form any district unless there is a local demand for it. This is an enabling Act. I have no idea, and there is no information in the department as to whether North Sydney, or any other district, or how many of them will ask for an inspection district to be created, so that it will be impossible to have the information ready so as to put in the schedules with the fees appropriate to each schedule. The information is not available, and if we were to schedule every district in the country, we would be doing a great deal of work which would be altogether superfluous.


This clause,
as it stands, is correct. It will obviate a similar difficulty to that which I brought up yesterday in reference to canned foods. One of the difficulties in regard to small factories is that there is no inspection because the quantity turned out is so small. I understand such small factories have no regulations. If in the Bill that was passed yesterday with regard to canned foods there had been a regulation like this one, the difficulty of which I was then speaking would be obviated. Similarly, in the case of hay, there are numbers of districts that will produce fifty, one hundred, or two hundred tons of hay, and in order to have an inspection there, it would be necessary to fix a higher rate than that

at a place like Montreal in which ,a thousand or two thousand tons a day are inspected. A maximum and a minimum fee might be set, but it would destroy the effect of the Bill to make the amount too small, because, in that case, you would not be able to get an inspector at all.
On clause 342-penalty for putting foreign matter in bales:


Would the minister regard the introduction of No. 2 hay into a No. 1 bale as putting foreign matter into the bale? Would that bring a man within the penalty prescribed by law?


The case is not for decision, and I do not know what the opinion of the judge would be. Personally, I think foreign matter would mean straw, bundles of weeds, dirt, stones or anything of that kind. These things have been put into baled hay more than once; I do not know that it is a very common offence, but it is certainly a very nasty one and deserves a heavy penalty. I do not think foreign matter would include hay of a different grade. A case of that kind would be covered by the inspection.


The clause says that any foreign matter which improperly increases the weight of the bale or prejudicially affects its quality, will render a man liable. The introduction of a lower grade would, in my judgment, certainly affect prejudicially the quality of a bale of No. I hay.	1


You would also have to consider whether that was foreign matter or not. I should think it would be an offence against the Act to introduce hay of inferior quality into a bale of good hay.


The hon. member for Huntingdon mentioned the other day that that sort of thing is done. A man may see a beautiful mow of hay in a barn and arrange to buy it and have the farmer press it for him, but when he gets it, he finds that it has been mixed with an inferior class of hay. I think this clause was designed to provide to some extent against such an offence.


The Bill provides a penalty for the person putting any substance or foreign body in hay. How will you know when the hay is in a foreign market who has put in a stone, for example?
You have rejected the identification clause. How are you to know who owned the hay when the stone was placed there?
%


The penalty is
for a general offence in the way of fraud, *and whoever tried the case would exercise his judigment as to the kind of fraud that was intended. There are a thousand things that might be put in, hut it would 'be impossible to cumber up the Act with all these details. I think we cannot do better than to allow the person who tries the case to say whether the offence comes within the Act.


One of the reasons why I
insisted so strpngly on my amendment last night was to make the present clause more effective. John Jones or Tom Smith would not know who had committed the fraud unless his name appeared on the bale.


The imposition
of a penalty tends to lessen the liability of the offence being committed.
*Clause as amended agreed to.
On clause 340C-grades:


The question
was raised yesterday as to what constituted No. 1 grade of straw. I have been in communication with the Department of Agriculture and they have made this suggestion, which I think is a very good one: that there is a kind of straw, probably not very plentiful, which could be clearly defined as No. 1 and be made a merchantable grade. This straw is of good feeding value. I therefore beg to move that after the word "follows" in the first line of clause 340C we insert the following:
SMo. 1 straw shall be bright, clean, well-saved oat straw suitable for feeding purposes.
I think this would be a good (Straw to fix as No. 1.


Amendment agreed to.
I move:	*
That 34-OC. be further amended by adding after the word "straw" in the second line, the following; words:	"from all cultivated cereals."
Amendment agreed1 to.


To correct an error in the printing, I move:
That 340 be amended by striking- out from line 22 the words "of fair colour and sound," and replacing them by the words: "of good odour, sound and well (Cured."


Amendment agreed to.
members in regard to it. Since the matter came up this afternoon I sent for the * original Act of which this is an amendment, but so far I have been unable to obtain it. I hardly know just what changes are made by section 340.
In general, the changes made under the amendments just adopted are almost nil. Practically, the substance of 340 is the same as the old Act.


In what we call the dike lands in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, an exceptionally fine quality of marketable hay is grown which is not strong in timothy, as the upland hay is. I refer to the counties of Albert and Westmorland in New Brunswick, Oumberland, and possibly the Annapolis valley, in Nova Scotia. I fear that hay grown on these dike lands will not measure up to the standard of grades 1, 2 and 3 timothy, and as a resuit of this legislation, an excellent quality of hay may be forced on the market at a lower price than would otherwise he the case.


Is it within my hon. friend's knowledge that this has actually resulted?
IMr. COPP: No, we have had no inspectors there. For instance, a quantity of hay shipped from that section of the country to North Cape Breton and Victoria might be turned down by the inspector there because it did not contain the specified proportion of timothy/ Could some words not be added to the Bill with reference to this hay grown on dike lands?


If my hon. friend will communicate his suggestion to me in writing, I shall be glad to have the officers of the department take it up, and it may (be considered in the Senate.


Amendment agreed to.
Bill reported.
The House in Committee of Supply, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
Public Buildings, Nova Scotia-Amherst Drill HaLl, $10,000.
['I move, seconded by Mr. Oalder, that the name of Mr. H. J. Mackie, member for North Renfrew, be added to the Select Standing Committee on Agriculture.']
Is this a new building?


I was unable to be present IMr. CARVELL: No, The amount is to yesterday when this Bill was under dis- cover some small expenditures necessary cussion, and I have not had an opportunity to finish the building, which must have of reading the remarks made by different cost about $150,000.



My recollection is that there is* a little flooring to be put in, cleaning up and general finishing.


Is it the intention of the Government to build any new drill halls? I understand there are several that are built and that it is a bill of expense to keep them warm and looked after, although nothing is doing and there has not been for years.


I suppose that practically everything in connection with war time is a bill of expense. You cannot measure the value of a public work in war time by the expense it has been to the public. I think the true measure would be the service which these public buildings have rendered to the army in the last three or four years. But, to answer my hon. friend's question, I do not know that there is anything in these Estimates providing for new drill halls. I am pretty sure there is not and, if there is, while I will not ask the committee to strike it out, I will give the assurance that there will not be any new works undertaken along that line during the coming year.
Halifax-Quarantine station on Lawlor'