Mr. M. Steele, for Sir Herbert Ames, presented the fourth report of the Select Standing Committee on Banking and Commerce :
Tour Committee have had under consideration Bill No. 62 to amend the Insurance Act, 1917, and have agreed to recommend that the said Bill be not proceeded further with this session, owing to the fact that it affects British and foreign insurance companies and that such companies have not had sufficient time to consider and express their views on the proposed measure.
Return showing food destroyed in Toronto between April the 4th arid April 29th, 1918, and the action of the Food Controller in regard thereto.-Hon. Mr. Burrell. .
Names of persons employed in preparing the Votes and Proceedings, Orders of the Day, and Journals of the House of Commons (English and French).-Hon. Mr. Burrell.
Names of persons employed in reporting and translating the Proceedings of the House, and cost of printing and binding

Debates; also cost of reporting the translating, typing and printing of proceedings before Parliamentary Committees.-Hon. Mr. Burrell.
Sir Charles Fitzpatrick has
asked me to read to the House a statement with regard to some criticisms which have been made in the House. The memoran-*dum is as follows:


Fiscal Year, 19113-14.-Vote:-Travelling expenses of Sir Charles Fitzpatrick attending sittings of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, ?2,500.00. No claim for this amount and no payment made.
Fiscal Year, 1914-15.-Vote :-Travelling expenses of iSir Charles Fitzpatrick attending sittings of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, $2,500.00. This amount [was paid as Sir Charles Fitzpatrick attended sittings of the Privy Council in August or September, 1914.
Fiscal Year, 1915-15.-Vote :-Special allowance to Sir Charles Fitzpatrick to cover expenses in connection with Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, $i2,5'0'0.00. Claim was made for this amount, in monthly instalments, by the department having charge of the vote and as attendance at the sittings of the Privy Council had been omitted as a necessary condition of payment, the claims were allowed as in other cases of special allowances.
Fiscal Year, 1916-17.-VoteSpecial allowance to Sir Charles Fitzpatrick to cover expenses in connection with the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, $2,500.00. This amount was paid for the same reason as in l'915-16i	.
Fiscal Year, 1917-18.-Vote:-Special allowance to Sir Charles Fitzpatrick to cover expenses when attending the sittings of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, $[2,-500.00. No claim was made for payment of this amount as .Sir Charles Fitzpatrick did not attend the sittings of the Privy Council.
Right Hon.Sir ROBERT BORDEN (Prime * Minister): I deem it my duty to make a statement to the House with-respect to an item which has appeared in the press of the country touching a despatch received from the Secretary of State for the Colonies at the end of last week, which was given out to the press in the ordinary course.
Received from and by whom?


Received from the Secretary of State for_ the Colonies. About the middle of January last I suggested to the British Government, through the Secretary of State for the Colonies, that

it would be desirable to have a weekly resume, Or summary, of the war situation, which should be issued under the authority of the War Cabinet, and which might be published. We had been receiving for some time secret reports, which, of course, could not be made public, and the information set forth in those_ weekly reports was communicated only to members of the Administration, and in some cases to the Prime Minister alone.
We received a reply intimating that the matter would be taken into consideration, and about the end of March we were informed that such a despatch for publication would be sent to us weekly in the early future. These despatches began t-o come in about the end of March, or a little after, and when received they were published as was intended. They were not sent in code, and they were marked as official news for publication. It is understood that one of the Dominions of the Empire made a suggestion about two or three weeks ago that these news summaries were not as valuable as they might be for the reason that they set forth for the most part matters that had already been published in the press of the country. On Saturday last, one of those official news despatches was received in the ordinary course through His Excellency the Governor General, signed, as all these despatches are signed, by the Secretary of State for the Colonies, the Eight Hon. Walter Long. It was handed out to the press and published in the usual w>ay. Yesterday a further despatch correcting it in one respect was received in the same manner from the same source, and signed in the same way. That also has been given to the press. In communicating to the British Government in January last, we asked that these despatches might be sent to us under the authority of the War Cabinet. 1 do not know, of course, whether or not this particular despatch was sent out under the authority of the War Cabinet. I am content to accept the statement of Lord Beading in that behalf; he doubtless has more information on the subject than I have. What I desire to .make clear to the House and to the country is that the despatch in question was received in the ordinary course under the arrangement alluded to, and purported to be signed by the Secretary of State for the Colonies'. It was received through His Excellency the Governor 'General, and the despatch which corrected it was received in the same man-125
ner through the same source and signed in the same way. My purpose in making this statement is to assure Parliament and this country that if there has been any mistake or misapprehension with regard to this official news despatch it has not occurred here at Ottawa; it has occurred somewhere else.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by asterisks).
Mr. W. P. McKAY.
1.	Are the following persons employed in the War Trade Board: Messrs. Trower, Wilkie, Forrest, Russell and Murphy?
2.	If so, what duties are they performing, what salary is paid to each, and by whom were they recommended for employment?
3.	Did the Civil Service Commission under the provisions of the Order in Council authorize their employment? If not, why not?
4.	On what dates were the above named persons employed?


1.	Yes.'
2.	Mr. W. K. Trower, general secretary, $500 per month; Mr. J. H. Wilkie, assistant secretary, $250 per month; Mr. T. M. Forrest, in charge of Statistical and Information Departments, $208.33 per month; Mr. E. M. Russell, expert on metals, $175 per month; Mr. W. P. Murphy, in charge of Filing Department, $125 per month. These men were selected by the board



as being competent for the duties they are now performing and the board were satisfied with their credentials and they are now performing the duties assigned to them in an efficient manner.
3.	Yes.
4.	Mr. W. K. Trower, February 25, 1918; M*r. J. H. Wilkie, March 1, 1918; Mr. T. Mr. Forrest, March 13, 1918; Mr. E. M. Russell, April 8, 1918; Mr. W. P. Murphy, February 14, 1918.


1.	Has the Government been informed that in the spring of 1912* men were hired to go to Victoria, British Columbia, and wrork there as lumbermen, carpenters, painters, etc., at the rate of $3, $4, and $5 per diem, travelling expenses prepaid and lodgings gratuitously provided for?
2.	Has the Government been made aware of the fact that, when the said workmen and mechanics had reached Victoria, all travelling expenses were deducted from their wages ; that they were paid only $2 and $2.50 per day, and that they had to pay for their lodgings?
3.	Is it the intention of the Government to pay for these men's travelling expenses so as to enable them to return home?


We have no information concerning this question. I intimated some days ago that if the hon. member would give further particulars we would look into the matter. I have not received any particulars. As the question now stands, the answer to the first question will have to be no, and the answer to the second and third questions: Answered by No. 1.


1.	Is Mr. Ant. Gobeil, lawyer, ex-deputy minister of the Public Works Department, still registrar, under the Justice Department, for the operation of the Military Service law? Has he put in an application to be relieved from such function?
2.	Has he been asked to send in his resignation? In what way has he been required to resign?
3.	What were the number of women or girls, and the number of men, under his employ, on the 15th March last?
4.	What is the name of the new registrar?
5.	What are the names of the assistant registrars?
6.	Are the offices in the Chateau Prontenac temporarily leased, or are they leased for a fixed term?
7.	What were the number of lady employees on the pay-list, on the 20th instant?
8.. What were the number of men employees on the said pay-list on the 20th instant, or on the preceding week ?

9. What are the duties of Mr. Alleyn Tasche-re.au, K.C., in the said office?


1.	No.
2.	Relieved by Order in Council, 3rd April, 1918.
3.	56 men, 49 women..
4.	Alleyn Taschereau, K.C.
5.	First Assistant, J. F. Belanger.
6.	Leased temporarily to the 1st June.
7.	107.	[DOT]
8.	32.
9.	The duties of the registrars and deputy registrars are those of recording, indexing, and notifying the men affected by the Act so as to give effect to the conclusions arrived at by the tribunals and medical boards. They are also charged with the duty of obtaining the equal application of the principles governing the disposition of claims for exemption by causing appeals to be entered when it appears that any tribunal has come to a conclusion the validity of which is doubtful, whether such conclusion is in favour of or adverse to exemption being granted, and with the obtaining of such information as will assist tribunals to perform their functions intelligently and with despatch.


1.	How many appointments have been made in the Printing Bureau since October 1, 1911, to the present date?
2.	How many of them are English?
3.	How many of them are French?


Nos. 1, 2 and 3.
uiiiucr of employees as per list of October
12th, 1911	 837
Number of employees
on May 1st, 1918 .. 1,235
Increase	 398
Number of appointments since October 1st, 1911	 765
Deaths since October
10th, 1911 ..'... 102
Resignations since October 10th, 1911..	229
Dismissals since October 10th, 1911	 36


1.	How many cases for exemption under the 'Military Service Act were appealed to the
French. English.
320	517
615	620
295	103
452	313
47	55
120	109
19	17
186	181

Central Appeal Judge from the province of Quebec ?
2.	How many of these appeals from the province of Quebec were disposed of by the recent Order in Council refusing all exemptions to men 20 to 23?
3.	How many appeals for exemption from the province of Quebec were disposed of by the Central Appeal Judge, of others than those called up by Order in Council, during the month of April, 1913?
4.	How many appeals from Quebec under the Military Service Act are still pending?


1.	Up to May 10th, 11,657 appeals to the Central Appeal Judge from the province of Quebec have been received.
2.	3,645.
3.	Up to May 13th, 3,211 appeals for exemption from the province of Quebec have been disposed of by the Central Appeal Judge, other than those called up by Order in Council. The records are not kept by months.
4.	4,155.


1.	Is it a fact that representatives of the National War Museum about to be established in London have taken possession of the war trophies captured from the enemy by the Canadian Army, and are retaining the most interesting specimens for the said War Museum of London?
2.	If so, has it -been done with the consent of this Government?
3.	Does the Government contemplate making any representations to the Imperial Authorities with the object of having these returned to Canada?


1.	All trophies captured by the forces of the British Dominions are assembled1 under the control of the Imperial authorities. A register is kept of all these captures, specifying in each case the name of the claimant thereto. Many of the trophies, captured are still effective and have been put into service. The final disposal of trophies remaining at the close of the war will then be decided. It is understood that the National War 'Museum intends to form a Canadian section in that museum, and that certain Canadian trophies will be requested for that purpose.
2.	The Canadian army has a representative on the Committee of the National War Museum.
3.	A considerable number of interesting trophies havie already been sent to Canada and others will be sent shortly. The interests of Canada have not, and will not, be neglected1.
125|


1.	What Department of the Government is the Canada Registration Board responsible to?
2.	What is the street address of said Board?
3.	What is their telephone number?
4.	What are the names of the officials of said Board and the amount of their respective salaries ?
5.	What are their duties?
, 6. Have Superintendents been appointed for the registration of man and woman-power for Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island?
7.	If so, by whom were they recommended?
8.	What are their names and addresses, and what remuneration will they receive?
9.	What are their duties?
10.	Have Registrars been appointed for the different constituencies in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island?
11.	If so, what are their names and addresses ?	.
.12. By whom were they appointed?
13.	Who recommended them?
14.	What remuneration are they to receive?
15.	Do they appoint the enumerators for the different polling sections?
16.	What remuneration will said1 enumerators receive?


1.	The Canada Registration Board is a subcommittee of the War Committee of the Cabinet.
2.	Regal Building, O'Connor street, Ottawa.
3.	Queen 4026.	>
4.	The members of the board are: Hon. G. D. Robertson, chairman; E. McG. Quirk, vice-chairman; Mrs. A. Plumptre, G. M. Murray, Philemon 'Cousineau, K.C., Thomas Moore, F. B. McCurdy, E. L. Newcombe, ,T. D. McGregor; ' secretary, Henry C. De Wolf. Only the secretary receives compensation; amount $300 per month.
5.	To effect a registration of persons in Canada over 16 years of age.
6.	Yes.
7.	Selected by the board.
8.	For Prince Edward Island, I. J. Trainor, Charlottetown, P.E.I.; for Nova Scotia, George E. Corbitt, Annapolis Royal, N.S.; for New Brunswick, Charles- Comben, Woodstock, N.B.; $8 per die-m for time actually given to the -work.
9.	To recommend suitable persons to act as registrars in each of the electoral districts, and generally supervise the detailed organization necessary for the successful carrying out of the registration.
10.	Yes.
11.	For Nova Scotia:	Annapol-is-Digby,
W-m. E. VamBlaroo-m, Digby, N.S.; Antigon-ish-Guysboro, D. D. Chisholm-, Antigonish, N.S.; Cape. Breton North and Victoria, Malcolm A. McLeod, Bad-deck, N.S.; Ca-pe Bre-


1.	Is the so-called Union Station at the Palais, Quebec city, owned by the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Government or by one of the two?
2.	If by the Canadian Pacific Railway, has the Government made any arrangement with this company regarding the reni for the accommodation of the Government railway trains in the said Union Station?
3.	If so, when did such agreement take place, and how much has been paid the company per year since the agreement was entered into?


'
1.	The new Union station building was erected and is owned by the Canadian Pacific Railway. Part of the lands comprising the terminal yard is owned by the Government and part by the Canadian Pacific Railway.

2.	An arrangement between the Government and the Canadian Pacific Railway has been made regarding the rent for the accommodation of the Government railway trains in the said station and terminals.
3.	The agreement is dated January 1,1915, $1,104.83 was paid the company in 1917, and $19,347.08 in 1918. Accounts to the amount of $203,056.88 are held pending adjustment of contra accounts.


*Mr. CASGRAIN.
1.	How many persons formerly in the employ of the Y.M.C.A. are now in the employ of the Government? What are their names?
2.	How many former officers or employees of the Salvation Army are now in the employ of the Government?
3.	Were all these appointments made on the recommendation of the President of the Privy Council?
I would point out
that it is absolutely impossible to answer a question of this kind, considering the thousands there are in these two organizations and the thousands of employees of all kinds in the Government. Unless the question is made more explicit, I may say that the Government has no information.


1.	Did the ten-year contract under which the Canada Supreme Court reports were printed by the Canada Law Book Co., Ltd., expire in June, 1915?
2; If so, were tenders called for in connection with the printing; of said reports or was the old contract continued with the Canada Law- Book Co., Ltd.?
3.	Did the Carswell Co., Ltd., write the Department of Justice on the 16th June, 1915, offering to pay $500 per volume for the privilege of printing the reports for the current ten-year period commencing from June, 1915?
4.	Would $500 per volume net the department from $8,000 to $10,000 in ten years?
5.	Did the Carswell Co. also offer, if awarded the contract, to supply free for the use of the Government from 300 to 100 copies of the reports?
6.	Under what contract or arrangement are the reports now being printed by the Canada Law Book Co., Ltd.?
7.	Is the department receiving any monetary consideration from said company for the privilege they are enjoying? If so, how much?
8.	If nothing is paid by the Canada Law Book Co., why was the offer of the Carswell Co. not accepted?
9.	Is it a fact that the Carswell Co. is capable of complying with all the conditions imposed by the department in connection with the printing of reports?
10.	Did the Minister of Justice before the expiration of the contract with the Canada Law Book Co. which was due to terminate in June, 1915, promise to invite tenders from both the

Carswell Co., Ltd., and the Canada Law Book Co., Ltd., before making a new contract? If so, why was that course not taken?


1.	Yes.
2.	No, except as stated in answer to No.
10.	.
3.	Yes, for a period of ten years.
4.	It would depend upon the number of volumes issued. For the past ten years sixteen volumes have been issued.
5.	Yes.
6.	Under a contract dated 10th February,
1917.	[DOT]	<
7.	Yes. $500 per volume.
8.	The Canada Law Book Company does pay $500 per volume as just stated. The offer of the Carswell Company was not accepted, because the service for the previous ten years had been conducted in a most satisfactory manner by the present contractors, the Canada Law Book Company, and it was not deemed advisable, in view of this consideration, to experiment with another publisher.
9.	It is so represented, but the Government is not otherwise informed.
10.	Yes, and offers were received from both companies accordingly.


1.	Did Mr. Philippe Furois, of Quebec, offer the Department of Trade and Commerce a vessel for the purpose of performing the service between Quebec and the northern shore?
2.	What is the name of this vessel?
3.	Is Mr. Furois the owner of said vessel?
4.	What subsidy did Mr. Furois ask for?
5.	Was he awarded a contract?
6.	Was Mr. Philippe Furois the Unionist candidate in Ronaventure County at the last general elections ?


1.	Yes.
2.	Schooner " St. Onloine
3.	Mr. Furois did not -state whether he owned the vessel or not.
4.	$5,000 or $6,000. '
5.	No. No definite information was obtained from Mr. Furois as the department was negotiating for a better ship.
6.	The hon. gentleman can satisfy himself by reference to the public records of the elections.


1.	What are the names of the parties who have Connaught Rifle Range rented; for pasturing cattle?
2.	What is the amount paid for rent?
3.	What is the duty of -Mr. Holbrook, who lives on the Range?
4.	What salary does he receive?
Major-General MEWBURN:
1.	Robert Richardson.
2.	$925 per annum.
3.	Caretaker.
4.	$90 per month, with free house and grounds.


3.	Do the above quoted letters form part of the printed record of the proceedings now in progress before the Pensions Committee of the House of Commons?
4.	Have the statements contained in Mr. Stevens' letter been inquired into, and will the Committee make an interim report thereon prior to the conclusion of its labours?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes., and also by letter of May 1st, as follows:
Dear Mr. Stevens:
Re Pensions Committee.
I duly received your letter and laid it before the Pensions Committee. The matter you mention had already come before the Committee, and it is their intention to deal with the questions raised in the course of their deliberations.
With reference to the personal matter mentioned in the letter, I understand from Dr. Reid that he was not consulted regarding the appointment of Colonel Babatt to the Board of Pension Commissioners and had nothing whatever to do with it. So far as General 'Mewburn is concerned, as you are aware, Colonel Dabatt was appointed many months before General Mewiburn became a minister. There is, however, a question of principle . involved, which is a very proper matter for consideration.
(Sgd.) N. W. Rowell.
3.	The following is the extract from the printed records of proceedings of the committee on May 1st relating to this matter:
The Chairman read a communication received from Mr. H. H. Stevens., M.P., dated April 23, re the case of Colonel Labatt's disability pension; also a communication received from Mr. F. S. Scott, M.P., dated April 23, re the revision of pension regulations in respect to dependents of British Reservists-said communications were ordered filed for records and for further consideration.
4.	The matters referred to in Mr. Stevens' letter are being enquired into and the committee will report .in due course.


1.	Is Mr. J. A. Deniger employed by the Post Office Department in Montreal?
2.	If so, what are his duties?
3.	What is his salary?


1.	Yes.
2.	Field officer in connection with rural mail delivery work.
3.	$1,200 a year.


1. What amount has been expended by the Government on Toronto Harbour since Confederation?

2.	What is the initial cost of such protection as has been placed on the south shore of the Island; also cost of repairs to same?
3.	To what extent has the Island been reduced since Confederation due to erosion?
4.	What part or parts of the harbour front are controlled by the Dominion Government?


1.	Wlrat was the total amount paid to the Journal Publishing Company of Ottawa, Dimited, during the fiscal years 1912-13-14-1516-17 inclusive, for (a) rentals; (b) printing?
2.	Were the official cheques of the Government for said rentals and printing jobs issued directly in favour of the above company, or to P. D. Ross, Esq.?


For a copy of all correspondence between the Imperial Government and the Government of Canada in relation to the proposed visit of some members of the Canadian Government to Bondon this sprang.


The motion may be adopted with the proviso that it shall not cover such documents, if any, as may be confidential and which it is not in the public interest to bring down.


That is understood. M,ay we have this return at an early date?


I should think so.


Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day:
I
desire to rise to a question of privilege. Yesterday's Ottawa Citizen contains the following article, headed "Absolutely Untrue; Chief Justice on Dr. Edwards' Charges in the Commons":
"I do not know that I have very much to say about the charge of Dr. Edwards, except that it is absolutely untrue," stated Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, chief justice of Canada yesterday.
"I do not receive any such salary," stated Sir Charles. "The amount voted by parliament now is for travelling expenses when I go to Bondon as a member of the Judicial Committee. When I don't go I do not draw the allowance. There was one year when I drew it. At that time the amount was voted expressly without reference to expenses. It was a statutory allowance in connection with the position, the same as the amount allowed in my capacity as deputy of the Governor General. Afterwards the statute was changed to make the vote cover travelling expenses. When I don't go to Bondon why, of course, I do not receive the money."
My statement, to which exception was taken, may be found in Hansard of May 13, andi is as follows:

$2,500 a year was voted to a certain gentleman, whom I am not permitted to mention, for a specific purpose, which that gentleman did not carry out. The money was voted and taken. The next year the money was again voted and taken for that specific purpose, although that specific purpose was not carried out. The third year the money was voted for the same specific purpose, which purpose again was not carried out, but the money was taken.
. That is the statement which the gentleman in question says is absolutely untrue. The Appropriation Act and the Auditor General's Report show that for the year 1915-16 a vote of $2,500 was put through in these words :
Travelling expenses of Sir Charles Fitzpatrick when attending the sittings of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
The Auditor General's Report, page U3, shows that that amount was drawn. The next year the vote was similarly worded, and the Auditor General's Report, page U3, shows that the amount was taken. The next year, 1917-18, the wording was slightly changed to read:
Special allowance to Sir Charles Fitzpatrick to cover expenses when attending the sittings of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
That amount was not drawn. According to the Appropriation Acts and the Auditor General's Report, the amount was drawn in two of the three years. My statement cannot be characterized as absolutely untrue; at least it is two-thirds true, while the assertion	in the press of the
gentleman in question can only be taken as fifty per cent true. I am willing to place my veracity on that basis against that of the Chief Justice of Canada, at all events, so far as principle is concerned -and that is the point wherein my veracity is called to question. The amount was taken for services which were not performed, and that is what I stated in the House. That was the principle involved, and admission has been made to that effect. As a matter of principle, it does not matter whether the amount wrongfully taken was $5,000 or $7,500. It has been admitted that $5,000 has been taken for which-


Order.


-no services were rendered.


On the Orders of the Day:
I have received a letter from the
firm of Robin, Jones and Whitman, a large fishing firm in the Maritime Provinces operating on the coast of Gaspe, with regard to the shortage of salt. Perhaps I may read the letter, which I have received from the general manager of this firm, in order that I may induce the Government to do something towards bringing cargoes of salt to Canada; otherwise serious losses will result to the fisheries this year.


I suggest that the hon. gentleman summarize the letter; otherwise, it would be in the nature of an argument.


If the hon. gentleman puts a question, I will answer it.


I would ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce to help the fishermen to get the necessary supply of salt, which is absolutely lacking this year on the coast of Gaspe, on the north shore, and,
I am told, in the Maritime Provinces generally. My correspondent urges on the Government the necessity of asking the Imperial authorities to send a vessel from the Mediterranean to Canada with a cargo of salt.


Order.


A shipment of 5,500 tons of salt is on its way, which, I am informed, will carry the trade in Canada up to the 1st of July. I am in communication with the Admiralty as to a further shipment, and I am ascertaining how much will be required for the remainder of the season. My hon. friend will see, therefore, that the help has already been rendered.


I hope that I shall not have to take my hon. friend's answer with a grain of salt.


On the Orders of the Day:
With regard to the revelations made by the member for Kingston (Mr. Niokle) the other night, is it the intention of the Go-ernment to dismiss Mr. Fowler from the service?


That matter will be brought to the attention of the Prime Minister, and a further answer-will be'given to my hon. friend.


On -the Orders of the Day:
In view of the reference made on Monday night and this morning by the hon. member for Frontenae (Mr. Edwards) to Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, does the Government purpose allowing Sir Charles Fitzpatrick to retain the money which he admits he improperly received?


I shall have to answer that question in the same manner as I answered the question of the hon. member for West Toronto (Mr. Hocken).


I would suggest to the House that such questions should more properly be put upon the Order Paper. They are not of such urgency as to require their being brought up on the Orders of the Day.


Some time . ago I put a question on the Order Paper, and I received an evasive answer.


On the Orders of the Day:
May I ask you, Mr. Speaker, if you have received a communication from the delegation of farmers now in session at Ottawa, and if so, if it is your intention to communicate, it to the House?


Since I entered the chamber I received a voluminous communication. I obviously have not had time to read it. I cannot communicate it to the House until I have read it. When I have read it I shall take what action I deem proper.	1


Are we then likely to have
this document communicated to us, while delegates are still in this city?


I have already stated
to the hon. member that I shall, if I think proper, communicate it to the House the moment I have had an opportunity of reading it.


Is it a communication from the Ontario farmers?


I have not yet had an opportunity of reading it.
RURAL MAIL CARRIERS' CONTRACTS. On the Orders of the Day:


Is it the intention of the Govern-[Slr George Foster.]
ment to afford an opportunity for a discussion of the resolution moved by the hon. member for West Peterborough (Mr. Burnham) on March 21 last) relating to the difficulties experienced by rural mail carriers and the salaries received by them? The Prime Minister on that occasion asked that the resolution should be withdrawn in order that the Government might consider the matter, and he stated that an opportunity to discuss it would be given at a later date.
Sir GEORG'E FOSTER: When the Estimates of the Post Office Department are under consideration there will be full opportunity of discussing that matter.


On the Orders of the Day:
May I remind my right hon. friend that the motion of the hon. member for Kingston (Mr. Nickle) in regard to titles was to be further discussed?


I thought we
had heard a good deal about titles.


We have not heard the last of them yet.
'Sir GEORGE FOSTER: I shall draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the matter.


On motion of Hon. A. K. Maclean (Acting Minister of Finance), Bill No. 82, to amend the Inland Revenue Act was read the second time, and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
On section 1-duties of excise on manufactured tobacco:
Does this include the
whole section?


Yes.


Will the minister give an explanation of the difference between clauses (a) and (b)? Clause (a) enumerates a number of tobaccos such as fine-cut, cavendish, plug or twist. Clause (b) says:
(b) On common Canada twist, when made solely from tobacco grown in Canada, and on the farm or premises where grown, by the cultivator duly licensed therefor, or in a licensed tobacco manufactory, twenty cents per pound, attua! weight.
If it is manufactured into chewing tobacco or otherwise the duty is 20 cents per

pound. I do not -quite understand the distinction that is drawn here.


This is tobacco twist made from the.'Canadian grown leal. The duty has been raised from ten to twenty *cents.


What is meant by the words " on common Canada twist when made solely from tobacco grown in Canada?"


That is a Canadian tobacco.


It -goes on to say " when made on the farm or premises where grown." Surely, it would not be grown in ,a factory.


The twist may (be made in a factory. It is also frequently made on the farm.
. iMr. McOOIiG: Is there any provision covering the point I raised the other day as to the duty being remitted on tobacco damaged by frost or otherwise?


There is nothing in the Bill which specifically covers that point, but there is a regulation now in force which provides that the duty shall not be exacted where the leaf has been destroyed.


Does this section mean that a farmer who grows tobacco and makes it into twist for himself and his family is exempt from paying the duty?


Thirty pounds are allowed to the grower for every male adult of his family.


Does the minister think it is fair to charge a duty of six dollars a thousand on cigars regardless of quality? That duty would be all- right on cigars costing seventy-five or a hundred dollars a thousand, but on the cheaper cigars costing from eighteen to forty dollars a thousand, does the minister not think the duty is too high?


The increased
duty upon cigars amounts to two-thirds or a cent per cigar. In the case of the five cent cigar the profit of the rfrtailer now is forty per cent. With the increased duty it will (be twenty per cent,, or a little over. There is some objection, possibly fair, from the trade in respect to the duty on the cheaper cigar. In the United States the duty is based on the" selling price, but that has not been the practice in Canada; we
have always charged on the quantity. If the tax is too onerous in the case of the cheaper cigar, we will reconsider the matter before the next session of Parliament.


I think the minister should increase the duty on the more expensive cigars selling at $150 per thousand', we will say. The margin between the wholesale and retail price on the five-cent cigar is so small that with the duty it will have to sell at six or seven cents; that is the cigar the workingman and the farmer smokes.
I think the minister would get more duty if he increased the tax to ten dollars per thousand on the higher-pricedi cigar and decreased it to two or three dollars per thousand in the case of the cheaper cigar.


The purpose of the tax is to raise revenue, and if we impose too high a tax, consumption will cease and there will be no revenue.


I do not admit that. I am sure the minister when he goes into a store does not buy the five-cent cigar of the workingman, selling at six for .a quarter, but a brand selling at three for fifty. If he chooses to smoke that quality of cigar, let him pay for the luxury. He is better able . to pay the duty than the workingman. I again repeat, the minister should increase the duty on the higher-priced cigar, and reduce it on the lower-priced, cigar.


I can promise my hon. friend that before the next session of Parliament we will reconsider the duty on the five-cent cigar.


The minister admits I have good grounds for my appeal to him. Why not reconsider the duty now? This is the proper time when we are passing the Bill. If the minister will not meet the farmers in the House, at least he should allow them to get .a cigar at a reasonable price.


Would it not be well for the Acting Minister of Finance to consider the advisability of putting excise duties on an ad( valorem instead of on a specific basis? I believe we are going to have very high taxation in this country in the future. In the past the excise and other duties have all been of .a more or less trifling character, except the tax on liquors, but now we have to face the practical inevitability of heavy taxation all along the line. Reasoning by analogy, a duty of ten cents per pound on tea is equivalent to a duty of twenty-five per cent on the tea used by working people, selling at around thirty cents a pound, hut it only works out

to about twenty per cent, in ,the case of the higher-priced1 tea. I am merely arguing by analogy, but it seems to me the principle ;s a correct one, and I would join with my hon. friend from Richmond and Wolfe in urging on the Acting Minister of Finance the advisability of starting out right in regard to these taxes, because, after all, it is new conditions we are called upon to meet. I think it was the Acting Minister of Finance himself who said the other day that it was a condition and not a theory that confronted us. Being confronted with new conditions, I would urge on the Government the advisability of meeting those conditions by starting the new regime of taxation on a just and reasonable basis. I believe the House is with me entirely when 1 say that the principle and1 the practice of ad valorem duties is more reasonable than specific duties. Specific duties usually work out so as to place the heavier burden on the poorer people of the country.


Does my hon. friend advocate an ad valorem duty on tea?


I am not advocating any certain ad valorem duty. I am not attempting to advise the Acting Minister of Finance as to the amount of any duty that he should place upon any article. I am -laying down a principle and it is a just and right one. That principle is that we should have our duties apportioned on an ad valorem basis and not on a specific basis.	[DOT]


Possibly the acting minister did not understand my point in reference to a damaged crop. A damaged crop very frequently sells for about one-quarter of what the crop would have sold for had it not been damaged. The argument of the hon. member for Brome (Mr. McMaster) would apply to a very large extent to the point I was trying to make. If the producer had to depend upon selling his tobacco, a duty of five cents a pound would have a discouraging effect on the industry.


Under subsection 6 of section 2 of the Bill we are taking power to make regulations which will cover the point my hon. friend has mentioned, as well as other possible conditions which may arise to reduce the value of the home grown tobacco below the market price. We will keep this point in mind when the regulations are being framed.


If the minister assures the producers of tobacco that there will be regulations governing those cases, it will

largely assist in increasing the acreage which may be put under tobacco in Ontario this year.


I can assure my hon. friend that due provision will be made to cover the case he points out, and I would
be obliged if he would write a letter covering the point fully, to the Minister of Excise and .Customs.
On section 2-license to grow tobacco; fee; excise duty; exemption if tobacco grown for personal or family use; limited quantity free of duty; regulations; penalty:


I would like to draw the attention of the minister to subsection 6. He stated that regulations would be made in regard to the point raised by the hon. member for Kent (Mr. McCoig). I doubt if he has power under that subsection to make those regulations. The subsection says:
The Minister charged with the collection of the tax imposed under this section shall have power to make such regulations as he deems necessary or advisable for carrying out the provisions of this section.
I do not think he has any general power to make regulations.


It says:
The Minister charged with the collection of the tax imposed under this section shall have power to make such regulations as he deems necessary or advisable for carrying out the provisions of this section.


I do not think that is definite enough to give the minister power.


The point is that the tax of 20 cents a pound is imposed under section 279 of the Inland Revenue Act.


The tax of five cents per pound is under subsection 3, of section 2, of the Bill. I think it is clear enough.


Under section 279 of the Act, subsection lb, on common twist tobacco, Canadian grown, there is an excise duty, or tax, of 20 cents a pound actual weight. The hon. member for Kent has drawn the attention of the Committee to the fact that often the tobacco which is grown is so much damaged that the crop will only realize five or ten cents a pound, which would be half the amount of the tax. The minister says that he can obviate that injustice by availing himself of the power under subsection 6 of section 328a; but subsection 6 of 328a only allows him, according to my reading of the provision, to make regulations regarding the collection

of. the taxes imposed under this section, 328a, while the tax of 20 -cents a pound on common Canada twist is imposed under section 279.


Yes, but that is manufactured tobacco, and that could not relate to tobacco that had been damaged. One refers to the tobacco leaf and the other to common twist tobacco that is manufactured. I read it so; I do not think there would toe any damaged Canadian leaf in it.


I do not think there should be any doubt about this. It seems to me that the tax which is referred to in subsection 6 of -section 328a is the tax imposed by subsection 3:
There shall be levied, collected and paid an excise duty on all tobacco grown in Canada for consumption therein of -five cents per pound, computed according to the standard of leaf tobacco as hereinbefore established.
That appears to be the tax that is referred -to in subsection 6 of -the same section, and not the tax that is referred to in subsection b of section 279.


That is quite correct, but -the hon. member for Kent was referring to Canadian leaf tobacco under subsection b of section 279.
Mr. McMASyEK: I do not think he was.


The hon. gentleman (Mr. M-oCoig) referred to the Canadian grown leaf, which is subject to the excise tax of five cents a pound, and he inquired if, when the leaf was damaged or destroyed, there might be a remission or rebate of duty, ail-d I answered him that the regulations would contain such power. The Inland Revenue Act, which, however, I have not before me, contains a stronger provision even than this, also enabling the department to make regulations which would cover the point.
(Mr. DEMERS: Does subsection 6 of section 328A apply to section 279?
*Mr'. A. K. MACLEAN: No.


So, th-ere is no answer to the question asked by the member for Kent?


The tobacco to which the hon. member for Kent (Mr. McCoig) referred had reference to Canadian tobacco leaf, on which there is imposed a tax of five cents a pound. That is what is referred -to in -section 328A.


The point I wish to make is this: Paragraph 3 of section 328A provides:
There shall be levied, collected and paid, an excise duty on all tobacco grown in Canada for consumption therein of five cents per pound, computed according to the standard .of leaf* tobacco as hereinbefore established.
Subsection 6 provides:
The Minister charged with the collection of the tax imposed under this section shall have power to make such regulations as he deems necessary or advisable for carrying out the provisions of this section.
Now the section which I have quoted provides that five cents a pound must be collected on leaf -tobacco, -and the power given under subsection 6 to make regulations has to do with the collection of that tax. The minister has no power to- make a regulation for granting a rebate on damaged -tobacco. That i-s the point I make.
I have no particular interest in the subject because my province does not grow tobacco, but (I -submit -that the minister is not authorized by subsection 6 to make such a regulation as he suggests can be made.


I am advised by the officials of the department that the Inland Revenue Act contains a section which, beyond doubt, gives power to the department to frame regulations covering that point.


If -there is some other provision, all right.


The tax of five cents a pound to be imposed under subsection 3 of section 328A is a general tax. Now I am raising tobacco, which I sell for fifteen or twenty cents a pound, and my neighbour raises a higher quality of tobacco for which he receives thirty-five cents a pound, it is not fair that I should be called -upon to pay the same amount of tax as he does. There should be a distinction made, and in my opinion it would be -more just to base the tax upon the value of the tobacco. The Quesnel tobaco raised in the county of Montcalm -brings thirty-five or forty cents a pound, whereas Blue Briar, or Comstock fetches much less. There should be a difference in the scale of taxation based on the selling price. I drew the minister's attention to that fact.


I am instructed that there is no country in the world where there is an ad valorem duty on tobacco. I do not -quite see how you could impose taxation of that kind.


What about cigars?


The duty is specific. I do not see how you could fix a rate of duty upon the selling price.


In the Customs Department you have gaugers who test the wines and liquors. Could you not have experts to determine the quality of tobacco?


I am afraid we would have to have tobacco tasters. [DOT]


My hon. friend knows there are tobacco expertsvall over the country.


I suppose the
manufacturer has persons to determine values.


There are experts in
the United States also.


The hon. member for Jacques Cartier (Mr. Lafortune) raises an inferior quality of tobacco on which he pays so much a pound. Perhaps he raises more of that inferior quality than his neighbour.


No.


If not, why does not the hon. gentleman take a leaf out of his neighbour's 'book and go in for growing tobacco of better quality, which will realize a higher price.


The reason I am not raising tobacco of better quality than my neighbour is because the soil is not the same. His soil will produce Quesnel tobacco, mine will not.


That is a fair
answer.


Therefore I have to raise another quality of tobacco.


I do not think that anybody can complain of this tax upon Canadian grown leaf tobacco. It is a very email excise tax indeed, and I think there will be no complaint. The producer of the Canadian leaf enjoys very high protection, and it is only fair that he should pay something in the nature of an excise tax.


We do not complain of the. tax of five cents. We have been fairly treated in this instance by the Government, and I tender them my best thanks on that account. But is it just that I should be required to pay the same tax as my immediate neighbour, who produces a much superior quality, and gets a higher price for it? It is generally recognized that there 
must be some sacrifice, and that the duty of five cents a pound is a fair one, but there should foe a distinction made in the rate of duty paid as between the man who realizes thirty-five or forty cents a pound on his tobacco, and the man whose tobacco only brings him in from fifteen to twenty cents a pound.


Tobaccos are graded into
classes 1, 2 and' 3, so it can be easily determined by any one making an adjustment what amount of tax different sections of the country should ibe required to pay. A6 to one farmer having a better crop than another, to which my hon. friend from Jacques Cartier (Mr. Lafortune) referred, let me draw his attention to the trouble that is experienced' on account of frost. Frost may be experienced in one particular section, and half a mile away there may be no frost. One man's crop of tobacco may be seriously affected toy frost, whereas another man's crop may not receive any damage at all from that cause.
(That is where the injustice would come in. It would not be the fault of the owuer, but that his crop happened to be damaged on account of the peculiar situation of the land or the quality of the soil, which might attract frost -more quickly than would other sections close to the water or to the lake in my district, and whose crops would not be damaged by frost, while those further inland would be. It is no reflection on the farmer who has his tobacco frosted so far as his ability as a farmer is concerned,, but it is due to where he is situated. If the acting minister will give us some assurance that his regulation will cover such cases I feel satisfied that it will be some encouragement to producers to go into the tobacco industry.
Mr. DuTREMiBLAY:	I drew the attention of the acting minister the other day to the effect of the tax on tobacco. I asked if the tax of 5 cents per pound- was to be paid by the manufacturers of cigars, and I understood 'the minister to reply that it was. The manufacturers already pay an excise tax of 20 cents a pound, and if they have to pay the additional 5 cents they will be taxed 25 cents a pound.


In answer to what the hon. gentleman has just said, I am in principle opposed to the tax of 5 cents upon farmers who grow tobacco. I remember when the tax of 28 cents per pound was imposed on foreign raw leaf tobacco that the eastern and western tobacco growers sent a very important delegation to the Capital asking for a further duty of 10 cents a pound on American leaf to protect the Canadian growers. We discussed the matter with the Prime Minister (Sir Robert Borden), the Minister of Finance (Sir Thomas White), and the Minister of the Interior, and they were convinced at that time that an additional duty of 10 cents was necessary to protect the Canadian grower. We left the Capital fully satisfied that we had made, our point, but on the following day the cigar manufacturers came to Ottawa and did their utmost to induce the Government not to impose the tax of 10 cents that we were asking. Our contention then, as to-dav, wTas that the 28 cents per pound tax
on American tobacco was not sufficient. But in the new tariff the Government has raised the excise on American tobacco from 28 cents up to 40 and to 60 cents per pound. That leaves a margin of 12 cents in our favour, and we are only called upon to pay a tax of 5 cents. The difference between 12 and 5 cents is 7 cents, therefore the tobacco growers have an advantage now in their favour of 7 cents. It being admitted that all must do their duty, I am satisfie