Copy of Order in Council " Defence of Canada Order, 1917," entry in Canada of vessels carrying explosives in self-defence. -Hon. Mr. Ballantyne.
Copy of Order in Council instituting rank of Surgeon Probationer, R.N.C.V.R.-Hon, Mr. Ballantyne.
Report of the Commissioners appointed to investigate the businesses of the William Davies Co., Ltd., and Matthews-Blackwell, Limited.-Hon. Mr. Crothers.
Statement of the expenditure of the Dominion Publicity Committee in account with the Dominion Government and in connection with the Victory Loan, and report of Mr. A. E. Ames, chairman of the Dominion Executive Committee of the Canada Victory Loan, 1917.-Hon, A. K. Maclean.
On motion of Hon. J. D. Reid (Minister
of Railways), Bill No. 70 (Letter A of the
Senate), to Consolidate and Amend the Railway Act, was read the first time:.
On the Orders of the Day.
Major-General MEWBURN (Minister of Militia and Defence) : Mr. Speaker, I have been requested to make a statement in the House regarding the procedure that has been adopted by the Department of Militia and Defence regarding the obtaining of men for military service, in pursuance of Order in Council (P.C. 919), of the 20th April, 1918, and also, of Order in Council (P.C. 962), of the 20th April, 1918.
By paragraph five of the Order in Council first mentioned,-
The Governor in Council may direct orders to report for duty to issue to men in any class under the Act of any named age or ages or who were horn in named years or any named year or part of a year and any exemption theretofore granted to any man of any such named age or year of birth shall cease from and after noon of the day upon which he is ordered so to report, and no claim for exemption by or in respect of any man shall be entertained or considered after the issue to him of such order provided, however, that the minister may grant leave of absence without pay to any man by reason of the death, disablement or service of other members of the same family while on active service in any theatre of actual war.
After the most careful consideration, and having regard to the national interest, which must be the dominating factor today, it was considered that in pursuance of Order in Council (P.C. 919), those between the ages of 20 and 22 years both inclusive, should first be called out and an OrdeT in Council was passed accordingly.
The age of every man by or on whose behalf exemption was claimed had to be given in the claim, hence the age given on the original registration is to be taken as conclusive evidence against the man' of his age and year of birth.
Under the last-mentioned Order in Council the Military Service Registrars were instructed to notify all those registered within these ages to report for service, but to notify first the men coming from urban centres', so that men of these ages (20 to 22), who are on farms should not be called sooner than is absolutely necessary, and might thus have an opportunity of completing their seeding operations. Although no exemptions are given in this class it seemed reasonable that this opportunity

should be given while the men from urban centres were being brought in.
The responsibility for securing men between the ages of 20 to 22 thus called out has been placed upon the Militia Department which has to assume the duty of apprehending any such men failing to report.
In regard to the men in class one, other than those between the ages of 20 and 22, the operation and administration of the Military Service Act is still controlled by the Military Service Council, and all appeals still pending are being prosecuted to a completion.
The return shows the total number reporting under the Military Service Act, up t£ the 29th April, 1918, as 39,208 to be deducted . from this are 2,063, who have gone to Imperial Units, such as Royal Air Force, leaving 37,145 recruits for the Canadian Expeditionary Force. This, of course, includes men of class one who have voluntarily reported.
Desertions.
According to the reports there were, on the 29th of April, 1918, some 7,096 men of Class 1 who had, so far, failed to report and who had not yet been apprehended. Every effort is being made to apprehend these men. The attention of the House should be called to the fact that these men are deserters and, therefore, lawbreakers, and as my Department is charged with their apprehension, I wish to inform the House that it is the intention of the Department of Militia and Defence to carry out that duty, and for that purpose to use whatever measures may be found necessary.
Under the Order in Council (P.C. 919) the House will notice that there is only one ground for exemption, viz., " The Minister may grant leave of absence without pay to any man by reason of the death, disablement or service of other members of the same family while on active service in any theatre of actual war," and by the same Order in Council, the words " in any theatre of actual war," are defined as " not including the high seas or Great Britain, or Ireland."
It, therefore, became necessary for me to give definite ihstructions to district officers commanding for the purpose of defining the persons who should he granted leave of absence under this proviso. These instructions were promulgated in Routine Order No. 466 of the 20th April, 1918, wherein it is stated that the exemption extends to the only remaining son of military age. In any

such case the man so affected will, on reporting for duty, claim leave of absence on this ground to the officer commanding the unit to which he reported, whereupon the latter will give provisional leave of absence and the case will be forwarded to Militia Headquarters, by the officer commanding the district to be confirmed. It must be clearly understood that every man within the class so called out must report, and his claim for leave of absence will then be considered.
At this point I might explain, to clear up confusion which possibly exists, that all men in a class called out are, by the Military Service Act, deemed to be soldiers for the period of the war and demobilization thereafter, and that, if they do not come within the specially excepted classes under the Act, and have not been granted exemption by the tribunals the only method by which they can be relieved of military duty is to give them leave of absence without pay.
Every application for leave of absence on the ground of death, disablement or service of other members of the same family will be dealt with on its merits, the principle to be applied is as follows:	If there are several sons, seme of whom are serving in France-or in England, with the early prospect of being sent to France-and only one son of military age remains at home, such last-mentioned son is to be granted leave of absence. Cases may arise where there are two sons left at home, one of whom is of military age, and the other of whom will become of military age, say within six months. In such a case there will, at the expiration of six months, be two sons of military age remaining home, and in that event one of them will then be called upon to serve.
In calling out the classes aibove mentioned, it is realized that we chiefly require men of category " A." We are, therefore, only notifying men. who, having already had a medical examination, are found to be in this category or who have not yet been medically examined. Every man, however, upon reporting for duty will immediately be medically examined, whether he has been examined previously or not, and those who fall within the categories lower than " A," will be given leave of absence until further orders."
It should be explained that men of category " B " in Claes I under the Military Service Act aTe being generally warned to report for duty, but, as the number of such men presently required is not large, it is intended, for the present, to retain and
utilize only those who did not claim exemption or whose exemptions were refused, and not to make use of men in category " B " between the ages of 20 and 22, unless and until their services become necessary.
Temporary Leave of Absence to Farmers and Farm Labourers, in Categories lower than " A."
Realizing the serious need of food production, we have endeavoured to meet this situation as far as possible, and it has been provided that any member of the C.E.F. in Canada, in category lower than " A " who can be spared from his military duties, may be granted leave of absence without pay. This can he done by the authority of the officer commanding the district on presentation of a certificate from the agricultural representative of the district that the man in question is an efficient farm labourer.
The so-called " Regulations " that were printed and distributed to the members of the House, are really extracts from our routine orders that are issued daily from headquarters, for the guidance of district officers commanding. It was considered that extracts from these orders would bt useful to the members of the House.
'No doubt members would like to knowhow many men will probably be obtained under these Orders in council. As there is no complete registration in Canada, actual figures cannot be given, but as far as can be gathered from the lists of men who. reported for service or claimed exemption under the Military Service Act, it would appear that there are in Canada between the ages of 20 and 22 inclusive, a total of about 70,000 men. From this number, however, two important deductions must be made,-
(1)	A very considerable number who have not yet been medically examined, and
(2)	A further considerable number who will, on re-examination, prove to be in categories lower than " A."
Previous experience shows that this latter class will represent a substantial proportion of the whole. Therefore, a conservative estimate, under all tne circumstances, would appear to be about 35,000.
As the Order in Council of the 20th April, 1918, (P.C. 919), brings into Class 1 boys of nineteen and those who became twenty since the 13th October, 1917, a proclamation will issue calling on them to register. No. date for calling up these men has yet been decided upon. It will, of course, depend on the exigencies of the military situation.
As already stated, the order in which exemptions affecting men of any named age or ages are to be cancelled, rests with the Governor in Council and, of course, before any additional years are selected the matter will be exhaustively considered from all points of view.
The broad principle upon which the Government has acted is that having in mind the urgency of the national peril, very few men, (a) unmarried or widowers without children, (b) between the ages of 20 and 22 and (c) in medical category "A" can really be regarded as indispensable to any business.
Some representations have been made with regard to the only son of a widow who is her sole support. This subject must be approached from two points of view:-(1) the national interest; (2) personal hardship. In the first place, it is conceded that the calling up of the only son of a widow necessarily brings sorrow to the mother, but it must be recognized that this sorrow comes to every mother who parts with her son. There are cases where the only son on the farm is between the ages of 20 and 22, and the widowed mother will suffer hardship if he is taken. The same considerations would apply to the only son of a widow who is living in the city and who, for example, is engaged in business and is supporting a mother, possibly sisters as well. There is also, the case of an only son supporting an invalid father, where equal hardship exists. From the standpoint of financial difficulties, it must not foe overlooked that the widowed mother in such cases will be in receipt of,-
(a)	Separation Allowance,
(b)	Assigned Pay,
(c)	Patriotic Fund Allowance.
Take for example, the case of a widow on a small farm. It may be that the farm cannot be operated to its fullest capacity without the son's assistance, but it can be operated to a sufficient extent to provide the living of those people residing on it, and against the loss of income from increased production, etc., must be set off the allowances above referred to.
Further, from the standpoint of the national interest, the diminution of production upon such small properties must be considered, under present circumstances as negligible.
The Government fully realize and most deeply regret that hardship and sorrow are entailed by every new application of the Military Service Act, but they hope the people will realize that those upon whom
[Major-General Mewburn.]
this stern duty falls have no alternative. Our forces at the front are likely to be attacked by overwhelming numbers at any time until the tremendous struggle which began on 21st March last ehall have reached a conclusion. Our failure to support them with adequate reinforcements might lead to their decimation or destruction. It would be of little avail to increase production if that increase should be accompanied by such disaster at the front, that our products could not reach Great Britain or the Allied Nations beyond the seas. In that case we should have sown so that Germany might reap.
Moreover, the Government hopes that during the coming summer a more effective mobilization of the human energy of Canada may be effected, with the result that the crops sown during the spring may receive necessary attention during the summer and may be successfully harvested in the autumn.
Quebec Situation.
I have constantly stated, in the past, that I believed Quebec would do its duty, and I am happy to be able to report to the House many evidences of a marked change of feeling in that province. It is gratifying to note by the papers that Saint Mary's College and Laval University have granted leave of absence to all their students who come under the military law of this country, and have encouraged them to do their duty and it is hoped that this good example will considerably help matters.
Further, I have a report that the quotas from both the McGill and Laval Universities, for the new Tank Battalion, have 'been completed and more men are offering than can be accepted, for this unit.
There is very good evidence to show that many young men in the province of Quebec who have been exempted are now ready to come forward and serve, and it is realized where these men have had no former military experience, there is a certain amount of dread in the minds of their families as to their associations. Therefore, special efforts will be made to keep friends and associates together.
In view of the splendid spirit displayed by the universities and colleges, arrangements are being made to organize new units in connection with these institutions.
Of course, it must be realized that we are not sending any complete infantry battalions overseas, but representations have been made to the overseas authorities with a view to ensuring that the young men

who come from certain localities shall go to the same reserve unit in England to complete their training and finally to the same linked battalion at the Front; the object being, so far as possible, to ensure that these young men will serve under as congenial conditions as possible.
As far as I am personally concerned, every effort will be made to avoid all misunderstandings with a sincere desire tio promote a better feeling between provinces in the Dominion of Canada. It seems to me that where the national interests are at stake, all provincial feelings should be eliminated, so that Canada may present a common front to the common enemy.
In conclusion, permit me to read the following extract from a speech made by Mr. RudyaTd Kipling, at Folkestone, and published in the London Morning Post. The paragraph is headed-
If the Hun Wins.
If for any reason whatever we fall short of victory-and there is no half-way house between victory and defeat-what happens to us? This. Every relation, every understanding, every decency upon which civilization has been so anxiously built up will go-will be washed out, because it will have been proved unable to endure. The whole idea of democracy-which at bottom is what the Hun fights against-will be dismissed from men's minds, because it will have been shown incapable of maintaining itself against the Hun. It will die; and it will die discredited, together with every belief and practice that is based on it. The Hun ideal, the Hun's root-notions of life will take its place throughout the world. Under that dispensation man will become once more the natural prey, body and goods, of his better-armed neighbour. Women will be the mere instrument for continuing the breed; the vassal of man's lust and man's cruelty ; and labour will become a thing to be knocked on the head if it dares to give trouble, and worked to death if it does not. And from this order of life there will be no appeal, no possibility of any escape. This is what the Hun means when he says he intends to impose German kultur-which is the German religion-upon the world. This is precisely what the world has banded Itself together to resist. (Cheers.) It will take every ounce in us; it will try us out to the naked soul. Our trial will not be made lesd>
by the earnest advice and suggestions that we should accept some sort of compromise, which means defeat, put forward by Hun agents and confederates among us. (Hear, hear.) They are busy in that direction already. But be sure of this: Nothing-nothing we may have to endure now will weigh one featherweight compared with what we shall most certainly have to suffer if for any cause we fail of victory.
Will members of the House be able to get this afternoon copies of the official statement which the minister has just read, so that they can forward those copies to their constituents as answers to questions they have
received? Many hon. members would very much appreciate it if that could be done.
Major-General MEWBURN:	I shall endeavour to have the statement printed at once.


Mr. Speaker, by your leave, may I make another suggestion to the minister? In the regulations it is provided that any member of the Canadian Expeditionary Force in Canada in categories lower than A, who can be temporarily spared from his military duty, may be granted leave of absence without pay on the authority of the commanding officer of the district, on production of a certificate from the agricultural representative. If the minister would supplement the statement which he has made to-day with a list of both the commanding officers and the agricultural representatives in every district, the matter of giving information in reply to questions could be greatly facilitated. I am satisfied that all the members of the House are in receipt of letters asking for information as to how men should apply for leave of absence. If an hon. member can say: Apply to Mr. So and So in your district, and if he can give the name of both the commanding officer and the agricultural representative, he would be able to get the information much more quickly.
Major-General MEWBURN:	In reference to the Order in Council, I have practically completed arrangements in every military district throughout Canada as to those men (20 to 22 inclusive) who are to report. I realize that it will mean more or less of a hardship for a man to come from the country info the city to report, but we must have some evidence that a man is within a category lower than " A." All the man has to do is to appear at the Depot Battalion to which he has beeni ordered to report, when he will be medically examined, and if his medical examination places him in a category lower than " A," he will at once be given leave of absence. We thought the simplest way to do, so as not to put men to undue'trouble was to have a representative of the Department of Agriculture in each district to verify applications of men who claim to be farmers or efficient farm labourers. These agricultural representatives will certify that such and such a man is an efficient farm labourer and on his certificate the man will, at once, be given leave of absence. It might facilitate matters if fuller information were given to the public.


I wish to thank the Minister
of Militia and Defence for the kind words he has spoken in regard to the young men of Quebec, especially the Laval College men and St. Mary's College men. As I informed the minister yesterday, I met several of the young men who joined the Tank Unit in Ottawa and I think I can safely say that if the minister would follow up the idea of having units in which young men could keep their associations as much as possible, he could easily raise at once in the city of Quebec alone a complete Tank Unit. I have this from several of the young men who have joined that unit.


Order. The hon. member is exceeding his privilege.


While I was at my home over the week end, I met two farmers whose sons had been exempted, but their exemptions are now can-called as a result of the new regulations. At the same time they are receiving notices to appear before the Central Appeal Judge; the judgments granting them exemption having been appealed from. As late as Friday last, some of these men have received notices to appear before the Central Appeal Judge on the first of May. Is that a mistake, and have these young men anything to gain or lose by appearing or failing to appear before the Central Appeal Judge?
Major-General MEWBURN: Were those men other than the ages of twenty to twenty-two?


Yes.
Major-General MEWBURN: The exemptions have been cancelled only of the men between the ages of twenty and twenty-two both inclusive. All men of the ages other than those mentioned can still continue to prosecute their appeals under the regulations of the Military Service Act.


But these are men of twenty-one and twenty-two years of age.
Major-General MEWBURN:	I cannot
understand why any such notices should have been sent out, because the registrars had from the Military Service Council a distinct notification to inform all men between the ages of twenty and twenty-two, both inclusive, that their exemptions were cancelled, and I requested that the men in the urban centres should be called first. Some ihistake must have been made. I shall have the matter looked into at once.
[Major-General Mew burn. ]


In the statement which has just been made by the minister, I do not find any mention of farmers who were proprietors of farms before the proclamation was issued in October last, and who are now twenty-one or twenty-two years of age. Supposing a young man of twenty-two years of age is a proprietor of a farm and a farmer himself ; supposing he has 150 acres and a large stock and he is alone on the farm, is he bound, as coming under the regulations now in force? He is a bona fide farmer. What action should he take?


Order. The hon. member is going to an inordinate length to ask a question.


We all know that there are some 60,000 exemptions claimed in the province of Quebec. We know that the exemptions of men between the ages of twenty and twenty-two are all wiped out. That settles that question. Did the minister state how many of those exemptions have now come before the tribunals and how they were disposed of? How many cases have come before the Central Appeal Judge and how many exemp- * tions are there now?
Major-General MEWBURN: The figures I gave which I obtained from the Military Service Council were an estimate of the number of men of the ages of twenty, twenty-one and twenty-two to whom exemptions had been granted on account of the result of the medical examinations or their position, and it was estimated in that way there were .about 70,000 men available. Many of those men have not been medically examined and the figures are only an. estimate.
I have not the other figures.


The matter is very important. Cannot the minister bring the information down to-morrow?
Major-General MEWBURN: In reply to the hon. member for Laval-Two Mountains (Mr. Ethier). Many cases of hardship have already been brought to my notice. In the meantime, the only thing to be done is for the young man to report to the Officer Commanding the Depot Battalion, and state his case there. There should be noi difficulty in his getting a sufficient leave of absence to enable him to wind up his business.


Would the Minister say how soon Class "A " men in the rural districts will he called?

Major-General MEWBITRN:	I cannot
give a definite reply as that matter is left largely to the registrars. We have simply requested that the men in rural districts should not he called until the corresponding classes in the cities have been exhausted.
Mr. H. A. FORTIER (Labelle)': In the case of a boy of twenty or twenty-two with a widowed mother to support, is there any possible chance of his being exempted?


That case has already
been dealt with in the statement of the Minister of Militia and Defence. I must remind the House we are not in committee and hon. gentlemen are going far beyond the latitude allowed on the Orders of the Day.


If the hon. gentleman will look at the minister's statement to-morrow he will see a full reply to the question he has just asked.


I had not finished my
question.


I think we can with profit adjourn the discussion to another day.


Do you rule, Sir, that the hon. gentleman cannot put his question?


The right hon. gentleman will see that if every hon. member were to exercise the right of asking a question upon the Orders of the Day we should be here until six o'clock without advancing the business of the House. That would be carrying the privilege beyond reasonable ^bounds.


Has not every hon. member of this House exactly the same rights as the Minister of Militia has?


It has long been the custom for a minister when desiring to do so to make a pronouncement upon an important public matter on the Orders of the Day being called, just as has been done by the Minister of Militia and Defence to-day. It is quite proper for hon. members to address questions to the Government on matters of policy but it is not proper that they should enter into what is in effect a discussion when there is no subject before the House.


I think the
hon. member is entitled to put his question.


I would ask the hon.
member not to be unduly long in putting his question.


Is there any possibility of having exemption granted in the case of a young man of twenty or twenty-two who is the sole support of a widowed mother with a family of young children? If there is no provision for his exemption have the Government considered taking over the farm in such a case rather than allowing it to lie idle?
Major-General MEWBURN: There is no power vested in me to do that.


The minister has said that the men in the rural districts will not be called out until after the men in the cities have been ordered to report but I understand that many young men in rural districts have been .ordered to report on the 1st of May.
Major-General MEWBURN: I did not say that we were not going to call out the men in the rural districts I said a request had been made to the registrars under the Military Service Act that the notices ordering men between twenty and twenty-two years of age inclusive to report be first sent to men in the urban districts. I might say that many men living on farms gave their city address to the registrar when registering. A man living ninety miles from Montreal came in to see me to-day and said his boy had received notice to report, but that it was his own mistake because in registering he had given his residence as Montreal; the mistake is being rectified by the registrar. We are not granting exemption to the men in the rural districts but we are simply doing what I think is fair and reasonable, namely, calling out the men in the urban centres first. It will take some time to deal with those classes, before the men in the rural districts are called.


May I ask to what the Minister of Militia attributes the better feeling in the province of Quebec?


Always true to the Orange Sentinel!


That is not such a question as can properly be put on the Orders of the Day.


TAXATION; CHANGES IN TARIFF.
That the Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to go into Committee of Ways and Means.

He said: Mr. Speaker, in presenting today the annual statement of the financial affairs of the country I deem it but fitting and proper that at the outset I should give expression to -what I believe is the profound and sincere regret of Parliament, that Sir Thomas White, the Minister of Finance, was unable to deliver the annual budget by reason of an enforced and lengthy absence from official duties. Regardless of party distinctions, and the inevitable differences of opinion that must prevail regarding the 'administration of the financial affairs of the country, I am sure that honourable gentlemen will heartily concur in the observation, that the highly important duties attaching to the Department of Finance, so abnormal! in their magnitude and exacting in their detail during the war period, have been discharged by Sir Thomas White with distinction 'and with conspicuous ability, fo his task he has applied great energy and industry, and in his labours he has been solely animated by the high motive of rendering faithful and unselfish service to the State. I iam confident the House will join with me in expressing gratification upon the fact that he has so far recovered his health that he proposes an early return to Canada to resume his official duties, after disposing of some public business now engaging his attention in the United States.


The revenue for |he fiscal year ending March 31, 1918, will, when the accounts are finally closed, reach $258,000,000, exceeding the revenue of the preceding year by $26,000,000, and that of the first year of the war by $125,000,000. Of the total amount of $258,000,000, Customs will yield $146,000,000 and Excise $27,000,000. From the various taxations apart from Customs and Excise, we shall have received nearly $25,000,000. The several sources from which this revenue was derived, and the amounts, might be of interest to the House. For the past fiscal year they are as follows: Business profits war tax, $21,271,283; banks, $836,724.28; insurance companies, $385,127.68; trust and loan companies, $267,917.68; Inland Revenue from railways, steamships, telegraph and cable companies, stamps, etc., $2,229,922.81; a total of $24,990,975.45.
Coming to our ordinary expenditure and taking cognizance only of expenditures for civil government, and disregarding all outlays on account of war, the expenditure for the fiscal year 1917-18 is estimated at
fMr. A. K. Maclean.]
$173,000,000. The total expenditure of $173,000,000 includes payment of interest, estimated at $45,000,000, and pensions of some $7,000,000, or $52,000,000 altogether; whereas prior to the war the outlay on interest was but $12,000,000, and of course the expenditure for pensions on account of the war had not yet begun. It is also inclusive of the sums of $25,000,000 and $7,500,000 voted and advanced on account of the Canadian Northern railway and the Grand Trunk Pacific railway respectively. For the capital outlay® beyond the ordinary current expenditure of $173,000,000 an expenditure of $30,000,000 is estimated. These two items of expenditure amount to $203,000,000, and represent the outlay of Canada for all purposes apart from war during the past year.
With a total revenue of $258,000,000, and an ordinary and capital expenditure of $203,000,000, it will be seen that during the fiscal year 1917-18 the Government was able to meet all ordinary and capital outlays, including an increased amount for interest account and pensions over the previous year of nearly $15,000,000, and have a favourable balance of about $55,000,000 to be applied to war expenditures.
The main estimates for 1918-19 have been submitted to the (House, and supplementary Estimates will be presented later. Apart from the increased interest caused by our war borrowing, and the amount required for pensions, also arising out of the war, substantial reductions have been made in the estimates of practically all the services, and I anticipate that actual expenditure will be well below the amounts voted. These reductions, however, are more than offset by the additional sums needed for interest and pensions for the current year over the past year, and which excess I estimate at $25,000,000, so that ordinary expenditure for 1918-19 will increase materially over that of the previous year. Outside of interest'and pension account, ordinary expenditures should not exceed those of last year. Substantial disbursements this year will be necessary in connection with the soldiers' land settlement programme, and a substantial liability has been assumed for the year in connection with the Halifax disaster. The capital expenditure vote has been materially cut. It is estimated that for the fiscal year 1918-19 we shall be able to pay our ordinary and capital expenditure out of our revenue and have, as in the past two years, an appreciable sum over, which we can apply to war

purposes. The unexpended balance of the Victory Loan will finance our war expenditures and advances to the Imperial Government until July next, when Treasury bills will be temporarily negotiated, until the proceeds of the next public loan are available.
Canada ie now in the fourth year of the war. Our expenditure on, war account for the year 1917-18 will approximate $345,000,000, of which amount $167,000,000 was expended in Canada,	the balance, $178,000,000, represents our war expenditure overseas. Up to March 31, 1917, we had expended for war purposes $533,437,036.11,so that on March 31, 1918, our total outlay for war will be approximately $878,000,000. This amount includes all expenditures in Canada, Great Britain and France, and is also inclusive of the upkeep of our troops overseas. The amount does not, however, include any pay due but not yet paid to the troops overseas. During the past two fiscal years we have applied to war expenditure surpluses of revenue over ordinary and capital outlays the sum of $113,000,000, and our interest and pension payments attributable to war and covering the entire war period would approximate about $75,000,000.
The net debt of Canada, which before the war stood at about $336,000,000 has now passed the billion-dollar mark, and it is estimated that when the accounts for the year 1917-18 are closed it will reach, approximately, $1,200,000,000. The increase is almost entirely attributable to war expenditures. To provide funds for our war necessities, apart from the amounts we were able to spare from the ordinary revenues of the country, we have had recourse to' public loans, and from, time to time to temporary loans from our banks, which were subsequently liquidated from the proceeds of loans.
The statistics of our trade indicate that our exports, year by year as the war progresses, are showing a greater and greater increase over our imports. The year before the war the imports exceeded the exports by nearly $300,000,000. In 1917-18 this condition had been so -completely reversed that the exports exceeded the imports by almost $625,000,000, and our total trade, which passed the billion mark in
1913, exceeded the two and a half billion mark in 1918.
It must be borne in mind, however, that this increase in our total trade is very largely attributable to war conditions, and as well the very favourable trade balance. It might be informing to the House to briefly state that in 1917-18 our exports to Great Britain were about $860,000,000, while our imports amounted to $81,000,000. Our exports to the United States reached the sum of $440,000,000, while our imports were $790,000,000.
The general impression I fear prevails that we have had practically no immigration into Canada since the beginning of the war. While of course it is proportionately much less than in years just prior to the war, still it is not a negligible quantity. In 1915-16 our immigration w-as 48,537; in 1916-17-it was 75,374, -and in 1917-18, 79,074; a total of 202,985 in the past three fiscal years. Of this total number 169,640 came from the United States and 20,124 from the British Isles. An important fact in connection with this- immigration is that it comprised a large proportion of agriculturalists. The Minister of Immigration and Colonization informs me that everything-clearly indicates a very large immigration into Canada, commencing shortly after the conclusion of the w-ar and' so soon as transportation facilities are available. A factor to be kept prominently in mind is that the employment of women and girls in occupations heretofore filled by men will continue in all the belligerent countries for many years at least, thus limiting the avenues of employment ordinarily open to men, and leaving a surplus for emigration, notwithstanding the heavy toll upon life exacted by the war.
Owing to the inability of Great Britain to settle in the usual way her trade balances, and to which I propose referring later, we are experiencing an acute exchange problem in Canada. During the past few months1 a very high rate has prevailed on remittances- of funds to the United States, which has imposed a severe tax upon importers and the public, and, if it continues, must diminish imports or -add to their cost. This high rate is due to the fact that we have to remit more to, than we receive from, the United 'States, and consequently the demand for United States funds is greater than the supply. Were we
able to sell securities in the United States the rates of exchange might easily have been adjusted or normalized, but Canadians were not permitted to do so. The Government did not require during the present year to borrow in the United States, even if we had been permitted, and consequently by such an operation it was not convenient or practical to correct the exchange.
To redress the adverse rate of exchange with the United States, we must lessen our imports from that country, or the United States must buy more from us, or we must sell securities in the United States to the extent of a very substantial proportion of our adverse trade balance. Other considerations-, however, are involved in this matter, to which I shall refer later, but I might be permitted to say that the Government has been diligent in its endeavours to bring about such financial arrangements with the Governments of Great Britain and the United States as would! materially relieve our people of the burden of the present high rates of exchange. I hope that very shortly we shall be in a position to announce the successful conclusion of negotiations which have in view this end. In connection with the exchange problem it might be of interest to state that for the first three months of this calendar year our imports from the United States have decreased below that of the corresponding period of last year by over $36,000,000, while our exports have increased in the same comparative period by about $20,000,000.
The unqualified1 success attending the Victory Loan of last year, as well of previous domestic loans, is of such notalble importance and significance that it calls for more than a passing reference. The large investment made by our citizens in the securities issued by the -Government from time to time- since the beginning of the war is a matter of natural pride to all Canadians. Since December 1, 1915, d'-omestio war loan issues aggregating $746,000,000 have been made, and of which over $700,000,000 was subscribed for by Canadians-, a very tangible evidence of the productive powers of our people, their determination to sustain our army and our commerce by loans- to the State, and their faith 'in the -ability of Canada to honour in the future the financial obligations now so honourably incurred. That Canada possessed such a purchasing power it is needless for m-e to say was hardly entertained by -any person, even the most optimistic.

Last November the fourth war loan was placed upon the market in -Canada. In the case of the three previous loans, for the-ir successful flotation, the Government of the time relied upon newspaper advertising methods alone to secure the required subscriptions, and no extensively organized campaign was- deemed necessary. In .the case of the last loan, ho-w-ever, it was felt that more- vigorous methods should be adopted in order that a -wider response to the appeal should be received from all classes of o-ur population, so that the alb-sorption of the loan would be rapid and that -by spreading the holdings over as -many people as possible, the -subscribers- would be more strongly protected so far as the market price w:a-s concerned.
The Minister of Finance, with the cooperation of some of the most active of the business men of the Dominion, organized a central committee called the Dominion Executive of the Victory Loan Campaign, which in turn organized associated committees in every province. These again created committees in various counties, cities and towns. By addresses, advertisement and canvass, ;by the united efforts of all these countrywide organizations, the results far exceeded -the expectations even o-f those best qualified to anticipate the result of an appeal of this -character. The -bonds were of five, ten and twenty year maturities. The prospectus called- for -an amount of $150,-000,000, but the loan was an open one and the right was reserved to- exceed -subscriptions- above this amount. In response to- the appeal, subscriptions to the amount of $408,000,000 from -approximately 600,000 subscribers, a subscription from about one in every nine of our population, a -subscription of over $58 per capita, -was received. This was slightly better than the results of the Liberty Loan of 1917 in the United States, where some 9,400,000 subscriptions were received, or about one in more than eleven. The subscriptions in -the four western provinces were particularly gratifying, and indicate in these new provinces remarkable accumulation of wealth, which fact is- pleasing to the older sections of the Dominion. The Victory Loan Committee state the subscriptions of A'llberta amounted to $16,515,150; British Columbia, $18,814,700; Saskatchewan., $21,777,050; and Manitoba," $32,326,600. Opportunity was given to the overseas forces to subscribe, and we received over $1,500,000 from soldiers who cashed in their faith in their fight and country.

The total subscription was cut down to an allotment of $398,000,000 of now money, not counting holdings of previous war loans which were convertible and were converted into Victory Loan Bonds to the amount of over $150,000,000. When all the charges are computed and paid, the cost of the loan will approximate II per cent, which is comparatively small in such a large operation and extending over so wide an area. The banks received 1 of 1 per cent as remuneration for their services and to compensate them for the labour entailed in all their branches in taking the subscriptions; issuing temporary receipts'; delivery of the scrip; receiving the five instalments from January to May; transmitting the cash to the Department of Finance; in delivering the bonds to subscribers in exchange for scrip; in paying at par all over Canada the coupons and interest cheques during the whole period covered by the loan.
The probable subscribers of the larger amounts were 'solicited by the agency of a special committee and upon these subscriptions no commission was paid. The local canvassers received i of one per cent on all subscriptions received by them to, compensate them for their time and labour; and finally, the bond dealers and brokers who co-operated most heartily and energetically in the work and who placed the services of themselves and their several staffs at the disposal of the committee were tio be allowed such remuneration as was deemed reasonable by the Minister of Finance. It is estimated that the total charges will amount approximately to $5,000,000, or about II per cent. When the issuing charges for all our other previous loans are considered, it will be found that this may be regarded as exceedingly reasonable.
I wish to acknowledge on behalf of the Minister of Finance and the Government his and their thanks and 'appreciation of the splendid and patriotic services of all the committees and workers whose efforts in a noble cause proved so successful; to the press, also, and to the public spirited citizens who, in an honorary capacity, gave valuable assistance in this great campaign, I desire to publicly and gratefully acknowledge their valuable services. Preparations for the next Victory Loan have already commenced, and the Government have also under advisement the matter of the sale of War Savings Stamps, a borrowing scheme very successfully employed in the United States.
There is a very direct connection not only between our domestic loans and the financing of our war operations, but also with our productions and our overseas ex-poit trade, and I think the matter well worthy of some consideration. Fundamentally trade is the exchange of products, and payment of the purchases of goods abroad must be made by the sale of goods or securities abroad. With us, gold is not a factor in international trade. All are acquainted with the fact that the war has disturbed the natural currents of trade rendering impossible the settlement of international trading accounts in the usual manner. Prior to the war, Canada had a favourable trade balance with Great Britain through the sale of her products and securities in that country, while we have always had an unfavourable trade balance in the United States. We settled the latter in London out of our available credits there, which was of course convenient to the United States because that country always had payments to meet there.
The later stages of the war, however, have materially altered Great Britain's position, and circumstances have compelled her to purchase heavily of war supplies and foodstuffs on this side of the Atlantic, while her exports have been diminishing. She has thus become chiefly a purchasing nation, and is no longer a loaning but a borrowing country. In 1917-18 we had as a matter of fact a favourable merchandise trade balance with Great Britain of about $790,000,000 while with the United States it was unfavourable to the extent of $350,000,000. Normally, we would settle our unfavourable American trade balance with the moneys receivable from Great Britain for her liberal purchases of our high priced commodities. However, owing to the enormous purchases Great Britain Was obliged to make for herself and some of her allies, and so great had been the drain upon her liquid resources in the first three years of the war, that in July, 1917, she was obliged to secure loans or dollar credits for her Canadian purchases, otherwise, she would be obliged to practically cease purchasing here. In that event, commercial disaster would have overtaken us and we would have had- difficulty in financing our war expenditures. It was therefore important that immediate action be taken to meet this new condition of affairs. In order that our industries and our artisans might be employed, that our agriculturists be afforded an export market and encouraged to pro-


duee, and (that all our people might be paid for their exportable productions, which was of course of vital importance to all classes of our people, arrangements were consummated in midsummer last year whereby the Government of Canada agreed to make advances to Great Britain at the rate of $25,000,000 per month in order that she might purchase in Canada such of our products as she needed and which we had to sell. In fact, advances for cheese and meat products in excess of the agreement were made last y^ar. In addition, and for the same purpose, the Canadian banks agreed to make advances to the British Government, and altogether up to this date have advanced $200,000,000 on the security of Imperial Treasury Bills. Further, the Government of the United States last year agreed to establish credits for British purchases in Canada. These arrangements are still effective and are likely to continue throughout the year. In a word, the Government of Canada and the Canadian banks have been granting credits for Great Britain's purchases in Canada in substantial amounts since midsummer of 1917, otherwise, our overseas trade would have been seriously handicapped. I must point out, however, that while the Government has thus been making advances to assist in the payment of British purchases in Canada, Great Britain has been paying for Canada the upkeep of her troops in Great Britain and France, and sundry Government accounts. These payments by the Imperial Government for Canada nave been to date $100,000,000 less than the payments made for Great Britain by the Canadian Government, and there is that amount to our credit in this open account to-day.
That is strictly the Government's financial position in respect to war and trade for this year. It might be interesting to consider the economic position of the people outside of the Government. The exact position of the people of the country, apart from the Government, is surrounded with additional difficulties. They must meet an adverse balance of merchandise trade with die United States and also the principal and interest of maturities there. They must as well pay for imports from Great Britain, which last year amounted to $81,000,000, notwithstanding we are the creditor country, and they must pay the interest owed by our people to people in Great Britain, and which amounts to about $135,000,000 annually. The combined commitments of the Government and the people are, therefore, abnormal and 
substantial by reason of the conditions I h