That Messrs. R. F. Green, J. E Armstrong (Lambton), J A. Robb and W. C. Kennedy be appointed a committee from this House to meet a like committee from the Senate for the purpose of assisting the Joint Parliamentary Committee for Parliament Building on the allocation of space, etc.


Motion agreed to.
Bill No. 139 (from the Senate) for the relief of James Frederick Neild.-Mr. Ross.
Bill No. 140 (from the Senate) for the relief of Mable Anna Ferguson.-Mr. Douglas (Strathcona).
Bill No. 141 (from the Senate) respecting Chartered Trust and Executor Company.- Mr. Nesbitt.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by asterisks.).
FORT LAWRENCE, NjS,-PUBLIC WORKS EXPENDITURES.
Mr. Sinclair (Antigonish and Guysbor-ough):
*1. What amounts have been spent by the Public Works Department since September, 1911, at Fort Lawrence, Nova Scotia, and how much has been spent for dredging?
2.	Did the Government purchase certain dredging equipment (including tug, scows, etc.), at Fort Lawrence? If so, at what price?
3.	What has become of said equipment? If sold, what amount was received for same?
Is it a fact that positions1 announced as open for application in the Government Outside Service are held open so long that returned soldier applicants get no satisfaction and have to give it up?


All vacancies reported to the Civil Service Commission by 'the departments and all requisitions filed in connection therewith are dealt with as promptly as pos, sible.
Ordinary requisitions which can be filled from the eligible lists of clerks, typists, stenographers, etc., are seldom held more than two or three days as when the lists of those who have qualified by passing prescribed examinations are exhausted there are usually applications on file from which temporary assignments can be made. .
When a minor position has to be filled by local advertising said advertising is authorized by return mail and ten days to two weeks is usually sufficient time in which to deal with the matter and make the appointment.
When more important positions have to be advertised in the Gazette and through the press1 a longer period, generally about thirty days, is allowed and time added to enable British Columbia points to reply. It sometimes occurs that so many applications are received that longer time is required to make full investigation into the merits of all applicants, but the cases where final decision is delayed longer than a few days after competitions close are few and far between.


1.	Are the steamers Lady Evelyn and Princess still the property of the Government? If not, when were they disposed of, and to whom?
[DOT] 2. At what price and1 on what terms of payment?
3.	Were they disposed of for cash? If so, has the Government been paid?
4.	What is the gross tonnage of each?
5.	Was said sale authorized by Order in Council?


Re Lady Evelyn-
1.	Soldi to the Gulf of St. Lawrence Shipping and Trading Company on the 24th April, 1919.
2.	$40,000 subject to arrangement.
3.	$30,000 has been paid. Balance $10,000 held pending the settlement of a claim that complete equipment was not delivered with the ship.

5.	Yes.
Re Princess-
1.	Princess disposed of in January, 1919, to Mr. J. A. Farquhar, Halifax, N.S.
2.	$46,555 cash.
3.	Yes.
4.	542 tons.
5.	Yes.


1.	How many commissions have been appointed by the Governor in Council and by Parliament since the year 1911?
2.	What are the names of the various commissions and what art the names of the members of the said commissions?
3.	What was the amount of salary and travelling expenses paid to each commission and the sum drawn by each commissioner?


The House again in Committee of Ways and Means, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
Customs.
Tariff item 61a-Wheat flour and semolina when imported from a country which imposes a customs duty on wheat flour or semolina manufactured in Canada	per barrel, 30 cents.
['To-morrow we will take up the resolution respecting Vancouver Harbour Cbmmissioners standing in the name of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries; also Bill No. 39, to amend the Fisheries Act; Bill No. 131, for the Promotion of Technical Education; the resolution in the name of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries concerning the Canada Shipping Act. We shall also ask that public Bills and orders be taken up, and that the second reading of Bill No. 77, respecting divorce, be proceeded with.\nOn the motion of Sir Robert Borden the House adjourned at 10.40 p.m.\n\nFriday, June 20, 1919.']
Why are these two items repeated? Item No. 61 is: "wheat flour, n.o.p.; semolina, n.o.p. . . . Free." This applies to countries which reciprocate the advantages that Canada gives. I understand that articles are not free except when there is a reciprocity in their exchange.


The two items are necessary in order to give effect to the intention.
Item 61a.
Wheat flour and semolina when imported from a country which imposes a customs duty on wheat flour or semolina manufactured in Canada.
provides the rates of duty there mentioned. Then it is necessary to provide for what is not otherwise provided for, that is ito say, not embraced in that item; so that wheat flour and semolina imported from a country which does not impose a customs duty on wheat flour or semolina manufactured in Canada come in free.
384a. Rolled iron or steel hoops, band, scroll or strip, No. 14 gauge and thinner, and rolled iron or steel sheet, when imported1 by manufacturers for use only in their own factories in the manufacture of galvanized iron or steel hoop, band, or scroll, strip or sheet. Free. Free. Free.


I desiie to propose a new resolution immediately following 384a in order that the items placed in it shall conform to 384a. I move that the following resolution be inserted as 386:
386. Rolled iron or steel, and cast steel, in bars, bands, hoo.p, scroll, strip, sheet or plate, of any size, thickness or width, and steel blanks for the manufacture of milling cutters when of greater value than three and one-half cents per pound, 71 p.c. 12iJ p.c. 121 p.c.


Would the minister tell us in a word or two what principle has guided him in making these particular preparations of iron and steel mentioned in 384a free?


In making
changes in the tariff it is necessary to enact two items where one item existed before. For example, there may be one item embracing a number of articles subject to a certain duty. When changes are made in. respect'to some of these articles it is necessary to re-enact the item as it stood,, leaving out the articles which are otherwise dealt with, and then to enact another item. It is on that account that this has -been done. The free item is inserted in order to continue in force an Order in Council under which
rolled iron or steel hoop, band, scroll or strip. No. 14 gauge and thinner, andi rolled iron or steel sheet, when imported by manufacturers for use only in their own factories in the manufacture of galvanized iron or steel hoop, band, scroll, strip or sheet
were placed on the free list. Now we are placing this item in the customs tariff.


Might we revert to item 356?:
Nickel in bars and rods, sheets or
plates	Free. Free. Free.
I would like to ask the minister whether it is the intention of the Government to pass a non-ferrous Bill similar to that which I understand has been passed in England, and, if such a Bill is not to be passed, why?


I would ask my hon. friend to explain what he has in mind in mentioning the Order in Council in England?


It is not an Order in Council. They have passed, or are passing in England, a non-ferrous Bill, which practically puts under the control of the Government all metals of the nature of nickel. They are making considerable progress in that respect. I understand this Government has been asked to pass a similar law, and I would like to know from them whether we are to .pass such legislation which will be applicable to nickel, and

some other metals, and if no such law is to be enacted in Canada what the reason is?


In reference to my hon. friend's question I .might say that the Non-Ferrous Metals Bill passed by the British Parliament was considered very fully by a special committee, which, as Minister of Mines, I appointed last year. That Bill is designed not so much to serve the object my hon. friend has suggested, but really to get rid of German-controlled interests which were more or less predominant in certain metal interests in Great Britain. The conditions there were not the same as in this country. Our position in respect to our metals was entirely different from that of England. In this country a great many of our metal industries, and certainly a lot of our minerals are out of our jurisdiction and under the control of the provinces. If a law similar to the English Non-Ferrous Metals Bill had been passed here it would not operate in the same way as it did in. England, and would have involved legislation on the part of the provinces which might or might not have been put into effect and to some extent might have had a restrictive effect in respect to the investment of American capital, which especially in our western country, is very largely interested in the Canadian metal industry. For these, and some other reasons I need not elaborate now, the Government decided they would not take any action at this particular time but would give the question further consideration if necessary. I may add, however, that even after that law was enacted in England there was quite a difference of opinion as to the wisdom of continuing it exactly in its present shape.
Mr- W. F. MACLEAN: The explanation of the minister who has charge of the Mines Department is not quite satisfactory to me. I am told that the condition of affairs that the British Government eventually found in regard to the essential metals, and nickel is one of them, -was such that it was a matter of grave consideration for the home Government, and, for the defence of the Empire, that Germany did control these necessary or essential metals and that they did control nickel as made from the ores of Canada, and I have directed attention to it. As one who favours a national policy, I think it is high time we had in f-his country a national policy controlling these metals, yet we are allowing these metals to come in free. Who makes them? The Mond Nickel Company in Great Britain who control a great portion of the

Sudbury nickel mines, and the International Nickel Company that were in New. Jersey, but' are now in Canada. Neither of these companies up to date, although they have produced millions and millions of nickel and exported it all over the world-and I think in certain instances some of it has got to Germany-have told us anything about their business. I for one tell the Minister of Finance now, seeing that we are talking about nickel, that this same International Nickel 'Company that were operating in New Jersey a little over a year ago, suddenly paid to the United States Government over $3,000,000 of a war tax on their profits. This money was got, I understand, by the seizure of a large block of so-called nickel matte, which, when examined-I have known this to be the case for a long time, -but for some reason we cannot direct the attention of Parliament to it in this country-was found to be full of platinum, palladium, and all the rather precious metals that are in what is called the platinum group. The evidence was so straight that in two or three days this International Nickel Company, which controls the nickel mines of Sudbury, paid to the United States Government over $3,000,000 of a tax on profits, and that out of nickel that came from Canada and was refined in United States. I would ask the minister whether he has ever made an effort to compel this company to pay a war profits tax on the refinements of nickel that come from Canada. Then there is that other great monopoly, the Mond Nickel Company. Sir Alfred Mond is associated in the British Government at the present time. He is the head of the nickel trusts all over the world, I believe, and has had more or less relations with the Germans. He has never disclosed what his profits were on the nickel ore that he took from this country over to Wales and refined, and which may be equally charged with these precious metals. That is the position of affairs in Canada, and shows almost an absolute monopoly not only of nickel but of platinum. Platinum is- worth over $100 an ounce, five times the value of gold, and was an essential war metal-the only source of it was in Canada. We have the mines, but these companies take the ore out of the country and refine it, and that is not a national policy, and it is not good business. I want to ask the minister who is in charge of the Mines Department why he, and his expensive department, have not been able to tell the people of Canada what the precious metals content is of these ores

of which we have almost the absolute monopoly. I want a national policy in regard to the refinement of nickel ores in this country and I want the Department of Mines-a most extravagant department, but one well officered by men who know the situation and who know the precious metal content of these ores-why the facts are not disclosed to us. I have read the reports of the Department of Mines year after year, and they hint at the real situation, but that is not sufficient. The Ontario Government have been working on the question and appointed a most expensive commission to investigate it. That investigation was carried on for months, and yet the facts were not disclosed. We have now a refinery, a branch of the International Nickel Company, refining at Port Colborne, and they did a peculiar thing; they suddenly changed their organization. They were a New Jersey corporation, but they came back under the law of Canada, and, as I say, are located at Port Colborne. At the present time I believe their works have suspended operations because of over production. But here we have a Provincial Government, which has a high class expensive mining department, and we have a Federal department of the same type. We have a treasury to-day absolutely in need of money, and there is no place where so large an amount of money can he got to meet the expenses of 'Canada and to help to pay its war debt, as there is in some kind of a tax which will compel these two enormously rich companies Which control these essential ores;-there is no such source of income, to my mind, as there is in these two companies. Take the one fact that the United States Government, under their law for the taxation of war profits, were able to get $3,500,000 in a few days by seizure. The facts have never yet been disclosed, but they can be ascertained; and if there is such a source of revenue open to the people of this country in these times of extreme financial difficulty, and if we have an absolute control of this ore and of the metal produced from it, why do we not avail ourselves of that revenue and assume that control ? You talk about the production of iron and encouraging the reduction of iron ores in this country. Why not take charge of the precious metals we have in Canada, which are so rich and can contribute so much to help to pay the public debt.
I am not going into the question much more fully to-day, but I want to warn the Government that there are certain facts
soon to be disclosed in 'London and in Washington in connection with these metals that will startle the world and will show a pro-German leaning during the war that Canadians will be surprised to learn. And yet none of these facts have been brought out so far. I devoted months and years trying to get out these facts. I studied the question, and the further I got into it the more I was convinced of this pro-German influence. I was probably the first one in this House in the old days to set up this doctrine; that of all things we ought to have a national policy in regard to nickel and the other precious metals associated with it. But for some reason or other the hand of the Government in the province of Ontario and in the Dominion has been palsied and nothing has been done. There is a source of revenue, and again I want to call the attention of the Finance Minister to it. If the United States Government by a single seizure could compel the International Nickel Company, which was mining our ora in Sudbury, to pay $3,500,000 in one year- t	know what they have paid since,
because the minute they were caught red handed they jumped out of the country and moved their works into Canada-it will be manifest that we are overlooking a fruitful source of revenue. Let us have a national policy in regard to this nickel. Let us keep this great store of platinum, radium and the other rare essential metals. There is not one of them that is not two or three times more valuable than gold, and they are sought all over the world. When the American Government saw that it was likely to be involved in the war it spent millions of dollars trying to get platinum. We have these precious metals, and they all played an important part in the war-indeed, they were so essential to our success that the British Government, I understand, entered into correspondence with the Dominions in regard to obtaining the maximum output.
Why have we not had a national policy in this country to see what is in these metals and what revenue is to be had from them? But this Government will not move, this Parliament will not move, and the Government of the province of Ontario will not move. The International Nickel 'Company for a long time defaulted in the payment of their revenue tax to the province of Ontario. Three or four times since I first introduced into this 'House this question of a nickel policy this so-called International Nickel Company has changed its corporate form, and men who were promin-

ent in it have disappeared. It is known now that the International Nickel Company was controlled in the United States by a voting trust, but nobody has ever told the people of Canada or of the Empire who were behind this voting trust.


Who do you think it was?


I think it goes back to Germany.


Hear, hear.


I must call the hon. member to order. The speech he is now making, although it would have been in order upon the Budget, is certainly not relevant to the item or clause under discussion, which concerns the 'admission into Canada free of nickel in bars and rods, strips, sheets or plates. The hon. member will be in order in giving his reasons why this article should not be admitted free into Canada; but he is not in order in making an attack on the Government for what occurred during the recent war.
'Mr. W. F. MACLEAN: I Tespect what the Chairman has said. But I say we should not allow this nickel to enter free of duty until we compel the United States to take its duty off our nickel. We are letting in free nickel refined in the United States, but the United States Government put a tax on our nickel. The very men who control these ores, after they got the right to ship them out of Canada to refineries of their own in the United States, went straight to Congress and got a prohibitive duty put upon pure nickel coming into that country from Canada, made out of ores that could

be found only in Canada. That thing has never been settled. It has.got to be settled, and it is one of the things that will have to be settled in the same way as the German control of zinc. I call the minister's attention to it-he may or may not explain it-but it has got to be settled, and I want to know whether the minister who has control of mines will bring down to this House any letter or circular that he has received from the British Government in connection with non-ferrous metals, of which nickel is one.
I may tell the Government that I am going into this matter later on, and the best place to fight it out may be in the country amongst the people. I never saw so much feeling in Canada as I have found to exist in connection with this nickel question. It is a shame that we should allow to come free into this country nickel which has been smelted by companies outside of Canada, who do not pay any business profit taxes to the Dominion treasury, who will not disclose the precious metal contents of the ores they take out of this country and who have renigged on every occasion as regards the payment of every just tax imposed upon them by the province. of Ontario.


A certain part only of what my hon. friend has said is relevant to the item under discussion, and I confess I do not pretend to be able to follow him with regard to many things he has said. He has put forward rumours that he has heard and things that he has read, but there is before this Committee nothing definite to which reply can be made. The item under consideration is No. 356, which provides for the free admission into Canada of nickel in bars and rods, strips, sheets or plates. There is no change in that item; it has been in the tariff, and the reason why nickel has been on the free list is because nickel is not manufactured in Canada. I do not see the reason at the present time for putting a duty upon nickel which has hitherto been admitted free, when there are under construction in Canada large nickel refineries at Port Colborne and Deschenes Falls, which will provide for all our requirements and also for a large quantity of nickel for export. Those who have established .these industries are not asking for any duty upon nickel, and I do not follow my hon. friend when he speaks about the national policy requiring us to put a duty upon nickel which has hitherto borne no duty, which is to be manufactured here to a quantity away beyond the needs
of this country and upon which the manufacturers ask no duty. That is the position as regards the item in question. My hon. friend has put out vague statements as to the Government's being at fault with regard to permitting the exportation of nickel from this country during the war. The Dominion Government, from the very beginning of this war, has worked in the closest possible accord and understanding with the British Government as regards nickel.


The same thing was done in Australia and what was the result?


There is this difference between myself and my hon. friend: that I have absolute confidence in the British Government.


Why were firms associated with members of the British Government fined?


I do not for one moment follow my hon. friend when he challenges the integrity of the Prime Minister of the British Empire, Mr. Lloyd George, in connection with this matter.


I do challenge it as far as the supervision of nickel is concerned, and I do so on my responsibility as a member-


I do not agree with my hon. friend, and I very much deprecate his doing it. When I was in England in the fall of 1916-there was agitation then about nickel in this country-I consulted personally with members of the British Government, amongst others with Mr. Bonar Law, in whom also I have the most absolute and implicit confidence, and I say that the Dominion Government's action throughout has been absolutely unquestioned and approved by the British Government, which was our senior partner in fighting this war. Suppose that in 1914 the Dominion Government had shut off the exportation of nickel matte from this country. Great Britain was pouring out millions of dollars into the United States for munitions and other supplies, the manufacture of which required nickel. Would we have been justified, after the declaration of war, in preventing the manufacturers of munitions required by the British Government from obtaining the matte with which to manufacture nickel? There were no refineries in this country.


Why were 'there not?


My hon. friend raises the question: Why were there not?
I am dealing with the situation that existed in 1916 and with the charge put forward that the Government should not have allowed nickel matte to go out of this country. If we had not allowed nickel, matte to go out of this country Great Britain would not have been able to obtain the munitions with which she was fighting the war. The British Government had to have available nickel in the United States for the manufacture of munitions and other supplies. The Dominion Government, through its officials, kept as close a supervision as was possible upon the output of nickel by the International Nickel Company. Mr. Graham Bell of the Railway Department, and, I think, another official visited the head office of that company on several occasions and checked up all receipts of nickel matte and all production of nickel. My hon. friend suggests that some of the nickel may possibly have -got into the hands of Germans. I do not believe that is so, but if it were so, would the Dominion have been justified, there being no nickel refineries in this country, from shutting off the exportation of nickel matte, on which, as I have said, Great Britain depended for the manufacture of munitions for which she had contracts with the United States' manufacturers?
There is another thing I would call to the attention of the Committee. Had the action suggested by my hon. friend been taken, a. difference of a very serious character would have arisen with the United States. The United States depends upon us for nickel matte, but this country depends upon the United States for coal, and the United States has treated us very generously with regard to coal. She has treated us most generously with regard to the coal we got last year and the year before. We depend also upon the United States for raw cotton. We must look at this question as statesmen. To come to the other point: My hon. friend says that the International Nickel Company pays a large business profits tax to the United States. So it should, if its earnings are such as to come within the scope of the United States law. The International Nickel Company is not a Canadian company; it is, as a company, absolutely outside of the jurisdiction of this Parliament. The International Nickel Company has no office in Canada, and so far as I am aware, does not carry on operations here. The operating company in this country is the 
Canadian Copper Company, and that company, which owns the mines here, under titles granted, I believe, by the Provincial Government, is assessed by the Dominion Government in respect of its excess profits, and we have found that company very ready and willing to pay the excess profits tax to the Dominion Government. I provided in the Business Profits Tax Act of 1915 thatf-' where any contract existed between an outside company such as the International Nickel Company and the Canadian Copper Company operating in Canada, in determining the profits of the latter, regard should be had, not to the contractual price at which its product was purchased, but to a fair market price.
The reason for that provision was that an American company holding the stock of a Canadian subsidiary might make a contract at much less than a fair price. I submit that this Government is not to blame for not assessing the International Nickel Company, which is not within our jurisdiction. The only question that could arise is as to whether we have assessed-and we have-the Canadian Copper Company, which is alone within our jurisdiction.
My hon. friend has spoken about a national policy to develop the nickel industry. I have pointed out to him that two large plants are in process of construction in this country. The Ontario Government required the refining of ore by refineries in Ontario, and as a result we have a large refinery going up at Port Colborne, and there is another large refinery in course of erection by the British-Canadian Nickel Company at Deschenes Falls- So I do not feee what ground my hon. friend has for his statement that there has been dereliction on the part of this Government in framing a national policy for developing the resources of this country, or what ground he has for saying that there has been failure to collect the business profits tax. We must deal with facts as they are, and we were obliged in war time to have regard to the international condition that existed and the supreme necessity of the British Government obtaining nickel for the use of its armies in France and Flanders.
My hon. friend puts forward the view that some tremendous revelation is about to take place involving governments, in connection with their acts respecting nickel.
I want to say as a member of this Government that we have worked absolutely in accord and in perfect understanding with the British Government, and I cannot understand this House blaming the Dominion Government for co-operating in time of war

with its senior partner, which has played the greatest part in this war, and the integrity of whose Government I never shall question. *
If my hon. friend has anything to say respecting what this Government has done with regard to nickel, let him put forward his facts, so that we may answe^ them. I think I am just about as jealous of the conduct of this Government in time of war as is my hon. friend or any other member of this House, and I do not relish the suggestion that this Dominion Government has in any way played into the hands of the enemy in time of war. I took the matter up, as I have already said, with the members of the British Government, and this Government has an absolutely clean conscience in the matter- If my hon. friend has any charges to make against us touching our conduct of this war, let him bring them forward specifically, instead of simply making insinuations.
'Mr. W. F. MAiCLEAN: I want to answer one or two points of the minister. First of all he says that the International Nickel Company is a corporation outside the jurisdiction of Canada. As a matter of fact it has taken itself out of the jurisdiction of New Jersey, where it was compelled to pay $3,500,000 of its profits in taxation in one year. It has come to Canada; it is here now, and is a Canadian organization.
'Sir THOMAS WHITE: My hon. friend is incorrect in his statement.


I am not. The International Nickel Company has its head office to-day in Toronto. It has advertised that it has left the United States.


My hon. friend
is confusing the International Nickel Company of Canada, Limited, with the other company.


I am speaking
of the company that controls the products of our mines, and I say that its head office is in Toronto. If the United States could get this amount of taxation out of the profits this company made on the metal which they got from Canada, why was not our policy such as to compel the company to refine the metal in this country? This is a key industry. Sir Alfred Mond, who is head of the nickel trust, and a member of the Lloyd George Government, said in the statement I have referred to: "We have the key industry of the world in nickel, and we have it in Wales. We have it in Wales because
we bring our ores from Canada, and Canada does not interfere with us." British workmen get the work that Canadian workmen should have. All this ore should be smelted in Canada, but we have not got a national policy in that respect. He says that none of this metal, so far as he knows, got into Germany. I should like to know where the Deutschland got its cargo of nickel which it took over. It was the nickel refined by the International Nickel Company in New Jersey, refined from the ore taken out of the Sudbury mines. Some hon. member says that the Germans did not 'get our nickel. If the German undersea campaign had succeeded, and they hoped it would, and if the United States had kept out of the war, they would have continued to supply the German munitions factories and plants with nickel from Canadian mines.


Would my hon. friend say that if there was a risk of a little getting to Germany, the whole supply to Britain should be cut off?


If we had control of this key industry, and if Britain or the United States wanted the nickel in a war in which we were associated with them, we should say to .them: We want to check this metal off so as to make sure it will not get to the enemy. Before the United States entered the war, factories and foundries all over that country which required nickel for commercial purposes, as they alleged, could get a free supply. As we possessed this key metal, we should have 'insisted on checking it up. What I proposed at that time on the platform and in the press was that if our nickel had to be refined in the United States because we had no refinery in this country, the refined product should afterwards be sent to Canada, and we would dole it out to Great Britain and the United States. The United States to-day, I have been given to understand, had made an arrangement with this Government whereby they are to be allowed to take out of our country for their own war purposes our raw nickel ore. There has been no disclosure of that fact so far. The Minister of Finance said that I had made no direct charges against the Government, and that I should bring them forward if I have any disclosures to make. I am not in a position to make them yet, but they are coming along in a way which shows that the policy of Canada in regard to nickel has been improvident in every respect. We are not making those who control this nickel industry pay taxation.

The Mond Company of Wales, which is making enormous profits out of the nickel that it smelts from ores which it can only get in Canada, does not pay a dollar into the treasury of this country. I would bring these men out here and put them in the witness box just as the American Govern ment did. ' It seized their books and found out just what they were doing and made them pay a tax on their war profits. We have up at Sudbury a belt of country thirty miles across, containing the greatest store of precious metals in the world. We have not got this nickel industry under control. We did not control it for some time during the war, and we do not control it to-day. Outsiders control it; it is controlled in England and in the United States.
This key metal would give us absolute control of the steel industry not only of Canada but of the world, and I want to press on my friends from Nova Scotia who are interested in the steel industry, as well as my other friends, that we should have control of this nickel industry and compel refinement. The United States Government has never had any confidence in the International Nickel Company or the American Armour Trust associated with it in connection with United States steel, and that is why they made that contract with the British-American Company. If an industry is being established in Canada at Deschenes it is because the British Government have guaranteed bonds for millions of dollars for the purpose. The British Government will no longer deal with the International Nickel Company and the. Armour Trust who endeavoured to make them pay enormous prices for nickel steel for ships. They are looking to Canada, and the United States Government would co-operate with this country in controlling this great industry. We have had it in Canada for twenty years and it is not under our control. Outside companies come in and do what they like with it, and these very companies who are allowed to bring in their nickel free into this country actually went to Washington and conspired to prevent our nickel going in there, with the result that they got a prohibitive duty put on. With regard to the question of accepting the assurances of the British Government, this is all very well, but the British Government have given assurances of all kinds, and the revelations that are now being made in England, after the assurances of the British Government, are simply astounding as to the extent of German intrigue there. I have even heard of the
[Mr. W. F. Maclean. 1
case of a great insurance company in Great Britain that had an immense trust fund for the benefit of its policy holders, and during the war the fact was disclosed that a great portion of this trust fund had been suddenly, by a peculiar influence, switched over to the purchase of bonds of German municipalities and the improvement of German industries. That was only one case. The revelations in England are not yet all in the public knowledge but they are coming out, and they show that intrigue was so extensive that it permeated all America and Canada. From whatever source it originated it has worked to the detriment of Canada for twenty years, and indeed longer, for it is more than twenty years ago since Dr. Mond discovered that Canada had this store of nickel and sought to get control of it, succeeding in a measure. We have been talking about a national policy in this country, but the two Governments in the past have failed to have that industry established in this country and to compel it to pay its just share of taxes including, within the past few years, war taxes. These facts will come out and will be an issue before the country and I warn the minister and the Government that if they do not in the first place make this company disclose the precious metal contents of the ore which it takes from the country we will have no more business with them. Let us prohibit the taking of this ore out of 'Canada until these two great companies disclose its metal content. Why should we allow foreign companies-in which term I include British companies-to come in and take this most valuable ore which is the source of the great key metal that controls the whole steel and iron industry of the world? The only defence advanced at present is that this Government has every confidence in the British Government and accepts its assurances. After my examination of the subject, and I have looked into it pretty closely, I cannot accept those assurances. I do not think Lord Northcliffe or the American Government will accept them, because they all know better now, and I think it is high time there should be a declaration by a 'Canadian 'Government, after the experience of this war and in view of the knowledge we have of German intrigue, that henceforth we will control these ores in this industry and will not allow a pound of ores.to be refined outside of Canada. We should be masters of the situation and dole out these ores ourselves, and if they contain any precious metal,

as I believe they do, we should compel the companies that operate here to disclose the fact. I hope the time will come when Canada, with its expensive metallurgical and mineralogical department, will make it possible for the refinement of our nickel in our own country and ascertain the contents of these ores, not only as regards nickel but as regards other precious metals, and also undertake the distribution of it. Time after time public attention has been called to this matter, and the Opposition is just as derelict as the Government may have been. The same thing happened in the province of Ontario in connection with nickel. A clever Order in Council was drawn one day which gave the absolute title to these nickel mines to foreign companies, when, as I contend, they should have been kept on lease. Now, Mr. Chairman, I know that you are going to call me to order, but I have been replying to the minister. I have called the attention of the Government to something in regard to which the people of Canada will demand a satisfactory explanation.


Mr. Chairman, I cannot allow the remarks of my hon. friend to pass unchallenged. He has made what I regard as a tissue of misstatements. I ask him whether, as a responsible member of this House he thinks that any good national purpose is served by his calling in question the good faith of the British Government merely upon rumours which he isays he has not substantiated, and upon revelations which he says are about to be made but of which he confesses he knows absolutely nothing.


No, he doesn't
say-


Order. This debate shows how far the Committee may wander when it once leaves the clause or item under consideration. Probably the Chairman is primarily responsible for not having called the hon. member (Mr. Maclean) to order earlier in the debate, but I trust that hon. members will now keep strictly to the subject under consideration.


There is one point about that matter, Mr. Chairman-*


I have ruled that no discussion may fake place concerning what occurred during the war.


Is this concerning the war? It has been disclosed that metal which is classed under the head of copper
or nickel goes out of this country. The hon. member for South York says that other metals of greater value are included. Are we not inquiring into that question?


No. This item has nothing to do with any metal which leaves the country. If merely covers the importation of nickel in bars and rods, strips, sheets or plates.
On item 384a being again called:


The member for Red DeeT asked a question of the Minister of Finance as to why these articles were put free on the list, and the minister replied that [DOT] it was to give effect to an Order in Council which had been previously passed. I have not the same faith in the Order in Council as has the hon. member (Mr. Clark). This Order in Council does not satisfy me. Will the minister go further and tell us what inspired it?


The object of the Order in Council was to promote the galvanizing of iron and steel bands, etc., in Canada, which would otherwise have been done outside of this country if the raw materials mentioned were not admitted free. The Order in Council, which is under the general law, therefore, provided for the free admission of the .articles mentioned when imported for use in the manufacture of the finished products. We are now embodying in the statute what has been provided for by Order in Council for the purpose of ensuring the galvanizing in 'Canada of that which would otherwise be galvanized outside of Canada.


What is the date of the Order in Council?


January 19, 1919.


Item agreed to.
Item 386:
Rolled iron or steel, and cast steel, in bars, bands, hoop, scroll, strip, sheet or plate, of any size, thickness or width, and steel blanks for the manufacture of milling cutters when of greater value than three and one-half cents per pound	7J ,p.o. 1I2J p.c. 12J p.c.
['January 19, 1919.']
What is the object of this addition?


To bring it into conformity with item 384, which we have changed.


What is the object of the amendment?


Item 386 of the present tariff is as follows:



(Rolled iron or steel and cast steel, in tars, bands, hoop, scroll, strip, sheet or plate, of any size, thickness or width, galvanized or coated with any material or not, and steel blanks for the manufacture of milling cutters, when of greater value than three and one-half cents per pound	Free. 5 p.c. 5 p.c.
To which was added the 74 per cent war tax. It is necessary under this partial revision, which we are making to take out of the item the words " galvanized or coated with any material or not," which now appear in item 384. That necessitates the reenactment of item 386.


Was it an oversight?


It was an oversight.
Item 386 agreed to.
On items:
446. Cultivators, harrows, horserakes, seed drills, manure spreaders and weeders and complete parts thereof. .. .10 p.c. 15 p.c. 15 p.c.
446b. Ploughs and complete parts thereof	12J p.c. 17 J p.c. 17 J p.c.


Would the minister explain to the committee, if he can. why ploughs carry a higher duty than the articles mentioned in item 446? It seems to me if he is looking to the interest of the. new settler, and if we are to have any difference whatever, these figures should be reversed. The plough is the one essential that every man must have. With regard to these other articles three or four settlers can club together and get them hut the plough is something that each musit have. He cannot join in with his neighbours in the purchase of a plough as he can with regard to some of the articles mentioned in item 446. I would like the minister to explain why the difference is made as between these articles.


Before the minister answers, I would like to enforce what has been said by my hon. friend from Maple Creek (Mr. Maharg). What I propose to say may help the minister in giving a little study to this matter before he appoints his commission and it may lessen the work of the commission in the revision which is to precede the next Budget. I need scarcely explain to the minister that the plough, in agricultural operations, precedes the harrow, the manure spreader, the seed drill or the rake. In the figures of these two items we have a striking example of how easy it is for a tariff to be an unscientific thing. It would surely be the scientific procedure to make it easier to get the plough. I am thinking especially of the breaking plough. I remember very well
	*,	,
in my earlier years, my poor boy who is now sleeping peacefully in France, tackled the willows in a piece of breaking as manfully as he tackled the Huns, and he said " Father, some of these roots must have been there since the time of Abraham." They looked like it. Would it not be a scientific tariff which may help the early settler especially in the matter of the breaking plough to get that implement which, I can assure the minister, requires nerve and strength to use?
The minister yesterday in a very able and interesting speech-his speeches are always able and interesting to me and I am sorry that one cannot avow the same sponsorship for that which they contain as for the way in which he delivers them-expressed the opinion that if he had some of us in the Finance Department for one week he would make us tariff men. Just to go to the other end of the proposition on this tariff question, may I say to the minister, that if I had him out on the farm and with a breaking plough up against some of those roots, which have been there since the time of Abraham, I would make him a no tariff man in no time at all. He should take it up in the department and say: " Breadner, for goodness sake, let us look into this thing and see if we cannot get the duty off breaking ploughs altogether." I hope my hon. friend will not think I am hostile to him when I am helping him in connection with the coming tariff revision, to arrive at a scientific tariff on breaking ploughs. He says: " Produce"; then he makes dear the very first implement you must have to get out those awful willow roots, and they are fearful things to tackle. I am not sure but that the German business was about as easy as those willow roots. I hope my hon, friend will give attention to this matter. Would he not look into it on his own initiative without any more prodding from the western members and see why this duty on ploughs should be larger than on the other implements which follow the plough? I cannot understand how he has arrived at these figures unless it he strictly on the line of Scripture. On tariff matters Scripture ought to be left out sometimes: " Unto him that hath shall be given and from him that hath not even that which he hath shall be taken away." That must be the guidance of my hon. friend in making the difficulties greatest at the very beginning of the settler's operations. I hope my hon. friend will take these matters into his consideration and I would like him to do it now unless there is something special about the

plough industry which requires this protection.
I am told they are selling these ploughs in the United States quite freely. In that case, why should we not have free ploughs?


A plough is one of the most competitive articles, as far as business is concerned, of agricultural implements, and that competition is exceedingly keen from outside of Canada. There was a duty of twenty-seven and-a-half per cent, including the customs war tax upon ploughs, but we made a reduction to seventeen and-a-half per cent. I might say to my hon. friend that our mode of approach to the partial revision of the agricultural implement schedule, has been to reduce the duties as far as we could without doing material damage to established industries in this country. I have no hesitation in saying to my hon. friend that, whether 1 am correct or not, my belief is that if we had reduced the duties further than we have at this revision, we should have closed out many industries of this country employing thousands of men at the present time, and personally I would not take the responsibility of considering that. The partial revision which we have made this year represents a sincere effort on the part of the Government, at a time of great instability and fiscal difficulty to meet so far as we could, the request made by members of the House, and by the Western community, foi a reduction in the duty on agricultural implements. Now to show my two hon. friends how close a calculation is made in connection with a matter of this kind, I would say to them, that when in 1914 we reduced the duties upon binders we made a most careful examination into the question, and we found that if we had gone down to ten per cent we would have, without any question and beyond peradventure, closed up the International Harvester Company at Hamilton, thrown out of employment its operatives and transferred the business to the plant in Chicago. I do not think I can answer my hon. friends any more clearly than that, in order to convey to them at least my point of view.
The hon. member for Red Deer has spoken of a " scientific tariff." I do not recall that I have used that expression, although it is used by others, but I think I know what is meant. It is not a happy term, because I doubt if there is such a thing as a scientific tariff. But those who use the term have this in mind: That in considering what tariff duties should be imposed in respect of a particular commodity manufactured in Canada, regard should be had to the duties upon the raw material that is entering into the production of the article or articles in question-the duty upon coal, which is a factor 