Bill No. Ill, for the relief of Mary Ann Scheib.-Mr. Fripp.
TMr. Carve 11.1
Bill No. 114, for the relief of Vernon Balm Bailey.-Mr. McCurdy.
On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to draw the attention of the Government to this startling headline [DOT] which appears in the Montreal Gazette this morning: " Winnipeg sees general strike in full effect-27,000 workers quit in sympathy with metal men-minister powerless-bakers, firemen, postal employees and railway shopmen among those out." The Minister of Labour is reported as saying that the Government can do nothing in the matter. I should like to know what steps the Government are going to take in view of the extraordinary circumstances, and what action will be taken to prevent the recurrence of strikes on such a huge scale in the future. I remember that when there was a little disturbance in the city of Quebec last year the military forces were called out, and I think this is the proper time


The hon. member is perfectly in order in asking a question, but he is out of order in referring to anything that may have occurred last year.
"Hon. A. K. MACLEAN (Acting Minister of Labour): The Minister of Labour has been closely in touch with the situation at Winnipeg during the past ten days. He is being advised of events from moment to moment, and he is ready at all times to do everything he can in the circumstances.


Has the Government any statement to make with regard to the strike of postal employees at Winnipeg?
Hon. NEWTON W. ROWELL (for Postmaster General): Nearly all the postal employees in the Winnipeg post office have gone out on a sympathetic strike in accordance with the action taken by the labour organizations in Winnipeg. The Government considers that such action on the part of the postal employees is entirely without justification. We are advised that efforts are being made to intimidate the employees who are still faithful to the public service. The Government will stand absolutely behind all the employees who are performing their duty in the service of the Government and in the administration of the post office in Winnipeg.
Mr. FRANK S. CAHILL (Pontiac): I understand that a number of the employees

of the railways and telegraphs are also on strike. Has the Government any information as to their grievance?


I have received no information from the officials at Winnipeg.


On the motion of Hon. Newton W. Rowell (President of the Privy Council) the House went into Committee to consider the following proposed resolution, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
Resolved, That it is expedient to amend the Royal Northwest Mounted Police Act, chapter ninety-one of the Revised Statutes, 1906, and to provide,-
1.	That all members of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police Force on active service in the naval, miliitary or air forces of His Majesty during the European war, which began in August, one thousand nine hundred and fourteen, shall, for the purposes of pension for service in the said Force under the said Act, be entitled to have such active service counted as service in the said Police Force: Provided,
(a)	that the amount of any pension, gratuity or allowance which any member of the said Force receives or is entitled to receive or apply for, in respect of any injury received by him while serving in the military, naval or air forces aforesaid, shall be deducted from any pension, gratuity or allowance to which such member would be entitled under the said Act, other than a pension for years of service, irrespective of any infirmity of mind or body or bodily injury;
and,
(b)	that no widow or child of any such member who received or is entitled to receive or apply for, any pension, annuity, gratuity or allowance in consequence of the death, incapacity or injury of any such member while serving in the forces aforesaid, shall be entitled to any pension, annuity or allowance under the said Act.
2.	That in case of the re-appointment or reengagement in the Force of any person who was a member of the Force, and who, subsequent to the fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred and fourteen, resigned or purchased or otherwise obtained his discharge from the Force for the purpose of serving in the military, naval or air forces of His Majesty during the said European war, and who served therein, the period of such service in such forces shall, for the purposes of pension only under the Royal Northwest Mounted Police Act, be deemed to have been served in the Force, and in any such case such member shall be repaid any money paid by him to purchase such discharge.
3.	That the rates of pay as fixed by chapter forty-seven of the statutes of 1913, be increased as follows:-
"Eight staff sergeants, each per diem. . $3 00 Other staff sergeants, each per diem . 2 50 Other non-oommissioned officers, per diem	
Constable, per diem	$1 75
Scouts, per diem		250
Trumpeters and buglers, under eighteen
years of age, per diem	 l 25
Working pay to artisans and others
specially employed, per diem. ...	0 75"
. That the Governor in Council may authorize extra pay to be paid to members of the Force employed as detectives, to those serving in the Northwest Territories and the Yukon Territory, and for a period of five years from the first day of June, 1919, to any other member of the Force.
5.	That an officer who is retired compulsorily for any cause other than misconduct or inefficiency after ten years' service, shall be entitled to a pension for life, not exceeding one-fiftieth of the pay and allowances of his rank or permanent appointment at the time of hie retirement for each completed year of service.
6.	That the Governor in Council may, as to him seems fit, grant a pension to the widow and a compassionate allowance to each of the children of any officer who, having completed twenty years' service, was at the time of his death on full pay, or who, having completed ten years' service, is at the time of his death in receipt of a pension.
7.	That the pension of a widow shall be,-
(a)	if her husband was at the time of his
death on full pay, an amount equal to onehalf of the pension to which he would have been entitled if he had been retired compulsorily immediately before his death; or,
(b)	if he was on pension, an amount equal to one-half of such pension.
8.	That pensions to widows heretofore granted under the provisions of the said Royal Northwest Mounted Police Act may be readjusted in accordance with the provisions of these resolutions, but no such readjustment shall authorize the increase of any payments for pension that accrued before the passing of the Act based upon these resolutions.
9.	That every constable who is a member of the Force at the time of the passing of the Act based upon these resolutions, or who hereafter becomes a member of the Force, shall be entitled, upon retirement, to a pension for life, as follows:-
(a)	if he has completed ten but less than twenty-one years' service, one-fiftieth of his annual pay and allowances for every year of service:
(b)	if he has completed twenty-one but less than twenty-five years' service, an annual sum equal to twenty-fiftieths of his annual pay and allowances, with an addition of two-fiftieths of such pay and allowances for every completed year of service above twenty years;
(c)	if he has completed twenty-five years' service, an annual sum equal to thirty-fiftieths of his annual pay and allowances, with an addition of one-fiftieth of such pay and allowances for every completed year of service above twenty-five years; Provided, that the pension shall not exceed two-thirds of his annual pay at his retirement. But for the purpose of estimating any such pension, neither working pay nor extra pay of any man shall be considered.
10.	That the Governor in Council may authorize the Commissioner to appoint, by warrant under his hand, such officers and men, who have served in the Force, to be a Reserve, to be known as the " Royal Northwest Mounted Police Reserve,"
2 25
(a)	such officer or man when called up for duty to hold the rank and draw the pay which he received on the date of his retirement or discharge from Force; and,
(b)	any member when called up for training for a period not exceeding seven days in any one year, to receive the same rate of pay as when called up for duty.
The members of the Committee will see that this resolution gives effect to the policy I announced the other evening when the Estimates for the Royal Northwest Mounted Police were being considered. The first section provides that the time in which any member of the Force may have served in the overseas forces shall count for the purposes of pension. Under the Mounted Police Act as it now stands the members of the Force become entitled to a pension on retiring after twenty years' service. A large number of the members of the Force were granted leave of absence without pay to serve overseas, and others retired or purchased their discharge for this purpose. Our view is that all who withdrew from the Force in order to go overseas, if they intend to resume their place in the Force should have the time they spent overseas counted in estimating the amount of their pension. Provisos (a) and (b) are to ensure that for a disability suffered in the service overseas for which they are entitled to a pension under the general pension law applying to all who served overseas in the Canadian Expeditionary Forces, they shall not be entitled to a pension under the Mounted Police Act. This, of course, does not affect the pension for length of service.
Section 3 provides the statutory authority for the increase in pay which I intimated to the House had already been granted to the Force last year under Order in Council.


What is the percentage of increase granted?


The amount is fifty cents per day for constables and n.c.o.'s. As the Statute stood, before the Order in Council was passed, the rate of pay for the men for the first year was $1 a day, for the second year $1.10, and for the third year $1.25, the maximum being $1.25. This increases the maximum to $1.75, and the same ratio of increase will continue as before.


How much extra pay do the officers and men serving in the Yukon territory receive?


Under the present Act it is as follows: Officers, $1.25; staff ser-
geants and sergeants, 75c; corporals and constables, 50c.
Section 5 of the resolution changes the law in reference to the period of service to earn a pension. At the present time if a mounted policeman retires after twenty years of service he becomes entitled to a pension on account of length of service. This section will permit of a pension being granted after only ten years service, under the conditions mentioned therein.
Sections 6, 7 and 8 deal with the pensions of officers' widows, making provision for some increase. Section 9 deals with the pensions of private members of the force and non-commissioned officers. At present the officer's pension is based on pay and allowance, and this is to put the pension of the private in the Royal Northwest Mounted Police on the same basis. Section 10 of the resolution provides for creating the reserve to which I referred the other evening, that is, the reserve of the men who have served in the force and have retired from it.
Resolution reported and concurred in.


On motion of Hon. HUGH GUTHRIE (Solicitor General)., Bill No. 18; respecting Bankruptcy, was read the third time and passed.
On motion of Hon. A. K. MACLEAN (Acting Minister of Trade and Commerce), Bill No. 74, to amend the Fertilizers Act, 1909, was read the third time and passed.
On motion of Hon. J. D. Reid (Minister of Railways), Bill No. 93 (from the Senate), to amend the Railway Act (Location of Railways), was read the second time, and the House went into Committee thereon, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
On section 1-R.S., c. 37, ss. 157 and 159 amended:
Perhaps I may explain the purpose of this Bill. In the Railway Bill which is before the Special Committee these clauses have been changed so as to vest in the Board of Railway Commissioners the authority to approve of route maps, this authority having in the past been' exercised by the minister. When a charter was granted by the House for the incorporation * of a railway, before they could proceed with the construction of the railway a route map

had to be approved of by the minister. We now purpose to change that to provide that the Board of Bailway Commissioners shall have this ipower of [DOT]approval. It is the intention to have this Bill put through in case the regular Bailway Bill does not pass at this session. I should like to have this Bill go through the Committee now and put down for third reading, and if the Bailway Bill now before the special committee were passed I would not proceed further with this Bill. In the event of the Bailway Act not being passed at this session, we are desirous to provide that the . authority for approving of route maps shall be placed in the hands of the railway commissioners. The reason for this is that practically speaking there are only two railway systems in Canada, and it is advisable that the Board of Bailway Commissioners should decide on the route maps to be approved of. The Government railway or the Canadian Pacific railway might be involved and there might be a conflict of two interests.


Section agreed to.
On section 159-sanction by board:
Suppose the Bailway Bill now before the special committee does not go through, would we not have to examine this Bill with the same care? Should we not examine it with the care that would be exercised if it were certain that the Bail way Bill would not go through? .


Under the Bailway Act as it now stands the Canadian Pacific railway or the Canadian National railways before they can proceed must come to the Minister of Bailways and get his approval of the route map. The only difference that is now contemplated is to provide that instead of coming to the minister the Canadian Pacific or the Canadian National or the Grand Trunk or any other private companies will go to the Board of Bailway Commissioners who will look into the whole situation and give their approval. I think the Eailway Bill will go through this session; at least I hope it will, in which event I shall not move the third reading of this Bill. However, if the Bailway Bill does not go through I have no objection to having this referred back to the Committee in order to have it more closely examined if it is deemed fit.


Do I understand that
these clauses are an exact repetition of the
clauses contained in the new Bill which has
been considered by the special committee?


I have not compared
the clauses closely, but I instructed Mr. Gisborne, the Parliamentary Counsel, to see that they were identical. If we have to go any further with this Bill I will look into the matter closely and explain the situation. Then we can go into Committee again if necessary.


What difficulty does the
Government anticipate in connection with the new Eailway Bill? It contains only a few contentious clauses, and the closure is in good working form, so that if any difficulties arise the Government can overcome them. Why should there be any hesitation in applying the gag in the case of this Bill, which is a Government measure, when there was no hesitation in invoking the closure on an earlier occasion?


I have no doubt at all about the Bill going through this year as reported from the Committee in some form. I am not able to apply the gag to the Senate, otherwise there would be no difficulty in passing the Bill as it leaves this House. The trouble is that when we send it to the Senate they may not pass it in the form in which it leaves the Commons. That was the difficulty two or three years ago; this House agreed unanimously on the form the Bill was to take, but when it reached the Senate they amended it there, and we could not get it through in the shape in which we wanted it. If I was sure that Senate would pass the Bill in the form jn which it leaves us, there would be no difficulty whatever.


Section agreed to, and Bill reported.
PIUDSON BAY AND STRAIT®.
I have the
honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate re-i questing that the House permit Hon. F.. iCochrane, one of its members, to attend and give evidence before the special committee of the Senate appointed to take evidence and report at this session upon the navigability and fishery resources of the Hudson bay and straits, and upon the character of ports .of said Hudson bay with regard to their fitness as railway terminals.


On the motion of Hon. Arthur Meighen (Minister of the Interior) Bill No. 94, respecting Dominion Water-Powers was read a second time, and the House went into Committee thereon, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
On section 2, paragraph (a)-Definition of " Dominion Water-powers."
Did the minister set forth the purpose of this Bill on the first reading? I do not remember his having done so.


Even so, we are entitled to further information.


At present the Interior Department embraces - a Water-Powers Branch, which has for some years been engaged in the administration of water-powers under the authority of section 35 of the Dominion Lands Act. That section is for administrative purposes, brief and inadequate. Other countries administering water-powers have been driven to the enactment of comprehensive basic legislation. We are following -their example by this Bill. The terms of the measure are easily discernible by its perusal, because it consists in no sense of amendments; it is complete in- itself. The Bill simply declares what the property of the Dominion is, and what the authority of this Government in relation to that property shall be, as regards water-powers and everything incidental to water-powers, and determines the principle upon which those water-powers shall be administered.


The definition of " water-powers " in this section suggests that the control of the administration of water-powers may be under some other branch or department of the Government than the Interior Department. Is that the fact, or is it intended that all water-powers in respect of which this Government may exercise jurisdiction will be under the department presided over by the hon. Minister of the Interior?


They are all under the Department of the Interior.


Could the minister give us a concrete instance of "water-powers" which are the property of Canada, and which have been or may be placed under the control and management of the Minister of the Interior? The definition is:

" Dominion water-powers " means any water powers on lands of the Dominion, or any other water-powers, etc.
Is there an instance of any other waterpower coming under the control of the Minister of the Interior?


The reason for the insertion of that phrase is this:	If possible
the Federal Government may at some time, obtain jurisdiction over waters where it does not own- the bed of the stream-that is the land underneath. It is further conceivable that the bed of the stream may have been . parted with, reserving the rights in the stream itself. That is to say the Government may have parted with the bed, or surface rights, and not have parted with the jurisdiction of the stream itself, in which event the water-powers would still be ours.


That seems a queer condition of things. What purpose could be served by any one getting the bed of the river itself unless they might acquire servitude, or some such right, for the purpose of erecting a public dock or pier, or running a pipe underneath the stream? I do not see that this is a case where that is liable to happen, and I would like the minister to instance a case where a Government, or any individual, parts with the bed of a river and reserves the right to the water. As far as navigable rivers are concerned, we know exactly where we stand in this country as to the ownership of the bed of those rivers and the control of the flow of water.


-Supposing, for example, a company, or a person acquired the bed of a stream for the purpose of taking out -sand or gravel, or exercising quarrying rights; those rights would be quite valuable without the rights to the stream itself. I am not aware of any instance where that has been done, but the draughtsman- who prepared the Bill believed it was quite possible, in which event the jurisdiction and ownership of the power rights in the stream would still be vested in the Dominion. It has been the practice for some time to exclude the bed and shore of waters or streams from ordinary land grants, but there might be land grants where the bed and shore were not excluded but the stream itself was.


Would the term " waterpower " include streams and everything of the kind where no power could be generated? I do not know the conditions in certain provinces, but where the water-powers on any rivers are exploited I do not think

it would be to the advantage of any man to lease the bed of the river to get sand or gravel which might be under the rapids or falls.
Mr. MEIGHE.N: The grant might be made over an extended area and there might be a fall in that area. The water-power must be of commercial possibility.


That explanation would not cover the present case, because waterpower is described here in this way:-
(g) " Water-power " shall include any force or energy of whatever form or nature contained in or capable of being produced or generated from any flowing or falling water in such quantity as to make it of commercial value.
It is very improbable that any man who is going to lease or buy the bed of a river for the purpose of getting gravel or sand would do it where there were rapids. Take these words:-
Or any other water-powers which are the property of Canada and which have been or may be placed under the control and management of the Minister of the Interior ;
How can these water-powers be placed under the control or management of the minister? If the Government buy them, all right. We know that anything purchased by the Dominion of Canada is the property of the Dominion-except the Canadian National railway ! I do not see how we become owners unless there be a specific case, and I would ask the minister to explain why these words are inserted?


I am not arguing that this is of vital consequence, because I do not think there are likely to be many, if, indeed, there are any. But it cannot do any harm, because the power must be ours or the definition will not cover it. In the Yukon, ownership of the bed might be given for mining purposes, but not ownership of the stream rights; that is quite possible. The instance that I gave before of grants of land for the purpose of taking out sand and gravel might be over an extended area on much of which there would be no waterpower at all. I know, for example, of grants made for that purpose in Ontario, but I do not recall one for the moment in the provinces where we own the water-powers.


Has the Government now any water-powers except those acquired from private individuals ot the provinces? For instance, I understand the water-powers of the eastern provinces are the property of the provinces, that is, they own the land. How do you acquire these powers, or what powers have you in mind?
160	,	;	.;>
'art
Take the case of Dominion ownership of land in Saskatchewan on the Saskatchewan river where power would be developed, would that give you ownership of the power at that point?


We do not need to have them given to us, we have them now. All
water-powers of the three Prairie Provinces are the property of the Dominion; they are included in the term " natural resources," and they are administered now under the Dominion water-powers management and have been for many years. Also the water-powers in the railway belt are our property, but by virtue of two statutes the right of administration of these powers was ceded to the province of British Columbia, for the reason that the strip of land was narrow and the streams frequently ran in the delta owned by the Dominion as well as in land in the provincial jurisdiction. So an arrangement had to be arrived at.


This Act does not apply then to the eastern provinces at all? In what case would it apply to the province of Nova Scotia, for instance?


The Act has no substan tial application to the eastern provinces. I purpose adding a clause which will form the statutory authority and basis for the work we are now doing in reference to water-powers in the eastern provinces-work that we only can do by agreement with the provincial governments. That is really the only clause that has much interest for the eastern provinces.


The Dominion has water-powers on every canal throughout Canada. These water-powers are under the Department of Railways and Canals, some of them being leased on the basis of ninety-nine years, and others on the basis of twenty-one years, with right of renewal. If I understand this Act aright, the minister will have power to take over all these water-powers from the Department of Railways and Canals, and then they will be administered under this Act. Is that correct?


Yes; in fact that could be done to-day without this Act at all. Any administrative responsibility of a department may be taken over by another department. But it is not the intention to transfer the administration of canal water-powers to the Interior Department; that has never even been considered.


Water-powers generated by the construction of canals which are now



under the control or jurisdiction of the Department of Railways and Canals are Dominion water-powers under this Act?


I do not think so.


How are they classified?


Because they are not under the control and management of the Minister of the Interior.


Unless we decide that water-powers generated as the result of constructing a canal are not water-powers under this Act, an exception ought to be made.


I do not think the hon. gentleman has read the definition clearly. They are not Dominion water-powers under the definition of this Act until they are vested in the Minister of the Interior. So this definition does not include any waterpower on a canal.


Then the water-powers will not he under the same department.


No; they are not now. This makes no change.


What is the object of the Act?


The object of the Act is mainly to establish the principles of statutory authority for the administration of such water-powers as are on Dominion lands, or any other water-powers the administration of which may hereafter be vested in the Department of the Interior.


Has not the Interior Department at the present time authority to administer all those water-powers which are on Dominion lands?


It has under section 35 of the Dominion Lands Act, which section has in many respects proved inadequate for the proper administration of these powers. For instance, section 35 does not enable the Department of the Interior or the Government at all to exercise any control over the appurtenances to water-power, over the transmission of the power developed, over the provision of dams, the securing of land necessary, and all such requisites. The very purpose of this Act is to provide for a more complete utilization of Dominion water-powers.


Do I understand that the powers of the Department of the Interior as defined by section 35 do not go far enough to permit the acquiring of these

lands or the development of these powers by that department?


They do not.


What about the general Expropriation Act, which vests power in the Government to acquire lands necessary for the carrying out of any public work?


Even if the Dominion does assume the business management of a water-power development, the clauses of the Expropriation Act are not adequate for the purpose. But it is not worth arguing whether they are or not, because the powers of the Expropriation Act do not apply where the Dominion- does not expropriate, but leases the power subject to certain conditions, and the expropriation right is required by the lessee. These are. some of the restraints under' which water-power administration has laboured; we require that these restraints be removed. We simply desire the establishment of an adequate statutory basis upon which the administration may proceed.


This Act allows the Dominion Government to do what any private company may do, lease or develop waterpower, and have all the rights inherent thereto. Is there a provision in this Act that will vest in the lessee from the Government power to expropriate?


Yes. Of course, he cannot do so under the Expropriation Act, because he is a private person and must go before the ordinary courts. But he may set expropriation proceedings in motion under the Railway Act, with the authority of the Governor in Council.


There is provision for that here?	.


Yes.


What department of the
Government controls the waters along the rapids of St. Lawrence and at the foot of lake Ontario, where there are vast water-powers?


I am not sure that I can give a very satisfactory answer to that question. The Department of the Interior, as a department, has no administrative responsibility in the St. Lawrence river. If works were to be constructed, then it would be determined whether they were under the Public Works Department or under the Department of Railways and Canals. But as regards the power features

of these works, which are inextricably linked up with the navigation features, the Dominion Power Board, of which I am chairman, is constituted for the purpose of advising the Government in relation to water-power development.


Will the Department of the Interior have any administrative responsibility in regard to power on the St. Lawrence river after the passing of this Act?


No.


The doubt my hon. friend expressed seems to relate only as to which department of the Dominion Government these powers along the St. Lawrence are under. The doubt does not extend, I take it, to the question whether the jurisdiction is of the Dominion or of the provinces.


I did not touch that point at all. The Dominion is concerned inasmuch as the stream is an international stream, and any arrangements that would require to be made of an international character would necessarily have to be made by the Dominion. That is one subject. As to the question whether the powers so developed should belong to the province or to the Dominion, I made no statement.


Suppose the stream was not an international stream. It is contended by some that the ebb and flow of the tide in the bay of Fundy twice a day constitutes a very important water-power. The bay of Fundy, of course, is a navigable water. Has the Dominion Government power to regulate that water-power or to give to any person the right to develop it, or would an applicant for such right have to go to the province of Nova Scotia?


The question which the hon. member raises has no reference to the present Bill, which deals with water-powers on lands owned by the Dominion. The Dominion's interest in respect of, say, the bay of Fundy or the St. Lawrence river arises primarily from its jurisdiction, its sole responsibility, in connection with navigation. But any improvements looking to navigation in a river or a bay where water-powers are developed is necessarily mixed up with water-power development; consequently the Dominion cannot keep out. That is the primary source of interest we have in the whole thing. As to whom the power should belong to, the province or the Dominion, that is a subject that I think the Committee should not now be led into.


That is the question I want answered.
I60i


I want to be quite clear about this definition. Two things are required, first that the water-powers be on Dominion lands; second, that they be under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior. Water-powers owned by the Dominion under other conditions than these would not be considered as Dominion water-powers?


No.


In section 3 I notice that
an exception is made of British Columbia. Why is that?


On account of the Dominion Railway Belt Water Acts of 1912 and 1913, which divest the Dominion of its authority to administer the water-powers of the railway belt and places that administration under provincial authority.


The Fraser river would
come in there?


Yes.


Are there any developed water-powers which come under this Act?


Oh, yes, we have very large developments in Western Canada that will be directly under this Act. All the water-powers, for example, that supply Winnipeg city with power. The Grand du Bonnet power in the Winnipeg river is now being developed. About 100,900 horsepower is now developed there, and about
400,000	horse-power is still to be developed.


Those water-powers are still vested in the Dominion Government?


Yes.


Section agreed to.
On section 3-application of Act:
What is the particular reason for excepting British Columbia from the operation of this measure?


Because the British Columbia Government administer the water-powers on the railway belt, as well as the other water-powers of that province. They do so under authority of this Parliament vested in them by the statutes named in the section.


Is there any definition of the word "lands"? Would that comprise the bed of any river which would be required and which, as explained just now by the minister, had been leased or disposed of ?


I think the Bill covers all previous grants of water-powers as well

as any grant since the passing of the statutes mentioned in the section.


Section agreed to.
On section 4-title to water-powers in Crown:	,
Why is this declared to be a work for the general advantage of Canada?


In order to establish Dominion jurisdiction without question. That is to say, there is no doubt at all that jurisdiction in the Dominion is complete so far as our ownership goes, but by de-i daring that an undertaking that now is or may be formed to he a work for the general advantage of Canada, our jurisdiction is extended to anything within the definition of the word " undertaking," and consequently our control is extended also.


What purpose can be served ? Is it for the development and distribution in towns or for the transmission of power?


The only way in
which water-powers may be usefully and properly administered is by the administering body having jurisdiction ample enough to extend not only over the power itself, but over everything connected with that power development and the transmission and distribution that follow. You cannot sever jurisdiction and at the same time have adequate and successful administration of the power. I do not think it would be asked on the part of the province that the jurisdiction should be so severed. If the administration of the power itself, the mere waterfall, the mere energy that the waterfall develops, is to be under one Government and everything else under another, successful administration is impossible. The purpose of this section, and, in fact, of the whole Bill-and this is merely in harmony with the rest of the Bill-is to extend the jurisdiction of the Dominion in order to enable it adequately to administer the power itself. The word " ur. lertaking," as defined in section 2, is made a work for the general advantage of Canada, thereby extending the jurisdiction of the Dominion to the full extent of that definition.


If the Government disposed of power under this, would the power carry the same character as if it were developed by the Government itself?


If the Government disposes of power it does so in accordance with this measure; it does not do so by granting

a fee simple; it does so by lease, subject to such terms and conditions as may
4 p.m. be imposed. The terms and conditions necessarily have to do with the distribution of the power developed, that is to say, with the undertaking. This section establishes our jurisdiction to make those terms and conditions.


I do not know that I made my question clear. At least I do not understand the answer. Supposing the Government disposes of one of these powers or leases it for, say, ninety-nine years, or whatever the term may be, would the company acquiring the power be declared to be a work for the general advantage of Canada?


The company would not be, but the works would.


The company would control the works that were declared to be a work for the general advantage of Canada?


Yes.


The minister mentioned
the distribution. Would this give such a company the right to distribute power without the consent of municipalities? It certainly gives them the right to go through municipalities with transmission lines.


This would not give
them any rights except the lease itself. They would have any rights of water-powers vested in them by the lease. In fact, I do not think any right of distribution would be given at all. Conditions of distribution would be imposed, and no rights that I can conceive of now would be granted.


In the interpretation
clause, I do not see any definition of the term "water-power", except that the term "Dominion water-power" is defined. Section 4 says:
The property in and the right to the use ot all water-power is hereby declared-
And so on. Would it not be better to insert the word " Dominion " before the word " water-power?" The term " all waterpower " is pretty broad.


It might be just as well. After all, the intention was that water-powers would be limited by clause 3, which defines what the Bill applies to, and that clearly says that it applies to Dominion water-powers. I would agree that the word "Dominion" should be inserted.


I move that in section 4 the words "water-power is" at the end of the first line be struck out, and the words

"Dominion water-powers are," be substituted therefor, and that the word " power " in the fourth line be Changed to " powers."


Amendment agreed to, and section, as amended, agreed to.
On section 5-essential lands also remain Crown property.
That would cover the bed of a river, I suppose.


Oh yes. I beg to move that the words "right of entry" be inserted in line 25 after the word "permit."


Amendment agreed to.
Does the minister think that the Dominion has control over the beds of streams that are not navigable?


Only in the three Prairie Provinces. My statement did not refer to any other province.
Section as amended agreed to.
On section 6-expropriation of private lands where required by the Crown.


Does the minister think this would cover non-navigable streams?


Yes. If it happened that part of the bed of a river of a nonnavigable stream was required for a Dominion water-power development, it could be expropriated.


It would apply also, 1 presume, in the case of a water-power owned by a private individual. There is a law in the province of Quebec which gives about the same rights as this section would.


The Dominion could acquire such bed of a river under this section.


Not in Quebec.


Oh no, because we have no Dominion water-power there. I beg to move that the word "or" at the beginning of line 44 be struck out.


Amendment agreed to.
Section as amended agreed to.
On section 7-taking of private lands by applicants or licensees:
This is the section I was asking the minister about just now. It provides that any person who is authorized by the minister shall have the power to expropriate. Now I think that is a pretty broad provision. Generally speaking, powers of expropriation are granted by the legislative
body. The power to expropriate is limited very strictly. When the minister authorizes a man to take another man's property against his will for the benefit of a private individual he is delegating a power which I think should rest alone with the legislative body. The power of expropriation is used only in case of public utilities, on the principle that the public good prevails over the individual good but under this section it is a case of the individual against the individual. Some person may acquire from the minister a water-power for the purpose of his farm, and he may want to back up the water. Under this section, upon the authority of the minister alone, he may go to his neighbour and say: "I cannot agree with you as to price, so I am going to expropriate your land which is required for the development of my water-power, which is useful to me alone." I think that is against the law.


The whole theory oi
this Act is that water-powers are essentially and increasingly a public utility. All water-power developments of business organizations developing and transmitting water-power are more and more public utilities. Consequently, the power of expropriation, under the very principle which my hon. friend has enunciated, is necessarily vested with the Government. We do nothing more here than is done under the Government. We do nothing more here than is done under the Irrigation Act. Under that Act the very same authority to expropriate under similar circumstances is vested, and the same with the Railway Act. It would never do to require every company that is developing a water-power to come back to Parliament when it wanted to expropriate a few acres that might be needed in connection with the development of its water-power. Water-power development is necessarily, in a sense, local-not like a railway which runs over a considerable length of line-and in connection with its development only a very small acreage may have to be expropriated.
They may expropriate if the minister is convinced that it is a proper case for expropriation; that is to say, if upon the advice of his water-power authorities it is shown to him that the land is required in connection with that public utility, then the clauses that Parliament has passed will be invoked, but only then. Surely that is a sufficient safeguard. I would be quite willing to have " Governor in Council " substituted for minister, and it would be along the same line as the preceding

clause which authorizes the Governor in Council to expropriate lands in a proper case where the development is a public undertaking. In this case it is a private undertaking under lease from the Crown, and we say that it being a public utility, if it is shown that certain land must be acquired to make that utility useful and effective, then the power to expropriate is granted.


I do not think it would
improve matters to make it " Governor in Council." If you intend to assume the control of water-powers, to lease them and have them developed, it is a very easy matter for this Parliament to pass a law defining in what cases power of expropriation shall exist. We have a law in Quebec whereby any private individual, provided he can develop so many horse-power, can expropriate, but there is a limit, and it cannot be confined to a private individual for his own purposes. 'It would be fair and more within the rights of expropriation of eminent domain if there were a general law applicable to every man, and if the powers were graded. There are certain powers that cannot be public utilities owing to the very small amount of horse-power that can be developed, and they can be used only for limited purposes. Let us have a general law grading these powers and it would prevent the cession by Parr liament of what I think is its most sacred prerogative and duty, the protection of private rights, not leaving either in the minister or in the Governor in Council the power to give any individual the right to go over the land of his neighbour and take it from him.


I agree with the hon. member for Three Rivers that the granting of powers of expropriation is not always sufficiently considered by Parliament. I happen to have sat in the legislature of Nova Scotia for a number of years, and one of the things I continually railed against was the power of expropriation given by the Nova Scotia Government to the Dominion Coal Company. I always contended that where the public welfare was being served, the Government might well and legitimately grant powers of expropriation. But they went so far at one time down there as to grant the Dominion Coal Company the power of expropriating for the building of their own houses to accommodate their workmen. This, to the average man, would appear to be a very extreme measure, and I therefore suggest to the minister that he should be some-
[Mr. Meigh.en.1
what more cautious in the matter of expropriation. It is a dangerous undertaking that may work injustice in many cases. I am of the opinion that this section is a little bit extreme in that it gives almost absolute power of expropriation and very nearly takes away the right of private ownership of property. We cannot always ignore the rights of a private individual to his ownership of his own land. I have not considered the section with sufficient care to offer an amendment, but I think it is rather loosely drafted and perhaps the minister might reconsider it and make it more in keeping with the views that have been expressed.


In 1897, not so very long ago, Parliament enacted the following legislation with regard to irrigation companies :	,
Lands required for the works of any applicant, as shown by the maps and plans filed, in whomsoever they are vested, whether in the Crown or in any other applicant or licensee, or in any railway company, or in any other person whomsoever or in any interest in or right or privilege with regard to such land which is so required, may be taken and acquired by such first mentioned licensee; and to this end all the provisions of the Railway Act which and so far as they are applicable to such taking and acquisition, shall apply as if they were included in this Act.
The rest of it is the same as the wording here. That was re-enacted again in 1906 and is the law to-day. Now, this is a public utility; it must be essentially so. It may be only in a small way and it may be in a large way; but if in a small way, surely we are not going to require the expense of coming to Parliament for a special Bill. That much ought surely to be trusted to administration. That is the whole principle upon which the administration of legislation operates. The power is not granted absolutely, as the hon. member for Cape Breton seems to fear. There is no absolute provision here. The minister must be convinced-I am ready to have it made the Governor in Council-on representations of his water-power authorities that the land is required for the development of that water-power. If so, then they have to acquire it and pay for it under the provisions that are laid down. It seems to me that there can be nothing expensively cumbersome about that method.


I absolutely agree with the minister that it would not be fair to ask every little company to come before Parliament for expropriation powers. That is not what I contended. What can be

done without expense to the man who is going to buy water-power is to pass general legislation applying to all Dominion water-powers which could be classified without being named specifically. We could classify them by the amount of horse-power that could be developed, and limit the extent of the powers of the individual intending to develop them. The minister is the person to decide whether or not the land is required. Plans have to be filed with him, all the records will remain with him, and the-owner-of the land will just-receive a notice under the Railway Act and then the arbitration takes place if they cannot agree upon the compensation. That is all the consideration shown the owner.


Section 35 of the Dominion Lands Act, passed in 1908, in this regard is just the same as the section we are enacting now, but the interposition of the minister is the check which exists. A company when it has authority may expropriate, under the law as it is to-day, and we are not asking for any more power in this case.


It is not a good reason that because section 35 of the Dominion Lands Act contains these powers that they should be embodied in the present Bill. To my mind it is wrong to give a man the right to take the property of his neighbour under certain conditions, and we should prevent as much as possible the delegation of any such power.


We have such waterpower legislation now.


That may be, but when we find it necessary to pass a new law why not improve on the existing legislation? If the existing power is sufficient and greater than that for which the minister is now asking, I do not see the necessity for this Bill. If the minister is asking for certain powers, and we find that they ought not to be granted to him but left with Parliament, why not take that point into consideration? I do not say that every man who wants to develop water-power should come before this Parliament and ask for the right to expropriate, but it is easy for Parliament to legislate generally with respect to cases where men wish to develop water-powers and ask for the right of expropriation, and to declare in that Act that the development is intended for public and not private purposes. The expropriatory potver should not be left subject to the whim of a man's neighbour because he has more money to pay for water-power development than the
owner of the property who has this water on his farm or domain. That is the reason I say a general law should be passed regulating this matter, and the power which this Bill seeks to confer upon the minister or the Governor in Council should not be granted. I do not say this in disparagement of the minister; but it is a matter of principle that this power ought to remain with Parliament and not be delegated to any one, except under general legislation defining the powers that can be developed and the circumstances under which the expropriation can take place.


I have not' heard the
whole of the discussion on this Bill, but I very largely agree with the hon. member for Three Rivers (Mr. Bureau) and the hon. member for South Cape Breton (Mr. Butts) that it is rather too great a power to grant any private individual the r