(Bran and Shorts or Middlings).
Mr. R. C. HENDER/S (Macdonald) presented the first report of the Select Committee on Agriculture and 'Colonization on Bill No. 7, an Act to amend the Adulteration Act (respecting Bran and Shorts or Middlings), as follows:
Tour committee having had under consideration Bill No. 7, an Act to amend the Adulteration Act (respecting bran and shorts or middlings), beg leave to recommend the same to the House without any amendment.
Hon. HUGH GUTHRIE (Solicitor General) moved for leave to introduce Bill No.

36, to amend the Public Printing and Stationery Act.
Explain.


Mr. Speaker, this amendment is introduced at the instance of the Board of Civil Service Commissioners. It refers to the Stationery Department of the Printing Bureau, and provides for a certain limited amount of reorganization, with the object of better co-ordinating the work of that department.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first time.


On the Orders of the Day:
If the error is in the transcription of the document by Hansard, I shall see that it is corrected; otherwise it must go as printed.


As the question appeared on the Order Paper it is all right; but in Hansard it is all wrong.


X will have inquiries made, and if the facts are as stated by the hon. member the necessary correction will be made.


House again in committee on Bill No. 33 respecting the acquisition by His Majesty of the Grand Trunk Railway system.-Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
Last night the committee adopted clause 1, namely, "Short title."


Mr. Chairman, clause 1 was not adopted last night.


There was nothing
adopted last night.


It was carried. However, we will take it up again.
Short title.


Before clause 1 carries, I think the Government should give to this committee a statement of the total liabilities that are to he assumed by this undertaking.


If the hon. member wishes the title of the Bill to be changed in any way, he would be in order in moving accordingly, but in committee the discussion must be strictly relevant to the clause immediately under consideration, and he is certainly not in order in referring to the total liabilities of the undertaking on clause 1, which is merely the Short Title of the Bill.
Section 1 agreed to.
On section 2-Government empowered to enter into agreement with Grand Trunk Railway Company for acquisition of entire capital stock of company except 4 per cent guaranteed stock.


I would ask the Government now to state what are the total liabilities to be assumed by the country.


Does that include the arrears of dividends upon the preferred stock?


No, we pay no arrears on any of the stock. Whatever award is made as to what interest, if any, we shall pay will be effective from the date that the award is made. The arbitrators, then, will, value this $63,841,201.23 of stock, and on, that valuation we will pay four per cent interest in perpetuity, with this exception: we have the right to purchase it after thirty' years.


In reckoning the liabilities, why does the minister take out the $60,000,000 of guaranteed stock? Are we not assuming that liability?


I have stated that upon the $173,558,544.62, which is the funded debt, we pay interest in perpetuity. The interest on the guaranteed stock of $60,000,000 we pay also in perpetuity, except that we have the right to take it over at the end of thirty years.


Have we not the right to take over the debentures? Are they not redeemable?


If my memory serves me correctly, these bonds are in perpetuity, and we have not the right to take them up. The rate of interest is very low.


Bonds are not usually in perpetuity.


They are in this case.


Some of these debenture stocks are at five per cent and some at four.


It is only the guaranteed stock, as I understand it and the stocks that the award is made on that we have the right to take up at the end of thirty years.


I do not understand the intimation of the minister that there will be no.arbitration of the value of

the debenture stock, because we are assuming that liability. The Minister says that we have the option of wiping out the guaranteed stock after thirty years; I understand him to say also that in the case of the debenture stock we have not that right; we must continue to pay interest at five per cent, or whatever the rate is, in perpetuity.


That is as I understand it at present. We are allowing the debenture stock, which is in perpetuity, to remain; we are not taking that right at the present time. In that I am subject to correction, and if I am wrong, I will correct my statement later.


I would like to be clear on that point. I understood the minister to say a minute ago that there was to be no arbitration on the $60,000,000; that we have assumed that and the arbitrators will have nothing to do with it. The minister now says-


Is this transaction subject to the rate of exchange?


Thirty years from now there may not be any question about the rate of exchange. In any case, the matter of exchange does not come into it at all.
Then we come to the common stock, $116,583,124.44, upon which no dividend has ever been paid. That also will be valued by the arbitrators, and upon the valuation arrived at, if any, we shall pay interest at four per cent in perpetuity unless we decide after thirty years to purchase it outright.


In calculating the possible cost to the country of this white elephant which we shall have upon our hands, has the Government made any general estimate of what valuation will be placed upon these stocks by the Board of Arbitration?


It would be difficult for me to make any statement of that kind.

The Drayton-Acworth report stated that these companies had paid $3,600,000 peT annum by way of interest on these several stocks that I have just mentioned, the Government felt justified in recommending the annual payment of $2,500,000 as a minimum, this to be added to from time to time so that at the end of seven years they would pay the $3,600,000. The Government decided that these stocks were of such a value that they were justified in paying $1,100,000 per annum in perpetuity in respect to them. That, of course, is in addition to the $2,500,000 interest on the guaranteed stock. In other words, the Drayton-Acworth report recommended, and the Government considered that they were justified in offering the payment of an annual amount, whether you call it rental or dividend, on the guaranteed stock and all other capital stocks-that is, the preference and common stocks-equal to $3,600,000 per annum. The amount of $1,100,000, therefore, could be applied on the three preference stocks and the common stock. The Grand Trunk railway claimed that that was not a sufficient amount, having regard to the value of the road.
We must remember that the Drayton-Acworth report made that recommendation of $3,600,000 after the Government relieved the Grand Trunk of liabilities and responsibilities that it might be subject to on account of its guaranteeing the Grand Trunk Pacific, and also after taking into consideration the fact that the Grand Trunk railway was used to operate the Transcontinental built by the Government between Winnipeg and Moncton, and the Grand Trunk thought that they should have an amount first, I think, of $5,600,000 per annum, which was later reduced to, I think, about $5,100,000. I have not the exact figures in my mind at the moment. Therefore, the Grand Trunk, rather than accept the amount offered of $3,600,000, decided to accept the offer of arbitration. That is the only way in which I could place any value on the stock in reply to the question asked by the hon. member.


That offer was not $3,600,000; the offer was to assume the liabilities and to pay $3,600,000 in addition. The offer is contained on page 8. This is the Government proposition:
1. The Government to take over the Grand Trunk Pacific railway and branch lines and the Grand Trunk Railway Company; to acquire all assets, and to assume all obligations of both companies.


That is right.


That includes the debenture stock, and as I understand it, it includes the guaranteed stock.


Let me correct the hon. member there. That offer was on this basis: The Government to pay $3,600,000 per annum, and in addition to that the Government would, of course, pay the interest on the funded debt, that interest amounting to about $7,000,000. therefore, according to that offer, we would have to pay $7,000,000 interest on the funded debt, plus $3,600,000 interest on the other stocks.


The minister, if I understood him aright did not tell us when he made his explanation, that we were to assume the fixed charges in the first place, and then we were to pay the $3,600,000 on the common stock and the three preference stocks.


And the guaranteed.


This goes on further to show that the stock may be redeemed on paying twenty-five years' rental at once, which would amount to $90,000,000. The letter capitalizes the total at $90,000,000. That is to say, the Government offers to assume all the fixed charges of the Grand Trunk Railway system and the Grand Trunk Pacific, and to pay in cash $90,000,000. Am I right there?


No.


The Government agreed to pay $3,600,000 a year, and the letter goes on to say:
The Government to have the option of purchase on the basis of and during- the term of the final rental at the end of any year and on one year's notice at twenty-five times the annual final rental.
If you multiply $3,600,000 by twenty-five, you get $90,000,000.	'


That is right.


That is how I arrive at the $90,000,000. The Government them agreed to pay $90,000,000 for the preference stock and the common stock.


No, I will tell the hon. member where he is wrong, and perhaps I can put him right. The Government agreed to pay $90,000,000, if the hon. member wishes the matter put in that way, at the end of thirty years. What for? For what the $3,600,000 interest represents, and I will tell the hon. member what it represents, and he will see at once, because this has been explained .so many times. It was to pay first $2,500,000 for the guaranteed
stock. You have to add the $60,000,000 of guaranteed stock.


That is common stock.


No. It is to pay $90,000,000 for $241,257,658.27, or in other words, the $3,600,000 was the annual interest for ten years on the four per cent guaranteed stock amounting to $60,833,332.51, and the first, second and third preference stocks, the four of them added together amounting to $124,674,533.74. In addition to that the common stock amounts to $116,583,124.44 on which no interest has ever been paid. The Government therefore said, no interest having ever been paid on the common stock, we will not take that into consideration at all; we will allow you $3,600,000, the annual amount you have been receiving on your guaranteed and first, second and third preference stocks. If you will accept that and hand us over the common -stock as well, on which $30,090,000 has been paid, we are wiling to pay you that $3,600,000 in perpetuity, or $90,000,000 at the end of thirty years. The matter would sum up in this way. Take the amount as $90,000,000 if you wish to look at it in that way; deduct the $60,833,332.51, and you are left with a valuation of $30,000,000 to apply to the $64,841,301.23, that the first, second and third preference stocks added together, plus the $116,583,124.44 common stock, or in round numbers, $190,000,000 which that $30,000,000 would represent.


In what part of the Drayton-Acworth report, does the minister find justification for offering that $90,000,000?


On page 88, section 41 says:
We recommend that the entire share capital of the Grand Trunk, guaranteed, preference and ordinary stock-
That would be $241,257,658.27.
-be surrendered to the trustees in exchange for an annuity based on a moderate but substantial proportion of $3,600,000, the average sum paid as dividends in the last ten years; and that this annuity should increase by forty or fifty per cent after the first seven years.
That is where we get that recommendation, and as this Bill provides, we are taking over the guaranteed, the preference and the ordinary stocks in the way that I have just stated, subject, of course, to the award that may be given by the Board of Arbitrators.


The minister has wandered far from my question. We are undertak-
[DOT] 1336

ing the purchase of the Grand Trunk Railway system including several railways, as well as the ownership of the stock of the Grand Trunk railway itself-What is the total amount of the liabilities we are assuming (by the purchase of the Grand Trunk Railway system? I am not speaking merely of the Grand Trunk railway or any one portion of the system, but of the system -as a whole. l


I was giving the items when I was interrupted. I explained that we were assuming the total funded debt. I cannot say what the liability will be in connection with the first, second, and third preference and common stocks until the arbitrators make their -award. All that hon. members can do in the meantime is to place their own valuation upon it. The interest of $1,100,000 would represent a valuation of about $25,000,000 or $30,000,000.


The minister -must have an idea of the total amount of the liabilities.


They are given in detail on page 39 of this blue-book. I quite understand what hon. members desire, 'but I would not for one -minute undertake to say that we are assuming a liability of $116,583,124.44 in connection, with the common stock, for instance, -as was stated by the leader of the Opposition the other evening. There may be no valuation placed on this stock at all by the arbitrators. We did not consider it as of any value when we -made the offer. We cannot s-ay what the stock is worth until the award is made. I can-only say that -we assume liability for the total funded debt a-m-ounting to $173,558,544.62, and the guaranteed stock amounting to $60,833,322.51, and for the valuation placed on the preference and common stocks by the arbitrators. Then we have in our books a loan of $15,142,633.13 which was advanced to the Grand Trunk -many years ago. While the Grand Trunk are liable for -that amount, the Government has never regarded it as a liability. The understanding, I believe, was that the company would never be asked to pay back that sum or the interest on it until they h-ad -paid interest on their common stock. That $15,000,000 was all the Grand Trunk got iby way of subsidies or assistance in any shape or form from the Dominion: Government during the sixty-five years it has been in operation.


Was there an agreement that that $15,000,000 ishould never Ibe repaid?


I have not the data here, but the Grand Trunk have never

been asked to pay even interest on that amount, and I think we will have to take it for granted that the Government would not insist that it really was a liability which we could deduct from the assets in-this transaction.


Was the amount not
always carried forward in our books as an asset of the Dominion of Canada, and is it not there to-day?


It certainly is there, or it would not appear in this list of liabilities.


Then what right have you to say that the amount is going to be wiped out?


I am not saying that. It is an asset of the Dominion. What I say is that the Government have never taken any action to collect either principal or interest.


In determining the net debt of Canada, the minister would deduct that amount of $15,000,000, and as long as he does that, he has no right to say that this amount is going to be wiped off.


I say that the arbitrators must take that amount into consideration when making their award, as well as every other liability against the road. I am not saying it would have a very serious effect on their decision.


Does the minister expect the arbitrators to treat that amount as a liability after he has stated he wants the amount wiped off?


I am only stating the facts. My hon. friend was Minister of Finance for very many years, and if that amount was considered a liability it was his duty to collect the interest, and not let the loan stand in the .position it did stand in for so many years. The hon. member knows the situation better than I do. I am sure he knows exactly on what terms and conditions that $15,000,000 was given to the Grand Trunk, and if I have not given the facts correctly, now is the time for him to give the information.


I think $15,000,000 is a good deal of money even in these days, and when there is an item of that amount concerned in thi-s matter I think my hon. friend should bring forward more information than he has given -so far as to the precise position with respect to that sum. If1 we did not collect it from the Grand Trunk and it should have been col-

lected, all governments from Confederation down are responsible. To-day we are only concerned in knowing precisely how the matter stands. I am not anxious to press things against the Grand Trunk, but I think we should have full information in connection with all these matters. One of my objections to proceeding with the legislation this session was that we had not time to get full information. Here is an item of $15 000,000, and my hon. frienl has not thought it necessary to bring forward a precise statement of the terms under which that liability was created. I am not arguing whether or not it should be collected, but the minister should give us more information than he has, instead of simply saying he did not think it was ever intended that we should get back this money. We should know the precise terms and conditions under which that loan was made.	.


The board of arbitrators will consider all the liabilities against the Grand Trunk on their merits. They are not going to base their award upon what I or any other member of the House may say; otherwise they should not be appointed. They will take every item into consideration on its merits. I cannot imagine that any of the arbitrators are going to read Hansard and base their award on statements made by hon. members of this House. If they do, they will have a nice time making the award. The arbitrators who will be appointed will be men of honour and will take every item into consideration on its merits, regardless of any statements I may make in the House or anywhere else.


The Canada Year Book,
1918, in the statement of the Dominion Bureau of Statistics, Ottawa, says:
The actual Increase was greater by $15,142,633, but this sum, representing a Government loan to the Grand Trunk railway, which had for years been returned) as part of the company's capitalization, was eliminated in 1917.
That would be done with the knowledge of the Government.


What book is that?


It is the (Canada Year Book.


I do not know that I can give any further explanation than the statement I have already made. The sum of $15,000,000 has been advanced to the Grand Trunk, and'-


How was it eliminated?


I did not say it was eliminated. If it was eliminated it would not be in this book.


This authority says so.


The Canada Year Book surely is not more reliable than the official records of the department.


Who is responsible for the publication of these statistics? Is it not the Department of Railways?


I am taking the statements as obtained from the official records in the department.


We must have the official records.


I am giving them to you here.


It is well sometimes to have two authorities.


Will the minister say what there is to arbitrate in this $15,000,000? The Canadian dollar is worth a dollar, and they are not going to arbitrate the value of our money. We have loaned this company $15,000,000, and the minister tells us now that we shall appoint arbitrators to ascertain the value of that sum. Why, it is $15,000,000.


Let me tell my hon. friend what they will arbitrate, although it is hardly necessary that I should do so, for he must, by the nature of his profession, be better acquainted with these things than I am. The arbitrators are going to ascertain the value of the Grand Trunk Railway system and how much we should pay for it, taking into consideration all of the liabilities. First of all, the assets will all be added together and the liabilities will be deducted from them, what is left being the value of the stock.


The Minister of the Interior told us the other night-and incidentally he poked a good deal of fun at myself in connection with the matter-that the sixty million dollars that we paid to the Canadian Northern had nothing to do with what we should pay for the stock. Was that sound logic? It was thrown across the floor, and a battalion of ministers applaudingly supported him in his contention that 'the moneys we lent to the company had nothing to do with the amount at which the stock should be valued. If that was sound financial logic, then the $15,000,000 lent to this company has nothing to do with the value of the stock.


My hon. friend, inadvertently no doubt, has stated quite inaccurately what the Minister of the Interior said.


What did he say? Hansard is available.


As the Minister of Eail-ways has pointed out, in ascertaining the value of the stock the arbitrators will no doubt take into consideration both the assets and the liabilities as well as the earnings, because upon those two considerations mainly must the value of the stock depend. The point that was under discussion the other night, as I recall it, was this: At a certain period the maximum of $30,000,000 was fixed in a resolution moved in this House as the amount that might be paid for the stock of the Canadian Northern railway, and my hon. friend in commenting on that made the statement that subsequently the company borrowed a sum of money- $15,000,000, I think;- and my hon. friend contended, as I recollect, that the fact of the borrowing changed the value of the stock.	[DOT]


I did not say that. I said that it certainly should reduce the amount we would pay for the stock.


Then my hon. friend (Mr. Meighen) challenged that statement for the reason that if the money borrowed went into the road the road would be increased in value to that extent. The value of the stock would not be diminished by that amount if the money went into the road. You simply have a borrowing on one side of $15,000,000, and on the other side you have an investment in the road and an increase in your assets of $15,000,000. That transaction does not change the value of the stock; it might improve its value under certain possible conditions. If the company were on the verge of liquidation or were in financial difficulties the $15,000,000 would tide it over and enable it to discharge urgent obligations or make improvements essential to its operation. If it were relieved of its immediate distress or were enabled to make improvements absolutely indispensable to its operation, the company would be in a better position than before. Only in that sense might it be improved, but in the other sense it would not change the value of the stock if the money went into the road or was used to pay off liabilities.


Suppose we said to the Canadian Northern, "We are willing to

give you $30,000,000 provided you pass over to us every earthly thing you own," and they said they would not do that. Then we lent them, say, $45,000,000 or $50,000,000 and in the meantime they decided to throw up the sponge and give us the road. Does thfe minister mean to say that we would not take into consideration and balance up against the Canadian Northern that $50,000,000 we gave them? Would we not say: "It is true that four years ago we were willing to give you $30,000,000, but since then you have borrowed $50,000,000. You are indebted to us and are entitled to nothing. We have paid for the property already more than it was worth. Your physical property is what we are looking for. We have more than paid for it and don't care about your stock because it is worth nothing."


If that $40,000,000 or $50,000,000 did not go into the road or into the discharging of liabilities, then there would be some point in my hon. friend's contention. If, on the other hand, it went into the road or discharged liabilities, it improved the position of the company by the amount of the obligation that was incurred. To illustrate: Suppose the company had* $40,000,000 or $50,000,000 of urgent obligations to meet. They come to the Government and say: "We are not able to finance ourselves. Will you loan us $40,000,000 or $50,000,000?" The Government agrees to do this, and the company with that sum discharges urgent liabilities to that extent. The company is no worse off. It has only changed its creditors. Its stock is worth just as much as before, the only difference being that the creditor is the Government instead of the former holder of the liabilities. In that sense I would say that it was not a question that would effect the value of the stock one way or the other. That is with respect to another road, however, and does not touch the immediate matter under consideration.


Would not the road have increased in value in the meantime?


It might have increased in value.


It did increase.


It seems to me that we are entitled to a definite answer from the minister as to whether this $15,000,000 is or is not an asset of the Dominion of Canada. I cannot see that there is any force in the contention that the amount itself is subject to arbitration. The $15,000,000 is money

that the people of Canada gave to the Grand Trunk Railway Company as a loan. If that is the case they owe it to the Dominion of Canada. If it is true we do not expect to receive that money back we ought to know it. I do not see how the amount itself can be subject to arbitration. It is Either $15,000,000 or it is nothing, and it seems to me that this liability of the Grand Trunk to the Government is just as much a liability as any other item they may owe to anybody else. I would like to know whether,' in the opinion of the Government, or whether, as a matter of fact, this is a real asset of the Dominion of Canada owed by the Grand Trunk Railway Company,


I do not think much can be added to what my hon. friend the Minister of Railways has already said about it. The facts are that it was an advance made fifty or sixty years ago, iperhaps more, which was not intended to be repaid at the time.


My hon. friend says
that it was not intended to be repaid. There ought to be a record of that. I do not contend against the hon. gentleman's argument, but I say that we ought to have the record of it. We ought to have what the bargain actually was from the document itself and not what somebody thinks it was.


Quite so, and the Minister of Railways will bring down whatever record there may be.


It was before Confederation.


Quite so. Whatever the record is it will be placed before the House. As I understand no interest was to be paid upon the loan until the company had really paid a dividend on the common stock. No dividend has ever been paid on the common stock, and therefore no interest has ever been Charged on this $15,000,000. But it has been carried in the books of the Government as an obligation of the Grand Trunk Railway Company to the Government. The Government has never written it off its books, but it has never demanded payment. In preparing the statement for the information of the House, the officials of the department brought this item into the account showing it in that way. The actual document relating to it, whatever it may be, my hon. friend will bring down.


Yes, I will bring it down.


Will the minister say
whether, in his opinion, the amount is arbitrable?


I have not seen the document, and I therefore would not care to express an opinion offhand. It is arbitrable in this sense, that the arbitrators, in endeavouring to arrive at the
4 p.m. amount of the assets and liabilities, must consider all these items. If the arbitrators consider that this i? a real liability of the company then this stock is more worthless than if it were not a liability of the company.


By whom was this item of $15,000,000 brought into this statement? Is it a recognition by the Grand Trunk of a liability?


No, it is brought in by the Government. I am not aware that there is any dispute between the Grand Trunk and the Government as to the conditions under which that loan was originally made, or as to the conditions upon which interest is payable upon it.


Might I call the attention of the minister to another point bearing on the question of the arbitration? Considerable interest has been expressed1-not entirely on this side of the House-regarding the possibility of the outcome of this arbitration, especially in regard to the enhanced advancement of values in the London market. I am not sure whether it was the Minister of Railways or the Minister of the Interior, hut I think one of them assented to the view that this arbitration should be in that respect limited, that there should be a date fixed and that in so far as-gust how far it would be proper to go is another point1-market values may have any proper bearing on the result of the arbitration, these market values should be taken as of a date substantially before the introduction of this measure. I understood that the Minister of Railways, or the Minister of the Interior-I will not say " promised1 ''-but gave us to understand that such a provision would be made. I would like to call the minister's attention to it because if there is to be such a limitation it ought to go into this Bill.


My hon. friend the Minister of the Interior, in his remarks a day or two ago, made reference to this very matter, and stated that a date would be fixed on which the value of these stocks would be based. I think some hon. member suggested as the date August 31, which would preclude the possibility of any speculative value being given to the stock. The Minister of the Interior assured ihe House that

that would be protected in some way and I also gave an assurance last night.


Does my hon. friend propose to deal with it in the Bill?


No, I had not any intention of dealing with it in the Bill but I will give the assurance that it will be protected in some way.


On this subject of the date, when the letters in connection with the negotiations were introduced here the other night, I brought the matter up with the Minister of the Interior and not knowing that the negotiations had gone away hack for over a year, and believing that these were new negotiations, I stated that perhaps the last day of August, 1919, would be a suitable date. I said that believing that we were on new negotiations altogether but since then, from speeches and information gathered from the other side, it turns out that these were continuous negotiations from the 24th January, 1918. The negotiations were first opened by the Prime Minister's cablegram on the 24th January, 1918. I went back on my date of the 31st August when it was disclosed that the negotiations had been going on since January. My contention is that the date to be fixed with regard to the value of the stock should be the 23rd January, 1918, the day before the Prime Minister's cable was sent to the old country.


I would not like to agree to any particular date at the present time, and I think that my hon. friend, when I mention the facts to him, will agree with me. Due to the fact that the Government were entering into negotiations with the company I believe that the stock was much higher in January, 1918, than it was in August, because the hon. member, reading in the press, would see that there was quite an issue taken in London as to the amount the Government were offering. The stocks, in August, in my opinion, were about as low as they ever were and therefore I think it is well to let the question of the date remain until we come to take up the agreement and decide the thing. I have said that we will protect the situation if there is a possible chance of the stock being inflated on account of the decision of the Government to take over the road.


Will the agreement he before the House?


No, the agreement will not be before the House. After the Bill goes through it will take some time to pre-

pare the agreement. There will be a great many details which will have to be placed in the agreement, which will have to be gone into and which could not be embodied in the Bill before the House.


I agree with my hon. friend from Cape Breton North and Victoria (Mr. McKenzie) that a date ought to be fixed or some assurance given to the House that a date will be fixed so as to enable the House to be satisfied that more shall not be paid for the stock than should he paid.


I regarded that
point as of such essential importance that I took the earliest opportunity on my return from Winnipeg a few days ago to ascertain from governmental sources whether this alleged inflation would affect the arbitration, and I was assured from sources that were satisfactory to me that it was the Government's intention to see. that this inflation would have no bearing whatever on the amount that the arbitrators might award. Hon. gentlemen will remember that when I addressed the House on Wednesday I mentioned that matter. I did not like to give the source of my information, because I did not want to betray any confidence. But inasmuch as it has been stated on behalf of the Government that it is the intention to take that precaution, it is my judgment that it would be well, if possible, to have the date fixed in the Bill, and I therefore agree with the suggestion of the hon. member for Edmonton East (Mr. Mackie). The (people are exceedingly suspicious and anxious about this matter.


They have a right to be.


I do not agree with my hon. friend that they have any right to be. But there is such a feeling of doubt about everything-even about my hon. friend-that I think it would be well to fix the date now. While I am on my feet, I would like to ask with regard to the $90,000,000 obligation of the Grand Trunk to the Government under the Grand Trunk Pacific contract. I was also given an assurance that that would be taken care of in the arbitration. Consequently, feeling that these two important points were to be provided for in the interests of the public, I had no difficulty in endorsing the proposal to purchase the Grand Trunk.


It is a very simple matter to discover the market quotations of this stock. Why not get them for the last three or four years, and see if there

has been any great inflation or not? If there has been, then let us take the lower figure.


When the arbitrators are establishing the value of the stock, neither my hon. friend (Sir Sana Hughes) nor I will be present to discuss the manner in which they are to proceed; but if we now fix a date on which the value of the stock ought to be considered, we are convincing the public that we are protecting them.


That would be my
idea too. I think the lowest market quotation should be selected in arriving at the value of the stock.


It must be understood that the stocks we are talking about are the three preference stocks and the common stock, which are the subject of arbitration. To my mind the more serious question is in regard to the guaranteed stock, and as to that 1 am afraid we have no protection.


I would like to
make a suggestion to my hon. friend (Mr. Fielding) that, inasmuch as he raised the issue on the debate, he state what in his opinion should be the date to be adopted in arriving at the value of this stock.


I would not like to answer that question definitely. I am prepared to accept the assurances of the ministers that they will select a date; but I would like to see them select the date and put it in the Bill. I am inclined to study the Stock Exchange reports before I attempt to answer my hon. friend's question, and I am not anxious to be over-critical. On the question of the guaranteed stock, it is well to remember that what we are talking about does not touch that stock, which has advanced to 45 and, I believe, will reach 90 before the business is concluded. But that is another story, and perhaps it is not in order to debate it at this stage.


The hon. member (Mr. Fielding) has stated the situation correctly. The Government will see, as it properly should, that in this agreement the holders of the stock which is being arbitrated do not receive any higher value because of any appreciation of their stock due to the arrangement made between the Government and the company to take it over. It would be most improper that they should receive any enhancement in value under the circumstances, and whatever is the best form to guard against that will be provided for in the agrement, as the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Meighen) stated when this point was first brought up.


But my hon. friend will admit that that will not apply to the guaranteed stock.


If it is the Government's intention to do as the minister advises us, what is the objection to stating that intention in the Bill in a form which will help establish confidence throughout the country in the Government's intention.


I should not think anything would be necessary to establish confidence in the Government's intention with reference to the matter. But there is this feature to be considered: First, without an examination of the stock exchange returns, it is not at all clear what would be the best date to take; secondly, if we are negotiating an agreement, it is a proper matter for conference with the other matters to the agreement. However, the Government has given assurance that a date will be fixed which will safeguard this particular matter.


I would like to interject a suggestion here. I think we are on rather dangerous ground if in this Bill we fix a stated date at which this stock shall be valued, such a date being based apparently from the discussion upon a study of the market price of the stock. If we do that we are indicating to the arbitrators that this Parliament recognizes the market value of that stock at a given date. My . opinion is, viewing this balance sheet somewhat carefully, that we would be exceedingly unwise to guarantee to pay to the Grand Trunk shareholders the value of their stock as represented on the market. What we want to do is to so arrange tins arbitration that the arbitrators will ascertain the intrinsic, not the market, value of the stock, as represented by the surplus of assets over liabilities. Therefore, Mr Chairman, I do suggest very earnestly to the House that we should not fix a date which has any bearing whatsoever upon the market value of that stock, for we are by that very act recognizing the market value as against the intrinsic value.


My hon. friend's suggestion would involve ascertaining the physical value of the property, would it not?

_ Mr- STEVENS: My hon. friend is quite rig'ht, and we have two methods of doing that. Probably I have no right to speak with any authority, and I am now merely giving my own opinion. We have the Dray-ton-Acworth report, and that commission engaged the most expert engineers available to examine and report on the railways of this country. If that report is not satisfactory, it is open to the arbitrators, or to either party to the arbitration, to demand a new physical valuation. But the point I am making is that we would certainly be treading on very dangerous ground to introduce into this Bill the element of market value as a basis rather than the element of intrinsic value.


I think there is some force in the point raised by the hon. member for Vancouver (Mr. Stevens). I certainly did not contemplate that we should recognize the market value as a vital element in the matter. The words which I used were, " that if the arbitrators admit the market value as an element for consideration, such market value should be as of an earlier date." There is considerable force in what my hon. friend says. I know that in the case of the Canadian Northern arbitration, in my individual judgment the putting a limit on the value was a mistake, because it was an invitation to the arbitrators to go to that amount. But I think in this case we might provide that if in the judgment of the arbitrators market value enters into the question at all, it must be such market value as at an earlier date.


We cannot examine
the market quotations from year to year, or from month to month, and select some date when the stocks of this company are very low. That would be illogical and improper, and would not be sustained for one moment. But we can very well say to any person holding this stock: You have no right to profit by any inflation or advancement of the stock which took place because of the fact the Government decided to buy. I think it would be quite fair to draw the line at the day v.'hen it first became officially known that the Government of Canada contemplated the purchase of this property and of the material that was giving value to this stock. If January 24, 1918, was the day when that official announcement was made, then the holders of this stock should be entitled only to the value of the stock as it stood not later than

January 23, 1918. Of course, if there were earlier negotiations which might have influenced the value of the stock, the Government are aware of them. But if there was no earlier public announcement, I would fix the day as I have suggested, and I would say: "You cannot come this side of that line, because it is quite probable that any inflation of this stock is the result of our decision to purchase."


I think my hon. friend will see, if he reflects a moment, that the date which he suggests would not be a wise one to select and that it would be much wiser to leave the matter open so that the Government can take care of the situation in the agreement. I intimated the other evening that in my view the market value of the stock, viz: what it happened to be selling .for at any particular day on the exchange, should not influence the arbitrators in fixing value. I gave my reasons then for that view, and I shall not repeat them. But since January, 1918, some very important events have taken place in the history of the Grand Trunk and the Grand Trunk Pacific which would, I think, have a much greater effect upon the stock than the initiation of negotiations on the part of the Government. One of these events was the confession of the Grand Trunk of its inability to continue the operation of the Grand Trunk Pacific. Then there was the further fact that when it confessed its inability to operate the Grand Trunk Pacific the Government had to appoint a receiver. There is also the fact that the Grand Trunk has since found itself unable to continue operation without receiving certain other assistance. All these matters have . quite an important bearing upon the value of the stock, and we would not be wise to fix a date as far back as my hon. friend has mentioned, because the stock is really of less value because of these events than it was on January 24, 1918. I agree with my hon. friend1-and the Minister of the Interior made it clear the other evening that this would be provided for in the agreement-that if the question, of the quoted market, value of the stock is a factor in the situation, then there should, be no enhancement of the amount of the award by reason of any enhancement of the value of the stock due to the fact that the Government had entered into this agreement.


I want to interject a little statement here; some one has started a story in connection with this matter which I want to dispose of now. The story has

been circulated throughout the country that on account of this road being taken over by the Government no taxes will be paid by it to municipalities throughout the Dominion. I want to correct tha't statement. There is nothing in this Bill which permits the Government to depart from the position which the Grand Trunk has always been in with regard to this matter. Whatever taxes they paid in the past, or were liable to pay to any municipality or otherwise, they will be subjected to when this Bill passes. As I am getting telegrams from many parts of the country with regard to this story, I think it is well that I should make this correction now.


If it is Government property, will it be liable to taxation? I am not'arguing whether or not it should be ; I am simply putting the question.


The position I take is this: It is still a private company, but the Government owns the stock. It is not the same as if the title of the property was in the Government. But it is not the intention of this Bill to make the Grand Trunk free from taxation as was the case with the Intercolonial. In the case of the Intercolonial, a deed in fee simple is passed to the Crown for every part of the right of way. In this case we have the stock and the road is to be operated as a private company; so that the conditions will be the same so far as any requirements of the municipalities are concerned.


Is not the Intercolonial, by reason of our recent legislation, to-day the property of the Canadian National Railway Company?


Only so far as operation is. concerned,


They are'not the owners?


No, they are not the owners. In the case of the Canadian Northern, of course, there is power to issue debentures, and the position might be different, but so far as the Intercolonial is concerned the management was simply ^transferred to the Canadian National Railway Company and there is no right on the part of that company to, issue' bonds or mortgages in respect of that part of the Government railway system-not, at all events, without the consent of Parliament. Of course, that is true of the other end of it; the Board of Management would not on any account issue bonds without the consent of the Governor in Council.


Does not what the minister has just said bear out exactly the contention I made yesterday, namely, that when the Government talks about this proposal involving the government ownership of railways they are misleading the House and the country? The minister has just stated that it is not government ownership; therefore these properties will remain liable to taxation.


So far as the Grand
Trunk or the Canadian 'Northern are concerned, when we buy the; stock we are the owners of the road.


Then if it is Government
property and therefore exempt from taxation, why do you allow the municipalities to impose taxes upon it?


As I understand it, Government property in fee simple, owned and registered in the name of the Crown, is, under the British North America Act, free from taxation. In this case the title to the property is registered in the name of the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada, a private corporation of which we own the stock.


KING: A private corporation.


And owning the stock, we own the company. We own the property of the company, and, therefore, we must be the sole owners of the company.


If it is the case as the hon. minister explains it, what would be wrong in having a clause inserted in the Bill so that there would be no possible question about this road being subject to taxation? Some other minister in some future year might interpret the Act in an entirely different manner. If it is set out now and clearly established by a clause in the Bill that the road is subject to taxation, the municipalities would be satisfied that what the minister says is absolutely true.


I do not like to load the Bill up with anything that is unnecessary, and if any other minister comes into this House at any future time, or if the Government of the day at any future time should change its mind and decide that it is going to collect taxes from every municipality in the Dominion of Canada, because these roads run through almost every municipality, and to depart from a system that has been in existence since the Grand Trunk was built and that has been continued by the Government-


The minister is reversing the matter. It is not because the Grand Trunk collects taxes.


-then I say the minister of that day must assume the responsibility and have the support of the members of this House to justify him in departing from the system and allowing the railway companies to stop paying taxes.


Surely it is not a contention of the minister that the Government is going to tax the municipalities for the privilege of having the railways pass through them. I think he has reversed the argument.


What I meant to say was to allow the municipalities to collect taxes.


Are the positions identical in regard to the Intercolonial and this railway as it will exist after this measure has gone through? In the case of th.e Intercolonial at the present time, does the Government pay any dividends on stock to any stockholders?


There was no stock issued.


I know. The Government owned the railway from the outset. That is the difference. That is government ownership. This is not government ownership; this is private ownership, with the Government taking over certain of the stock, giving other stock in return and paying dividends on the latter.


There is no use in myself and the hon. member arguing this. I would suggest to him that When he has time he should get the other members on his side into some room and endeavour to convince them that they are wrong. Every other hon. member apposite is arguing that this is complete government ownership, and I am not endeavouring to change their opinion; but the leader of the Opposition is arguing directly against every other hon. member on that side of the House.


That is not the point.


I think there is a distinction which perhaps has not been kept clearly enough in mind by the minister in his remarks, that is the distinction between government ownership and government operation. I am prepared to say that the measure which the Government is putting through at the present time is a measure in the nature of effecting government

operation of railways. It