Thait the name of Mr. Heidi (Mackenzie) he added to the select standing committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph lines and struck off that on Privileges and Elections; and that the name of Mr. Wright he added to the select and standing committee on Agriculture and Colonization and struck off that on Standing Orders.
He said: I understand this matter has been made the subject of arrangement.


It is only by unanimous consent that this motion may be put.


Motion agreed to.
On motion for the third reading of Bill No. 8 to amend the Irrigation Act.
On the motion for the third reading 1 desire to ask that the word "lake." be inserted after the word "watercourses " in sub-clause 2 of section 1. I believe this can be done on the third reading if there is no objection on the part of the House. If there is any objection, I will move the House back into committee.


That amendment can
only be made by unanimous consent; otherwise, in the ordinary course, the practice would be to move the Bill back into committee.


There can be no objection to the amendment.


Amendment agreed to, and Bill read the third time.
Bill No. 5 to authorize a further extension of time for the completion of the St. John and Quebec railway between Gagetown and Westfield-Hon. Mr. Reid-read the second time, considered in committee-Mr. Boivin in the Chair-and reported.
The House in committee on the following proposed resolution:
Resolved', That it is expedient to provide that the sum of two hundred thousand dollars per annum be appropriated and paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for ten consecutive years from the first day of April, nineteen hundred and nineteen, to aid actual construction work for the protection, safety and' convenience of the public in respect of highway crossings of railways at nail level, in existence on the first day of Aipril, nineteen hundred and nine.-Hon. Mr. Reid-(Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
This simply extends for a
period of ten years the provision in the Railway Act which expires on April 1 next. There is no change whatever except as to the extension of time. The Act was passed ten years ago and expires in April. It is necessary to pass a Bill founded upon this resolution in order that the Board of Railway Commissioners may continue paying the Dominion Government's proportion on any crossing that they may decide it should pay.


Can the minister give us any information as to the number of crossings towards the elimination of which aid has been granted?


No, I have not that information. We will have this question up again when we have the Railway Act before the House. In the Consolidated Railway Act, which we shall have before the House in a short time, it is proposed to amend the present Act by increasing the Government's contribution to twenty-five per cent of the cost of the actual construction work, but it shall not exceed in any such case the sum of $15,000, and no such money shall be applied in any one year to more than six crossings on any one railway in any one municipality, or more than once in any one year to any one crossing. If the Consolidated Railway Act were in existence it would not be necessary to pass the present Bill, but as it may take some time to enact, we deem it well to bring down the present Bill.


Is there a fixed policy which the Board of Railway Commissioners follows, as beween the railways, the municipalities, and the Government?


The Board of Railway
Commissioners determines what proportion of the cost should be paid by the municipalities, the railway companies, and the Dominion Government respectively.


Is there a fixed policy that governs throughout the country, in the country districts as well as in the cities, with respect to this matter? What is the policy of the Government in connection with new roads that are constructed? Is the construction of such roads allowed to go on, regardless of the level crossing arrangement, subject to that being fixed up afterwards, or is there a definite policy that governs before construction is undertaken?


I could not say what the policy of the Railway Commission is. It is left entirely to the Board to decide in each particular case. I do not think the Board has any general policy that a certain percentage shall be paid on every crossing, whether it is in a rural district or in a city; each case is considered on its merits. If the matter is brought to the attention of the Board prior to the road being built, it, of course, has power to take action.


Does it rest with the Board of Railway Commissioners alone to determine where and when the crossings shall be constructed?


No, the charter granted
by Parliament entitles the company to run through any part of the country unless appeal is made to the Board of Railway Commissioners prior to construction having been commenced. If the road has been constructed the Board can take action.


My hon. friend did not catch the nature of my question. I inquired whether it rested with the Board of Railway Commissioners alone to determine Where and when railway crossing such as are mentioned in the motion are to be constructed.	.


I cannot answer my hon. friend explicitly, because I am not fully aware of the powers of the Board of Railway Commissioners.


The date mentioned in the resolution is first of April, 1909. Should that not be the first of April, 1919?


Might I suggest that the hon. members who are on their feet should speak louder, and that those hon. gentlemen who are seated should either converse less audibly or not at all?


The resolution provides
' the present Act expires, and this Bill is to continue its provisions for another ten years. I think the date should be 1919.


What amount has been paid by the Government under this Act?


I will answer that question when we are in Committee on the Bill. If hon. gentlemen .desire any information their questions will appear in Hansard and the information will be on hand when we go into Committee on the Bill. When the House is considering the '.Bill in Committee I will have an official from the Railway Commission here to afford all the information hon. gentlemen desire.


The law at present as I understand only applies to railways already in existence, and the new legislation will enable assistance to be given to new railways.


It is not proposed to deal
with anything more than continue the law as it stands at present, until the Consolidated Railway Act comes into effect, which, of course, will nullify this legislation. If the present Bill is not passed, and the Consolidated Railway Act is delayed for some time, or even if it should not pass the House this session, we shall be powerless to continue this subsidizing of railway crossings.


If these provisions are taken from the original Act I have no objection to offer, but I should think the language might be made clearer.


The minister says that
the date should be 1919. Is it intended to cover the railways that were built previous to 1909? I think he will find that the Railway Board has power now to deal with crossings constructed since that date.


The hon. member from
Russell drew my attention to the last date in the resolution which appears as 1909. This refers to all level highway crossings in existence ten years ago. I see no reason why the date should not be changed to 1919, thus making the resolution applicable to all highway crossings in existence at the present time.


The Minister had better look the matter up before he makes the change.


We can amend it, if
necessary, when the Bill is in Committee.


Is this to apply only to railways incorporated under federal charter?


Yes.


If the Government determines upon the nationalization of Canadian railways, we shall have only two great railway systems, the Canadian Government Railways and the Canadian Pacific Railway. I do not see why we should now determine for a period of ten years the policy of the 'Canadian Government in the matter of aid in the construction of highway crossings, particularly in view of the fact that our railway policy is not yet finally decided. The Canadian Pacific Railway can construct without assistance such crossings as are required by the regulations of the Board of Railway Commissioners. I suggest, in view of all the circumstances, that this proposed legislation be not extended over a longer period than one year, or two years at the outside.


My hon. friend suggests that under a policy of the nationalization of railways there will be only two great railway systems in Canada, the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Canadian National Railways; that the Government would in any case pay for crossings constructed on its own lines, and that we should not assist the Canadian Pacific Railway Company in the construction of highway crossings required under the regulations of the Railway Commission. The Canadian National Railways are now practically all under the direction of the Board of Railway Commissioners, and whatever should be done for the Canadian National Railways should also be done for every road that is under the jurisdiction of the Railway Commission. Otherwise, you do an injustice to the Canadian Pacific or to any other privately-owned road which is subject to the regulations of the Railway Commission. No partiality should be shown to the Government roads; all should be treated on the same basis.


I agree that all these lines
should be on the same footing, but I would do away entirely with the granting of aid in the constructing of highway crossings. So far as the Canadian Government Railway system is concerned, it does not matter much whether or not we aid the construction of highway crossings, because if we do so we simply transfer money from one department to Another. I repeat that the Canadian Pacific Railway Company are financially strong enough to look after the building of highway crossings on their own lines without assistance. They come under the jurisdiction of the Board of Railway Commissioners; let that board decide what

share the Canadian Pacific Railway Company should contribute and what share the various municipalities interested should contribute towards the construction of highway crossings. In view of the fact that our railway policy is not finally settled, it might be advisable to aid the construction of highway crossings for a year or two, but I fail to see how we can justify the laying down of a policy of this kind and providing that it shall be carried out for a period of ten years. The period of the proposed aid should be limited to two years at the very extreme.


Is this proposed legislation to have an obligatory and mandatory effect regarding all the crossings that were in existence prior to 1909? I hope it will have that effect, because the matter particularly concerns large centres, which suffer probably quite as much as any other part of the country in this respect. It is in the interests of the Dominion at large that these level crossings be done away with. If an appropriation will assist in bringing this about, it is certainly very desirable that the appropriation should be made. I should like to know clearly from the minister how generally this is going to be applied to low level crossings.


When a complaint is
made to the Board of Railway Commissioners, they can, if they so desire, order the change to be made. They have power to order that any crossing which they consider dangerous shall come under this measure and be removed.
The point raised by the hon. member opposite! Mr. Vien) as to doing away with this payment altogether is one that may be considered by this House. But the Act which was passed in 1909 was passed for this reason: There are crossings which are considered dangerous; in fact, I have in mind crossings at which people have been killed, and the Act of 1909 was passed for the purpose of assisting in removing all those dangerous crossings. The aid was given in the public interest to save life, and so as not to put the whole cost, which is sometimes very heavy, on municipalities which could not afford to pay the full amount for which they might be assessed. In the same way, it was felt that it would be a great hardship on the railways to make them pay their full share. Therefore, it was decided at that time that the Government should give aid to the extent of 20 per cent of the cost. The hon. member wishes us to do away with the payment of
this 20 per cent and to put the Board of Railway Commissioners in this position, that if a complaint is made that a crossing is dangerous, the board shall have the power to order that a subway or whatever else is necessary to remove the dangerous crossing shall be constructed, and that the cost shall be assessed on the railway and the municipality concerned. There are cases where such a course would be a great hardship on other railways than the Canadian Pacific, and it would be a great hardship on some municipalities to construct a very large subway. As the railways are operated in the public interest, it was considered desirable that a small amount should be paid to assist in removing dangerous crossings. The amount, $200,000 a year, is not very large, and as the removal of dangerous crossings has saved many lives, I think the amount is worth the purpose for which it is appropriated.
As we now own one-half of the railways in Canada, this aid, in so far as the Canadian National railways are concerned, is only taking money out of one pocket and putting it into another. I feel that the Canadian National railways, being owned by the Dominion Government, should not be treated in a different manner from any other railway that has received a charter from the Government of Canada. The Canadian National railways should continue in the same position, so far as the Board of Railway Commissioners is concerned, as they did prior to the Government becoming the owner of them, and they should compete, just as though they were privately owned, with the other railways. Therefore, I feel that if this proposed appropriation is passed, it should be extended to the Canadian Pacific and the other railways just the same as before. It would be a bad thing if we were to cease rendering this assistance at the present time. We should continue rendering it in order to remove all these dangerous crossings as quickly as possible. If the members of this House feel that this proposed appropriation should be struck out, then we shall have to bring it up again in connection with the Railway Act which will be before the House and a subcommittee as soon as we can reach it.


As this is a very small amount to cover all the crossings in Canada, and as there will be many applications for assistance, what percentage is to be devoted for doing the work on a certain crossing? Is it to be ten, twenty-five, fifty or one hundred per cent, and is this

to apply to radial roads as well as to steam roads? In my constituency there are many dangerous level crossings which are run over at high speed by radial roads, and accidents have occurred there. I think the sum is entirely inadequate to cover the number of crossings demanding attention. What share of this proposed expenditure is- to be applied in each section of the country? I believe there are from fifty to a hundred or perhaps more accidents caused by level crossings in a year. I have known five or six people having been killed and many injured in one accident in my district. This is a serious matter and we want to encourage the minister in every possible way in dealing with it.
Mr. REiID:	The only railways that
come under this measure are those under the jurisdiction of the Board of Railway Commissioners.


Would that cover radials?


Only those that have a
Dominion charter and are under the Board of Railway Commissioners. The manner in which the money is distributed is this: It does not matter from what part of Canada an application is made to the board to remove a dangerous crossing. If a complaint is made to the board by any individual or corporation or municipality, in regard to a dangerous crossing, the board investigates, makes a report, and, if it so decides, passes an order compelling the railway company to remove the dangerous crossing by constructing a subway or otherwise, and assessing the proportions that the railway, the municipality and the Dominion Government shall pay under this measure.
So far, the appropriation of $200,000 has been a sufficient amount each year for the past ten years to cover any sums the Dominion Government has been called upon to pay, and that is the reason why I have continued that amount in this resolution. If in any year this amount should not prove sufficient, we would have to ask Parliament that the Act be amended increasing the amount.


I might suggest to the Minister of Railways and Canals-and I feel sure he will not consider it an impertinence, as he is not a lawyer-that he do not change the figures "09" in the last line of his resolution to " 19," because I think the resolution is correctly drawn. If the minister will refer to the statutes of 1909, section 7 of chapter 32, he will find that in that year the principle was intro-

duced in Canadian legislation of a certain amount, $200,000, I think, for five years being set aside to be administered for the purpose of assisting municipalities and railways in getting rid of dangerous level crossings. At the same time that section 7 was passed enunciating that principle, section G was also passed which amended the Railway Act and declared the principle to be that any railroads constructed after 1909 should, at their own expense, take such steps as might be necessary to protect the public.
That this House may be more fully conversant with the legislation, let me read the two sections of the Act, which was assented to on May 19, 1909. Section 6 reads:
The said Act is amended by inserting the following section immediately after section 238 thereof:-
23 8A. In any case where a railway is constructed after the passing of this Act, the company shall, ac its own cost and expense (unless and except as otherwise provided by agreement, approved of by the Board, between the company and a municipal or other corporation or person), provide, subject to the order of the Board, all protection, safety and convenience for the public in respect of any crossing of highway by the railway.
Section 7 reads:
The said Act is further amended by inserting the following section immediately after section 239 thereof:-
239A. The sum of two hundred thousand dole lars each year for five consecutive years from the first day of April, one thousand nine hundred and nine, shall be appropriated and set apart from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of aiding in the providing by actual construction work of protection, safety and convenience for the public in respect of highway crossings of the railway at rail level, in existence on the said first day of April.
If the minister should yield to the suggestion of the hon. member who sits on my right that the word "nine" should be changed to "nineteen," the effect of his resolution taken in conjunction with the legislation on the Statute Books might be that this country should assist in construction work, by way of subways or otherwise, in respect of all railway crossings in existence on the 1st day of April, 1919. Now that is not what this House wants to do at all, if I understand the purport of the minister's resolution. I take it that what the minister is endeavouring to do is to place at the disposal of the Railway Commissioners a specific sum of money that may be used for bettering conditions in respect of railway crossings that existed on the 1st day of April, 1919, but not to relieve the railway companies from responsibility in respect of crossings constructed since that date. But if he were to adopt the suggestion made by the speaker on my

xight the effect might be to relieve the railways of this country of all responsibility in respect of crossings constructed during the last ten years. I do not believe it is the intention of the resolution so to do.


The hon. member is right.
However, I have already said that the point will be considered when we get into Committee on the Bill.
Mr. NI'CKLE:	Leave it at 1909 for the
present.


Yes.


The minister has not answered the objection I made with reference to the ten-year period during which this appropriation is to be made. All he said was that an expenditure of $200,000 a year was a comparatively small amount, and we need not bother very much about it. I think the time has come when we should cease talking in millions. During the war an expenditure of $500,000,000 was a small amount, and hon. members on this side of the House never unduly obstructed votes of money required for carrying on war. The other day the Minister of Public Works told us that there would be a deficit in the coming year of something like a hundred million dollars, and he did not know how that deficit was to be made up. I think that the time has now come when we should consider a yearly expenditure of $200,000 as a matter of importance. If the House will only enter upon a policy of thrift, and cut down this item as a start, I am confident that the Estimates can be reduced very considerably. In 1911 when hon. gentlemen opposite were talking of the extravagance of the Laurier Administration, they characterized an expenditure of something like $125,000,000 a year as wholesale extravagance. This Government now presents Estimates for $437,000,000, and the Supplementaries are still to come, and the Minister of Railways tells us this afternoon that an expenditure of $200,000 is not worth discussing. That does not harmonize very well with the statement made by the Minister of Public Works the other day, to the effect that he did not know where the $100,000,000 was to be raised to make both ends meet. The minister has said that the Canadian Government Railway system should be on the same footing and run in the same way as a private-owned railway corporation. But that does not answer the objection that I made, that the Canadian Government Railway system and the Canadian
Pacific Railway system are both in such a strong financial position as to be able to carry out without any difficulty any orders the Railway Commissioners might make with regard to railway crossings. In so far as the municipalities are concerned, I think it would be much more equitable to have the full amount paid by the railways. The railways make their own financial arrangements, and in addition receive assistance from the Government, and I do not see why a railway which is seeking the privilege of crossing a certain portion of this country should not be compelled, by law, to build the road in such a way that it will not be a public danger. If the responsibility for making the crossings safe rests upon any one, surely it rests upon the railway companies, and I think they should be called upon by the Railway Commissioners to make such changes as are required to make the crossings safe. The minister has failed to explain why this blanket authorization should be given for a period of ten years.
Resolution reported, read a first and second time and agreed to.
Mr. Reid thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 29, to amend the Railway Act, (aid for railway crossings.)
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first time.


On motion of Hon. J. D. Reid (Minister of Railways and Canals) the House went into Committee on the following resolution, Mt. Boivin in the Chair:
Resolved, That it is expedient to amend the Act to provide compensation where employees of His Majesty are killed or suffer injuries while performing their duties, chapter fifteen of the statutes of 1918, and to provide that no employee of the Canadian Government Railways who is an employee within the meaning of the Intercolonial and Prince Edward Island Railway Employees' Provident Fund Act and becomes permanently disabled from following his usual occupation in the service as a result of injuries received while on duty and actually at work in the service shall be entitled to receive compensation, under the provisions of the Act hereby proposed to be amended, for such injuries unless he elects to accept prior or subsequent to the injuries such compensation in lieu of the allowance payable under the provisions of the Provident Fund Act, section twelve, Class D, and gives notice in writing of such election both to the management of the Railways and to the Provident Fund Board: Provided, however, that the dependents of any such employee who has been or is killed subsequently to the passing of the Act hereby pro-
posed to be amended and who has not elected to accept compensation under the said Act as aforesaid, shall nevertheless be entitled to compensation under the said Act as though such employee had so elected; and further that any compensation or costs awarded under the said Act be paid by the Minister of Finance out of any unappropriated moneys in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada, or the Minister of Finance may from time to time take such amount of money as may be authorized by the Governor in Council from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and deposit such money with the Board, officers, authority or court authorized by the law of any province to determine compensation cases, from which deposit such Board, officers, authority or court may pay any compensation and costs awarded under, the provisions of the said Act; and in any province where the general administration expenses of maintaining such Board, officers or other authority or court are paid by the province or by contributions from employers, or by both, the Minister of Finance may pay out of any unappropriated money in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada such portion of such expenses as is fair and reasonable and is authorized by the Governor in Council.-The Minister of Railways and Canals.
I think it is necessary to mate a ,few explanations. Last session I presented to Parliament a Bill, which was passed, entitled, " an Act to provide Compensation where employees of His Majesty are killed or suffer injuries while performing their duty," in order to bring the Canadian Government Railway employees under the Compensation Acts of the several provinces throughout Canada. It applied to all Government employees, but it was passed at -the request of the employees of the Government Railways. I consulted with the representatives of the Provident Fund of the Intercolonial Railway employees, and before the Bill passed, a representative of the employees pronounced the opinion that it protected those who were receiving benefits under the Provident Fund Act. I stated in the House at the time that if the Act did not work out satisfactorily to those who were receiving benefits under the Provident Fund, we would amend it. Sub-section 4, of section 1, of the Bill passed last year does not work out in practice. The employees do not elect before injury, and therefore cannot claim under the Compensation Acts, nor can their dependents. The object of the present amendment is to enable a man to elect after injury, when, of course, he will take the more favourable of the two funds, either the Provident Fund or the Compensation Act. It places the employee, if he has been injured, in the position of choosing that one which is more beneficial to him. If an employee is killed and has not elected prior to the accident, then his
TMr. .T. T>. Reid.]
dependents cannot apply under the Compensation Act. The present amendment is intended to cover these points. In order to be able to assure the House that the employees of the Government Railways were perfectly satisfied with the amendment, I requested the solicitor of the railway to have them sign their approval to it. If the House desires to know the names of the heads of ten different organi-
4 p.m. zations who have signed the document, I can furnish them. I have their signatures to show that they are perfectly satisfied. I repeat what I said last year, that if we find that the amendment proves unsatisfactory, we shall have to come back to Parliament and seek another amendment.


The
resolution as it stands now, I think, is acceptable to the employees. It seems to have changed its form since it was first put on the Order Paper.


I do not think so.


I think so. It strikes me that the Provident Fund should be eliminated from all consideration in this connection. The Provident Fund was organized for the purpose of paying old age pensions. It had been found on the Intercolonial that when men had. got up in years they were almost useless to the road and it was difficult to turn them off without doing something for them. A Bill was introduced in 1907 for the purpose of retiring men who had become unable to carry out their duties on the road. That was the main purpose of the Provident Fund. The fund itself is made up from contributions by the employees amounting to one and one half per cent of their monthly wages and a similar amount paid by the Government. This money is funded and from it the old age pensions are paid. These are ridiculously small. I do not see how old employees can live on $20 a month. The question of dealing with this Provident Fund, I think, should engage the attention of the minister. This is a good opportunity because while the Provident Fund makes provision for paying a monthly allowance to the man who is totally disabled, that was not the original intention of it. As the minister is making provision now to deal with all cases of accident, through a Compensation Board, there is no reason why the old age pension system should be mixed up with accidents at all. It strikes me that the proper course

would be to devote the Provident Fund altogether to giving pensions to retired employees of the road. Provision, in this resolution, and in the Bill that will be introduced, is made for all kinds of accidents, so that there is no necessity for a man who is injured in an accident having anything to do with the Provident Fund.
There is another fund called the Relief Fund which is also made up by contributions from the wages of the men and by a small allowance from the department. In case a man is injured by a slight accident, he gets the small sum of about $3 a week while he is kept out of work as the result of that injury. The minister has not told us what he intends to do with that fund. It strikes me that it is unnecessary that that should be carried on at all if we are going to vote the railways under the compensation boards of the various provinces. I am not familiar with the compensation boards of the other provinces but we have in Nova Scotia a very well equipped, and active, compensation board. All the industries in the province, divided up into twenty classes or more, contribute to the fund. All the accidents that happen throughout the province are provided for out of that fund.
'The minister has power under this resolution to pay to the funds of the various provinces a certain amount, but he has not told the House whether he intends to do so or not. Are we to understand that the Government railway will submit itself to the jurisdiction of the local boards in the various provinces and that, according to the mileage of the road in any particular province, a certain number of dollars will be paid into the fund? Is it proposed, whether there is an accident or not, that money will be paid into the fund and kept there to provide for any accidents that may occur? Is that the plan that the minister has in his mind, or does he propose simply to pay such allowances as are made from time to time by the board?
This is a matter that created a great deal of interest in the province of Nova Scotia when the Bill was introduced last year and the legislature of that province passed a resolution in regard to it at the last session approving of the proposal to bring the Government railways under the board but insisting at the same time that they should submit to the jurisdiction of the board and pay in to the fund like any other industry. Is that what the minister intends to do?


The Dominion Government subscribes a certain amount per annum towards carrying out the purpose of the Provident f und. What I said to some of the employees in connection with the Provident Fund was this: When the Government were operating the Intercolonial alone, there were certain funds, such as the Provident and Relief Funds, and they could be dealt with by the Government and the employees because there was only the one road. Now, the Government has taken over other roads including the Canadian Northern. On each of these roads they have similar relief organizations or pension systems. My own feeling is that we should let matters rest until we get the whole railway situation straightened out. Then I believe we should have a Dominion compensation system that would apply to the whole of the Government railways, and to all railways if possible, but at all events, to all Government railway systems, so that if any employee was injured in Nova Scotia, he would get the same compensation as an employee would get if he were injured in British Columbia or any other province. It should be uniform from one end of the Dominion to the other. I do not see bow we can carry out that system by having different organizations on the Government railway system. I believe that those who are operating the railway system for the Government will have to take up and consider as soon as possible some policy which will be universal and which will apply throughout the whole system. The Provident Fund on the Intercolonial railway may be more advantageous than a similar organization on the Canadian Northern system, or vice versa. I do not think it will be in the interest of the railway to have one organization at one end different from another organization at the other end. My own feeling is that we should let matters go on in so far as these different organizations are concerned until we get the -railway organizations all working together harmoniously and then try and see if we cannot devise some -scheme whereby an employee in Vancouver will get the s-ame treatment, and the same relief, as an employee in Halifax or in any other p-art of the country.


Is it
proposed to eliminate the feature of accidents from the Provident Fund altogether and apply the fund to old age pensions?


I am not changing the policy *that has been in existence for some time, and I would not feel justified in changing this law at present. Possibly, before the session ends, there could be a change made

that would apply to the whole system. In the meantime I think matters should continue as they are.


There is a definition of what constitutes an employee of the Intercolonial and Prince Edward Island Railways. Does that include all the employees on those railways?


It includes all those that are members of, or subscribers to, the Provident Fund-only those that would receive any benefits under that Fund, and they must subscribe and pay their contribution to the Fund.
iMr. J. H. SINCLAIR: Then this Act does not apply to any employee who is not a member of the Provident Fund?


It does not. The hon.
gentleman asked whether the Government intends depositing a certain amount with the Central Compensation Board to meet a portion of the working expenses. What the Government now does or rather the provision which has been made in the other Act, is, to pay whatever amount of compensation, or award, the Board may decide upon with respect to an employee. We felt that it was not necessary to deposit any money with the Compensation Board, and I think the Board is not pressing that demand. It was brought to my attention, however, by some of the different compensation boards that there was no provision in the Act whereby we could pay a portion of the cost of operation of the compensation board, and I felt that it was only fair and just that the Canadian National Railways should pay their proper share of whatever charge would be involved under the operation of the provincial Act in a particular province. Therefore I added this last clause in the amendment, which reads:
Arad im any province where the general administration expenses of maintaining such hoard, officers, or authority or court, are paid by the province, or by oontributionis, from em-ployersv or by both, the Minister of Finance may pay out of any unappropriated money in the consolidated revenue fund of Canada such portion of such expenses as is fair and reasonable and is authorized by the Governor in Council.
That covers the point that the different compensation boards are interested in. The boards. now receive their share as if they were a private corporation, and when an award is made the Department of Finance will pay it out of the consolidated revenue fund.
[Mr J. D. Reid.]


As regards the employees who are permanently disabled as a result of an accident, I think the proposed law is sound, and I do not agree with my hon. friend from Guysborough (Mr. Sinclair) that we should not take into consideration the Provident Fund at all. That fund applies to two cases-an employee who retires on account of old age, and an employee who retires on account of permanent disability. It would not be fair that the same employee should get a life pension under the Provident Fund, and also a life pension under the Compensation Act. With respect to employees who are killed as a result of an accident, I congratulate the minister upon the change he is now making. We told him last year that the position of the dependents of such employees would not be improved as a result of the Act then passed. Of course, the dependents of an employee who was killed in a railway accident could not have any right to the benefits of the Provident Fund at all. The Provident Fund provides a 'pension for a disabled employee, or an aged employee, but nothing for the dependants of an employee who is killed. It was absurd, therefore, to require that such employee should waive his right to something that he was not entitled to. His dependents could not-be granted anything from the Provident Fund, and surely we could not require that the employee should waive his rights. Yet that is what we did last year. As a result of that Act, I had in my practice the cases of two men named Senechal and Freve, who were both killed in a railway accident. The Railway Department refused to pay compensation on account of the clause in last session's Act, which was absurd. I am glad that the resolution as it reads' will have a retroactive effect in the case of the dependents of those men, and that they will now be entitled to pensions.


Is the minister making the provision retroactive?


Yes.


Retroactive as far as last year's Act is concerned?


It is retroactive as regards
last year's Act. The hon. member (Mir. Lapointe brought the point to my attention, and I saw the injustice of it. It is because of the hon. member's action in that regard that I am now making the provision retroactive so that its effect will be as though it had been enacted last year.


We are all satisfied it that is the case-


There is another feature of the Act of last year to which I desire to call attention. Last year a clause was added stating that Orders in Council would be passed defining the service that should be made on the Crown, that is against which party the writ should be issued, whether against the commissioners of the Canadian National Railways, the Minister of Justice, or the Crown. I wrote to the Department of Justice a few months ago, and they told me that no such Order in Council had been passed. I would like the minister to take the point into consideration before the Bill is passed, so that we may know exactly the method of procedure.


I will do so.


Is it intended this year to bring in a resolution to increase the superannuation? That amount was fixed about ten years ago at $20 a month. It might have been possible at that time for a man to exist in some way on that amount, but it is really out of the question to-day. I think some provision should be made for an increase of the amount, and I would be glad if the minister would take the matter up in connection with any changes which he may be here contemplating.


I might say to the hon.
gentleman that the employees themselves contribute a certain amount towards this fund; it is not entirely furnished by the Government. We subscribe a certain amount, I think $100,000 per annum, and the employees themselves make up the balance of the fund. Therefore we could not increase the allowance of those who have already been superannuated, or who may be superannuated in the future, without the consent of those employees who are interested. That is one of my reasons for considering that we should have some new arrangement applicable to the whole Government Railway system. When that is taken up and gone into, some arrangement might be made with regard to the position of old employees. We do not control this fund; it is the employees who decide how much shall be paid to those who are retired. The Government have only one member on that Board, and it could not increase the pensions to employees without taking the matter up with the whole Board.


If a petition were sent to the Government and the Government decided to adopt its suggestions, an Act would have to be passed along these lines, would it not?


No, the Provident Fund Board regulate the amount of the pensions. All we do is subscribe to that regulation.


I placed on the Order Paper the other day a question with regard to this very matter. Is it the intention of the minister to press this new board to deal with this question? The employees who come under this fund want an increase of pension; those who contribute to the fund are ready to increase their monthly contribution to the fund provided they are eligible for a higher pension. Is the minister going to do anything for these employees?


The matter is referred
to the management of the Canadian National Railways in order to obtain a uniform policy throughout. I suggested that an effort be made to have one organization for the whole Canadian Government railway system, which would include the Provident Fund relief organization on the Intercolonial and the Canadian Northern. I do not think it would be well to have one end of the system under a different organization. The only reason there can be for delay in the matter is that which is found in the whole railway situation, and that cannot be taken up and dealt with as the hon. member knows, for some little time.


I think the minister is on the right track in this matter. I have had considerable correspondence from employees of the Canadian Government railways'on the subject. Some days ago I had an interview with the solicitor fop the Department of Railways and I drew his attention to a number of matters brought to my attention by railway employees. I think that the minister has adopted in the resolution some remedy for the grievances that have arisen and that have been placed before the departmental solicitor and himself. But I am not sure that this resolution goes quite far enough. I have before me a letter from a member of the Compensation Board of New Brunswick drawing my attention to a number of matters of interest in connection with this resolution. I assume that the different Compensation Acts passed by the provincial legislatures are not all alike. In our province a certain fund is placed in the hands of the Com-



pensation Board by the contributing employers and when an employee is injured and reports have been submitted in due course by the employer, the employee, and the attending physician, the Compensation Board begin at once . to pay weekly compensation to the injured person. These payments continue until evidence is adduced before the Compensation Board and a decision rendered. As soon as the man is reported as having been restored to health, the whole amount of compensation is paid over directly by the board. Now, under this proposed plan it is necessary that a certain' amount be placed in the hands of the Compensation Board by the railway company or by the Government to enable it to make payments by way of compensation to railway employees along the lines that I have stated. There is a provision in the resolution in regard to that, but it says that the Minister of Finance "may" do so and so. I think it should go further and say that the Finance Minister must see to it that in each province where the Compensation Act provides for the weekly payment of compensation as soon as the report is laid before the Board, funds should be provided to enable the Compensation Board to pay that weekly indemnity. Railway employees should be placed in as good a position as employees of any other kind.


Under this resolution we have power to do that. The object of the resolution is to make everything work satisfactorily and harmoniously in co-operation with the Compensation Boards in the several provinces. We are taking power to pay them their share of the cost of the operation of the board, and we can easily deposit from time to time small amounts to facilitate the carrying out of the work of the Compensation Board. We have been working very harmoniously with the board ; of course, we had to act in accordance with the legislation passed last year. If this resolution is passed and a Bill founded upon it adopted, I feel sure that there will be no trouble or difficulty either with the Board or in connection with any employee that may be injured or killed.


As I said at the outset, 1 feel that the minister is on the right track and is endeavouring to meet fairly all the points brought up by the Compensation Board. But while we are doing this, let us see. that everything is absolutely understandable by the Compensation Boards and by tire men to whom this legislation is intended to apply

Under the resolution before the committee, if the intention of the minister is to see to it that the funds are placed in the hands of the Compensation Board; that will be very satisfactory to the different associations representing the employees of the Intercolonial railway.
In answer to a question put by the hon. member for Antigonish and Guysborough (Mr. Sinclair) as to whether a man employed on the Canadian National Railways must be a member of the Provident Fund before he can come under this Act, I understood the minister to say that he must be a member of the Provident Fund and contribute to the fund before he can come under the provisions of the Compensation Act.


Any employee of the Canadian Government Railways, say of the Intercolonial railway, who is not a member of the Provident Fund, comes, in any case, under the Compensation Act. But if he is a member of the Provident Fund, he must, of course, elect under which he will come.


That is not the way in which I understood the minister to answer my hon. friend.


Perhaps I did not understand the hon. member.


An employee comes under
this Act whether he is a member of the Provident Fund or not?


Every employee of the Intercolonial railway comes under the Compensation Act whether he is a member of the Provident Fund or not.


Then this resolution and the Bill to be founded thereon would cover the case about which I wrote the minister a few days ago. I refer to Mr. Edward Gould who was killed at Aulac station on the Canadian Government Railways.


Yes.
Mr. McKENZIlE:	I wish to add my
approval of the suggestion made that something should be done for those old men who retired from the road some years ago. The compensation that they receive now of $20 a month is entirely inadequate. In fact, I know of several cases in which there is a great deal of hardship. The minister has stated that this is a general scheme by which all these matters may be dealt with, but there is great darner that those men may be dead before their case is considered. I would urge, with other hon. gentlemen who have spoken on this point, that this matter

should be dealt with as soon as possible, and that relief should be brought to those men who are getting such small salaries, who could not have foreseen that the cost of living was to be so high as it is now, and who, if they had thought there wmuld be no decrease in the cost of living, would have made some further provision for their eld age. I hope the minister will realize that there are a number of cases of hardship suffered by those poor men who have given their days of usefulness and activity to the road and who are not now7 able to work. They should be provided for in any case by the institution to which they have given the best part of their lives. It is too bad that a man who has given good service for twenty years or more to the Government, and who, under this scheme, has retired, should find himself in want and unable to supplement his means by any other kind of employment.


Does my
lion, friend support a general superannuation scheme for Government employees to which they should contribute; or is this somewhat along the lines of a provident scheme?


I would be in favour
of anything suggested by the minister for those who are now able to contribute towards a fund of that kind. But what I am particularly directing my remarks to is the case of men who gave their days, during which they were able to work, to the service of the railway, and who were making, as they thought, sufficient provision for their old age, but who found that as the cost of living has risen in this country, that provision is not anything like sufficient for themselves and their families. Under such circumstances, this country whose, employees they were, should not see them in want, and some steps should be taken to better their conditions.


I hope the minister will t