Rt. Hon. C. J. DOHERTY (Minister of Justice) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 184 to revive and amend the Naturalization Act, 1914.
Explain.


The House will remember that in connection with the Franchise Act considerable discussion arose with regard to the effect of certain provisions of the Naturalization Act' of 1919-provisions which excluded the naturalizing of persons of former enemy alien nationality for a period of ten years following the war. The discussion proceeded upon the understanding-shared in, I think I am safe in saying, all round-that the British legislation of 1918 had so operated as to make it necessary, if we were to preserve a uniformity between our legislation and the British naturalization legislation, that we should adopt this provision making it impossible to naturalize for the period of ten years the class of aliens which I have mentioned. In connection with that discussion I ventured to express a very strong hope that it would be found possible to come to such an understanding as would cause to disappear the supposed necessity of our adopting that absolutely prohibitive legislation for the purpose of maintaining uniformity in the naturalization legislation. I think that in many quarters the thought was entertained, -and, indeed, was expressed-that I was over,sanguine in that regard; that I entertained an excess of hopefulness which some hon. gentlemen were disposed to pardon me for by reason of my youth. I am glad to say that I was not over-sanguine; that it is possible for us to so modify the provisions referred to as to remove the impossibility during the period of time in question of naturalizing the class mentioned, without causing our legislation not to be uniform with that of the United Kingdom upon the subject of Imperial naturalization. One of

the purposes of this Bill is not to abolish entirely the provision but to make it possible to grant certificates of naturalization to persons of proved loyalty who before the passage of the Act had resided in Canada for a period of ten years. The misunderstanding with regard to the effect of the British naturalization disappeared upon careful examination [DOT] of the legislation. J may say that the basis of the hopefulness I expressed was my conviction that there must be a misunderstanding either on the other side or on this side. We were all under the impression that the misunderstanding had occurred over there, and that consequently their legislation produced the effect which I have mentioned. As I have said, however, a more careful examination of their legislation makes it clear that we have to admit that the misunderstanding was on the part of the draftsmen upon this side who framed the legislation under the belief that this clause was an essential part of what I may describe as the Imperial Naturalization Act. That view, which I am now expressing, is concurred in by the British authorities, and, in fact, a careful examination of the statute makes it clear that that is correct. The British Parliament, in making the particular enactment to which I have referred, was careful, inasmuch as there was no consultation with the Dominions on the subject, to make it, not as an enactment to form part of the Imperial Naturalization Act of 1914, but as a substantial enactment in the United Kingdom. That has left us our liberty in the matter. I felt strongly convinced that there was some misunderstanding, inasmuch as with regard to maintaining the uniformity of Imperial naturalization legislation, the matter is not at all one of the British Parliament passing legislation and then we being in a position where we must pass it, but the matter is one of previous consultation as to what legislation the respective Governments will be willing to introduce,, and in this latter legislation the British Government was careful to exclude, as forming part of the Act of 1914, any amendment, with regard to which there had not been previous consultation. It is well just to mention that, because it is a misapprehension to suppose, as some hon. gentlemen seem to think, that this was a matter of legislation imposed upon us by the Act of the British Parliament. The Act of 1914 itself was an Act passed in virtue of an agreement and was ' actually passed by this Parliament beford it was passed by the British Parliament.
, I should add that, for the purpose of clearness, it has been thought desirable that we should remodel the form of the Act as it was passed last year. Last year the Act of 1914 was entirely repealed and reenacted with certain modifications, among them being the particular one that I have mentioned. It seems to us desirable that we should keep clear by themselves the provisions of the Act of 1914 and any amendments that may be made to it, that is the Act the uniformity of which we must maintain, and deal separately, as the British Parliament did, with other provisions not forming part of it. For that purpose this present Bill repeals the Act of 1919, revives the Act of 1914, inserting in it those amendments which properly form part of it and are necessary for maintaining uniformity between our Act of 1914 and the British Act of 1914, and then enacting such provisions as form no part of it as substantial provisions standing by themselves, and among which is the provision that I have just mentioned which will make it possible, not to do away with the ten-year requirements generally, but, in meritorious cases, for persons of former alien enemy nationality who have already resided ten years in this country, to be naturalized before the expiry of the ten-year period from the termination of the war as provided in the Act of 1919.
. Mr. EULEE: I should like to know whether in the new Bill which the minister is introducing, he includes a provision for the personal naturalization of women as well as men. I think that would be desirable.


That is a matter which was dealt with in the original Act of 1914, the Act that was then decided upon. If we should depart from the agreement then reached which was embodied in both the British and our legislation upon that subject, we would then be making in the provisions of the original Act a distinction which would differentiate our legislation, and just as the British -Government and parliament did not think it proper to modify that Act without consultation with the other Dominions, if we modify it without their concurrence we would be 'departing from 'uniformity. Therefore, there is not contained, in the present Bill a provision for a separate and distinct naturalization on the part of married women, of whom I understand the hon. member is speaking.


Motion agreed to, and. Bill read the first time.
(Question® answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Has the Honourable the Minister of Trade and Commerce received the following resolution passed at the annual meeting of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association, Vancouver, B.C., June 9, 1920 :-
Whereas, the Franco-Canadian Customs Tariff Convention will terminate about June 19, 1920, and
Whereas, it is highly desirable that the friendly trade relations between France and Canada should be improved by a new Customs Convention whereby direct shipping may be promoted and French markets opened which, owing to the high general Customs duties of France would otherwise remain closed against numerous Canadian products, both agricultural and manufacturing, and on the other hand desirable markets may be opened in Canada for various French products not made or produced in Canada,
Therefore be it resolved, that the Canadian Manufacturers' Association in annual meeting assembled in Vancouver on June 9,	1920,
earnestly petition the Dominion Government to negotiate a new Franco-Canadian Customs Tariff Convention, as soon as conditions become opportune.
2.	What action does the honourable minister intend to take in the matter?
Rt, Hon. Sir GEORGE FOSTER:
1.	The resolution referred to has been received.
2.	I have already intimated to the House that the Canadian Government had signified to the French Government its willingness to enter into negotiations for another commercial arrangement at an opportune time.


On the motion of Sir George Foster (Minister of Trade and Commerce) it was ordered that to-morrow the House do go into committee to consider a resolution to amend the Canada Grain Act, chapter 27 of the statute® of 1912.
If the Prime Minister
can give us a definite assurance that the whole legislative programme of the Government has been brought down and that we need expect nothing further, hon. gentlemen on this side of the House will be glad to do anything to help bring the work of the session to a speedy termination.


There is a Bill, entirely non-controversial, I think, for the purpose of extending the powers now enjoyed by the boards of trade throughout the country. The Government also have under consideration the question of continuing the present authority for wheat control. Outside of that, I do not recall any other legislation that is in contemplation, but I shall consult my colleagues.


Pensions?


I except, of
course, matters that are already before the House. We shall have to deal with the report of any Committee of the House. I thought my hon. friend's question alluded to measures to be brought down by the Government upon its own initiative.


Can my right hon. friend inform us when we may expect the balance of the Supplementary Estimates?


The Minister
of Finance has been very busily engaged all morning, and is still engaged on the same matter. Therefore, he is not in his seat at the moment. As soon as he comes I shall mention to him the inquiry my hon. friend has made, which is a very reasonable one, and I shall ash him to acquaint my hon. friend and the House generally as to the date when we may expect the further Supplementary Estimates. Speaking for myself, we shall use the utmost possible expedition in bringing them down. Some of the ministers have been very much engaged with matters of public business apart from the business of the House, and unfortunately the result has been that the Supplementary Estimates have not been brought down at as early a date as we had hoped, or indeed at as early a date as they should have been brought down.


Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day:
Rt, Hon. Sir ROBERT BORDEN (Prime Minister): I beg to lay on the table of the House an Order in Council accepting the resignation of Mr. W. F. O'Connor as a Commissioner of the Board of Commerce ot Canada, to take effect on the 30th day of June, 1920. In his letter of resignation Mr. O'Connor states that he is about to engage in other activities in the practice of his profession, and that he will be pleased to have his resignation take effect at any time when it seems most advisable, but that he would suggest the postponing of its acceptance until the 30th day of June in order that some pending matters might in the meantime be disposed of.
Might I say further as to what will be done with the Board of Commerce in the immediate future, that I expect to have a conference to-day, if possible, with Mr. Murdock. He is -the only Commissioner remaining since the resignation of Judge Robson and that which has just been accomplished by the Order in Council now laid on the table of the House.
I should also mention to the House this important consideration. By the judgment of the Supreme Court of Canada, which has been made public in the press, the validity of the Act has been left open to serious doubt. Three judges of the Court have expressed the opinion that it is constitutional, and three judges have expressed precisely the contrary opinion. Under these circumstances it seems most desirable that the question of law involved should be set at rest. Therefore, the Minister of Justice has been requested to prepare and proceed with an appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in order that the power of this Parliament in the premises may be precisely determined. There is some hope that the application for special leave, which will be necessary, may be made at the siftings of the Judicial Committee which will commence some time next month, as I understand. It is also hoped that upon the argument of that motion the question of constitutionality might in effect be determined. If that should prove to be the case, the doubt which now rests upon the validity Of the Act will be removed one way or the other, and the Government will be in a better position than at present to determine its policy as to the future in this regard.
May I ask the Prime Minister if all the constitutional questions involved will be submitted to the Judicial Committee. There were two points, I understand, before the Supreme Court. Is there to be an appeal as to both?


We shall seek by the appeal to
obtain the opinion of the Privy Council upon all constitutional questions which arise. It is not exactly a judgment that we are faced wilth, but a stated case upon which different opinions have been given. We shall seek to get opinion upon any constitutional question that arises.


While this
question of constitutionality is being determined, will Mr. Murdock continue to act as commissioner?


I thought I had explained to my hon. friend in speaking of this matter at first, Ithat I proposed to have a conference to-day with Mr. Murdock at which the question propounded by my hon. friend will be considered. Later on, before the end of the session, I hope, I may be able to make some announcement to the House with regard to that.


On the Orders of the Day:
I beg to lay on the Table a return to an Order of the House dated March 19, 1920, showing a copy of the correspondence between the Prime Minister of Canada and Ithe Prime Minister of Great Britain under authority of a resolution of the Imperial War Cabinet of July 30, 1918, the order in question having been made upon the motion of the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's (Mr. Fielding).


On the Orders of the Day:
My hon. friend the member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Lemieux) desires to move the adjournment of the House to-day for the purpose of discussing a question which he has mentioned to me.

It seems that there is some question under the rules as to his right Ito take that course, but as the matter is one upon which it is desirable to have a public statement made, I shall move the House into Committee of Supply in order that my hon. friend may have the opportunity which he otherwise would not have. I therefore beg to move that Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to go into Committee of Supply.


There are two difficulties in conection with the motion. In the first place the motion for the House to go into Committee .of Supply can under the rules, only be made by unanimous consent this being Thursday. The difficulty with respect to bringing this matter up on a motion to adjourn the House is not that it is not a matter that comes properly within the sphere of rule 39. I think it does, but the question before the Chair is this-


Will you kindly read my motion, Sir.


The motion which the
hon. member desires to move is:
-the adjournment ot the House for the purpose of discussing a matter or urgent public importance, namely, the impending coal shortage threatening to dislocate certain industries and to cause serious hardship in the homes of the Canadian people.
There is a well established rule that the same subject cannot be debated twice in the same session, and I find that on March 10, 1920, the hon. member for Peterborough (Mr. Burnham) moved a resolution reading in part as follows:
And Whereas the fuel question has become an acute one in many parts of the country it is desirable, etc., etc.
The subject there was specifically discussed and dealt with by the House. Furthermore, with regard to Bill No. 153 respecting the Director of Coal Operations, although the subject was perhaps not properly germane to the discussion on the second reading, the Chair purposely allowed the debate to be broadened in order that the Government's intention might be brought before the House in regard to the possible fuel shortage. The sole question, therefore, is on the point of the subject having been debated at a time prior to this motion.


It was agreed by the resolution that a day should be appointed to take up the matters.


Under the rules of the House, there could not be such an agreement as the motion is a contradiction in terms; because the very fact that the House had already discussed the subject would preclude its being discussed again at this session. However, I think that the situation might be met, in view of the urgency of the matter, if the House gave its unanimous consent that the hon. member should proceed as he desires. It is, of course, my duty to see that the rules of the House are observed.


I do not wish to take up the time of the House, Mr. Speaker, and I will not question your ruling. I bow to your decision, Sir, and will accept the offer of my right hon. friend. Besides, I wish to state at once that I do not intend to delay the proceedings of the House as I am just as anxious as any one else to see the approach of prorogation. I shall simply call the attention of the Government to a very menacing feature of the . coal situation, I promise that I will not be long.


As both motions require unanimous consent we might as well take the motion to a'djourn the House.


Mr. Lemieux seconded by Mr. McKenzie, moves the adjournment of the House under Rule 39 "for the purpose of discussing a matter of urgent public importance, namely, the impending coal shortage threatening to dislocate certain industries and to cause serious hardship in the homes of the Canadian people.''
As I have indicated, this motion can only be entertained by unanimous consent. Is it the pleasure of the House that the hon. member have leave to make the motion?


Yes.
The House gave unanimous consent.


I appreciate the unanimous consent given by the House and will forthwith reciprocate by informing my fellow members that I will not exceed ten minutes. All I desire to know is what is the policy of the Government in this matter. T am glad to find that both the right hon. gentleman (Sir Robert Borden) and your honour admit that the situation is most acute, and that in Central Canada, in the great provinces of Ontario and Quebec, we are threatened with a dislocation of some of our most import-

ant industries. And although we are at present passing through a wave of heat we must think of what will happen next winter if we have no coal in our homes. This morning I was speaking with one or two coal dealers in the city of Ottawa and they informed me that the situation was undoubtedly very critical. They said that the price of coal to-day was between $15 and $16 per ton and they could not guarantee that next week it would not be $17. There is no coal, and it is only right that the attention of the Government should be directed to this very serious situation. It is a most urgent matter that affects the great industrial centres of Ontario and Quebec. The other day, whilst we were discussing the appointment of a Coal Director in the West -and I must say that on that question I did not totally agree with the stand taken by my friends on this side of the 'House, because I believe that sometimes it is perhaps better to ignore certain time-honoured principles in order to prevent people from freezing-some statements were made on that occasion to which I shall briefly refer. My hon. friend from Simcoe (Mr. 'Currie), for instance, stated that in the city of Toronto the gas company had a supply of coal for two weeks only; and my hon. friend from Peterborough (Mr. Burnham) also made a statement to the effect that the situation in Ontario was certainly most acute. I stated that the gas company in Montreal was in the same predicament as the gas company in Toronto.


Same in Ottawa.


The situation is one that affects the consumers of gas in the city of Montreal and all large centres. If hon. members will refer to the Montreal Gazette of Tuesday, June 15, they will find that the Montreal Light, Heat and Power Company is before the Public Utilities Commission at the present time with a view to increase its rate; and evidence as given by the managers and the engineers cuf the company, supported by the fuel agent of the Canadian Pacific Railway, is reported in that paper. I quote the following:
The reason for this state of affairs Mr. Norris explained was found in additional burdens laid upon the company in their bills for wages and material, principally coal and oil, and in other disadvantages arising from the difficulty of securing coal to meet requirements.
Further on it says:
Owing to difficulty in getting orders filled the quantity of coal brought in since the opening of navigation was less than one half wrhat it had
been in past years. All these things, he said, were a handicap on the operations of the company.
The article states further:
Mr. Thomas Britt, general fuel agent of the C.P.R., was also called by Mr. Montgomery. He said that he was a buyer of coal for the Canadian Pacific railway and at the present time had orders to buy between three and four million tons of bituminous coal, and was lucky to be able to get as much as a single carload a day. In fact, in the Pittsburg district whole-trainloads were corraled by order of the railroads and some of the railroads, such as the Baltimore and Ohio, stated to the mine operators. "No cars, no coal. If you get cars, you must give us coal."
The representative of the Ottawa Gas Company, Mir. Dion, made .similar statements. Now, Mr. Speaker, if we have not the available quantity of coal for the gas companies of Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal, and if we cannot advantageously secure a coal supply from the western and eastern mines, where .shall we in Central Canada get our coal from? I am informed on the best authority, and my hon. friend the Minister oif Interior (Mir. Meighen) knows this statement to be perfectly true, that some of the western coal mines of Canada to-day are shipping their coal to the western States and England is getting shipments of coal from Nova Scotia. In other words Canada-to use what has long been regarded as merely a literary expression-is sending coal to Newcastle.


Free imports.


England, France and Holland and other European countries have large orders with the coal mines of the East to the detriment of Central Canada. I will not give the figures to the House, but I could show that the production of coal today has fallen short in all parts oif the world, especially in England. We all know the cause of this shortage-.as we know why in France and Canada and in the United States there is a shortage. Mr. Speaker, we depend entirely in Central Canada on Pennsylvania coal and we hardly can get it to-day.
I have alluded to the difficulties of the gas companies of Montreal, Ottawa 'and Toronto. The price of gas Hvill go up; or it may not go up alt all because if we have no coal there hvill be ino gas. Many of the large industries are threatened wd'th absolute dislocation. I hear ithait certain companies in Ottawa may not operate in a week's time if they do not get their coal Supply. But even in the United States the gas com-



panies are doing exactly what .the gas companies of Montreal, Toronto and Ottawa are doing and yet they are in the very country where coal can be had under ordinary circumstances cheaply and conveniently. 1 hold in imy band a copy of Chemical .and Metallurgical and Engineering, a, very high class review, and I read in it under date of the 9th June:
The emergency committee and members of the American Gas Association met Wednesday, May 26, in the Hotel Pennsylvania to consider ways and means to combat the shortage of basic raw material used in the manufacture of gas. With the great scarcity of coal, coke and gas oil the situation looks discouraging for the consumers as well as the manufacturers. Some of the plants

In the United States
-have barely enough for present operations and all are wondering whether or not they will be able to operate during the coming winter.
Philip H. Gadsden, chairman of the emergency committee,-
Note that in the United States they have, o:n this very vital question, already appointed emergency committees-
-said that the most important question was "how to keep the plants functioning to the- consumer". With supplies of coal .practically exhausted and supply of gas oil entirely inadequate for the purpose for which it is used, due largely to the increased demands for gasoline and kerosene, a most serious and critical situation confronts the gas manufacturers.
They have appointed this emergency committee to take the proper means to combat this shortage. I have said that I would not sipeak more than ten minutes. I simply rise this afternoon.-and I am in. earnest in doing so-to ask the Government what, under the circumstances, is their policy. What is the remedy that the Government proposes in order to prevent a panic in Canada next fall? Some people say that you should use the ships now, that you have the merchant marine. We .should look after our own people first. Why should not these .ships be utilized in transporting coal from Nova Scotia to Montreal and to Quebec making off 'these two ports the distributing centres for central Canada? On the other hand would it not 'be possible to adopt some special temporary rates on the railway *systems in order to facilitate and cheapen the transportation off coal from Western Canada? I do. mot know whether that is feasible, but ait all events we have the right to expect that the Government realizes the seriousness off the situation and the danger which if portends. I hope the fight horn, gentleman will be able to give 'the House

and the country full information on the subject. I have not exceeded my ten minutes.
Rt, Hon. Sir ROBERT BORBEN (Prime Minister): Mr. Speaker, let me, in the first place inform my hon. friend (Mr. Lemieux) that several weeks ago the conditions to which he ha.s referred were taken into consideration by the Government and I think everything that is practicable has been done up to the present time. Representations were made to -us by several hon. members on this side of the House and we had representations from other sources. About four weeks ago a sub-committee of Council was .appointed consisting of my hon. friend the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Reid) and my hon. friend the Minister of Labour (Mr. Ro'bfcrtson) who have been actively engaged ever since in examining the situation and taking such measures as seemed to them practicable for the purpose of alleviating .unfortunate conditions. On the very day after their appointment they summoned representatives of all the railways off Canada, they summoned representatives off some of the important industries, and they endeavoured to obtain full and accurate information in regard to the situation. Shortly thereafter they succeeded, by negotiation with the Board of Railway Commissioners for Canada, in .securing the services of Mr. Spencer, the chief traffic officer of that board, a very highly experienced and 'capable man, He has spent a good deal of his time since in the United .States examining the situation there and endeavouring to expedite the movement of coal to this country 'as far an possible and he has kept us fully informed from time to time 'as to the actual eondtions. In addition to that we have had Mr. Mahoney the remaining .representative of the old War Trade 'Board who has his residence in Washington (and who discharges his duties there. We have had him very actively engaged in doing What he could to assist the situation, *always in teo-operation with Mr. Spencer and with the ministers to whom I have *alluded. I should add in that .regard that Mr. Mahoney acted under Mr. Magrath while Mr. Magrath was fuel controller and he has a very thorough and comprehensive acquaintance with conditions in the United States in so far as -they apply to the coal situation.
Let us .consider for a moment just. What the situation is. My hon. friend speaks of the desirability o.f having ships put on the route between Sydney and other Cape

Breton, ports and Montreal. That was dtone several weeks ago and I believe that three of the Government steamers have been engaged in the work of transportation since then. We are confronted with the difficulty that there is an enormous demand for bunkering ships plyihg to and fro across the Atlantic; and hon. gentlemen, I hope, will realize that it would he a seriouB thing for us, without the gravest consideration, * to undertake any action which would prevent these 'ships from getting coal. I shall come to 'the exportation of coal from this country to the United States a little later.
The House will hear in mind, I hope, that during the past two or three weeks the difficulty has been one of transportation rather than of coal supply, as I understand it. The .switchmen's strike and other strikes of a like character in the United States have greatly interfered with the forwarding of coal which was destined for this country. For that and many other reasons it W'as that Mr. Spencer, a very able and experienced traffic man, was selected ;to co-operate with the ministers Who had charge of this matter. The situation at present, I believe, is this: During the month of June, and possibly the	last week 'in M'ay,	coal Wasnot moved very rapidly by reason of	the	transportation	difficulties,
but I am informed by the Minister of Labour an t by the Minister of Railways that within the past week the conditions have very greatly improved, and that coal is coming forward in normal quantities at the present time.
When one comes to look at the situation as it was up to. the 31st of May, including the period to which I have just alluded, it is not so alarming as the remarks of my hon. friend would indicate. From January 1 to May 31, 1919, the importation of anthracite coal was 1,589,965 tons. In the corresponding period this year, that is to say, from January 1 to May 31, 1920, the importation of anthracite coal was 1,695,950 tons or an increase of 106,000 tons. With respect to bituminous coal the importation during the first four months of 1919, that is to say, from January 1 to May 31 of that year, was 3,441,676 tons. During the corresponding period of this year, that is to say, for the four months up to the 31st May, 1920, the importation of bituminous coal was 3,498,902 tons, or an excess of nearly 60,000 tons over th*e corresponding period in 1919. The total importations during the year 1919 were as follows:
234i
Anthracite coal	 2,486,141 tons
Bituminous coal	6,005,245	"
So the hon. gentleman will see that during the period to which I have alluded in 1920 the proportion of coal' that .we succeeded in bringing in was a very respectable proportion indeed.
I 'believe there were produced in Canada last year 16,934,561 tons of coal, the production 'by provinces being as follows:
Tons.
Nova Scotia	 5,790,196
New Brunswick	 166,377
Saskatchewan	 3179,347
Alberta	 4,9o'0',310
British Columbia	 5,648,331
We were somewhat alarmed-somewhat disturbed at least-by reports that 'came to us as to the enormous amount of coal that had been exported in the early part of this year to European countries, and very strong representations were made to the effect that our own industries would suffer very greatly if this were permitted to continue. Throughout my observations I am taking the statements that have been furnished me by the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Railways, who, I understand, made the necessary investigation to verify these figures. From these statements I find that to the 1st of June, 1920, there have been exported from Nova Scotia during the present year 158,000 tons. I believe that went to European countries. From Alberta and British Columbia there is ordinarily an exportation of about 2,600 tons of coal per day to the United States; but if the hon. gentleman suggests we should stop that exportation he must hear in mind that it will be difficult for a considerable portion of that coal to obtain another available market. More .than that, he must remember that in Eastern Canada we are dependent on the United States as our source of supply for anthracite coal and for a very considerable proportion of our supply of bituminous coal. In this connection I desire to bear tribute to the fine spirit of friendly and neighbourly co-operation which has been manifested toward the people of this country by the Government and the officials of the United States during the past two or three years when matters were somewhat urgent with us so far as coal supplies were concerned. Therefore we must remember that when the United States of America gives that very friendly and just consideration to us we must be inspired by the same spirit of sympathy and good-will to them in respect to that

supply of our western coal which goes to their country.
3 p.m. Some hon. MEMBERS: Hear, hear.


My hon. friend has touched upon some very interesting questions as to the source from which we shall obtain our future coal supply. I think it will ibe necessary for this Government-or any government in this country -in the future to look that question pretty squarely in the face. It is highly probable that demands upon the coal reserves of the United States in the future increasing as their population increases and as their industries still more greatly develop, may make it necessary for the people of that country to look to the future and to consider to what extent they must conserve their supply. In doing that I am absolutely confident that they would give every reasonable consideration within their power to the necessities of this country. But we have enormous supplies of coal in Canada and the difficulty-the sole difficulty-is the question of transportation over the enormous area of the Dominion. That is the whole difficulty. We have great coal supplies on the Atlantic seaboard in the East, enormous supplies on the Pacific seaboard in the West, and in the province of Alberta; but for about three thousand miles between no supplies of native coal are available except those which must be brought from this great distance. Consequently, it will be for the Government to consider what can be done in making these supplies more effectually available to the people of this oountry. We have almost inexhaustible supplies of coal in Canada. I think my hon. friend, the Minister of the Interior, in an address which he delivered before the Royal Geographical Society about two or three years ago, made the statement that Canada probably 'contains1-if you estimate all kinds of coal including lignite-about 80 per cent of the total coal resources of the British Empire. The question, as I have said, is one of transportation, 'but connected also with that is the question of utilizing the lower grades1 of coal tby some process of manufacture .so that they can be transported without detriment and will be more useful to the people when they come to be consumed. That question has been under investigation by the Research Commission, and I believe that some results have been obtained which will be regarded as very fair, when they come to be announced at a later date. I hope, therefore, that we need not be unduly apprehensive with regard to the situa-

tion to which my hon. friend has very properly called attention. In view of what I have said with regard to the action which the Government has taken and as to the betterment'of conditions which has taken place during the past week, I trust the House will feel that the situation, for the present at least, is fairly well in hand.
Motion withdrawn.


Rt. Hon. Sir ROBERT BORDEN (Prime Minister) moved the second reading of Bill No. 182, to amend the Customs Act:
It is understood that if this Bill is read the second time it will be referred to a special committee?


I pledged myself to that yesterday. I shall make a motion to that effect.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the second time.
I now beg to
move, seconded by Sir George Foster:
That Bill No. 182 be referred for consideration and report to a special commitee consisting of the following: Sir Robert Borden, Mr. Burrell, Mr. Calder, Mr. Crerar, Sir Henry Drayton, Mr. Fielding. Mr. Green, Mr. King, Mr. Lapointe.


Motion agreed to.
Hon. ARTHUR MEIGHEN (Minister of the Interior) moved the third reading of Bill No. 153 (from the Senate) respecting the Director of Coal Operations. He said:
I had not expected, Mr. Speaker, that the Bill would come up quite so early in the day. But I should not let the third reading pass without making reference to a statement made by myself when the Bill was in committee. The question was asked me at that time whether or not there was anything of a legal nature in dispute as to the powers of the Goal Director under the Orders in Council. I made reply-I could quote it direct, but I think I remember the words with sufficient accuracy-that so far as I was aware there was no such dispute; that so far as I was aware none had been made known to the Minister of Labour (Hon. Mr. Robertson) and that there could not be anything substantial in dispute at the present time. That, of course, was true. I find, however, that there was a matter in litigation at the time-1 did not know of it when

I spoke; I was only informed of it later by the Minister of Labour. The question in dispute was this: It appears that under one of the orders issued by the Coal Director acquiesced in at the time and acquiesced in since, provision was made that the employees of the mine should be members of' the United Mine Workers of America and should subscribe as such-something to that effect. As a consequence, certain members of what is called the "O.B.U." were not able to continue their operations in the mine at that time,-I do not know how many, but a very limited number. They entered action before the police magistrate claiming that the company, the Canmore Coal Company, had violated the Industrial Disputes Act in declaring what they called a lockout, the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act prohibiting a lockout until application is made for a board of conciliation and that board has made its determination. They failed in their action. I believe that the defence was that there was nothing in the nature of a lockout and that in any event the orders of the Coal Director were being obeyed. That decision being given, the men who were concerned immediately went back to work and have been at work ever since-I believe they stayed out only a very few days. iSo that there is nothing of a substantial nature in dispute there,- merely the question whether the action taken was in the nature of a lockout. I assume that the amount of wages involved for that time is all that was lost in connection with it. However, the action taken was undoubtedly in pursuance of the order of the Coal Director, an order which was undoubtedly essential if that mine and many others were not to be locked up. The dispute, in essence,-indeed, in toto-which led to the making of the order was a dispute for control between the O.B.U. on the one hand and the United Mine Workers of America on the other. I cannot go into the details; they are not as familiar to me as they are to the Minister of Labour. But the dispute took the form of control of the	funds	that were
paid by the labourers month by month, it being contended-and I believe successfully contended-that those funds were being utilized by officers of the O. B. U. for purposes contrary to the constitution to which the men subscribed and for purposes neveT intended by the men themselves. On account of that condition of affairs the order made by the Coal Director was the only order in the world that had any possibility of success in bringing the men back and
getting something done and some product-sent out from the mines in question. It was a case of " get together on these lines or do not get together at all." As a consequence, with the acquiescence of both sides, this course was taken and has resulted in continued coal production since. There is nothing else in- dispute. This action was taken and was dismissed, as I have said. I do not know just when the action was taken,-some months ago. They entered an appeal against the decision of the magistrate, and that appeal is pending. So that while there is this question, it is certainly not of a substantial character, and to permit the whole foundation of the plan of conciliation that has worked so successfully all this time to be impugned on account of It, would, it appears to me, be wholly unjustified on the part of Parliament. I thought I should state to the House the information given me since the second reading and since the Bill was in committee. My information further is that there is nothing else whatever in dispute, -that is, between the parties and of a legal character.
Mr. Speaker, I should not like the third reading of this Bill to pass without once again stating my objections to the measure. In the first place, as I mentioned on the second reading of the Bill and in committee, it seems to me that Parliament is acting blindfolded in this matter. I repeat what I said before: that I do not believe a single member of the House has read the orders which are indicated in the schedule only by numbers, and to which we are being asked to give the effect of law. It is beneath the dignity of Parliament-indeed, it is bringing Parliament into contempt-to ask us to enact as law a code of regulations that we have not even perused. I hope I shall never see the day when as a member of this Parliament I shall be prepared to consent to any legislation without knowledge of the particulars to which it is proposed to give the force of legal enactment.
Another objection to this measure, and one that I think is very important-I spoke of it on the second reading of the Bill and I thought - some member of Ithe Government would deal with that aspect of the question-is the constitutionality of a measure of Ithis kind. This particular measure deals with matters of contract which come almost exclusively under the heading of property and civil rights. Under the Brit-

ish North America Act matters pertaining to property and civil rights come within the exclusive jurisdiction of the provinces; that- being the case, it would appear (that this Parliament has no jurisdiction in this time of peace, to pass a law which will in any way over-ride the legislative powers of the provinces. I wish to make this position very clear for the reason that I am informed that the Government of Alberta, which is one of the provinces concerned, are taking strong exception to this legislation. I have it on direct information from a member of the Government of Alberta that they have never been conferred with by the Federal Government in regard to this proposed enactment, and indeed the same, I believe, is true of the Government of British Columbia. I am informed that the Government of Alberta intend .to take exception to any over-riding of what they consider the rights of that province by the Federal Government. If we are anxious to further industrial peace and to help along the cause of law, order and good government in this country, we should be caTeful to avoid legislation which is certain to cause disputes between the provinces and the Dominion on a question of federal jurisdiction. Indeed, when we were discussing the eight-hour day in this House, the Hon. the Minister of Justice (Mr. Doherty) distinctly stated that he was of the opinion that this Parliament had no power to enact legislation dealing with the interpretation of contracts having to do with property and civil rights within the different provinces. The minister's words to that effect will he found in Hansard at page 472. if that be the opinion of the Minister of Justice of the Government, how can the Administration introduce and ask this Parliament to enact into law a measure which is directly in violation of Ithe opinion expressed by the hon. minister. Inasmuch as this measure and the method of its introduction overrides what is befitting the position of Parliament as a deliberative assembly, ignores Parliamentary procedure and . rights, and once enacted is certain to raise a question of jurisdiction between the provinces and the Federal Government, a question of jurisdiction which, according Ito the opinion of the Minister of Justice himself, will in all probability be decided against this Parliament, I wish once again to register a strong protest against the Bill being enacted into law.


Mr. Speaker,
in reply to what the hon. gentleman has urged, so far as I am aware, we have heard nothing of any protest from the Government of Alberta or the Government of -Saskatchewan. As it is something like a month or more since this Bill was introduced, one would be inclined to believe that if the Government of Saskatchewan or the Government of Alberta-


The
Government of British Columbia.


-or the Government of British Columbia, or any other Government desired to take exception to this Bill, they would send a -communication to this Government instead of whispering their protest into the ear of my hon. friend, if that is what they have done. Further than that, my hon friend, must know if he has considered the situation at all, that these orders were made to the end that the people of Alberta and Saskatchewan might not undergo incalculable hardship and suffering from lack of coal during the long winter months. If these Governments take any exception to our jurisdiction and consider that the jurisdiction belongs to them and not to us. I would expect them to introduce any necessary legislation of their own so that the condition of order which has been brought about through the enactment of these regulations should be preserved without any question of a technical character being raised between this Government and any Provincial Government. We do not desire to raise any controversial question with them. The orders were made in the first instance for avoidance of hardship and suffering. Now we want to validate them if it is possible for this Parliament to do so, without trenching in any way upon the jurisdiction of the legislature of Alberta or the legislature of - Saskatchewan. In order that we might avoid any possible question, this measure was submitted to the Deputy Minister of Justice for his opinion before it was introduced, and we have his opinion that it is within the competence off this Parliament. I recollect very well hearing Mr. Gladstone, on the only occasion when I had the privilege of hearing him speak in Parliament, say to the British House of Commons in respect of a question raised there, that every one -must recognize at once that a government ought to be and must be guided by the opinion of the law officers of the Crown. We have

been guided by that opinion; and further, when the question of jurisdiction was raised in the Senate of Canada- by one of the honourable members of that body, the Minister of Labour took the matter up again with the Minister of Justice and the deputy minister and he was again assured that there was no reasonable doubt upon the subject, and that, according to the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, the jurisdiction of this Parliament in the premises is absolutely undoubted. Under the circumstances, I do not see any merit in the protest which my Iron, friend (Mr. Mackenzie King) has put forward, and I sincerely trust that the third reading of this Bill will command the approval of hon. gentlemen.


Mr. Speaker, I listened the other day to what the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Meighen) had to say about this Bill, and as usual, of course, we were given a very clear statement of his attitude .and the attitude of the Government in regard to it. Nevertheless, I cannot help concurring absolutely in what has been said by the leader of the Opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) in regard to the desirability of information being placed before the House in connection with any legislation that we are called upon to pass. There may be occasions when it is impossible to give us information oif that kind, but this is not one of them, and a fuller explanation of the contents of those orders and the necessity for them should have been furnished.
I did ndt, however, rise on this occasion to speak about that particular point. I want to say in reply to the Prime Minister (Sir Robert Borden) that, as a rule, although there may be exceptions, all matters that come within property and civil rights ought, under our constitution, to be dealt with by the local authorities. That is a general rule that is well recognized, not only in this Parliament, but in the courts of the country. There may be a distinction in this case because the coal with which we are dealing is not the property of the provinces. The property with which we are dealing in connection with coal management, sales and operations in the different provinces is not. local property, and although I did not see noir hear the opinion of the Deputy Minister of Justice, it is quite probably that he was influenced in giving it by knowledge of the fact that the property with which we were dealing was
Dominion Government property and not property belonging to the provinces.
He may or may not have had that view. I must say to the Minister of the Interior that I object .as strenuously as I can to any legislation being passed by this House which interferes with litigation that is pending in the courts, il need not waste any time in telling any layman in this House, much less the Minister olf the Interior, what a dangerous policy it would be for any Parliament to interfere with the practice and operatio