Pages 1-1034	Volume II: Pages 1035-2002


Pages 2003-3078	Volume IV: Pages 3079-4017


Pages 4019-4591


COMPRISING} THE PERIOD PROM THE SECOND DAY OP JUNE TO THE TWENTY-SECOND DAY OP JUNE, 1920, INCLUSIVE.	[DOT]
V	1920
House of Commons Hcfaates
Wednesday, June 2, 1920.
Number of persons employed in the Department of the Interior.-Hon. Mr. Sifton.
Number of dismissals from the Civil Service made in the cities of the Dominion since first January, 1915.-Hon. Mr. Sifton.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Including the amount paid for the labour and the materials that entered into its construction, and the removal, what was the total cost of the scaffolding erected along the entire front of the old Parliament Building in April, May and June, 1916, prior to taking down the walls and tower?
2.	Does the total cost of the said scaffolding
form part of the cost of the new Parliament Building?
3.	What became of the lumber of which the said scaffolding was built?


1.	Lumber, $4,241.84; bolts and nails, $512.45; labour, $5,199.75; total, $9,954.04.
2.	Yes.
3.	Lumber to the value of $553.77 was sold to the Military Hospitals Commission for their building. The remainder has been put into use for general scaffolding, shoring, bracing, etc., during the erection of the new building. The smaller timbers and planks are used up but the larger timbers are still in use.


Is the Government or the Minister of Railways aware that the amount for repairing an engine at the Canadian National Railways shops, St. Malo, Quebec, is five times higher than it was at the Riviere-du-Loup shops, before the machines of the latter were transferred) to St. Malo?


Neither the Government nor the Minister of Railways has any such information.
UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR PAPERS. Mr. BOURASSA:
For a copy of all papers, documents, telegrams and reports concerning the indemnity paid to the widow and the children of J. L. A. Forbes, killed at Aston Junction, the 11th of September, 1918, while on duty as brakeman on the Government railways.


1.	How many members of the staff of the House of Commons are French?
2.	How many of the House of Commons staff are English speaking?
3.	What proportion of the total salaries is paid to the French officials?
4.	What proportion of the salaries is paid to the English-speaking officials?


1.	What was the total number of chief clerkships on the House of Commons staff in the year 1909?
2.	How many of these chief clerkships were held respectively by English-speaking and French-speaking officials in the same year, and what were the names and titles of each chief clerk?
3.	How many chief clerkships are held today by English-speaking and French-speaking officials respectively, and what are the names and duties of such chief clerks on the said staff of the House of Commons?
4.	What is the present salary of each chief clerk of the said staff, and what was the salary of each in 1918?


1.	How many chiefs of branches are there on the staff of the House of Commons?
2.	How many of them are French?
3.	How many of them are English-speaking?
4.	What is the total of the annual salaries paid to those who are French-speaking?
5.	What is the total of the annual salaries paid to those who are English-speaking?


1.	How many pages are on the staff of the House of Commons?
2.	What is the name, address, and the ago of the page in each case?



3.	Is there any (a) minimum, (b) maximum age of employment?
4.	Is any provision made for pa| 5S under the age of 14 years attending day school? If not, why not?
4.	Have the services of any pages been dispensed with during the present session of Parliament? If so, what is (a) the name, (b) the age of the pages in each case?
6.	What are the working hours of pages employed by the House of Commons?
7.	Which, if any, of the pages employed by the House of Commons are the sons of men who saw active service in the recent war with Germany?


Rt. Hon. Sir ROBERT BORDEN (Prime
Minister) moved:
That on and after Friday the 4th instant and until the end of the present session the House shall meet at two o'clock in the afternoon of each day.
He said:	I have conferred with my
hon. friend the leader of the Opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) and with the hon. member for Marquette (Mr. Crerar) in regard to the disposition of the notice which stands on the Order Paper. I have also endeavoured to ascertain the views of hon. members generally throughout the House and I understand that the motion in the form which I now propose will be acceptable.
Does that include Saturdays?	.


No, not Saturdays. As far as Saturdays are concerned, I propose to leave that question in abeyance at present until we have made progress with the Budget and until it is more apparent as to what programme it will be possible to deal with at the present session.


That will apply also to Monday?


It says " each day."


Yes.


Motion agreed to.
That when this House adjourns on Wednesday the 2nd day of June, it do stand adjourned until Friday, the 4th day of June.
He said:	My personal view, as I explained at the time, was that we might very well have sat on the 24th May and the 3rd June. However, in deference to what seemed to be the general view of hon. members,

the House stood adjourned over the 24th of May. Under the circumstances it seemed to me that our action might be misunderstood if we did not adjourn over to-morrow. There is the fact also that hon. members had a somewhat protracted session yesterday and I dare say some will desire to make amends.


Oh no; we are young.


My hon. friend is anxious to sit to-morrow, I see.


No, no; I do not wish
to assume any blame for that.


But he disclaims any
fatigue.


I am sorry that we are not all so young and energetic as he is. However, I present the motion in that form.


Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to ask if the Government is aware of the great catastrophe that took place yesterday at Theriault Settlement and St. Quentin in my own constituency. There are sixty-five families homeless; there is a million dollar loss of property and I understand that under these circumstances the Government might come to the assistance of these poor, unfortunate people.


The unfortunate disaster to which my hon. friend has alluded has been made known to the Government through the press, not otherwise. There have been like disasters, I believe, in other parts of the country through forest fires. However, the subject has not been considered by the Government. We will take it into consideration, perhaps, within a day or two, but I would like to remind my hon. friend that assistance in the case oif disasters oif this kind might possibly come more particularly within the sphere of activity of the Provincial Governments.


On the Orders of the Day:
I have not the despatch under my hand, but I read in this morning's Citizen

that in the Imperial House yesterday the question of the appointment of a Canadian Ambassador at Washington was raised, and that one of the members of the Imperial Cabinet declined to give the information sought by two members of the House. The reason alleged in this despatch for the refusal of the Imperial Government to speak on this question is, that it has been understood that the correspondence between the Imperial and Dominion authorities should be kept confidential. I give at first hand the substance of the despatch in question, and I would ask the Prime Minister to inform the House if this correspondence is to remain permanently confidential or whether some day we might know why such correspondence has been exchanged and the reasons for the secrecy.


I am not prepared to say that a time will not arrive at some date in the future when the correspondence can be brought down, but I repeat what I have already stated; that according to my judgment it is not desirable in the public interest to bring it down at present. As to the answer which was given in the British House of Commons my attention has not been directed to it. My understanding is that the Imperial Government takes precisely the same view, as to bringing down the correspondence, as was announced to this House by the Canadian Government.


The despatch in question rather intimated, without saying so specifically, that the correspondence has been withheld at the request of the Canadian Government. The inference drawn from reading the despatch is that the Imperial Government would be quite willing to bring down the correspondence, but in deference to the Canadian Government they do not feel free to do so.


Any impression of that kind is incorrect.


Hon. NEWTON W. ROWELL (President of the Privy Council) moved the second reading of amendments made by the Senate to Bill 20 to amend the Opium and Narcotic Drug Act.
Explain.


The amendments are
purely formal. I do not think they alter the meaning of the Act as it now stands 196i
in any respect, but it may be that they make the meaning a little clearer. There is no objection to them.


Motion agreed to.
Rt. Hon. C. J. DOHERTY (Minister of
Justice) moved the second reading of Bill No. 131, (from the Senate) to amend the Criminal Code (French version).
Will the minister explain the nature of the amendments which have <been suggested. They are to correct clerical errors, are they not?


Yes, purely and simply to correct errors of translation. There are quite a number of them but I understand they have been carefully gone over by the officers of the House.
Motion agreed to and the House went into committee on the Bill.-Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
On section two-French version amended.


The serious feature
about these amendments is the reflection that is cast upon the translation in so important a matter as a statute of Canada. I should think that is the gravest aspect of the matter. Without knowing very much about it, I should think it a subject that calls for the very serious consideration of the Government and of Parliament.


I do not think the gravity of the matter can be exaggerated, but these errors go back to the time of the printing of the Revised Statutes in 1906. Attention was recently called to a few errors with the result that it was thought desirable to have a careful examination made to see if we could not, once for all, get this translation correct. There is no question at all of the gravity of the matter, but the responsibility rests upon whoever was responsible for the translation, in 1906 I think it was, at the time the Revised Statutes were translated. I made some inquiry on the subject and the explanation given to me was that at that time the work was practically entirely in the hands of one man. That work is not of a simple character. Anybody who has ever attempted translation of this character, I think I may safely say, no matter how familiar he is with the two languages, will realize there is nothing more difficult than getting an exact translation; and sometimes when the

translation of laws is made by men who have not the requisite professional knowledge they have greater difficulty I think, in apprehending and rendering the exact meaning. I quite agree that this is a serious matter. I have called attention to the gravity of the question, and I believe that at the present time a .committee composed of members of both Houses is considering the whole subject of the translating staff, and of any improvements that may be made in the system.


I notice on looking over the Bill that some of these corrections are not errors of translation; for instance, the first clause of section 3, in which we are asked to insert the word "et" before the word "d'une"; that must be an error by the proof-reader. Then section 10 is to be repealed by substituting another section. I have not read the French version of the section, but by repealing the old section and substituting a new section I cannot see that we are correcting any errors of translation.


We are repealing the existing French translation and substituting a correct translation. Perhaps it sounds peculiar to state it in that way, but we are letting the English version stand. The English and French versions are tooth equally the law, but here we find one version is perfectly correct, while the other is not. The only method, it seems to me, by which we can make it clear is to strike out the incorrect and substitute the correct, and in that sense it is a matter of translation, as is also the first amendment the hon, gentleman (Mr. Bureau) mentions, in that the English version contains the word "and," while the "et" is missing in the French version. I understand that in validating the Revised Statutes the usual practice was departed from, and they were passed in English, then translated and a statute enacted making the translation law. It was certainly an extraordinary way to deal with laws that ought to be passed concurrently in tooth languages. But, as I have said, those who were in control at the time-I do not know whether my hon. friend had any share in that control-must be responsible for that departure from the established practice.


I was a member of the Government at the time the statutes were revised, and I remember that the French translation did not come in force at exactly the same time as the English version.

Probably my right hon. friend will remember that Sir Alan Aylesworth,-who was then Minister of Justice,-had to introduce special legislation in order to meet the general law which makes it obligatory that both versions should come into force concurrently. The translation of the Revised Statutes was entrusted to a well-known lawyer, the late Mr. Horace St. Louis, of whose ability there can be no question. He was absolutely proficient in both languages, and at the time no better man could have been selected for that work. It is quite possible, however, that as there are certain differences between the British Criminal Code and the French. Mr. St. Louis may have used expressions taken from the French Code Criminel which have no place in our Criminal Code. In glancing at the Bill I notice that there are many omissions which are rather in the nature of printers' or proof-readers' errors, and I see very few words or expressions which would indicate that the translation was poorly made. On the contrary, I think the translation appears to have been made as perfectly as possible, and I would like at once to remove the doubt cast by my hon. friend from Shelburne and Queen's (Mr. Fielding) on the ability of the translator. On the whole I think the sooner we correct these errors the better for our practitioners.


I do not wish to contradict anything that my hon. friend from Maisonneuve (Mr. Lemieux) has said. There may have been a number of omissions and errors in the printing, but we find from the Bill before us that about 300 corrections have to be made. I do not for one moment question the competence in French of my hon. friend the Minister of Justice, but I want to ask him if his translation is found to-day to be wanting to the extent this Bill would indicate, how is he satisfied that the translation of the clauses referred to is now perfect when it was previously imperfect? In other words, what is the composition of the Board of Translators that has passed judgment upon these amendments? The moment the minister declares that he is satisfied and gives the House satisfactory assurance as to the competence of the Board of Translators, I do not think we should go over every item.


If my hon. friend from Maisonneuve gathered from what I said that I had any desire to reflect on any individual translator, I can assure him that that was not my intention. I do not know who the translators were, and from my lim-

ited knowledge of French I should hesitate to speak on the subject, but I know enough of the difficulties of translation to appreciate them, and my only thought was to convey to the minister and the Government the importance of a correct translation, especially in regard to our statutes. A correct translation is important in relation to all our documents, but when we come to the law of the country and find after a lapse of years that there have been "printers' errors"-and it is very easy to blame the printer or the proof-reader-it seems to me that we ought to realize the importance of having skilled and capable men as translators, and if we have been lax in that respect in the past, by all means let us elevate the standard of the men we engage for this work, which is one of the highest classes of work in our public service.


As I said, I fully agree with everything .that can be urged in regard to the importance of having correct translations. It was a matter of alarm to me when my attention was first called to this large number of errors, and I have done my best to impress upon the law officer looking after this work the importance of getting these amendments correct now. As I said, I understand there is at present a joint committee of both Houses considering the question of the organization of the translation staff. I do not know how far they have proceeded, but I do hope that they will give the most serious consideration to the importance of having this translation work properly done. I am not in a position to give to the hon. member for Beauce (Mr. Beland) the name of the translator or translators who made this revision. But I did impress upon the Parliamentary Counsel, from whom I can obtain the name without difficulty, the importance oif getting the best talent available, and above all-because I think it is more a question of care than a question of ability -that he should impress upon those doing the work the importance of doing it carefully.


The English words corresponding to these words that are now sought to be inserted in the French version are in the English version; therefore all we are doing is making the French version correspond with the English. As to what guarantee we can have that these changes are correctly made, there are two ways by which we may be assured: either by relying upon those officers who have done the work, or by taking up the English version and comparing these enactments with it. Tnat of course, would be a somewhat tedious work for the committee to undertake


The change in section 829 would seem to make the thing worse. The English version says:	"If one of two or
more." The present French translation says: "Si un prevenu, sur deux ou plus.'t You are going to strike that out and substitute the words : "Si deux ou plus de deux prisonniers."


Has it occurred to the minister that this Bill should be submitted to a small Committee of the House over which the minister might preside? We have on this side a number of eminent lawyers who are fully conversant with both languages. It would not take them more than two hours to go over these different items or clauses and see if the translation is proper, whereas if we take the Bill up clause by clause in the Committee of the Whole, it may take us two or three days to deal with it.


I am prepared to welcome the co-operation of such hon. members as my hon. friend has referred to, who may be willing to undertake this work. In view of the suggestion that has been made, and in order that we may be in a position to carry it out, I move that the committee rise, Teport progress and ask leave to sit again.


Before the committee rises I have an observation to make. I do not want to cast blame on anybody, but it seems extraordinary that all these mistakes should have been made, either in the translation or in the correction of proof. For instance, if we look at the changes proposed

in section 129, iwe find that it is proposed to substitute the word "quatorze" for the word "sept." Well, how in God's world could a translator mate the mistake of using the word "quatorze" instead of the word "sept?" It is no easy task to translate laws. Those who have some knowledge of two or more languages.knorw of the enormous. difficulties that are met with in the translation of laws or speeches or anything else. We have had what I might call a world example in the translation of the Peace Treaty. Complaints were made at the Peace Conference that the Treaty was not properly translated, although the services of the best experts in the world had been obtained to translate that Treaty. Of course, we may easily come to the conclusion that a translation is very far from perfect without casting blame on anybody, but this particular case brings us to the consideration of a much wider question, and it is this: If so many mistakes have been made in the translation of the Criminal Code, a statute that is referred to every day-and probably it was because of that that the mistakes were discovered-what other mistakes must there be in the translation of other laws? If we come to the conclusion that there must be many other mistakes in the translation of other statutes, then the French versions of our laws are very undependable and very uncertain. This is certainly a very serious state of affairs. In my practice I have seen lawyers use either the French or the English version, according to which best suited their purpose; the Minister of Justice, having been a judge, probably knows something about that. That there was a difference between the two versions was apparent. Of course, there is always the guiding principle -if it is a guiding principle-that when a law is originally written in only one language we should refer to the original in order to find out what its intent was. But it is a serious state of affairs when in the translation of a single law there are over three hundred mistakes, the correction of which now has to be made. 1 am simply suggesting that the Government should adopt some method of ensuring that all our laws are correct, or should appoint some one to supervise the laws as they go through, so that something may be done in order to remedy this inconvenience, because I .am quite sure that if we set translators to work on some other law, next session .a new Bill will have to be introduced in order to correct discrepancies.


I am very much afraid the hon. member is correct in his conten-

tion. Might I suggest to him a very simple way by which the recurrence of this might be avoided? This was an exceptional case in which the law was passed in one language and subsequently translated; but with that exception all laws that come before Parliament do .so in both languages. If hon. gentlemen who are perfectly familiar with the French language would have before them, as the Bills are being passed, the French version as well as the English, and would keep an eye on the French version, it would be .a very simple matter to see that they both correspond. In that way we would have the matter controlled by this House and we would not be dependent on the greater or less degree of carefulness on the part of translators. Strictly speaking, that would be the proper way of passing the laws, although I do not want to suggest that every hon. member should be reading the two versions. I make that suggestion as .a remedy which I think would be an effective one. In the meantime, perhaps the committee which we are going to form to go over this Bill might profit by that occasion to talk over what means might be found to guard in the future against the recurrence of this serious defect.


Might I ask, just as a matter of curiosity, not by way of criticism, by what process the conclusion is reached that the English version is right and the French version is wrong? Are we not bound to assume that both languages are equal before the Parliament of Canada? Somebody might say: You are all wrong; the French version is right; what you want to do is to correct the English version.


It is quite possible that there might be an error in the English rather than in the French version; but as regards this particular law, we are in a position to know that the English version was the only version scrutinized by Parliament and that in this instance the French version .is a translation. I am not at all prepared to say that a court would exercise a preference as between one language and the other; the court would have no proof by which it could assume that one language was the original language. If you take this instance to which attention was called, the difference between the two versions is this, that the English version says that a man shall be liable to a sentence of fourteen years, while the French version says that he shall be liable to a sentence of seven years. Speaking offhand, I would think that it would be the duty of any judge to

apply that version which makes the penalty the least, because he ought to have no doubt in his mind that the man is liable to the penalty which he imposes.


Would the court not take the language in which the Bill was drafted and introduced in preference to the other'


I do not, think it is usual for courts to hear testimony as to proceedings that took place when a law was going through Parliament. The law arrives at the court as the law, and I do not think the court would be justified'in hearing such testimony. Hon, gentlemen will remember that in Quebec we have rules laid down for the guidance of the court in the event of there being found differences between the twa versions. I think if my memory serve? me right, the over-riding rule is that the judge is to adopt that version which is most in accordance with the general principles that govern the subject.


Motion agreed to.
Progress reported.
Hon. J. D. REID (Minister of Railways) moved the second reading of Bill No. 141, respecting the Canadian National railways.
Was that on the list of Bills which my right hom. friend gave to the House last night? My recollection is that it was not.


No. I will not take it up if there is any objection-


I am not objecting.


The Minister of Railways informed me that he proposed having the Bill read ,a second time and then having it referred to the Railway Committee.	,


My intention is simply to have the Bill referred to the Railway Committee.


I understand the purpose of this Bill is to provide for the extension of several branches of the Government railways in the West?


Three short extensions of lines now owned by the Canadian National railways. When we require a new charter or an extension, we must come to Parliament and go through the usual process just ,as if this were the Canadian Pacific or any other private railway. We are asking for three extensions, and I wish ta
refer the matter to the Railway Committee in the ordinary way.


My hon. friend knows that these days we are constantly talking of economy. 'If it was the declared policy of the Government not to make any such extensions, I should hesitate before asking for any extension in the East. But if we are to provide for some extensions of the Natioral system in the West- and I assume these are justifiable extensions-it is not unreasonable that we should consider claims that may arise in the East. I have had brought to my notice and wish to bring before Parliament the claim of the town of Lockeport, in the county of Shelburne, a very important fishing district in Nova Scotia, about three miles from the railway. That is to say, what is known as the Halifax and South Western railway, part of the Government system touches the water of Lockeport harbour, but is three miles away from the town. Communication is by a f rry boat, and that is very unsatisfactory but, of course, better than nothing. There is a growing feeling there that this large town, which is incorporated, ought to have more immediate connection with the railway, and it is not surprising that the people of that district desire that facility. Every day we ,are realizing that more attention should be given to the fisheries of the Dominion as a source of food supply. This is one of the districts in which the fishing business is pre-eminent. It is growing in importance all the time, and the desire of the people that they should have direct communication with the railways, instead of having to take their freight three miles away either by road or ferry boat, is a very reasonable one. I think representations have been made to President Hanna at Toronto, and I would ask my hon. friend to communicate with the department with reference to this matter. I desire to urge on the minister that if our finan-
4 p.m. cial condition was such that we could not provide for railway extensions in any part of the country, I would hesitate to bring this matter to the attention of the Government, but if we are to provide some extensions in the West it is only rational and reasonable that a moderate expenditure of an urgent character in the East should also be considered. It is a new question to my hon. friend, I have no doubt, but I should be glad if he would investigate and see if something cannot be done to give these people the small advantage of what is no more than a siding of about three miles.

(Mr. J. D. REID: This is the first time I have heard of the matter. I agree that if any great number of extensions are to be made in the West, the East should also be considered equally. I will take this matter up with the management of the Canadian National railways and see if the wishes of the people in that locality can be met.
Mr. BElLAND: May I ask a question of the Minister of Railways?
Mr. DEPUTY SPEAKER [DOT] It would only be by unanimous consent that the Minister of Railways could answer, as he has already exhausted his right to speak.


We all consent.


Hear, hear.


I understood a few days ago that the House was to be supplied with a report of the operation of the Canadian National railways. I have received a copy of one report but it deals only with the operations of the Canadian Northern railway. Under what head can we find information respecting the operation of the Intercolonial, for instance? The Intercolonial is a part of the Canadian National Railway system, but I can find no reference to its operations in the report that has been laid on the Table.


The report on the operations of the Intercolonial is generally given by the minister when his Estimates are before the House. Then there are the usual statements in the report of the Minister of Railways. If any information is desired beyond what is contained in those statements, I shall be glad to give it when my Estimates are before the committee.


That applies also to the Transcontinental and the Grand Trunk Pacific?


Yes.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the second time, and referred to the Select Standing Committee on Railways, Canale, and Telegraph Lines.
On the motion of Hon. J. D. Reid (Minister of Railways and Canals), Bill No. 136, to amend The Railway Act, 1919, was read the second time and referred to the Select Standing Committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph Lines.
TMr. Fielding.]
On the motion of Hon. C. J. Doherty (Minister of Justice) (Bill No. 139, to amend the Admiralty Act, was read the second time and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Boivin in the 'Chair:
On section 1-appointment of deputy judges:
Does this mean that the Governor in Council or local judge in Admiralty may appoint a deputy judge even if the judge is still in office?


No. Regularly speaking, unless you have an officer you cannot have a deputy of that officer. The deputy judge is the deputy of an existing judge. This amendment is to prevent it happening that the deputy, because the judge dies or his office otherwise becomes vacant, shall cease to have power to act.


How would that apply to a deputy minister?


"Le roi est mort, vive
le roi!" The king never dies, nor do ministers. They may walk out of office, but few die.


There is nothing in the Bill as to the class of persons from whom the deputy would be selected, although, of course, it is well understood what the qualifications of the deputy judge should be.


I have not in my hand at the moment the provisions which determine what shall 'be the qualifications, but there is nothing new in this except the empowering of the Governor in Council or local judge in Admiralty to appoint a deputy judge when the judge's oflice for one reason or another becomes vacant. The qualifications are not altered in any way by this.


Section agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time, and passed.
Hon. ARTHUR MBIGHEN (Minister of the Interior) moved the second reading of Bill No. 124 (from the Senate), to amend The Employment Offices Go-Ordination Act.
Explain.


I explained this Bill
on its introduction. It is to enable the minister to make the grant provided for by the former Act, in the case of institutions carried on by municipalities, -where the provinces decline to avail themselves of the Act.


This applies to Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick alone?
IMr. M EIGHEN:	And Prince Edward
Island.


This Act was assented to on May 24, 1918. The Act required that any assistance that was given to carry out its purposes and to encourage the co-ordination of employment offices, should be given to the provinces in accordance with its provisions. The Act made no mention of any assistance being given in any other way. I was very much surprised to find that, notwithstanding the legislation which has been enacted in that form, the Government, by Order in Council, have undertaken to give a much wider construction to it than that which Parliament placed upon it. I have in my hand a copy of Order in Council No. 3171, assented to on the 24th day of December, 1918, in which I find the following paragraph:
Therefore His Excellency the Governor General in Council, under and in virtue of the provisions of the Employment Offices Co-ordination Act, is pleased to order and' it is hereby ordered as follows:
(a)	The Minister of Labour may establish and maintain for a period of eighteen months from January 1, 1919, such employment bureaus as may be necessary, and not established under the provisions of the Employment Offices Coordination Act.
(b)	The Minister of Labour may establish and maintain offices at such points as he may deem necessary, provided the municipality supply office space and equipment required.
, There is an Order in Council that distinctly gives power to the Government in regard to a matter on which this Parliament has legislated and these powers are completely beyond those that are granted by statute. I hope, when the minister refers to this matter in committee, he will have some satisfactory explanation to give to Parliament on the subject. It is perfectly plain how the money to be appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this Act was to be expended. Section 5 reads:
The moneys appropriated for each year shall be allotted and paid to the governments of the respective provinces in the proportion which their expenditure for the maintenance of employment offices bears to the total of the expenditures of all the provinces for such purposes, but in no case shall the allotment to any
province exceed one half the amount expended for the maintenance of employment offices by such province.
The moneys were to be appropriated and paid to the governments of the respective . provinces. That is what Parliament said. Parliament said nothing about authorizing payments to or for municipalities. Parliament said nothing about giving the minister power to establish offices under Order in Council as might suit himself. This is a very serious departure from what can be considered at all right and proper in view olf the statute as it has been enacted by Parliament. Further, section 6 of the Act says:
The payments hereinbefore authorized shall as to each province, be conditional upon agreement between the minister and the government of the province.
. This Order in Council says:
The Minister of Labour may establish and maintain offices at such points as he may deem necessary, provided the municipality supply office space and equipment required.
There is no reference to the Government of the province at all, the clause simply empowers the minister to make any arrangement he pleases with individual municipalities. But that is not all. There is, it seems to me, another flagrant violation of the practice and rights of Parliament, in another Order in Council which was passed on the 12th of March, 1919, in relation to the very same matter. I have a copy of the Order in Council in my hand. It is No. 537 and it was assented to on the 12th March,
1919.	1 find that the last part of the Order in Council is as follows:
The minister therefore, recommends that an amount estimated at $3'0,000 be placed to the credit of the Department of Labour from the War Appropriation for the purposes of making subventions to various provinces on the basis stated, the said sum of $3'0,000' being over and above the appropriation of $60,000 named in the statute for the fiscal year 1918-19.
Here is another most important departure. The statute itself fixed the amount which Parliament authorized the Department of Labour to pay. Clearly, in fixing that amount, Parliament intended to place a limit upon the extravagance of the Government in the matter of the establishment of these employment offices and assisting other employment offices which were established. Notwithstanding that legislation is before the ministry they pay no heed whatever to the law but take public moneys that have been appropriated for one purpose and use them for an entirely different purpose. We have had so many instances of this kind of indifference to Parliament and the legisla-

tion of Parliament that the time has come when a halt should be called to further proceedings of this kind by the Government. I repeat that I hope the minister will have some explanation to give to the House when the Bill gets into committee. I would just draw the attention of the House and the country to the fact that here is one more of the many instances that have been quoted this session, first, where legislation passed by Parliament has been absolutely ignored and the Government has taken action entirely beyond the scope of that legislation and, second, where moneys appropriated for a particular purpose have been used by the Governor in Council for an entirely different purpose notwithstanding that Parliament has placed a restriction upon the amount of public money which should be spent in a particular direction.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the second time and the House went into committee on the Bill, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.
On section 1-definition:
I was not able, having .moved the second reading, to reply to the leader of the Opposition. I should not let the occasion pass without saying something about his solicitude for the Government. His great care is that we do not exceed the legal bounds of our authority. I did not have ply attention drawn to the Orders in Council he read to the House, or the portions which he read, but just sitting and listening to them and looking at the Act itself, I was not struct by any conflict between the terms of the Order in Council and the wording of the Act. Nor do I see any reason at all to believe that the terms of the order in the least degree exceed the powers given to the Governor in Council by the Act. Referring to the first one, if I got it rightly- I would be glad indeed to have the copy sent across-it provided that, by means of regulation, the Minister of Labour might grant assistance to the support of an employment office in cases where the office and, I think, the help were provided by the municipality. The Order in Council says:
The Minister of Labour may establish and maintain offices at such points as he may deem necessary, provided the municipality supply office space and equipment required.
Now section three Of the Act reads as follows:
The minister is authorized and empowered,-
(a)	to aid and encourage the organization and co-ordination of employment offices and to promote uniformity of methods among them ;
(b)	to establish one or more clearing houses for the interchange of information between em-

ployment offices concerning the transfer of labour and other matters ;
(c)	to compile and distribute information received from employment offices and from other sources, regarding prevailing conditions of employment.
Now iby Jsection 10 the minister may make any regulations, not inconsistent with the Act, which he may deem necessary to carry this Act into effect, subject to the approval of the Governor in Council. That is to say the Governor in Council may make regulations. Consequently the Governor in Council may make regulations to aid in the organization and co-OTdination of employment offices. Now the Governor in Council in pursuance of that does what? It passes a regulation that the minister may establish and maintain offices at such points as he may deem necessary-really the same meaning as the first clause-provided the municipality grants the office space and equipment required. Where does that exceed the hounds of clause (a) defining what the minister is empowered to do? The following clauses provide that the minister may as well, from a special appropriation provided by the Act, pay certain moneys to the provinces according to a certain rule and proportion. That is one power. Clause three contains another power that the minister evidently acted upon. There appears to be another Order in Council of the 18th December, 1918. The second Order in Council to which the leader of the Opposition refers contains a provision appropriating:
$30,000 from the War Appropriation for the purpose of making subventions to various provinces on the basis stated, the said sum of $30,000 being over and above the appropriation of $50,000 named in the statute.
The statute was one providing an appropriation for certain well-defined purposes. It has no special relation to soldiers' demobilization or to the war at ail-it is permanent in its character. This appropriation, which evidently came in March, 1919, the very time when most of the men were returning, was an appropriation designed to take care especially of returned men and to make special efforts under the provision of the Act, and also under the powers given the Governor in Council under 'the terms of the War Appropriation Act itself, to place returned men in suitable employment as soon as possible. I have not under my hand the terms of the War Appropriation Act, but I have not the faintest doubt, that the Governor in Council was clearly authorized by Parliament to make an appropriation just for

that purpose because the wording of the Act was very wide, and necessarily very wide, and I do not know what better use could be made of the war appropriation moneys than to facilitate the early absorption into useful employment of the returned men. But it is not under the authority of this Act, it is under the authority off the War Appropriation Act as I would understand from a hurried reading, that the second Order in Council was passed.


The minister says he sees nothing inconsistent with the terms of the Act in the course which the Government has taken in passing an Order in Council which allows the payment of moneys under this Act to municipalities when the whole purpose of the Act is to restrict payments to the Governments oi the different provinces.


To restrict?


Does the minister think that it is consistent, when the Act states that the money should be paid to the governments of the provinces, to pay that money to the municipalities when the provinces refuse to cooperate? As I understand, what happened was this: Several of the provinces undertook to co-operate with the Dominion Government in the matter of these employment offices and to meet half of the expense, but the Governments of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island decided that they would not open employment offices. On the other hand there were a few municipalities that had such offices, and the Government took authority on its own account by Order in Council to pay this money to the municipalities, not to pay it to the Provincial Governments. Now there may be reasons on the ground of meeting an emergency, or some sort of expediency, which would justify that, but when the minister says there is nothing inconsistent in using the moneys which had been voted by this Parliament to be paid only to governments, and paying them over to municipalities-


Where does it say that the money shall be paid to municipalities?


That is exactly what was done with the money.


No, why do you say
that? Bead it.


Isn't it the object to make an agreement with the municipalities?


The object of the amendment to this Bill is, but not the Order in Council.


The Order in Council provides:
The Minister of Labour may establish and maintain offices at such points as he may deem necessary


Hear, hear.


-provided the municipality supply office space and equipment required.


That is not supplying
any money to the municipality.


But that is
exactly what was done. The money was not paid to the provinces but to the municipalities.


How do you make that out.


Can the minister point to anything in the record which will show that the money has gone to the provinces?


It does not go to either. The minister maintains the office. No money goes to the provinces or to the municipality under that order. The minister maintains the office, but he is not allowed to maintain it unless the municipality provides the office. The municipality does that out of its own funds, and if it does, then the minister maintains the office under the powers given by section 3 that I have just read.


If the minister, instead of trying to argue this matter on grounds that are indefensible, and trying to put things over the committee, would take the trouble to look at the Act he would not waste our time in the sort of casuistry he is resorting to. Section 2 of the Act provides as follows:
In this Act and in any regulation made thereunder, unless the context otherwise requires- " employment office operated by any Provincial Government."

The whole Act relates to employment offices operated by Provincial Governments. The whole purpose of the Act, when it was passed, was to co-operate with Provincial Governments, and if the minister will take the trouble to read the debates that took place in Parliament at the time he will see that the ground on which the money was appropriated was that it was to be in cooperation with the provinces. Not one word was said as to assisting employment offices in different municipalities. If the minister's present interpretation is correct, why does he come to Parliament at the present time and ask for any amendment to the Act? What is the amendment for which he is asking? He is asking .that we change the definition of " employment office " so that it shall mean, " employment office operated by any Provincial Government or any other employment office approved by the minister." What he is doing at the present time is asking Parliament to give power to do the thing that the Governor in Council has taken upon itself to do without the authority of Parliament. The only justification he has for the amendment is to be found in the circumstance that the law as originally drafted did not give the Governor in Council power to do what it has been doing with public funds.


I am so accustomed to being scolded by the leader of the Opposition that it really has very little effect on me now. I will make one more effort to render this clear to him; if I fail it will be on account of my limited powers of expression.
The present Bill is to enable the Gov-error in Council to pay moneys to municipalities; he could not do so under the old Act. I hope that is clear. Unless this Bill passes, the Governor in Council cannot use a municipality as formerly under the old Act he could use a province. Under the sections commencing with section 4 the minister could pay to a province half the cost of maintenance of employment offices maintained in the province; he could not pay that half to a municipality. Now then, it is clear that to attain the end desired there must be an amendment. But the leader of the Opposition said: "You went in before this amendment was passed and you paid moneys to municipalities." That I contradicted; I said we paid no moneys to any municipalities. Why does he say we did? The Order in Council-


You paid money for employment offices that were 
conducted by municipalities, not by the provincial authorities.


No. The Minister of Labour conducted them at the expense of the department. He was not allowed to do so unless the municipality supplied the office space and equipment. How would any money go to the municipality? Does the hon. member say that cheques were issued to the municipality? Employment offices were supported directly from the funds of the department. But I argue that it could be done under section 3, for the department there has power to aid and encourage organization. At all events whether that is so or not, the wording it seems to me is wide enough to cover it, and I apprehend that the minister, under the original Act constituting his department, has the power to establish employment offices and maintain them. I have not sent for the Act. But in any event he is acting here under Clause 3. The employment office that he maintains would necessarily from the context be his own employment office. In section 4 the wording is:
Employment office maintained by the province to the support of which he contributes by issuing cheques to the province.
But he never issued cheques to the municipality; he maintained the office. He did not commence to maintain it unless the municipalities supplied the space and the equipment.
I have just had drawn to my attention the Appropriation Act of last year, and in the appropriation to the Department of Labour of $367,500 the following item, No. 243, appears:
To supplement amount provided by statute 