With the consent of the House I should like to propose a motion, which I shall explain in a few words. In the first session of 1919 a resolution proposed by the member for London (Mr. Cronyn) was adopted by the House approving the appointment of a committee on scientific research. On the motion of Hon. Dr. Reid, a committee was appointed. That committee made certain inquiries and on
July 1, 1919, submitted a report which contained the following recommendation:
Tour committee would therefore recommend that the committee should be reappointed as early as possible next session to give further consideration to this matter, and to prepare to the House for consideration proposals dealing therewith.
The committee had been unable to complete its 'investigations; accordingly this recommendation was made. The report was adopted by the House and the recommendation for the reappointment of the committee, therefore approved. The session of last autumn was called for special legislation, and it was not considered best that the committee should be reappointed for that session. At the beginning of the present session I went into the matter, and with a view to carrying out the recommendation of the committee and the wish of the Howse as expressed by its approval of that report, I beg to move:
That a special committee be appointed forthwith to consider the matter of the development in Canada of scientific research with power to call for persons, papers and records to examine witnesses under oath, and to report from time to time ; that rule 11 be suspended in connection therewith, and that the following persons do constitute such committee:	Messieurs Archambault, Btland, Cowan, Cronyn, Denis, Manion, Maclean (Halifax), MoGibbon (Mus-koka), Nicholson (Algoma), Pardee, Ross (Middlesex), Sheard, Sinclair (Antigonish and Guysboro), Steele, Thompson (Yukon), Tweedie, and Whidden.
That is practically the Committee of last year, with some additions.


There having been no notice of this motion, it requires, of course, the unanimous consent of the House.


Motion agreed to.
Hon. N. W. ROWELL (Minister of Health) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 32, respecting Commercial Feeding Stuffs.
Explain,


This is merely a revision of the existing law with the necessary amendments to bring it up to date. The provisions relating to commercial feeding stuffs which now appear in the Adulteration of Foods Act, have been taken out of that Act and are tq. be included in this, so that the one Act will cover the whole matter.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first time.


Out of what appropriation was the sum of 564,043.15 paid on February 13 as Canada's contribution to the expense of the League of Nations?


It was paid out of the Demobilization Vote.


On the Orders of the Day.
' I should like to direct the attention of the Government to some orders for returns standing in my name which were adopted by the House last session. I refer to an order of September 18, 1919, regarding the Siberian Expeditionary Force; an order of September 29, regarding the Military Hospital at Ste. Anne de Bellevue, and an order of October 20, calling for a list of Grand Trunk shareholders. On the 10th of November, the last day of the session, I was assured by the Minister of Justice (Hon. Mr. Doherty) and the then Secretary of State (Hon. Mr. Burrell) that these returns would be forthcoming. I, now ask that they be brought down as soon as possible.


I will make inquiry and if they are get-atable I shall have them brought down almost immediately.


I was assured last year that they would' be available.


The House in Committee of Supply, Air. Boivin in the Chair.
Marine Department. Government shipbuilding programme-amount required for the construction of vessels in accordance with Government programme, $20,000,000.
Could the minister give
the dates of the different contracts?


I am sorry I cannot, at the present moment, give the hon. member the information he desires, but I shall be very glad to get it for him if he so wishes. The contracts are spread over a period from, we shall say, March or April, 1918, up to within a few weeks ago. The average cost of these 63 vessels, including the contracts that were let during the war and since the armistice was signed, is $191.92 per ton. During the war contracts were let at from $180 per ton for the larger vessels to 5215 per ton.for the lake size. Since the armistice has been signed, we have been able to contract for the large size at 5167.50 per ton and for the lake size at $180.
The contracts have been placed with the following	yards:
Canadian	Vickers, Ltd.-
Ships.	Tons.	Tone.	Tons.2	4,575	9,15010	8,390	83,900
93,050
Harbour Marine Company, Victoria-
2	8,390	16,780
Collingwood Shipbuilding Company

7	3,890	27,230
Kingston Shipbuilding Company-
2	3,890	7,780
Port Arthur Shipbuilding Company-
4 3,400	13,600	
2 4,375	8,750	
1 3,890	3,890	26,240
Halifax Shipyards,	Ltd.-	
2 10,800	21,600	
2 8 390	16,780	38,380
Tidewater Shipbuilders Ltd.-		
4 5,100		20,400
Davie Shipbuilding-	Company-	
2 5,100	10,200	
1 8,390	8,390	18,590
British American Shipbuilding Company-
Ships. Tons.	Tons.	Tons.
2 4,575		9,150
Midland Shipbuilding	Company-	
1 3,890		3,890
Dominion Shipbuilding	Company-	
2 3,500		7,000
J. Goughian & Son-		
6 8,390		50,340
Wallaoe Shipyards, Ltd.-		
2 4,575	9,150	
2 5,100	10,200	
2 8,390	16,780	
36,130
Prince Rupert Shipbuilding Company-
2	8,390	16,780
Nova Scotia Steel and Coal Company-
3	2,800	8,400
Then as to deliveries made: 7 ships have been completed of type No. 2, 8,300 tons; 4 ships have been completed of type No. 3, 5,100 tons; 4 ships have been completed of type No. 4, 4,500 tons; 8 ships have been completed of type No. 5, 3,400 to 3,900 tons, and 1 ship has been completed of type No. 6, 2,800 tons. Of the 8,300 ton type, 5 are being equipped with oil fuel apparatus and 13 of the same type are being fitted with refrigerating space.
The expenditure to date is as follows: Total payments up to April, 1919, $19,510,322.35; total payments from April, 1919 to March 1, 1920, -$24,194,639.78-grand total, $43,704,962.13. Balance available on March 1, 1920, from vote for current year, $15,505,361.22.
There has been some criticism in the press, but very little I am happy to say, in regard to the cost of the Government ships, and 1 wish to take advantage of this occasion to make a comparison between our cost and the cost of ships contracted for in Canada by the Imperial Munitions Board for Great Britain, also the cost of ships built for Great Britain in foreign countries, and the cost of similar types of steel ships built in the United States.


Would the minister be good enough to give us the date of the last contract he made?


It was about a
month ago; I cannot give the exact date at


"Canadian Volunteer"-Genoa Bay to Gars-ton, England, 2,085,5'69 feet of lumber.
"Canadian Trooper"-Vancouver to London, 1,956,216 feet of lumber.
''Canadian Aviator"-Vancouver to Garston, England, 1,934,938 feet of lumber.
"Canadian Raider"-Genoa Bay to Melbourne, 2,005,857 feet of lumber.
"Canadian Importer"-Vancouver to Melbourne, general cargo, consisting principally of the following:
Corsets frrfm the Dominion Corset Company, Quebec.
Sewing machines from Cleveland.
Rubber tires from the Goodyear Rubber Company, Toronto.
Underwear from Hamilton.
Bicycles from Western Ontario.
Newsprint from the Canadian Export Paper Company.
Chocolates from Toronto.
Newsprint from Powell River Company, British Columbia.
Canned Herrings from the Canadian Fishing Company.
Mantles, lumber, laths, whitelead, etc., from various shippers.
This will give some idea of what a general cargo means.
Referring to our smaller vessels that are on the West Indian route, hon. members will be interested to know the vast quantities of raw sugar that were brought from the West Indies to Montreal, Halifax, and St. John, N.B. If it had not been for the Canadian Government ships I think I can say that there would have been a sugar shortage in this country. The sugar carried from the West Indies to St. John and Halifax was 47,266 tons. The total tonnage at present loaded and en route to St. John and Halifax is 14,155 tons. In addition to the above these vessels have undertaken to load before the end of April and deliver at Canadian ports 28,400 tons making a grand total of 89,821 gross tons valued at $13,164,160.40.
The number of voyages that ourv ships have made is as follows:
To West Indies . . . .		Voyages. .. 27
To Buenos Ayres . .		. . 4
To London 			
To Liverpool			. . 9
To Glasgow			. . 1
To United Kingdom	from Van-	
couver, via Panama	Canal . .	. . 3
To Bordeaux			. . 1
To Havre			. . 1
To Australia and New	Zealand	. . 1
To St. John's, Newfoundland .		[DOT] ' 4
		56
I now come to what must be the most interesting part to hon. members and to the public generally. It is not often that ships, railways or other things are managed and operated by governments in such a way as to show a balance on the right side, but I am happy to say that from the figures I will give in the moment you will see that although 19 of these ships have only been in commission for a short time, not one of them having been in commission for a full year, the balance is on the right side. I wish to explain how the net earnings are arrived at. The Canadian Government Merchant Marine follow good business practice.

They had to put on a new organization and to open up new trade routes. After providing for organization, overhead expenses, operating expenses, depreciation, insurance and five and a half per cent on cost, the ships have made a remarkably good showing.
I think it is only fair that as Minister of Marine, and on behalf of the Government of Canada, I should pay a tribute to Mr. D. B. Hanna and his board of directors of the Canadian Government Merchant Marine for having accomplished such a fine result as I am going to refer to in a moment, not withstanding all the difficulties inseparable from new routes and a new organization. I am immensely pleased as the minister responsible, so is the Government, and I am sure that hon. members and the people of Canada will also be pleased. The profit statement is as follows:	.
Up to the end of December, 1919, there were delivered 19 steamers. Many of these were received during the late summer and fall, so that only 13 had completed voyages by the end of the year. As already mentioned, routes were opend to South America, West Indies and the United Kingdom. By December 31 28 voyages had been ,completed. The total gross earnings of all boats amounted to $3,448,030.25, and the net earnings to $1,406,000. This net will provide interest at 5J per cent on the Government's investment, full reserve for depreciation and a handsome margin in addition. These earnings are held by the company in the shape of bank balances, Victory bonds and accounts receiyable. In view of the fact that many of the boats were only in service for a portion of the year, and also as the initial expenses in placing boats in commission are extremely heavy, I- think you will agree with me that the operations of the Government's Merchant Marine present an exceedingly satisfactory showing.
It will be of interest, I am sure, to the House to know that the Government boats enabled the exportation of Canadian products last year to the value of $21,362,000, much of which would not have been shipped if the shipping facilities had not been provided by the Government.
It will be also interesting to know that since the first of the year, the shipyards on the Pacific Coast have delivered three boats, the " Canadian Raider," the " Canadian Importer," and the " Canadian Exporter," all of which will be employed in the Canadian-Australian trade. The " Canadian Raider " and " Canadian Importer " have already sailed with a full cargo of

lumber in the one case, and a full cargo of confectionery, newsprint, lumber, rubber tires, etc., in the other.
The " Canadian Exporter " is loading at the present time. It'is expected that with the service which the Canadian Government Merchant Marine will be able to provide between Canada, Australia and New Zealand very important business will be established.
I wish also to explain how the Government transferred these ships, built and paid for by public money, to the Canadian. Government Merchant Marine. By Order in Council these ships were transferred to the Canadian Government Merchant Marine at the, contract' price. In lieu of that the Canadian Government Merchant' Marine issued notes payable to the honourable the Minister of Finance bearing interest at thfe rate of 5i per cent. It is incumbent upon the Canadian Government Merchant Marine not only to meet the interest on the cost of construction on these vessels at 5J per cent but also to pay the principal from time to time out of earnings. I am very happy to announce that notwithstanding, as I have already explained, that only v19 vessels were for a portion of the year in commission, yet, out of earnings the Canadian Government Merchant Marine have issued a cheque to the consolidated revenue fund of Canada for $500,000 which meets the interest at the rate of 5i per cent up to the end of December 31,	1919. Hon.
members will see that the Canadian Government Merchant Marine are paying their way although they have hardly got started.
It may interest hon. members to know' what our sister Dominion of Australia is doing. Australia has half our population but is still a nation of great vision, energy and capability. Here is what Australia has done with regard to shipbuilding:
Australian Shipbuilding Programme.
In the early days of the war, Australia acquired by purchase 15 second hand Brit ish vessels with a tonnage of approximately
100,000	tons. In addition the Commonwealth Government undertook a local building programme The original programme provided for the construction of 24 steel vessels of about 5,500 tons deadweight each and 24 wooden vessels of about 2,600 tons do'i Jweight each. A second programme v^as subsequently undertaken which provided for the construction of 14 steel ships of about 6,000 tons deadweight each. In addition contracts were placed by the Australian Government for the construction of
6 vessels in United Kingdom yards of about
12.000	tons deadweight.
When Australia completes her programme she will possess a total tonnage of 348,400 tons net, a very good merchant marine for our .-overseas Dominions to have.
Before the minister leaves
the subject of net profits, will he be good enough to tell us how much of the profits has been set aside to. rest account for depreciation.


I have not with me at the present time all the details of the organizations' bookkeeping.


Could the minister give the *gross amount?


That has been set aside to rest account?


Yes, to rest account for depreciation.


I am sorry I cannot give that information at the moment. I have given the gross earnings and the net earnings, and explained how these sums were arrived at, but just ihow much has been set aside to rest account I cannot say. I know that up to to-day the organization has in the bank, in the shape of cash and victory bonds, the large amount of one and one-half millions, but just what portion of that has been set aside for depreciation I cannot at present state. However, I shall endeavour to get the information for the hon. gentleman before the discussion on this item is finished.


I would like to have the information if possible before the debate closes.


Is that over and above
the $500,000 cheque that was placed with the Department of Finance?


The cheque of $500,000 was paid out of the net earnings as I have stated.	\


I might state that since asking for the dates of the contracts, I have received the desired information.


I now come to another important adjunct of shipping, and that is the establishment of a steel plate mill and the contract entered into by the Dominion Steel Corporation with the Government. The contract calls for 250,000 tons of ship plates, the Government obligating themselves on their part to take 50,000 tons per year for a period of five years with the

the present time has bright prospects of becoming very much bigger and greater.
That brings me to the question of subsidies. I am not going to say anything in that regard, further than that the Government have the matter under their careful consideration. The Minister of Finance, when he brings down his Budget will state, in the Government's behalf, whether or not they can see their way clear to do anything to aid the shipbuilding industry in Canada. However it will be gratifying to hon. gentlemen to know that notwithstanding the fact that Canadian shipbuilders have absolutely no protection of any kind they have been able under existing conditions to secure foreign orders in competition with shipbuilders in the Old Land.
The National Shipbuilding Company of Three Kivers-the constituency which is so worthily represented by my hon. friend (Mr. Bureau)-is at the present time engaged in the construction of six ships of
5,000	tons deadweight each, three' of 3,200 tons each and two of 6,500 tons deadweight each for foreign registry. These orders were secured from France by the National Shipbuilding ''Company of Three Eivers in competition with the world. Canadian Vickers, Limited, of Montreal, also in competition with the world, secured a contract from Norway for the construction of two steel vessels of 8,000 tons deadweight each. The Collingwood Shipbuilding Company have secured the contract for the construction of a vessel of canal size for the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, to be employed in foreign waters. That may seem to indicate that our shipbuilders can now compete with the world, on account of the conditions that I have referred to. But I am not so optimistic as to say that one or two years from now they would be able to do so without any assistance whatever.
I desire to pay a tribute to those of our Canadians who have had to do with the building of these ships. They were not skilled in the building of ships when steel shipbuilding was comrhenced on a large scale some two or three years ago. But although the designs of the ships which are being turned out in the yards from Halifax to Prince Kupert are British, the materials and workmanship are Canadian, and Canadians have demonstrated their skill in shipbuilding as they have in other walks of life, just as when the call of their country came they displayed their adaptation to military life, and their bravery in the field of battle.
Our ships are equal in design, workmanship and efficiency to any ships of the same kind that are built in the old land. I have covered the programme as fully as I have been able to; if hon. members desire to ask any questions I shall be only too pleased to answer them.


I should not
have intervened in this debate so suddenly had my hon. friend not seemed to be rather inclined, in respect of my humble efforts of a moment ago, to throw out to me a challenge across the floor. But there was not the slightest' need of that, because as he proceeded with his statement I felt that it would be my duty, if I did say anything, to express my admiration of its remarkable lucidity and arrangement and of the evident effort which the minister made to make the whole Chamber hear him-an effort in which I am glad to say that so far as I was concerned he was perfectly successful.
There were one or two points in my hon. friend's' statement which attracted my attention, upon which I made a note or two and upon which I think I am able to base a little advice to the minister, if I may be permitted to give it. I listened with interest to his statement as to the ten-year periods. I did not quite catch his figures, but I heard him say at the end that there had been a very great shrinkage in shipbuilding. I do not think that I misunderstood my hon. friend.


If my hon. friend
will allow me, I pointed out the very reverse of that. I was endeavouring to convey an impression of the magnitude of the wooden shipbuilding business away, back in 1875, and to show, by reference to ten-year periods, how the shipbuilding industry of Canada had declined from 1875 until recent years, when it had regained the big tonnage of that earlier period.


That is exactly as I understood my hon. friend; that from 1875 until the most recent period there had been a shrinkage in the shipping of Canada. I understood him perfectly, and he will see why I was very glad so to understand him, as I am a strict follower of truth in these matters. May I point out to my hon. friend, who has always been a strong supporter of the National Policy, though he supported it under the name of Liberal, that from 1875 until the recent period of the war is the period covered by the National Policy?


1878.


Hon gentlemen may console themselves all they can with



those three years. So that my hon. friend (Mr. Ballantyne) of all men, comes before us to point out that under the National Policy the shipbuilding of Canada shrank.


If the hon. member will allow me a question


My hon. friend talked for a long time; he will have to listen to me for a little while now. I am not surprised to have heard the minister make the statement that he did; indeed, I knew that it must be so. The United States, as I have often pointed out in the House, set out in the middle of the last century to be a great competitor of Great Britain in shipping, but in the middle oi that century she went in for a national policy of her own and drove herself from the ocean. When Nova Scotia had the shipping, before the period of 1875, to which my hon. friend refers with pride, she had a nominal tariff. So it must always be; shrinkage is sure to take place under restriction. It is under freedom that expansion takes place. So far as the sea is concerned, the two little islands, specks in the German ocean, have given an example to the world of what freedom will do for shipbuilding which has never been equalled and cannot and never will be surpassed. They built and owned before the war more than half the entire shipping of the globe.
Now, it may be desirable that we should have a shipbuilding policy in Canada, and it may not; but the facts to which I have just drawn attention surely have a most important bearing upon what the policy of the Government is to be with regard to a continuance of Government shipbuilding.
I was touched by the pathos of the appeal' which my hon. friend made to the manufacturers of Canada. He said: " For goodness sake, buck up and export some." My hon. friend is no better than Pharaoh; he wants the manufacturers of Canada to make bricks without straw. If you exclude imports to your shores you just as certainly prevent exports from your shores. As a general principle of trade that is as certain as any of the Ten Commandments, and. as safe.
I observed as I listened to my hon. friend that lumber bulked very largely in his very interesting list of the goods that these Canadian ships have been carrying. What is the lesson of that? It is that if .Canada is to meet her enormous liabilities in this reconstruction period, and her financial commitments abroad, Canada's exports must consist very largely of raw materials and food for years to come. The Minister

of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton) and the ex-Minister of Finance (Sir Thomas White) know what I mean. I may expand this line of thought if I am permitted to make a few remarks upon the Budget; but men of the highest prominence in the financial world in this country, men at the heads of our banks, have been pointing out that, to meet our financial obligations abroad, this country must have a surplus export of somewhere in the neighbourhood of $200,000,000 for some years to come. I do not wonder that my hon. friend wants to see tour export- trade expand; but that export trade, I repeat, must expand, if we are to reach solvency and prosperity as a nation, in the shape of food and raw materials. My hon friend does not for a moment expect that there is going to be any shrinkage in our export of food and raw materials, does he? He. does not expect our wheat fields to produce less; he does not expect our western-farms to produce a smaller quantity of stock; he does not expect our huge forests to put out less lumber. Will my hon. friend answer me a question, and this all has a bearing upon the advice which I wish to tender very modestly to the Government? If we are to export manufactured goods and food and raw material, we cover the whole field of commerce; what is my hon. friend going to bring in? Ships to be profitably run must carry goods both ways. I -am not. referring to war time; I am referring to times of peace. Does my hon. friend want to build up a shipping industry composed entirely of an export traffic? In that case, I want to tell him that will not be a paying line of shipping; ships want cargoes both ways. I hope my hon. friend and the Government generally will pay very great attention to the question I have just put if they are going to embark upon any further business of shipping. If you export manufactured goods, food and raw materials, what are you going to bring in? The answer is-nothing, and you . are going to commit yourselves to a shipping policy which is to be made a paying proposition by conveying goods only one way.
With regard to my hon. friend's statement, as I said before, I have not the least idea of attacking him or his policy in any way. In the period, of the -world through which we are passing, that man best .serves his country who seeks for occasion to commend where possible rather than to criticize, who seeks for occasion to construct rather than to destroy.
I want to congratulate my hon. friend that he has come out of this business as

well as he has, despite his figures which were somewhat homeopathic in dosage about the cost of plates. I am just going to permit myself to reiterate an opinion I expressed last year; that some of his bargains for steel plates were, to say the least, not very profitable. I hope that is not a very far departure from the desire to help which, I have just indicated, animates my bosom.
As I think I gathered from my hon. friend, he is not in favour of government ownership as. applied to ships. I rather thought I gathered that that was his policy and the policy of the Government. In that case there would be no need of advice from-me, because I should find myself absolutely at one with the Government. I think the sound principle in regard to government-ownership is this:-Where public services aie, in their real nature, a monopoly, then they might be profitably and wisely managed for the whole of the people; if they are a monopoly, then their profits ought to redound to the whole public. But if there is a possibility of competition, then the matter should be left to private enterprise.


Railroads.


Did I hear
someone whisper " railroads?" The defense of the policy of nationalization of railroads was a two-fold one; that whether you believed in the principle or not, the things were in such a condition in Canada that you had to take them, willy-nilly. But I do not want to take refuge behind an answer of that kind. Railroads are in this country at the present time virtually a monopoly. Does any hon. gentleman in this House contend that there is real competition betwen our railroads as regards passenger and freight rates? Freight and passenger lates are both controlled in old England, controlled by Act of Parliament. I contend that railroads are in their nature a monopoly, and I anticipated the interruption and am grateful to my hon. -friend for giving me an opportunity to vindicate my own consistency. In the case of ships, no one will urge the same contention. Wherever you have a seaboard and ports, you can have ships built by private enterprise, building them in one port here, in another there and in another further on and so on all round your coast. That is the piinciple I should apply; that is the way I should look at the principle of government ownership, and, therefore, I contend 404	,
that this business is not one for the Government to extend.
Here, let me say-and this is by way of emphasizing and driving home things that I have already hinted at-whether success is attained in shipbuilding or not depends entirely upon fiscal policy. An admiral giving evidence before a United States Congress committee said not long ago:	"We
had better make up our minds whether uTe really wa.nt a merchant marine or not. If we do want a merchant marine, there is only one straight course to having it and that is by having free trade." Every one who has studied, the subject knows that, and I enforce it by the simple argument I made in reply to the minister when I rose on this floor to-day. Shipbuilding will be successful or unsuccessful according to your fiscal policy. If you have a tariff barrier round your shores, you will never be a great shipping nation whatever else you may rise to. History proves that and will continue to demonstrate it unless the world gets more rapidly wise than it has done up to now, although I am extremely hopeful upon that subject because changes are happening very rapidly in the world at the present moment, in the field of politics, in the field of commerce, and in the field- of enterprise of all kinds. My point is this:	If you have the right fiscal
policy, private enterprise will build your ships; if you have a wrong fiscal policy, then neither Government nor private enterprise can build ships for long successfully.
It is elementary and obvious that two things are required for running ships. One is a sea-going traffic and the other is seamen. I have dealt with the one; what about the other? Seamen are naturally also the result of policy.
Nova Scotians in the early and middle portions of the nineteenth century liked the smell of the briny as well as the old country people did, but they lost the smell. The National Policy extinguished it. What is the condition in regard to seamen in the world to-day? There may be hon. memoer of this-House who do not know the fact- t am sure they will be pleased to hear it- that at the present moment in spite of all the drain of the war Great Britain has the finest and the most numerous set of marine officers and men that she has ever had in her history. The reason is very apparent. Liking the sea as they did, their was no compulsion in their choosing it in large numbers while the war was on. We know what Great Britain did on the sea while the war was on. Very large numbers of her

sons, instead of fighting in the trenches, [DOT] took themselves to the ocean. Fortunately, they are not needed any longer for fighting, but having got a taste of the briny, and the thing being in their blood anyhow, they are being drafted into the merchant marine. I just want to say this, and I am sure the House will not attribute any insular boastfulness to me on this point, that the Finance Minister, or any government of any country -who think that it is going to be an easy thing two or three years hence to compete with Great Britain, either in building, manning', or sailing ships, will have to waken up and change their fiscal policy.
We have heard a great deal about what the United States has done in shipbuilding. I was in Orillia last Friday, and as I came down on the train I met a returned soldier with whom I had a very interesting conversation. I very soon found out that he came from Boston. He had been an officer, and understood business conditions in the United States. I said to him, "You are building a lot of ships down there, aren't you?" "Yes," he said, "but our people are not very keen on the project because they find, taking conditions all round, it is going to be difficult for them to compete with Great Britain." No humbug about the average Yankee. That is the latest news I have direct from Boston as to the hopefulness of the United States people in being able to compete with Great Britain. I trust the Government will inform themselves fully along these lines before they embark upon any further shipbuilding enterprise, after this vote has been passed and after present contracts have been finished.
Something was said about subsidies by my hon. friend (Mr. Ballantyne) before he sat down. I have had no reason up to now to have the least doubt as 'to the financial sanity of the present 'Minister of Finance, and therefore I scarcely need to offer him any advice. He does not find money any too plentiful at the present moment; he has lots of holes for all the money he has got. I observe that Mr. Austen Chamberlain, the Chancellor of the Exchequer of Great Britain, has lately laid down a policy under two or three heads. One is the cessation of borrowing; the other is the establishment of a sinking fund to obliterate gradually the national debt. If projects like that have any attraction for my hon. friend, he will turn a very deaf ear indeed to people who are coming to him for subsidies for any purpose under the sun. What the country wants at the present moment is a

wise administration of the common law, a government that does not do so many things, but only does wise things when it does them, a government that will keep the tightest possible hold on the strings of the public purse. If the Government' will govern along these lines, keeping out of all foolish projects and turning a deaf ear to people who come to them for Government doles, and my hon. friend the Minister of Finance will bring in an improvement in our system of taxation and an improvement in our fiscal policy, then I have sufficient faith in the people of this country, and in the country itself, to express my firm and sincere belief that in spite of all we have gone through as a young nation we shall before many years are over overtake some of the mistakes that have been made, and find ourselves in a splendid condition of national prosperity and financial stability.


Mr. Speaker, the matter before the House is of great national importance. I have listened to the breath of Cobdenism Which has floated across the Chamber today from my hon. friend from Red Deer (Mr. Clark), and I want to say to him and to other hon. gentlemen who entertain his views that a great many things have happened since Cobden was on this earth- things of very great importance to the British Empire, and of great importance to shipbuilding and other industries both in Great Britain and Canada.
I do not think that anybody in this House will for one moment combat the proposal of the Minister of Marine (Mr. Ballantyne) to complete his shipbuilding programme. I think the country is to be congratulated that we have as Minister of Marine a man who in addition to doing his share in the war, raising a regiment and going to the Front, has had a business career of which any man in this country might well be proud. I think as Canadians we are very proud indeed of having him as a member of this House and a member of the Government. What he has done for shipbuilding and shipping in Canada is a very remarkable achievement. Early in the war he decided that if the shipbuilding business was good enough for Great Britain to carry on in Canada, it was good enough for Canada to invest her money in, and he decided to have Canadian ships built in Canada in the interests of Canada. He went into the project, fearlessly, in spite of very severe criticism by many newspapers and by some hon. gentlemen opposite, and to-day he is

in this remarkable position, that he could sell his ships for more money than they cost, and in addition, in operating them he has made a substantial business profit. That is certainly a unique achievement in [DOT] the history of. governments, and it is one upon which the Minister of Marine and the Government and iMr. Hanna and the gentlemen who are operating these ships are to be congratulated, and for which they will receive the thanks of the people of this country. Not only that, but with unexampled foresight the Minister of Marine made a contract for steel plates with the Dominion Steel Company. My hon. friend from Red Deer has sneered at the National Policy and given as an example the failure of Nova Scotia to produce ships, but he was about twenty-five or thirty years behind the time in that observation, because the ships he was talking .of were wooden ships and they were disappearing as fast as they could after '74, '75 and '78, and steel ships were coming in.
The Government took measures to establish a steel plate industry in Canada in order to put Canada on her feet in the matter of shipbuilding. For shipbuilding you must have shipyards, steel plates, and skilled labour, and to-day through the efforts of the Minister of Marine and the ^Government we have these three requisites in Canada, and in splendid shape. Before this we were at the mercy of the United States for plates. Moreover, the Minister of Marine did not tell the whole story; he was too modest. If you try to order steel plate in the United States to-day you will find you cannot get them. The Minister of Marine made such a contract that to-day he is being offered higher prices than the Government is paying. He could sell his contract to-day for a million dollars without any effort. That is what he has done, and that is the kind of Government you are getting from business men associated with the business of the country.
Coming back to the shipbuilding industry, it is interesting to point out that when the war started we were building very few steel ships, and we should be grateful to Great Britain for what she has done through the Imperial Munitions Board towards establishing shipyards in this country, and developing the shipbuilding genius of Canadians who at that time were certainly not skilled in shipbuilding. These contracts were at comparatively high prices, which the minister informs us were higher than his prices, although wages and material were higher at the time he let his contracts. I agree with him, but I want to
point out that the Canadian workmen from the moment they started shipbuilding began to improve and are still improving and becoming more efficient and I venture to say that if the industry were accorded the care and protection which shook:': be given to any growing industry from its Inception and until it gets firmly on its feet- and that is apolicy whichl believeis a sound one-in five years from the present time the. Canadian shipbuilder will be just as good-as any workman in the British shipyards' who has been engaged in this occupation all his life. The Government took up the shipbuilding plan and the result of their operations, in conjunction with the efforts of the different shipbuilding yards, has been that these yards have been running to capacity, and the business,'started with perhaps a few million dollars, has to-day practically fifty million dollars invested in it. This industry has a payroll of forty million dollars, and over fifty million dollars is invested in subsidiary industries which are maintained for the supply of such accessories as engines, boilers and all the appurtenances that go to make up the ship apart from the hull. There are twenty-three or twenty-fbur thousand people employed in the industry proper, and twenty-three or twenty-four thousand in the subsidiary industries; and, making the usual allowances in 'an estimate of the number of people dependent on any industry, there are over two hundred thousand people to-day who derive their subsistence from shipbuilding in this country. In addition to this, a sum of over one hundred million dollars is invested m tins industry, and the dependent industries. These facts are of ihe greatest importance and call for the serious consideration of the people of Canada.
The interest in shipbuilding is very widespread in Canada, for there are two or three large yards in Nova Scotia, four or five in Quebec, five or six in Ontario, and three or four in British Columbia. Altogether, practically four-fifths of the people of the country are interested in the maintenance and upbuilding of our shipping industry.
Nov, what is the position of our industry relatively to that of the United States? I say fearlessly, and confirming what the minister has said, that we can to-day beat the United States in prices in shipbuilding, and with the deepening of the Welland Canal, which I trust will soon be accomplished, when we commence to build six hundred foot boats on the lakes, four or five years hence, we shall be able to equal if not surpass the American shipbuilders. My


Does my hon. friend know that Lord Robert Cecil, the eminent British statesman, who may be Prime Minister any of these fine mornings, recently advised England and -the world that what we want to-day is to get rid of the war mind?


evidenced I am sure the Government will consult and consider in coming to any conclusion as to what is the best policy for the shipbuilding industry. I am glad that we have the distinguished gentleman who now occupies the position of Minister of Marine (Mr. Ballantyne) in charge of the shipping interests of this country, and I believe that he has associated with him those who will give this matter their most careful consideration and that the shipbuilding industry will receive fair play.


Mr. Chairman, I am sure that we have all enjoyed greatly the excellent address which we have listened to from the hon. the Minister of Marine and Naval Affairs (Mr. Ballantyne) this afternoon. We also had much pleasure in hearing from that stalwart free trader the hon. member for Bed Deer (Mr. Clark) and that stalwart believer in high protection the hon. member for Centre Toronto (Mr. Bristol). With regard to the remarks of the Minister of Marine, I think most of us were greatly surprised when we received our copy of the Estimates yesterday and noticed the modest amount he is asking for. One of the reasons why I was surprised was that a few days ago I saw in one.of the newspapers, I think it was the Morning Chronicle of Halifax, the following desptach:
Hon. C. C. Ballantyne, Minister of Marine, announced to-night at the annual dinner of the Dominion Marine Association, held at the Windsor Hotel, that the Government has under consideration the building of passenger steamships of 15,000 gross tons in connection with the Canadian National Railways. Mr. Ballantyne briefly reviewed the operations of the Canadian Government merchant marine and stated that the net profits on the steamship service had been a very handsome one.
In view of the fact that the Minister of Marine made that statement a few weeks ago, it certainly is a surprise to me, as it must have been to other hon. members of this House, to see that he has only asked for the small sum of $20,000,000. Twenty million dollars will not go very far in building passenger ships for ocean service. Perhaps the Government had a caucus and the hon. member could not get his way as happened in ^ regard to the naval policy in connection with the report submitted by Lord Jellicoe. The minister told us during the course of his remarks that the Government started this policy of building cargo ships to be operated by the Canadian Government Merchant Marine in May, 1918. When the minister introduced this policy during the war, although we did not be-

lieve in government ownership of ships, we realized that as ships were being sunk in all parts of the world, there was nothing for us to do but to agree to that policy. But the war ended in November of tha| year and if the war was over and ships .were no longer being sunk it was not necessary to go further in making future contracts. The minister told us that contracts were made in January,of this year. It seems to me that it is bad policy for any Government to go into the shipbuilding and ship operating business. It is a matter which should be left entirely to private individuals; it is not a business for the Government to engage in. The Canadian people themselves can build and operate ships as well as the minister can. I am sure that he believed that he was giving a very glowing account of what his department had done during the past year. I say it was a very poor showing. The minister told us that with nineteen steamers-I presume of an average tonnage of about 4,000 tons deadweight which would make them cost anywhere from $10,000,000 to $15,000,000-there was a profit of $1,500,000 on their operation. Well, Sir, if the little boats that I am interested in only made that much profit comparatively in recent years I would sell them and sell them quickly. The only reason why that large profit was made-of course the minister did not say so but it is evident to everybody-was because the conditions that existed to-day, and which have prevailed for the last two or three years, were entirely unprecedented and it is only a matter of a few months, or a year at the outside when these ships, which have made a profit of a million arid a half dollars under abnormal (conditions, will go into debt-each one. of them.
It must have been gratifying to hon. gentlemen on this side when the Minister spoke of the excellent work that was being done in the shipyards of this country. My mind went back about ten years when the Liberal Party were in power and wanted to build a navy. They told the people of this country that they could do so but hon. gentlemen opposite, who at that time were supporting the Conservative Party, said that we could not build ships, we could not find rivetters-in fact we could not do anything in that line. My hon. friends opposite at that time called to their aid the Bt. Hon. Winston Churchill who made the statement that there was not a spot on the North American continent, to say nothing of Canada, where we could lay down the keel of a ship. Despite that we have had the admission of to-day from the Minister

of Marine. I am glad he acknowledged, -and the hon. member for Centre Toronto acknowledged the same thing-that Canadian workmen can build as good ships as British workmen can build. I am proud of the fact, we are all proud of it; the only differencfe is that we on this side knew il, years ago and hon. gentlemen opposite are only finding it out now.
I noticed that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bristol) in complimenting the Minister for his shipbuilding policy said he could sell those Government ships at a greater price than they cost. Well, Sir, my advice to the Minister is to sell those ships as quickly as he possibly can and the sooner the better. If he can sell those ships at a higher price than he paid for them, or at even as high a price, there is no reason why the Government of Canada should stay in the , shipbuilding business. If those ships can be sold at a profit, private enterprise firms like The Canadian Shipyards, or Vickers Limited or any of the other shipbuilding firms can go 'out and get the business themselves. I notice that the Three Rivers Shipbuilding Company have had no contract from this Government and that nevertheless they have gone abroad and obtained outside contracts. If the business is good and the ships turned out can be sold at a profit every shipyard in this country can . go out and get business for itself. Therefore there is no necessity for the Canadian Government to buy ships and interfere with the operations of private enterprise.
The Minister endeavoured to show that it was necessary to have those ships in order to build up our trade. It was quite true that while the war was on ships were scarce; but, Sir, with the shipbuilding programmes undertaken in Great Britain, the United States, and other countries that condition is not going to continue and I say that the Government has no more right to go into the shipbuilding business than it has to enter upon the manufacture of boots and shoes or candy. It should leave that business to those who are willing to invest their money in it. The Minister gave us a glowing account of the shipbuilding operations but I would like to draw his attention to facts set forth in the Toronto Globe of a recent issue. I have a copy of the paper in my hand and practically an entire page is taken up with an advertisement from the United States Shipbuilding Emergency Corporation in which they offer for sale 441 ships with a tonnage of 1,543,500 tons, and 31 barges with a total of 77,500 tons. In other words the United States
Government are offering for sale at the present time 500 boats representing practically 2,000,000 tons of shipping. Now, Sir, if private individuals put up their money and buy these boats is it fair that they should be subject to competition from the Canadian Government?	-
The hon. member (Mr. Bristol) gave us a reason why; we could not build ships in Canada as cheaply as they can in Great Britain that the workmen in the United Kingdom do not get as good wages as do our mechanics. In reply to that let me say that if there is one Qlass of people in Great Britain to-day-and throughout the war and in pre-war times-who receive good wages it is the men in the Clyde Shipyards and other shipyards in the Old Country; and any person who says that the reason for their being able to build ships cheaper over there is on account of lower wages is certainly not acquainted with the facts. This statement is also true with respect to the hours of labour for the British machinists, engineers and shipbuilders do not work any longer hours than those in any other part of the world.
Now, Sir, what about the future of the shipbuilding industry in this country? Is the Government going to continue its policy of building ships just for the sake of having something to do, for I presume if it does that will be the sole reason? If private individuals are willing to build ships I cannot see any good reason wThy the Government should also enter into the business. A