Amendment to Radio-Telegraph Regulation No. 92.-Hon. Mr. Ballantyne.
Report of the Department of Soldiers' Civil Re-establishment.-Mr. Hugh Clark.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Is it the intention of the Government to abolish the Board of Commerce?
2.	If not, does the Government intend giving said Board, by means of legislation, more powers with regard to either textile, dairy or newsprint situation?


1.	The Government has not had under consideration any legislation with regard to, abolishing the Board of Commerce.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	What were the enlistments in the Canadian Expeditionary Force, 1914 to 1919, by provinces?
2 What are the number of C.E.F. pensioners, in each province!, and the amount paid for C.E.F. pensions in each province, as of January 1, 1920?


1.	No definite information can be furnished: until all documents have been returned, from overseas and compilations made, but the following are the figures for enlistments, 1914 to 15th November, 1918, obtained from returns rendered by telegraph from the several Military Districts and allotted to the provinces from which such recruits were-obtained:
Ontario, 245,677; Quebec, 82,793; New Brunswick, 25,864; Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, 33,342; Manitoba, 66,319;. Saskatchewan, 37,666; Alberta, 45,146; British Columbia, 51,438; Yukon, 2,327; total, 590,572.
2.	Number of C.E.F. pensioners in each province as at January 1, 1920:
Ontarfo, 25,660; Quebec, 6,111; Manitoba, 5,411; Alberta, 6,269; Saskatchewan, 4,585; British Columbia, 6,436; Prince Edward Island, 384; New Brunswick, 2,053; Nova: Scotia, 3,315; total, 60,224.
IMr. Ballantyne.]

Amount paid to C.E.F. pensioners in each province, as at January, 1920:
Ontario, $5,091,200.60; Quebec, $1,212,483.51; Manitoba, $1,073,596.51; Alberta, $1,243,32.29; Saskatchewan, $909,709.85; British Columbia, $1,276,966.76; Prince Edward Island, $76,189.44; New Brunswick, $407,335.73; Nova Scotia, $657,729.15; total, $11,949,043.84.


Mr. CASGRA1N:
1.	Is the Government aware that three members of the Cabinet visited the Carleton-Viotoria county. New Brunswick, in the latter part of the month of October, 1919?
2.	If so, what was the object of their visit?
3.	Was the visit undertaken in connection with official business of the Government?
4.	Was the object of the visit of these gentlemen attained?
5.	Was a government private car used m connection with the visit of the ministers to Carleton-Victoria county, as above?
1.	The Government is aware that three members of the Cabinet visited Carleton-Victoria county, New Brunswick, in the latter part of the month of October, 1919.
2.	The object of their visit was to take part in an election for a member of the House of Commons which was being held at that time in that county.
3.	I do not know that any official business was transacted by those gentlemen while they were there.
4.	Whether the object of their visit was attained or not can be answered by each individual according to his wishes or his views. It was not entirely barren in respect to the efforts of some of these gentlemen.
5.	A Government private car was not used for the expedition.


1.	How many official and business cars are there in use at the present time in operation of the Canadian National Railway system?
2.	Are the operating expenses of these cars charged to Pullman account?
1 3. If not, to what account?


1.	Forty-one official cars used by the management and superintendents in connection with operation over entire system of 14,000 miles.
2.	No.
3.	The expenses of the above cars are charged to operating expenses under the headings of administration and superintendence.


1.	What is tho policy of the Government on the question of the expulsion of the Turk from Europe?
2.	Has the Government been consulted on this question?
3.	If so, will the correspondence be made public?


The terms of the Treaty with Turkey have been under consideration by the Government and the Government has made representations in reference thereto. An announcement will be made in due course.
MILITARY EXPEDITION TO CHICOUTIMI. Mr. SAVARD:
1.	What were the costs incurred during ithe fall of 1918, in connection with the expedition of a regiment, in command of Lieut.-Colonel L. A. Beaubien, to Chicoutimi?
2.	How long was the said regiment stationed at Chicoutimi?
3.	How many officers and men comprised the regiment?
4.	How many conscripted men were exempted from military service or obtained leave of absence?
5.	How many defaulters were brought to Quebec by1 the police?
6.	How many of such defaulters died in military hospitals?


1.	Pay and allowances, 15 officers and 234 other ranks, 19-9-18 to 15-11-18, $18,568.70; travelling expenses, $3,153.37; total, $21,722.07.
2.	Prom 19th September, 1918, to 15th November, 1918.
3.	15 officers, 234 other ranks; total 249 all ranks.
4.	The number of defaulters dealt with by this detachment was 601, of which number 316 were granted leave owing to low category, 173 were granted harvest leave, 9 leave of absence, 98 sent to Quebec.
5.	98 defaulters were brought to Quebec by military police.
6.	4 of such defaulters died in military hospital; two of pneumonia and two of influenza.


1.	What attitude has the Government taken toward the One Big Union?
2.	Is it considered to be a legal organization?


1.	The Government has not given any recognition to the " One Big Union."

2.	The question of the legality or other- 6. Yes. Ontario and Quebec each $10,000. wise of this organization has not been deter- New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Manitoba, mined as yet by any court decision in Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Colum-Canada.	bia, each $5,000.
ILLEGAL LOBSTER FISHING PROSECU-	The Government has no information.
TIONS.	8. No.


1.	Have any prosecutions been brought during the calendar year 1919 for illegal lobster fishing?
2.	If so, how many, and what is the gross amount of the fines collected?


1.	Yes.
2.	83 prosecutions; $2,350-also collected, $45 outstanding as time was given by the Justices for making payment.


1.	How much was paid into the Consolidated Revenue as the proceeds of the fish caught by Government Steamer "33" under the direction of Mr. J. J. Cowie, referred to on pages 46, 47 and 48 of the Annual Fisheries Report, 1918?
2.	What was the gross cost of the said fishing operations for the said season, including coal, fishing nets and gear, wages, salaries, repairs, supplies, and expenditures of every description connected therewith?


1.	$1,780.57.
2.	$10,384.94.


1.	Has it been decided to hold an Imperial Press Conference in Canada?
2.	If so, when and at what place?
3.	Who are to be the officers responsible for calling the Conference and carrying it through?
4.	How much is Canada contributing towards the expense of the Conference?
5.	Is the Government aware that the Executive Council of the National Union of Journalists has declined the invitation to send a delegate to the next Imperial Press Conference?
6.	Have the Provincial Governments been asked to help in financing the Conference, and if so, have all or any of them agreed to do so, and to what extent in each case?
7.	Can Publishers be included in the Conference along with Journalists?
8.	Has the Conference been changed from a Conference of Journalists as was intended to a Conference of Publishers?


1.	Yes.
2.	Ottawa, August 4 to 7, 1920.
3.	Canadian Press Association.
4.	Under consideration.
5.	No.


,1. What was the total expense of the Canadian Mission in London from its inception to its close?
2.	What are the names of those to whom salaries equivalent to one thousand dollars per annum, and over, were paid, and the aggregate amount paid to each?
3.	What was the number of those who were engaged with the Mission whose salaries were less than one thousand dollars per annum, and the aggregate amount paid to all?
4.	What were the expenses of the Mission: (a) for office rent; (b) for house rent; (c) for food and household expenses; (d) railway transportation; (e) motor transportation.


1.	Canada is included in the first-class under the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union and therefore contributes on this basis to the expenses of the Secretariat of the League of Nations as provided in Article 6 of the Covenant of the League.
2.	No.
3.	No.
4.	The actual amount which Canada may be called upon to contribute will necessarily depend upon the number and classification of the States which ultimately become members of the League of Nations.
5.	Expenses will be provided by means of an estimate submitted to the House.


1.	Why was the Contract not awarded and the work proceeded with on the wharf at Gascons, Quebec, after said work had been auth-ized by Parliament, and after tenders had been called for by the Department of Public Works?
2.	Does the Government intend proceeding with this work during the present season?


1.	and 2. Information will be given when Estimates are laid before Parliament.


Who is the engineer at present in charge of public works in Bonaventure County?


L. G. Trudeau is acting as District Engineer.	*


Does the Government intend repairing the wharves at St. Omer, St. Bonaventure and St. Charles de Caplan, Bonaventure county, during the present season?


Information will be
given when the Estimates are laid before Parliament.


1.	Does the Government intend giving effect to the request made by a deputation of citizens
of Matane, Bonaventure and Cxasp6 counties for further assistance towards improving the highway running parallel to the Intercolonial railway in the Matapedia Valley on the ground that most of said highway has been displaced to make way for the railway and is at present almost impassable for some twenty miles and more through territory unorganized municipally?
2.	How much has been expended on this road by the Department of Public Works since 1911?


1.	No.
2.	$10,497.12.


1.	Has the Government lately received a request for the erection of an interprovincial highway bridge over the Restigouche River at Campbellton, N.B., and Cross Point, Quebec? If so, from whom?
2.	Has any action been taken or is any contemplated?
3.	If contemplated, is it the intention of the Government to erect a highway bridge only or adhere to the original scheme of putting up a combined railway and highway bridge?


1,	2 and 3. No.


1.	To whom has the contract for the interprovincial ferry between Campbellton, N.B., and Cross Point, Quebec, been let, at what price, and for what term?
2.	Is the present rate an increase over the old one?
3.	Are there new conditions in the contract as to the fares and hours of service?
4.	If so, wThat are they?
5.	Who were the tenderers and what were the respective tenders?


1 and 5. Contract not yet awarded.
2,	3 and 4. New regulations provide that for six hours during the day, at times of least traffic, one round trip only will be made every hour instead of every half hour. No change in fare except that tariff for one automobile with driver is fixed at thirty cents each way, this being the same rate as for a single team.


1.	Does the Government contemplate taking over the Quebec, Oriental and Atlantic, Quebec and Western Railways for the purpose of linking up these roads with the Canadian National Railway System?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.

Mr. MARCIL (Bonaventure).
1.	Have any complaints been received by the Board of Railway Commissioners in the last twelve months concerning the service given the public by the Quebec, Oriental and Atlantic and the Quebec and Western Railways?
2.	If so, what action has been taken?


1.	Yes. Complaints have been received from Messrs, the Hon. Chas. Marcil, Mr. John Hall Kelly, and others.
2.	The complaints have been investigated by the Board with the railway company and the financial conditions disclosed do not warrant any additional service during the winter months to that being given by the Company.
Mr. MARCIL (Bonaventure).
1.	Has the Board of Railway Commissioners satisfied itself that the Quebec, Oriental and Atlantic and the Quebec and Western railways are sufficiently equipped in steam power, passenger and freight cars required for the business on these roads?
2.	If not, does it contemplate doing so in view of the oomplaints made in this regard?


1.	Yes. The Board has satisfied itself that the line is sufficiently equipped with steam power also sufficient passenger cars. The company depends upon other lines, for freight cars the bulk of its traffic being through traffic with other roads.
2.	See answer to No. 1.
Mr. MARCIL (Bonaventure).
1.	Was the suspension of the daily train and mail service on the Quebec. Oriental and Atlantic and the Quebec and Western railways, -during the present winter, authorized by the Post Office Department or by the Board of Railway Commissioners?
2.	Is a daily train and mail service at present given on these roads, Sundays excepted? If not, why?


1.	No. The time table was filed by the
railway company in the usual manner and notice given to the public of the change of service.	y
2.	No. The present service given by the company is a tri-weekly passenger train Matapedia. to Gaspe, a mixed train service Matapedia to New Carlisle, and an accommodation tri-weekly New Carlisle to Gasp<5 Mail is carried daily between Matapedia and New Carlisle. The reason assigned by the company for restricted service is on account of its financial condition.
EDMONTON POST OFFICE-PARCEL DOST. Mr. MACKIE (Edmonton).
1. Has the Postmaster General's Department succeeded in placing any responsibility for the 
disappearance of a parcel of money, fifty thousand dollars, from the Post Office in the City of Edmonton?
2. Has Georg-e Armstrong, Postmaster, been exonerated in connection with the theft of said parcel ?


1.	The case is still under investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
2.	No charge whatever has been made against the Postmaster in reference to this loss.


Mr. ETHIER.
1.	Were tenders called for the postal service between S't. Hermas village and the C.P.R. Station at St. Hermas, Quebec?
2.	What mail carrier was in charge of this service before the calling of tenders for the new contract?
3.	What was the amount of this contract?
4.	Why were new tenders called?
5.	How many tenderers were there, what are their names and the amount of their respective tenders?
6.	To whom was the contract awarded?
7.	At what price?
1.	Yes.
2.	M. Lafond.
3.	$348.00.
4.	Contractor Lafond refused to renew his expiring contract on existing terms from 1st April, 1920.
5.	Three: Janvier Lacombe, $396, reduced to $374; Euclide Levert, $587.50, reduced to $348; Zenon Filion, $600, reduced to $490.
6.	Euclide Levert.
7.	$348.


'
1.	Is the Government erecting and equipping a salmon hatchery on the Skeena river, British Columbia?
2.	Is so, at what particular part of the river is said .hatchery being erected?
3.	Is it being built and equipped by contract or otherwise?
4.	Were tenders asked for?
5.	If so, what are the names of the tenderers and the respective amount of each tender?
6.	When will the hatchery be completed?
7.	Is the Williamson and Parry system for the propagation of salmon being installed in said hatchery? If so, why?


1.	Yes.
2.	On Granite creek, Lakelse lake.
3.	Built by day labour under the direction of the resident engineer.
4.	No.
5.	Answered by No. 4.
6.	September 1, 1920.
7.	No.

CITY POST OFFICES IN QUEBEC [DOT]	PROVINCE.


1.	How many post offices are there in the following cities: Quebec, Three Rivers, Shaw-inigan, Grand MSre, Riviere du Loup?
2.	What is the population of each of these cities?


1.	Quebec-Head office, four postal stations and nine sub-offices; Three Rivers-head office and two sub-offices; Shawinigan Falls-head office and one Sub-office; Grand Mere-two post offices; Riviere du Loup- four post offices.
2.	Population-Quebec, 108,366; Three Rivers, 23,000; Shawinigan Falls, 12,000; Grand Mere, 8,000; Riviere du Loup, 8,715.


1.	How many institutions, colleges or schools in Canada, were provided by the Department of Militia with military uniforms for their pupils?
2.	How many in each province?
3.	What is the total number of students and pupils who have been so furnished with military uniforms at the expense of the Government?
4.	What is the total cost of these uniforms? Hon. Mr. GUTHRIE:
1.	230 (odd, partly worn and under-sized uniforms).
2.	Nova Scotia, 9; New Brunswick, 20; Quebec, 21; Ontario, 106; Manitoba, 4; Saskatchewan, 34; Alberta, 21; British Columbia, 15.
3.	Approximately 16,000, all of whom were only partially outfitted, not completely, as stock was available.
4.	$63,841.90.


L What is the number of military instructors sent by the Government to give military instructions in the different educational institutions in the country?
2. What is the amount paid, by month, by the Government to these instructors?


1 and 2. No military instructors are sent to educational institutions, except at the request of the educational authorities concerned, and then only when instructors are available.
At the present time there are only six permanent force instructors detailed to the physical training cadre, permanent. The special duty of these non-commissioned officers is to teach physical training in the various normal schools, at the request of tjie educational authorities.
In addition to these, there are two noncommissioned officers in military district No. 4, Montreal, and three in military district No. 5, Quebec, and one in military district No. 7, St. John, who are assisting in the instruction of cadet corps.
At any place where permanent troops are stationed, the general officer commanding might utilize the services of a permanent force non-commissioned officer to help with the instruction of cadet corps, if required to do so, and his services could be spared.
, These instructors receive the ordinary C.E.F. rates of pay of their rank. The number varies from time to time.
/


1.	Was the steamer C.G.S. "Simcoe" built in Canada?
2.	If not, where and when?
3.	What was her gross net and deadweight
tonnage?	/
4.	When did she last undergo overhauling and repairs?
5.	Was she a fit vessel for ocean navigation?
6.	Was she a seaworthy vessel for the purpose which she was put to?
7.	When and where was she lost?


1.	No.
2.	Newcastle-on-Tyne, G.B.,_1909.
3.	Gross 913.38; net 437.63; deadweight, unknown.
4.	October, 1917.
5.	Yes.
6.	Yes.
7.	December 7, 1917, southwest of Magdalen islands, Quebec, in gulf of St. Lawrence.


1.	Is it the intention of the Government to substitute electric locomotives on the Grand Trunk railway, to enter the city of Montreal from the western limits to Bonaventure station?
2.	Is it the intention of the Government to reduce the speed of the trains to six miles an hour in entering the city of Montreal, west of Bonaventure station, so as to prevent accidents?
3.	Is it the intention of the Government to put in execution the project of establishing an elevated railroad on the Grand Trunk line, for the protection of the public?


1. When the Government get entire control of the Grand Trunk Railway system the whole question of Montreal terminals will be considered.

2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	What number of employees are on the staff of the director of Canadian News Service at Washing-ton?
2.	What are their names and respective salaries?
3.	To whom is the news supplied?
4.	What has been the total cost of the administration of this office to date?
5.	Out of what fund are the expenses of this office met?
6.	Is it the intention of the Government to continue this service?


1.	There is no director of Canadian News Service at Washington, but there is a director of Canadian News Service at New York. The staff consists of five.
2.	Their names and salaries are: Colonel J. A. Cooper, director, $-5,000 per annum; F. Hudd, $300 -per month; Mrs. E. iB. Sprague, $25 per week; Miss D. M. Jones, $28 per week; Miss A. Roonan, $20 per week.
3.	Supplied to the American Press.
4.	(17th July, 1919-lst February, 1920)- $10,185.79.
5.	The expenses of the office are met by equal contributions from the Departments of External Affairs, Trade and Commerce, and Immigration and Colonization.
6.	An announcement will be made in due course.


1.	How many experimental or demonstration stations have been established in Bonaventure county?
2.	Where are they situated, in whose hands are they placed, and under what conditions?
3.	Have they been successful?
4.	Is it the intention of the Government to establish any other stations? If so, where?


I- Two Illustration Stations are in operation in Bonaventure county.
2. One, of 10 acres, is carried on at New Carlisle by Mr. E. M. Legallais, of Paspe-biac West P. O., and has been in operation since 1916. The other, consisting of 16 acres, is carried on at New Richmond, by Mr. J. B. Cyr, of Little Cascapedia. They are under agreement to follow certain crop rotations on this land, for which they receive $5 a year for each acre. (For precise terms of agreement, see Form of Contract attached).

3.	The results at New Carlisle are considered as fairly satisfactory up to the present; and at New Richmond, quite promising to date.
4.	The establishment of additional stations in Bonaventure county is not in contemplation at present. So far, it has been possible to carry on, in the whole Dominion, some 48 Illustration Stations in all, these being located in the provinces of Quebec, Saskatchewan, and Alberta. Naturally, in arranging for new stations in any province, an endeavour is made to give first consideration to large sections of territory without any stations at all in their midst.


1.	Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the state of dissatisfaction existing among the rural delivery mail carriers because of the inadequate scale of remuneration consequent upon the increased cost of living?
2.	If so, is it the intention of the Government to modify existing contracts and to increase the rate of pay to the rural carriers in future contracts so as to provide for relief as justified by said increased cost of living and the increased cost of rural delivery?


1 and 2. A number of appeals have been received from rural mail contractors for increased remuneration on account of the increased cost of living. Each appeal is considered on its own merits, due regard being paid to the present rate of remuneration and the date on which the contract was entered into.
The policy of the Government is to do everything possible to ameliorate the financial conditions of the rural mail couriers, but the Post Office Act makes it unlawful to increase the rate paid to a mail contractor without first inviting public tenders except when an addition is made to the regular service or when it can be shown that the quantity of mail matter which he is required to convey has increased to such an extent as to necessitate the employment of additional equipment and couriers.
If investigation shows that a contractor entered into his contract at a time so recent as to make it possible to foresee and consequently provide against the increase in operating expenses, there could be no good grounds for any drastic action by the Government to release him; but if on The other hand, the contractor entered into his obligations at a time when it was impossible to foresee the sudden rise in the cost of operation, and is consequently, through no fault of his own, carrying on his work at

a loss, steps are taken to invite tenders with a view to making other satisfactory contract arrangements which when completed would lead to his release.


1.	How many custom officers .are there in the county of Charlevoix^Montmorency?
2.	What are their names, where do they reside, and where did they reside before appointment?
3.	When were they appointed and at what salary?
4.	Have the said salaries been increased since appointment?
5.	If so, when and to what extent?
.Hon. Mt. BURRELL:
1.	Two.
2.	J. G. Martel, Point au Pic, transferred from port of Quebec, December 1, 1917. Edouard Leelerc, St. Paul's Bay, at time of employment a resident of St. Paul's Bay.
3.	J. G. Martel first employed at Point au Pic December 1, 1917, with salary at $1,000 per annum. Edouard Leelerc first employed at St. Paul's Bay April 27, 1910, receives $5
' for each vessel entered and cleared.
4.	No increase in salary granted since appointment at present station.
5.	Answered by 4.


1.	How many cans, if any, are now loaded wiith wheat destined for Greece, but which cannot be discharged and relieved, because Greece refuses to accept such wheat at a higher price than contracted for?
2.	How long have said cars been kept idle on that account?
3.	When does the Government expect to relieve these cars?


1, 2 and 3: It is not possible to say how many cars, if any, are loaded with wheat destined for Greece, but which cannot be discharged and relieved because Greece refused to accept such wheat at a higher price than contracted for. No cars are being detained at the present time, nor have any been detained for the last ten days on ac-. [DOT]- .count of delay in loading the vessels at ports ready to receive the grain. There is now no delay on that account.


1. Is the Government aware that the Dominion Canners form an important combine in this country?
i 2. If so, does the Government intend to suppress this combine by legal proceedings under legislation against combines which are contrary to the general .interests of the consumers?
3.	Is the Government aware that the Dominion Oanners, last year, made profits whereby the directors were enabled to declare a 19 per cent dividend?
.	4. If so, why the Government does not confiscate a part of these profits extorted from the consumers of Canada?


1.	The Government is not aware that the Dominion Oanners form an important combine in this country.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	The Government is not aware of what profits were made by the Dominion Canners last year.
4.	Answered by No. 3.


,
How many of the 22,954 temporary appointments made by the Board of Civil Service Commissioners since the Armistice are at present on the pay rolls of the various departments of the Government?


For a copy of all papers, documents, telegrams, correspondence and reports made between the Department of Naval Service and the Inspector of Fisheries in Prince Edward Island or any other party or parties regarding the sale of the lobster hatchery at Charlottetown, P.E.I.


For a copy of all letters, petitions, telegrams and other documents relating to the retention in office, as a Fishery Overseer, of John A. Dillon, of Guysborough, N.IS.


That, in the opinion of this House, in the interests of the public service of this country and in justice to a discharged official, the Public Utilities Commissioner of Manitoba be authorized to investigate the summary dismissal, in the autumn of 1917, of James Conner, who for many years served the country as a preventive officer, and that he report his findings to this House, coupled with a recommendation as' to what action should be taken in order that justice shall be achieved.
He said: Before the motion is put, Mr. Speaker, I desire to speak briefly to it. This is the third occasion on which I have made an attempt to secure justice for a faithful official. I have already told the story to the House at two previous sessions and I purpose to tell jt again. I want to ascertain for myself whether or not justice can be obtained for an official who served this country as faithfully as he knew how for

twenty long years, and who was summarily dismissed, receiving notice, I think, on October 4 that his services were dispensed with as from the 30th of the previous month. I brought the matter to the attention of the House two sessions ago and was promised by the Minister of Immigration that it would be investigated and that justice would be done-I think he said that justice would be done. Nothing, however, was done in the case, and last session I again brought the matter to the attention of the House when the present Acting. Prime Minister (Sir George Foster) gave his pledge that there would be a thorough investigation to the end that justice might be meted out to this official. Up to the present time, so far as I know, absolutely nothing has been done. Now, Mr. Speaker, I do not want to cross the floor of the House and take a place with the Opposition, nor do I wish to ally myself at present with the party led by my hon. friend the member for Marquette (Mr. Crerar), but I do want to ascertain whether or not justice can be done by this Union Government which I have stood by with more or less faithfulness since its constitution. Of course, if justice cannot be obtained from the Government it may be necessary for me to organize a party of my/ own, and I will see that the right thing is done.


A one-man party.


Well, never mind. Some great movements have been started by eminent men, though perhaps they were not so great as the hon. member for Three Rivers (Mr. Bureau).


May I ask my hon. friend
if he expects participating in the salary of the leader of the Opposition in the event of his crossing the floor of the House?


No. I am quite free to say to my hon. friend from Skeena (Mr. Peck) that if ever I attained to the position of leader of the Opposition I should not ask for nor expect any salary. I should take the position free, gratis and for nothing, and discharge its duties to the very best of my ability. But, joking aside, Mr. Speaker, I desire to present, as briefly as I possibly can, the facts of this case.
Twenty years ago, when the boundary was largely unguarded, I succeeded in inducing the Government to appoint a Scotchman named James Conner, who lived along the boundary, to protect the wood that existed in such abundance to the north.
I think he received a salary of $200 a year, but he guarded that boundary with ex-

emplary faithfulness. Later on, when it was necessary to have a preventive officer in that locality, Mr. Conner was appointed to the position, and I think he was given a salary of $600 a year. It is a long time since I represented that constituency, but Mr. Conner continued in that position as preventive officer with the 

 salary I have mentioned. At a later stage I shall state what his collections were in order that hon. members may form some idea of his efficiency. When the immigration from the United States began to pour into that part of the country, Mr. Conner was appointed Immigration Officer with an additional salary of $100, and in that connection for twelve years he guarded the boundary. He looked after all the immigrants for twelve years, during which time immigration poured into the country. Now, a little over two years ago when immigration ceased and coincident with the time the Union Government was organized, a petty conspiracy on the part of some understrappers was hatched against Mr. Conner, and he was notified that his services would be no longer required. As I have already said, he received notice on the 4th of October, his dismissal taking effect in September. I wish hon. members would listen carefully to this statement, because I am sure their hearts would burn with the same indignation that filled mine when the facts were presented to me. Mr. Conner knew me and wrote to me telling me of the facts, and I wrote to the late John MacDougald, Commissioner of Customs, who informed me that the man was dismissed on the ground of economy, and that a man named Nesbitt had been sent from Winnipeg to take his place. I instituted inquiries and ascertained that Nesbitt had been appointed Preventive Officer under the Customs Department at a salary, I think, of $1,050 for one office alone, whereas this man had rendered admirable service for twenty years, the last twelve years of which period he had done work for the Immigration Department for an additional $100. Yet he was dismissed on the ground of economy, forsooth! I naturally was indignant over the whole matter, and after being elected I made an investigation that convinced me that there had been great injustice to an official whose service's had been absolutely beyond reproach. I therefore brought the matter to the attention of the House, for I know not of any other way to obtain justice for this man. I am not engaged in wire-pulling with any minister or the officers of any department. As a member of the House I like to present

the facts of any case such as this right on the floor of Parliament, because I am satisfied that the sense of justice which must be alive in the mind of every hon. member must recognize that justice is imperative in this instance. The man has done faithful iwork for twenty years, and I am determined to urge his case, and to lay the circumstances before the House as forcefully as I possibly can, until justice is obtained.
When I found out what the facts were, as I have already said, I immediately brought the matter to the attention of the House and I received a pledge from the right hon. gentleman who is acting as Prime Minister. I may read from Hansard what took place in the House. In the course of my remarks I said:


I felt I would keep at this thing to And out whether justice could be obtained in a case of this kind. If the position had been given to a returned soldier, probably Mr. Conner would have been perfectly satisfied and so would I.


I will try my very best to give a declaration after what the hon. gentleman has been good enough to say about me. I do not know the least thing about the case except that I have heard the story of my hon. friend. I am not impugning that at ail; it is, I dare say, correct, but I think I will have to ask my hon. friend to await an answer from the responsible head of the department- it is very dangerous work mixing in with the business of colleagues


If the right hon. leader of the House will say that when the papers come down, if he is leading the House at the end of the session, he will make a declaration, I will subside at once.


I can do that right away. A declaration will be made either by the responsible minister or by myself.
The papers came down, and what did they show? Did they show that this man was inefficient? No; they showed that one of these men .in the conspiracy that was formed to injure Conner wrote to Thomas Geliy. Immigration Agent in Winnipeg, to endeavour if possible to fish up some information that this man was not efficient. Finally Mr. Geliy was compelled to report that Mr. Conner was entirely efficient. I looked over the reports, and found that the immigration inspector 'had .reported the man ais being highly capable, and I may inform the House that it would be impossible, if you went over the province of Manitoba with a fine-toothed comb, to discover a more thoroughly reliable man, a man of more unquestionable integrity and sterling worth than Mr. Conner. For the last thirty or forty years he has lived on the plains in Manitoba, having raised a large' family of some ten children. With 27
that family he has farmed some eight or ten sections of land, and in the early days, I may say, he used to be an engineer, running a threshing machine at three or foui-o'clock in the .morning with the thermometer down to twenty-five and thirty below zero, in an effort to earn sufficient money to keep the roof over his family. I think, therefore, in view of all the circumstances, it is a matter of grave injustice that a man of strict sobriety and integrity Should be .summarily dismissed for inefficiency, when his career distinctly shows absolutely the reverse. It was not a matter of inefficiency, by any means, Mr. Speaker, there was a conspiracy hatched by understrappers in the department, and as a result of their machinations this man was dismissed from a post he bad filled so well for such a long time. As I say, my indignation naturally burned over the affair, and I was impelled to bring the matter to the attention of .this House on two previous occasions, and aim bringing it again. No action having been taken by the responsible department, I am now asking that the Public Utilities Commissioner of Manitoba, a man of great probity, Mr. P. A. McDonald, who enjoys the implicit confidence of the community, be .asked to make an investigation. It is due this faithful public servant that he be vindicated. He lies under the stigma of having been dismissed for lack of efficiency, and he should he vindicated without undue delay. He drew only a small salary and was a comparatively obscure official, but that - is no reason why justice should not he done him by Parliament. In our eyes he ought to have the same protection as if he occupied the highest "position in the land. Let us do him justice, Mr. Speaker; let us ascertain whether he was really inefficient. I simply ask that the Utilities Commissioner of Manitoba make an investigation into the matter. I think it is due to Mr. Conner that this step should be taken and that this House Should know whether or not he has been improperly treated. I further ask that a recommendation be made as to what should be done in the premises. Mr. Conner said to me: "I am not asking that you shall give me my job back if there is a returned soldier who desires it, but I do ask to be vindicated." And that is what I demand this afternoon, Mr. Speaker. I am satisfied that no hon. member who has listened to the facts as I have recounted them will decline to support this motion. All I ask is that justice-simple common justice-be done to as faithful a public



servant as ever occupied a position in the public service of this country. I deeply regret that my hon. friend from Lisgar (Mr. Bolton) is not here. He knows all about the facts. He promised me that he would second the motion, present the facts to the House and endorse what I have said.


I am sorry that the hon. member for Lisgar is not here because I understood the hon. member for Springfield to point in his direction and I named him as the seconder of the motion. Not being in the House, he, of course, cannot second the motion.


I am sure there is some man in the House who will second the motion.


I will second the motion.


Certainly; I am sure the leader of the Opposition or any other member would second the motion.


It is purely a question of observing the rules of the House.


Mr. Speaker, I am sorry that I am not familiar with the matter that my hon. friend has taken up but as I have only recently taken charge of the Department of Customs-


I beg your pardon but I would like to make a few remarks with reference to this matter before the Minister speaks. The hon.. member for Springfield (Mr. Richardson) opened his lemarks by saying that this matter had been brought before the House for the third time. I am aware of it because this is the third tame that I have heard him speak about this man Conner. I am not interested in the matter except for the sake of seeing that justice is done. Upon the declaration made by the hon. member for Springfield, it appears to me that he has established a prima facie case. I cannot understand a member of Parliament and a supporter of the Government -standing up on the floor of this House and saying to the Government that he 'is here for the third time bringing up a matter, which at first sight, and on presentation of the case, shows a gross injustice done to this man James Conner. My hon. friend is now here for (he third time asking his own party to do justice in a case where injustice is absolutely apparent. But the hon. member for Springfield goes further. He says that he is going to bring this matter up year after year until justice has been done to James
[Mr. Richardson.!
Conner. I do not blame him for doing it, not because he is speaking against his own party but because I think that a member of Parliament who brings up a question like this o>ves it to himself, to his own responsibility and to his own dignity to see that justice is done. Consequently I would ask the Government to act in such a way that this question shall not again he brought before Parliament. This case with reference to James Conner is going to cost the country quite a lot of money if my hon. friend from Springfield who, I hope, may be a member of this House for many years, is going to bring it before Parliament year after year and rve are going to sit here year after year listening to his appeals to his own party without his being able to receive any satisfactory answer from them. These are the only remarks I have to make and I hope the Government will see fit to give a satisfactory answer to my hon. friend and do justice to this man, James -Conner, because if the facts as represented by the hon. member for Springfield are true-and no one has said so far that they are not true-there certainly has been' gross injustice done to this man and it is up to us to know whether we are going to see that this injustice -shall be remedied.


Mr. Speaker, I have very little to say on this matter. As I remarked just now to my hon. friend from Springfield, being somewhat new in the Department of Customs, I am not familiar with the subject except in so far as he has brought it before the House. I saw the return when it was brought down. My recollection of it is that it was a statement by the Deputy Minister of the Interior referring to the inefficiency of Mr. Conner. I think it is quite obvious that it would be rather unusual for this House to appoint the Public Utilities Commissioner of Manitoba to investigate this particular case but I see no reason, in view of the impression that this man has suffered an injustice, why there should not be some additional investigation to ascertain whether or not an injustice has been done. As far as I am personally concerned I am quite willing that that course should be taken. It is possible that the Civil Service Commission might look into it, or, if not it might be taken up by our own Department. I appreciate what the hon. member for Joliette (Mr. Denis) has said that it is not desirable that, the time of this House should be taken up with matters of this kind being brought up again and again and I appreciate the

position of my hon. friend (Mr. Richardson) who believes that there has been a real injustice done and he would like to have it remedied. I shall be only too glad to expedite inquiry in any reasonable way.


I would like
to add just ia word to what has been said by the Minister of Customs. It would appear that the Conner matter arose about the 5th October, 1917, and neither the present Minister of Customs nor I had anything to do with the incident.


That is right.


Now as to the facts, because, after all, it is the facts that the House would like to have. I have discussed this matter on several occasions with the member for Springfield. It would appear that this man Conner had been in the public service for quite a while. He was in receipt of <a salary of some five or six hundred dollars from the Customs Department, and in addition about $100 from the Immigration Department. The member for Springfield knows Mr. Conner, I understand, well-has known him for years, knows him as a very respectable, law-abiding, decent citizen of the very best type.


Hear, hear.


Now on the other hand- whether it is true or not I do not know- the records of the department would indicate that in so far as Mr. Conner's services in the Immigration Department were concerned they were not looked on as satisfactory. I think the member for Springfield wall bear me out when I say that the files of the department indicate that-not for a short period, but a period extending over a considerable number of years


No, I entirely dissent from that statement.


Well, that is a fact that will have to be ascertained.


The papers will
show.


I know that considerable stress is laid in the papers upon the file that Air. Conner was responsible-and 1 think contrary to warning, if I remember rightly-for allowing in a band of gypsies, whose admission cost the country a very large sum of money. In addition to that, it was almost impossible for the department to get any return or statement from him at all, and this went on for a considerable 271
length of time. I am not stating my view of the situation, I am merely trying to indicate what the departmental records show.
On the other hand, the member for Springfield has stated that there was a conspiracy on the part of certain understrappers in the department. Well, I do not know who were in the conspiracy, or why such a conspiracy should exist. I know that when I first took the matter up in the department, Air. Cory, who was acting as deputy minister, and Mr. Scott, who has been Superintendent of Immigration for years, intimated that in their judgment Mr. Conner was not capable of carryiiig on the work that the Immigration Department expected would be carried on at that point. That is their view, whether right or wrong. However, it seems to me that in view of the position taken by the member for -Spring-field-and I do not blame him at all if he considers there has been a grave injustice done this man, and if he thinks that the facts and statements set forth in the departmental records are -not correct-there is only one thing to do and that is to get the facts. It seems to me that those facts should be ascertained, not by the Public Utilities Commissioner of the province of Manitoba, but by some officer of the Federal -Government who can be trusted to do that work. I do not wish to enter into any controversy at the present time over the facts-I am merely trying to intimate what the record is -so far as the file itself shows it, and what the opinions of the officials o-f the department are, whether right or wrong, with reference to this man's work.
Although the member for Springfield -has had the opportunity, as he had last year of looking over the whole departmental record, if he is not satisfied-if lie considers that further investigation should be held, then I say we should grant that investigation in order to get at -the facts.


Air. Speaker, might I have the privilege, with the unanimous consent of the House, of saying a word or two further.


You have the right to do
so, you are closing the Debate.


The hon.
member for Springfield is exercising his right to reply. If any other member wishes to speak on this matter he should speak now.


I merely wish to
state in reply to what the minister has said that this incident occurred before the Union

Government came into office. I was not seeking to cast any blame-of course the ministers know I was not-upon the Union Government, although the Union Government might fall just as well as any other government. I wish to make this further statement.. I looked over the papers when they were brought down, and I found this extract in a letter written by the Deputy Minister of the Interior. That is what convinced me that there was a conspiracy. I will read the extract:
I believe that your officer at that point-
Referring to Mr. Conner-
-is very old, and, from what I can gather very inefficient. The Commissioners, who have been investigating our Immigration Service recommend that the duties of the two departments be combined and that Mr. Nesbitt be placed in charge, the cost of the service to be apportioned between the two departments.
This is the matter about which I spoke to you over the telephone. Will you please let me have confirmation of this arrangement.
Why should the Deputy Minister of the Interior confer with the late John McDou-gald, Commissioner of Customs, over the telephone about the dismissal, the sidetracking, of this very decent man? Then there is the attempt to discredit him, and even the minister has fallen into the snare. The Minister of Immigration says Mr. Conner was inefficient and that he let some gypsies into the country. Now let us see about that. For twelve long years of the period that immigration poured into the Northwest from the United States, this man Conner looked after the interests of the public in connection with that department, he did it for $100 a year, and not a single complaint that I could notice was ever made against him-I will refer to the matter of the gypsies later on. So far as regards the complaint of not reporting to the Department Conner reported every month. The minister has probably taken *his cue from some member of the Civil Service who has told or tried to tell him, not the facts, but a garbled story about the situation.
Now with regard to the gypsies, and that is a matter in regard to which the officials ring the changes against this old official, Mr. Conner. There were a number of gypsies who came to the province of Manitoba some years ago bringing with them $35,000. They should have made entry at Emmerson but they came to Mr. Conner who was the officer there. They had all *this money, they had their horses, and they had a lot of effects, and Mr. Conner naturally thought they were settlers and he

allowed them to go through. But when it was found that they had practised some deception-I think I am correct in my facts -at Emmerson the matter was reported to Winnipeg and these men were corailed, brought back and tried at the town of Morden. The minister says it cost the country a large sum of money but I do not think he knew what he was talking about. Just look at the position the Government was in at that time. The gypsies were brought up for trial at Morden. Do you suppose the Dominion Government offered any evidence against them? They did not even appear against these men at all, and they were dismissed and sent out of the country, and the cost was practically nothing-probably only a few cents or a few dollars to anybody. Then the officials start in to make it appear that Conner is an inefficient man. I think I have demonstrated to the satisfaction of this House that so far from Conner being inefficient he was the most efficient 