Hon. NEWTON W. ROWELL (President of the Privy Council) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 53 to amend the Civil Service Act, 1918, and the Civil Service . Amendment Act, 1919.
Explain.


The Bill is one which contains some formal amendments [DOT] to the Civil Service Act, these amendments having been found necessary or desirable in the actual administration of the Act. There is, however, one very important provision and it is the main provision of the Bill. It provides that the re-classification of the Civil Service shall go into effect as from the first day of April, 1919, instead of the first day of April, 1920, as provided in the Act of last session. Hon. members will recall that when the Act was before the House last session it was urged that the classification should be made effective as from the first of April, 1919. The hon. member for Halifax (Mr. A. K. Maclean), who was in charge of the Bill, stated that the Government would take the matter into consideration in the meantime and that if the Government considered it desirable or necessary that the re-classification should be dated back to the first of April, 1919, an amending Act would be introduced this session. The Government has reached the conclusion that it is desirable and in the public interest to make the classification date from the first of April, 1919, and the main provision of the Bill is to carry out that decision. The' effect will be that where the salaries of civil servants are increased under the classification, they will get the benefit of that increase 'from the first of April, 1919, and that where provision is made under the classification for an annual increase in salaries they will be eligible for the first increase on the first day of April, 1920. It has an1 Simiportant bearing upon the salaries of the civil servants throughout Canada as affected by the classification.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first, time.


Hon. J. D. REID (Minister of Railways and Canals) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 54 to confirm the agreement dated the 8th day of March, 1920, between His Majesty the King and the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada for the acquisition by His Majesty of the capital stock of the said Grand Trunk Railway Company, except the four per cent guaranteed stock.
Explain.


To the Bill that passed last session there was a schedule attached giving the list of the companies owned and controlled by the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada. In that there were two small errors. One of them was the omission of the Vermont and Province Line Railway Company controlled by Grand Trunk ownership to the extent of 100 per cent. There was another small line, the Pembroke Southern Railway Company, that was in the list as being controlled under lease. It should have been designated as 'being controlled by majority stock ownership. It is necessary to amend the agreement to 'correct these two small errors. Then having corrected the errors I am proposing to add a second clause to confirm or ratify the agreement that was submitted to the shareholders including these two small railways. It is necessary, on account of these two small railways that we should confirm the whole agreement. Clause 2 reads:	.
The said agreement, as corrected as aforesaid, is hereby declared to have been sufficiently ratified by the holders of the stocks of the Grand Trunk as required by section seven of the said Act. and to be binding and effecive and is hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed as the agreement authorized by the said Act and for all the purposes thereof.
, We are not changing the agreement in any way other than that we are correcting these two errors. I am anxious to get the Bill through as soon as possible in order that we can complete the agreement, appoint the arbitrators and proceed with the arbitration.


Do I understand that the Bill would not have been introduced except for the purpose of correcting these errors?


That is the only reason that is given to me. But for these small
railways it would not have been necessary to ratify the agreement that was passed last session.


The ratifying of the agreement is a secondary consideration in introducing the Bill; primarily it is to correct these errors?


Yes.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Hon. ARTHUR MEIGHEN (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 55 to amend the Dominion Lands Act. He said: This is the Bill I referred to a few days ago. I want it to be consolidated with the other Bill that is now in committee. The object is to include soldiers who have served in the armies of the United States in the same rank with soldiers of the Allies as regards homesteading privileges. The United States being an associated power they were held not to be so included.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first time.
.HULL AND MONTREAL HIGHWAY.
On the Orders of the Day:
May I be permitted to ask the Minister of Railways a question on a subject which I deem to be in the public interest. I have been told that agreements have been passed between this Government and the goverifments in the different provinces, in relation to the construction of highways. I would ask if any agreement has been passed between the Dominion Government and the Government of the province of Quebec for the construction of a highway between Ottawa and Hull and the city of Montreal. I have reference to that particular highway, the construction ol which has already been decided upon by the provincial authorities and which is intended to traverse the north shore of the Ottawa river. If such an agreement has been passed, many municipalities are very anxious to know whether any provision Ijas been made in it for the building of the particular highway referred to.


In reply to the hon. gentleman I may say that it is necessary for the governments of the several provinces to submit for the approval of the Federal Railway Department plans of the highway which they propose

to construct. The Quebec Government-together with several, if not all of the other provincial	governments-has	submitted
plans which are now before the Commissioner of Highways and the commission appointed to work in conjunction with him, for the purpose of approving such plans. Personally I have not yet looked over the plans and will be unable t) give an answer to the hon. gentleman until about the first of next week. Then I hope to be able to afford him the information which he is seeking.


On the Orders of the Day:
Will the Minister of Railways be good enough to state whether he has yet succeeded in getting any Canadian railway cars back from the United States. I am told by shippers in the province of New Brunswick that it is desirable that 5,000 ears should be distributed along the Transcontinental there as soon as possible.


I may tell the hon. gentleman that the Department of Railways and the railway companies are still using every possible means to get cars returned from the United States. We are now receiving them a little faster than we were a few weeks ago, and L hope that at an early date to be able to remove the troubles existing along the different railway lines of this country where there has been delay in obtaining cars.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by asterisks).
1.	When and why was an embargo placed upon the exportation of newsprint paper manufactured by some of the mills?
2.	Has the Government received any communication, written or oral, from the State Department at Washington or from the Foreign Office in London in regard thereto?


1.	An embargo was placed on the exportation of newsprint paper manufactured by Fort Frances Pulp and Paper Company, 18th December, 1919; an embargo was placed on the exportation of newsprint paper manufactured by Price Brothers on 3rd January, 1920, in both cases under instruction of the Paper Controller.
2.	Yes.
[Mr .J. D. Reid.]


How much has been paid by the Department of Naval Service for material imported from the United States to be used in the construction of Canadian boats from the 1st of January 191S, to the 1st of January 1920?


$94,489.96.


1.	Is it the intention of the Government to change the tariff on tobacco?
2.	Is it the intention to impose a duty on leaf tobacco?
3.	If so, is it the intention to impose a similar or equivalent duty on manufactured tobacco, either imported or Canadian?
4.	Has the Government received any petitions from the Canadian tobacco producers protesting against the imposition of all duties on Canadian leaf tobacco, and asking that, in all cases, a similar duty be imposed on manufactured tobacco, imported or Canadian?


1.	Any tariff changes will be announced in due course.
2.	A duty of 5 cents per pound on Canadian raw leaf tobacco an'd 40 cents per pound on imported unstemmed raw leaf tobacco is at present imposed.
3.	A duty of 20 cents per pound is at present imposed on tobacco manufactured in Canada and on manufactured tobacco imported into Canada a customs duty of 95 cents per pound on cut tobacco and 90 cents per pound on manufactured tobacco n.o.p. and snuff.
4.	Petitions have been received against the imposition of any additional taxation on tobacco.


* Mr. CASGRAIN:
1.	How much money was paid to the Gazette, of Montreal, La Patrie, of Montreal, for printing within the last twelve months?
2.	Is it not true that E. F. Slack, now deceased, and Eugene Tarte, of Montreal, both respectively connected with Gazette of Montreal and La Patrie, were appointed by the Government on a commission to inquire about the Government Printing Bureau?
3.	Is it not true that following the report made by these gentlemen the Government has released a great number of the employees of the Printing Bureau?
1. Department.	Gazette. La	Patrie.Auditor General ..	
$	43 75Customs	. $ 56 00	33 60Indian Affairs .. ..	24 75Labour 	. 84 00	63 75Militia and Defence ..	31	50Mounted Police .. ..	206	00	112	50Naval Service	286	80	239	10Post Office	518	70	41	50Printing Bureau .. ..	33,668	48	13.687	76Railway and Canals ..	18,450	53	11,095	48Soldiers' Civil Re-	establishment .. ..	7,504	87

2.	Yes.	.
3.	Yes.


1.	Are the Federal land surveyors, doing: outside works, under the control of the Civil Service Commission?
2.	If so, since when?
3.	Are some of them permanent?
4.	Are they entitled to a superannuation after a certain number of years of service?
5.	Will the Surveyor General, Capt. Deville, be able to suggest the names of the land surveyors who will do the field work for the Government?
6.	Are field works to be made by tender, by contract, or by the day?


1.	Such Dominion Land Surveyors as are in the public service are under the control of the Civil Service Commission.
2.	Since February 13, 1918.
3.	Yes.
4.	Those who were employed prior to 1897 are entitled to superannuation if they are on the Superannuation Fund. Since that date there has been no superannuation for the Civil Service.
5.	Yes.
6.	By the day.


1.	Does the Government intend to take action to overcome the causes of the great damages recently made by the Little River St. Peter in Westmount, Quebec, and improve the situation in the coming year?
2.	If not, why?
3.	Does the Government know that there are about five hundred families who suffer every spring on account of such floods?


1.	As the so-called Little River St. Pierre is not a navigable stream, it does not come under the control of the Federal Government.
2.	Answered by answer to question number 1.
3.	No information.


1.	What was the total quantity of (a) Canadian coal and (b) American coal purchased 72
for the Canadian Government Merchant Marine in Canada for the year ending December 31, 1919?
2.	What was the quantity of such coal purchased by tender and contract?
3.	When were the tenders called, where and how were they published and were the lowest tenderers in each case awarded the contract?
4.	What was the quantity supplied by each successful tenderer and at what price and place?
5.	What was the quantity, price and place of delivery of all coal not supplied under tender and contract, and what are the names of the companies or firms supplying same?
6.	What is the estimated quantity of coal to be used by the Canadian Government Merchant Marine for the year 1920 as to (a) Canadian coal and (b) American coal?
7.	What contracts, if any, have already been entered into, and what are the particulars of such contracts, as to contracting firms, point of supply, quantity and price?


(Acting Prime
Minister): The Government has no returns in its records showing the information asked for. These are transactions which are carried on by the Canadian Government Merchant Marine as an incorporated company.


1.	What was the total cost of the Ste. Anne de Bellevue Military Hospital?
2.	When was the construction begun?
3.	When did the contractors finish said construction?
4.	How many soldiers sojourned and were treated in said hospital?
5.	Upon what date was the use of the said hospital discontinued in connection with the treatment of soldiers?
6.	For what is the said hospital now used?


1.	$1,581,682.40.
2.	Contract for first group of buildings was awarded October 26, 1917.
3.	Last construction work was done in December, 1919, but patients were received on October 26, 1918.
4.	3,393 patients in all, of whom 2,888 were soldier patients; 469 were D.S.C.R. patients; 25 were Pension Board patients; and 11 were civilian employees of the hospital.
5.	The said hospital was transferred from the control and administration of the Department of Militia and Defence to that of Department of Soldiers' Civil Re-Establishment with effect from the 15th January, 1920.
6.	One hundred and seventy (170) beds in the said hospital are being utilized by the Department of Soldiers' Civil Re-establishment for general treatment purposes and also for the treatment of special types

of mental and neurological cases, and arrangements are now being made to concentrate at this hospital the treatment of mental and other cases which will number several hundred.


X. When was the Quebec bridge opened for traffic?
2.	Has any tariff fixing the tolls for the use of the bridge been approved by the Governor in Council under paragraph 15 of the Agreement forming the Schedule to the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company Act, Chapter 54, 1903? If not, why?


1.	December 3, 1917.
2.	No- The agreement is abrogated by action taken under chapter 59 of Statutes of 1908.


1.	By what companies is the Quebec bridge now being used?
2.	What charges are made for the use of the said bridge?
3.	What is the gross amount of revenue received for the use of this bridge?
4.	To what account has this amount been credited?


1.	By Government railways.
2.	'Charges included in through passenger and freight rates. Basis of charge for railways that may use bridge under consider-*tion by Departmental and Railway Officials.
3.	Bridge for operating purposes is treated as portion of Canadian National Railways, who pay maintenance of same.
4.	Answered by numbers 2 and 3.


1.	What was the cost of maintenance of the Quebec bridge for the year ending June 30, 1919?
2.	Under what authority is the control of the bridge at present?
3.	By whom is the railway bridge operated and under what authority?
4.	Has any return been made to the Statistical Branch of the Department of Railways and Canals regarding the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company? If not, why?


1.	$6,336.26.
2.	Control in Crown under seven to eight, Edward VII, Chap. 59, Statutes of Canada, 1908, now entrusted for operation to Canadian National Railways.
3.	Answered by number 2.
4.	(a) No. (b) No such company.


1.	At what date did the Government first assist in the construction or equipment of a grain elevator at Halifax, N.S. ?
2.	How much has been expended by the Government since that date in connection with the construction, equipment and operation of grain elevators at that port?
3.	How much grain went through said grain elevators during said period?


1.	1882.
2.	Construction $220,195.30. Equipment and operating from December 1910 to date, $147,381.81. There were no separate records kept previous to December, 1910.
3.	From 1903 to date-16,372,043 bushels. First elevator burned in 1895 and the records of the grain handled were destroyed in the fire. Construction of the second elevator was not started until 1899.


1.	Have instructions ever been issued either orally or written to employees of the Board of Pension Commissioners requesting them not to hold any official position in the G.W.V.A., or in any other association formed for the purpose of furthering the aims of the returned soldiers?
2.	If so, have these instructions ever been rescinded and by what authority?


1.	Yes.
2.	No.


H. How many post offices are there on the north shore of the St. Lawrence, from Tadous-sac to Esquimaux Point?
2.	What are the names, postal addresses and the date of appointment of each of these postmasters?


Tadoussac, Dr. C.
A. Cote, July 31, 1912; Petites Bergeronnes, Thos. Desbiens, February 1, 1994; Grandes Bergeronnes, H. Lapointe, October 1, 1903; Bon Desir, Jos. Gagnon, June 1, 1895; Les Escoumains, John Henry Topping, October 1, 1884; Baie des Bacons, X. Morin, July 1, 1903; Sault au Mouton, Phillipe J. Le Mar-quand, January 31, 1919; Mille Vaehes, E. Boulainne, June 18, 1909; Pointe au Boisvert, Mrs. 0. D. Tremblay, November 15, 1907; Hamilton Cove, Mrs. Louise Bouchard, May 25, 1917; Moulin Bersimis, Mrs. Frank Miller, October 26, 1910; Betsiamites, J. Gagnon, September 22, 1915; Pointe aux Outardes, Mrs. G. Feuilly, September 2,

1915; Baie St. Nicolas, Leandre Bouchard, August 10, 1917; Baie des Cedres, Philip Delair, January 15, 1920; Godbout, Napoleon A. Comeau, August 1, 1877; Pointe des Monts, Victor Fafard, November 18, 1916; Baie de la Trinite, George Jourdain, August 5, 1919; Cariboo Islands, J. B. Chouinard, June 20, 1912; Egg Island, Elzear Chouinard, March 23, 1915; Pointe aux Anglais, Louis Langlois, September 1, 1893; Pentecost River, J. Picard, June 16, 1913; Shelter Bay, W. H. Carter, June 1, 1916; Clarke City, F. W. Clarke, June 15, 1916; Seven Islands, F. H. Vigneault, July 31, 1912; Moisie, Ludger Poelier, June 15, 1906; Riviere Matamek, Mrs. Andre Hamilton, January 1, 1917; Pigou River, Mrs. Peter Wright, June 1, 1917; Rivieres aux Graines, M. Langlois, January 1, 1904; Sheldrake, Mrs. A. Girard, December 22, 1908; Thunder River, M. Blaney, October 1, 1890; Dock, Romain Grenier, October 1, 1914; Magpie, Charles Poirier, May 1, 1902; Riviere St. John, Benj. Chambers, September 1, 1877; Long Point of Mingan, J. T. Vibert, July 1, 1907; Mingan, Chas. Maloney, June 18, 1914; Esquimaux Point, Mrs. C. Cyr, September 1, 1907.


1.	Is it the intention of the Government to introduce a measure at this session to permit the manufacture and importation of oleomargarine after the 3-lst of August, 1920, and the sale of oleomargarine after March 1, 1921, the limit of the exemption fixed by the Oleomargarine Act, 1919?


Yes.
R.CiM. POLICE-WALTER DUNCAN.


1.	Is Walter Duncan, of Toronto, in the employ of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police?
2.	If so, what salary does he receive?
3.	Is he a returned soldier?
4.	What was the amount of salary paid this man during the year 1919?
5.	What was the amount of travelling expenses paid this man during the year 1919?
6.	If still employed in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, what position is he holding?


1.	Yes.
2.	$210.65 per month.
3.	No.
4.	$2,276.03.
5.	$2,276.19.
6.	Special agent.


1.	Is the declaration of the Seed Commissioner (given before a meeting of the Seed
Growers' Association at Ottawa) that the services of the Dominion Government Seed Grain Purchasing Commission would be dispensed with after this year correct?	.
2.	If so, what is the reason for dispensing with such services?
3.	Does the Government propose to appoint another person or body to carry on the work formerly done by the said Commission? .
4.	Has the Government got satisfactory evidence that seed firms have sufficient capital and elevator and cleaning facilities to handle the seed grain requirements of the country?
5.	If the Government abolishes the Seed Grain Commission is it going to take any action to prevent the municipalities and farmers being at the mercy of the seed houses and supply elevators with respect to the price, grade and weight of seed?
Hon. 8. F. TOLMIE:
1.	The statement at the Seed Commissioner was in effect that the operations of the Seed Purchasing Commission had been discontinued in Eastern Canada and would probably be discontinued in the west of Canada as soon as commerce in grain became decontrolled.
2.	The principal officers of the Seed Purchasing Commission have been employees of the Seed Branch staff for many years, and it is not the intention to dispense -with their services. It is believed that under normal conditions of trade and of seed supply the merchandising of the established grades for seed grain is not a proper function of a government. The services of the men who compose- the Seed Purchasing Commission are needed in the work of encouraging the production and distribution of the higher grades of pure seed stocks for domestic requirements and for export.
3.	No.
4.	Inasmuch as grades for seed grain have been established by law and the service of inspection has been and will continue to be provided, the merchandising of seed grain of the established grades has been and doubtless will continue to be conducted by grain merchants as well as seed merchants. There is satisfactory evidence that they have sufficient capital for that purpose. The Canadian Government elevators are available to them on the same basis of charges as to the Seed Purchasing Commission.
5.	It is proposed to continue to provide the service of inspection and otherwise co-operate with and assist farmers' co-operative organizations in all of the provinces, as well as private seed and grain merchants, in their endeavour to merchandise and distribute supplies of seed grain of the best quality available in Canada, so that the cost for distribution may be reduced to a minimum commensurate with efficient ser-

vice. If and when seed shortage should arise because of unfavourable climatic conditions or other causes, such as happened during the past year in the Prairie Provinces, special action may be taken to meet such emergency.


Does the failure of America to join the League of Nations affect Canada's interests?


The hon. member's question is so general in its terms that it is difficult to know just what information he desires. If he will indicate specifically, any matter he has in view, I shall endeavour to answer him. All one can say to the general question is that of course the fact that the United States has not so far joined the League does lessen the power and moral authority of the League to accomplish the purposes for which it was formed, and in that sense all the members of the League are affected.
It is impossible to give even an approximate estimate of the value of this land as a large proportion of it is unsurveyed and has not yet been explored except in a very partial way.


1.	Is M. E. Nichols, formerly Director of Public Information, still in the Government's employ?
2.	If so, what is his position, what are his duties, and what salary is he being paid?
3.	Has he, within the last twelve months, been employed by or consulted by the Postmaster General or any of the Post Office Department officials in regard to the rates of postage on newspapers, and if so, with what results ?


1.	Yes.
2.	Director of Information, Department of External Affairs. Salary, $5,000 per annum.
3.	No.


"What acreage of Dominion lands other than school lands remain unsold In each of the Western Provinces and the territories of the Northwest, with approximate value of same?"


As only a small proportion of Dominion lands has been disposed of by sale, and as with the exception of school lands very little of it is being sold at the present time, it has been assumed that the word "unsold" in the above question means lands undisposed^ of.
Surveyed and Unsurveyed.
119,000,000 acres
85.500.000	acres
96.900.000	acres
6,350,000	acres
773,000,000 acres
Area undisposed of in
Manitoba, approx	
Area undisposed of in Saskatchewan, approx. Area undisposed of in
Alberta, approx	
Area undisposed of in British Columbia Railway Belt, approx	
Area undisposed of in Northwest Territories, approx	t ..
Total	1,080,750,000 acres
In compiling the above figures it has been considered advisable to exclude land entered for but unpatented, also Indian reserves, forest reserves and parks, as this land, although in the Crown, is not available for disposal.


What is the annual cost of the Senate of Canada, as follows;	(1) indemnity of hon.
senators: (2) travelling expenses of same; (3) administration expenses of Senate; (4) any other expenses?
Sir HENRY DRAYTON;
1.	Indemnity ninety-six senators, $240,-
000.
2.	Transportation expenses, 1919, ,$4,883.25.
3.	Administration expenses, including salaries and contingencies, 1919, $113,416.50.
4.	Salary of Speaker, $4,000. Allowance for Speaker's residence, $3,000.
WATER POWERS OF BRITISH COLUMBIA. Mr. PECK:
1.	What amounts have been paid during the last eight fiscal years and up to February 1, 1920, by the Commission of Conservation, in any way, including field and office expenses, as well as for salaries of A. V. White and assistants, while engaged in connection with the publication recently issued by the commission entitled "The Water Powers of British Columbia "?
2.	What total amounts are still to he paid in connection with this publication?
3.	How many paper bound and how many cloth or otherwise bound copies of this report have been published for the commission?
4.	How many pages of the report contain data or information already published either by Canadian or United States departments?
5.	Was the permission of such departments obtained in every, case to the re-publishing of such material?


1.	During the eight years ending February 1, 1920, Mr. A. V. White and assistants were engaged upon numerous important investigations including the British Columbia water powers, the diversion of water at Chicago by the Chicago sanitary district, development of power at Niagara, power possibilities of the St. Lawrence, Long Sault development, economic use of fuel, various electrical problems, St. Mary river (Alberta) diversion, St. Mary liver (Ontario) power question, St. Croix river dam, etc. Mr. White was also consulting engineer to the International Joint Commission. On some of these questions Mr. White is the highest authority in Canada. It is obviously impossible to allocate the proportion of costs of the various investigations upon which Mr. White has been employed.
Up to February 1, 1920, the Commission of Conservation expended $14,908.19 for field investigations and $12,566.79 for publication of the report on Water Powers of British Columbia.
2.	None.
3.	7,000 copies bound in paper and 2,000 bound in cloth.
4.	Owing to the illness of Mr. A. V. White, it is impossible to anwer this question. This publication is not only a report
-on the water powers of the province of British Columbia, but is also an encyclopaedic treatise on the general subject of water power development so far as it affects Canada and Canadian interests. Like all encyclopaedias, it contains in condensed form an admirable statement of the whole question, and includes all available information on the subject. In preparing it, the policy adopted by the Commission of Conservation from its very inception, namely, avoiding duplication of work done by any pther organization-governmental or private-was rigidly adhered to. In the United States and Canada it has been pronounced the best exposition of the waterpower question ever published in North America.
5.	When a government report is published, it becomes public property. Therefore, no permission was requested.


1.	What was the total expenditure involved in the construction of lock in the East River of Pictou, near Trenton, N.S. ?
2.	Who designed this lock?
3.	Who inspected the wTork while in progress? If more than one inspector was employed, give names of each and period of employment and remuneration received?
4.	Has the contractor been paid in full?


1.	$619,049.78.	*	*
2.	The Engineering branch of the Department of Public Works.
3.	Mr. A. T. Stronesh one of the Assistant Engineers of the District Engineer's staff at Antigonish. Salary $1,500 per an-
4.	Yes.
IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION. Mr. JOHNSTON:
1.	How many immigrants entered Canada during the year 1918?
2.	How many emigrants left Canada during the year 1918?
3.	How many immigrants entered Canada during the year 1919?
4.	How many emigrants left Canada during the year 1919?
5.	How many immigrants entered Canada during the months of January and February, 1919?
6.	How many emigrants left Canada during the months of January and February, 1919?
7.	How many immigrants entered Canada during the months of January and February, 1920?
8.	How many emigrants left Canada during the months of January and February, 1920?
9.	Total immigration into Canada from year 1891 to December 31, 1919?
10.	Total emigration from Canada from y&Jir 1891 to December 31, 1919?


tj*-'
1.	During the calendar year 1918, 50,270 immigrants entered Canada.
2.	The Department of Immigration and Colonization does not examine all outgoing passengers and is unable to supply the information asked.
3.	During the calendar year 1919, 117,633 immigrants entered Canada.
4.	See answer to No. 2.
5.	During January and February, 1919. 9,249 immigrants entered Canada.
6.	See answer to No. 2.
7.	During January and February, 1920, 8,816 immigrants entered Canada.
8.	See answer to No. 2.
9.	From January 1, 1891 to December 31, 1919, 3,730,521 immigrants entered Canada.
10.	No statistics of emigration are available.


1.	What is the general policy of the Department of Railways as regards the nature of "construction" or "improvement" necessary to entitle any particular road to a grant, under the Canada Highways Act?

2.	Have the plans for an "improved" highways between Ottawa and Prescott been filed with the Department ot Railways and Canals? If so, when?
3,	Have the Ottawa-Prescott Highway plans been approved? If so, what is the nature of the specifications?


1.	The general policy of the Department of Railways and Canals as regards the nature of "construction" or "improvement" necessary to entitle any particular road to a grant under the Canada Highways Act is set forth in the regulations giving effect to the objects and purposes thereof, as promulgated in the Canada Gazette on December 13, 1919.
2.	The general map required by the regulations, of the proposed programme of a system of highways for Ontario, including the highway between Ottawa and Prescott, in all about 1,824 miles, was submitted to the department on the 16th of March, 1920. No final plans of the proposed type or description of the "construction" or "improvement" to be adopted in building a highway between Ottawa and Prescott have been filed in the department.
3.	Answered by No. 2.


1.	Did the Acting Secretary of State for Ex-nal Affairs write a letter to C. A. Magrath, airman of the Canadian Section of the International Joint Commission on January 21, 1920, stating that the Governments of Canada and of the United States had referred to the International Joint Commission certain questions relating to Power Development and Canalization of the St. Lawrence river?
2.	In the said letter was it stated that each of the said Governments would appoint from "its official engineering personnel" an engineer to collect data and prepare plans and estimates?
3.	Has such an engineer been appointed by the Canadian Government?
4.	If not, have any representations been made to the Government urging the appointment of an engineer outside "its official engineering personnel"?
5.	Has the making of an appointment been delayed by conflicting representations on behalf of engineers not in the Government service?
6.	When will an appointment be made?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
3.	Yes.
4.	5, and 6. Answered by No. 3.


1.	Is the Government aware that a certain Geoige Perron has made a complaint against the postmaster at Metabetchouan, during the summer of 1918?

2.	If an inquiry was held, what was the result ?


1 and 2. A letter signed "Georges Perron," dated the 19th January, 1918, complaining as to the management of the Metabetchouan Post Office was reoeived at the department. On inquiry it was ascertained that this letter was not written by Mr. George Perron, but by his son, Mr. George Emile Perron. Mr. GeoTge Perron, on being questioned by the Post Office Inspector at Quebec, who investigated the matter, stated that he could not accept the letter in its entirety and that the only complaints he had to proffer were regarding misdelivery of letters and newspapers. Suitable instructions were issued to the postmaster with a view to preventing similar irregularities jn the future.


1.	Has the Government any information to give the House as to the medals which are to be given in the late war?
2.	If so, what is the intention?
i. Does the Government intend giving any recognition in the form of a medal for service in Canada to those men who did not get overseas ?	i
4.	When will a complete announcement be made?


'
1.	Yes.
2.	The following medals have been authorized by His Majesty the King-(a) 1914 Star; (b) 1914-15 Star; (c) British War Medal; (d) Victory Medal. Of these, 75 per cent of (a) and (b) have been issued to .those members and ex-members of the Canadian Expeditionary Force entitled thereto; none of the remainder have been Received to date.
( 3. The matter is under consideration.
4.	The terms governing the issue of medals have been published in Routine Orders as they are received from the Imperial Authorities, and copies are sent to the press for circulation.


. *Mr. CASGRAIN:
1.	When is the Government going to take up the control and operation of the Quebec and Saguenay railway?
2.	When is a daily train service going to be reinstated on the said railway from Quebec to Murray Bay?
1. As soon as the contractors complete the ballasting of the line and other improvements now under way.

2. As soon as the passenger and freight traffic on the line will warrant a daily train service, it will be put on.


1.	Has the Government through the Department of Railways and Canals or the Canadian National Railways received petitions requesting the building of certain stations and sidings at different places along the Quebec and Saguenay railway?
2.	If so, is it the intention of the Government to grant said requests? If not, why?


1.	No, but the matter of additional siding and station accommodation is under consideration.
2.	Answered by Number 1.


1.	Is the Government aware that the Dominion Government steamer "Champlain" has been prevented several times last winter from making her journey from Murray Bay to Tadoussac on account of lack of coal?
2.	Is it true that the shortage of coal was due to the fact that the necessary orders for the same were not placed properly by the officers of the Department of Marine and Fisheries at Quebec?


1.	Yes.
2.	No.


1.	Has the Government issued an Order in Council last year, declaring the RiviOre du Gouffre, at Baie St. Paul, County of Charlevois, P.Q., a navigable river and ordering the Baie St. Paul Lumber Company to demolish certain of its works along the said river?
2.	If so, what is the date on which said Order in Council was issued and the number of same?
3.	Has the Government passed. this year another Order in Council cancelling the previous one made last year in respect of the same matter?
4.	If so, why?
5.	What is the date on which the said Order in Council was passed and what is the number of same?


1.	An Order in Council was passed approving of certain works already existing and to be constructed in the Riviere du Gouffre by the Baie St. Paul Lumber Co., on condition that the company provide an opening and maintain a clear channel for navigation.
2.	3rd March, 1919, number 456.
3.	Yes.
4.	Non-fulfilment of conditions set forth in previous Order in Council approving plans of the dam, notwithstanding the repeated notices to the company by the Department of Public Works.
5.	5th March, 1920, number 488.


1.	Is it true that the postmastership at St Joachim, County of Montmorency, P.Q., is presently vacant? If so, since when?
[Mr. Casgrain.l
2.	Does the Government intend to fill this vacancy?
3.	Is the appointment to be made soon?
4.	If not, why?


1, 2, 3 and 4. There was a vacancy in the postmastership of St. Joachim, county of Montmorency, P.Q., but instructions have been given for a new appointment.


1.	How many persons are employed by the Civil Service Commission?
2.	How many are males?
3.	How many are females?
4.	How many males are French?
5.	How many females are French?
6.	How many males are Protestants?
7.	How many females are Protestants?


In answer to questions 4, 5, 6, and 7, no records are kept in the department. The remainder will stand as an order for return.


1.	How many persons are employed by the Civil Service Commission?
2.	How many are males?
3.	How many are females?


1.	How many Civil Service investigating commissions were appointed since the 1st of January, A.D. 1895?
2.	On what respective dates were said commissions appointed, what number of commissioners comprised each board, what were their names and their home addresses?
3.	How long was each board engaged on such inquiry and how much was paid to each?
4.	Is there any board or, any member of a past or present board now engaged in connection with the Civil Service inquiry or classification of the Civil Service, other than the regular Civil Service Commission of which Honourable Doctor Roche is the Chairman?
5.	What amount or amounts were paid by the Government to the Civil Service Classification Commissioners during the time from 1st January, 1916, to and including the 15th of March, A.D. 1920, what amounts were paid to each of the said Classification Commissioners and on what dates?


1. How much, if any, of the Federal Emergency Fund for the re-establishment of the returned soldier was overpaid or inadvertently paid to those not entitled to it under the regulations?
1122

2.	How much of this amount has been recovered ?
3.	How many prosecutions have been instituted for this recovery?
4.	What has been the decision in each case?
5.	Is it the intention of the Government to undertake any further action in cases of this nature?


For a copy of all documents, letters telegrams and all other papers and correspondence relating to the use of the Customs Department as a disciplinary agency against Canadian paper manufacturers, showing how, when and why an embargo was placed upon the exportation of newsprint paper manufactured by some of the mills. Also a copy of all correspondence exchanged between the Government and' the State Department at Washington and the Foreign Office in London in this regard, documents and correspondence in regard to the resignation of Mr. R. A. Pringle, K.C., as Commissioner and Paper Controller, and as to the appointment of Mr. R. W. Breadner as Paper Controller, his visit to Fort Francis Ontario, and his subsequent release from the Controllership upon his return. Also all documents and correspondence in regard to the employment by the Board of Commerce of Mr. J. L. McNichol to assist in paper control, and the reasons for his dismissal or resignation.


For a return showing the quantity of post office books, stationery and other postal supplies issued in Ottawa, through the Postal Stores Branch of the Post Office Department, from January 1, 1918, to April 1, 1920, and showing where printed* when, and by whom, showing also in detail, and separately, the cost of said supplies and transportation to their respective destinations.


For a Return showing at the end of the fiscal year 1910 and each subsequent year the total assets of Canada, the amount received in each year as interest or other income from such assets, and the average rate of interest or other income so received in each year.


For a copy of all documents, letters, telegrams and all other papers and correspondence exchanged between the Government or any department or commission thereof and the Government of the United States, the State of New York, the State of Vermont, or any other body, and a copy of any evidence given before any commission, referring to seine or net fishing in Mississiquoi river.


For a copy of all reports, letters, memos, correspondence, plans and specifications relative to the construction of a bridge on the Bajtis-can river, in the parish of St. Francois Xavier of Batiscan, in the county of Champlain.


That, in the opinion of this House, immediate steps should be taken by the committee

in charge of the operations of the Grand Trunk and associated railways to restore the pension status of all men employed by the said railways who were penalized for taking part in any strike, by having their pension standing reduced, and that it be an instruction to the Arbitrators in connection with the taking over of the Grand Trunk from the company to take into consideration as a debt of the company the amount required to make good these pensions.
He said: Mr. Speaker, in bringing this matter before the House I feel that the time is opportune for its discussion, because any question of this kind should be dealt with before the agreement between the Government of Canada and the Grand Trunk Railway Company is adopted by Parliament.
This is the old story of the troubles between the employees of the Grand Trunk and the company. In 1910 all the men employed on the Grand Trunk went out on strike, demanding higher pay. It will not be necessary for me to go into the details of that strike, except to say that a settlement was effected through the then Minister of Labour, the present leader of the Opposition (Hon. Mr. Mackenzie King), in conjunction with the chiefs of the Grand Trunk Railway Company. The understanding arrived at, as laid down in a letter written by the then Minister of Labour, was that the employees should all be restored to their previous standing and that they should receive an advance in wages. Shortly after the matter had been settled, the time came for some of the employees to leave the service of the company, and when they did so they were informed that the break in the continuity of their service which occurred during the strike debarred them from receiving pensions.
This matter of pensions as pertaining to the employees of the Grand Trunk Railway system has been discussed in the House on many occasions, but as the House is now composed largely of new members, very few hon. members present are familiar with the discussions which took place. Almost from time immemorial the Grand Trunk Railway Company has had a provident fund. Into that fund the company paid certain amounts, and they were thereby supposed to be relieved from liability to the employees of the road. On January 10, 1900, a man named Richard Ramsden, was killed while in the service of the company. Action was taken on behalf of the widow and her four children, who claimed negligence on the part of the Grand Trunk Railway Company. The company set up the defence that a clause in the Penion Fund Act relieved them from any liability for damages. The case was heard in Montreal by the present Minister of

Justice (Hon. Mr. Doherty) who held that according to the Quebec Civil Code a man could not contract his wife and children out of any claim for damages in the case of his being killed while in the service of the company. That is to say, while he might enter into a contract or agreement doing away with any claim for damages as a result of accident to himself, he could not do away with the right of action on the part of his heirs should he be killed while in the service of the company. Accordingly judgment was given for the widow and four children in the amount of six thousand dollars. The case went to the Privy Council and the decision was Confirmed by that body. Then, in 1907, a Bill was introduced into this House, the purpose of which was to renew this provident fund in the shape of a pension fund and to permit of the company's making' rules and regulations with regard thereto. Provision was made that if the Grand Trunk paid so much annually into that fund they would be relieved from liability. That Bill was discussed at length in the House. The late member for South Simcoe, Mr. Lennox, moved an amendment which, however, was not carried, and the Bill was adopted. The company thereupon proceeded to establish this pension fund. At the time of the setr tlement of the trouble between the company and the men in-1910, nothing was said about this fund. But the understanding was set forth in the following telegram sent by the then Minister of Labour:
Mr. Hays has given Sir Frederick Borden and myself an undertaking that the men will within three months from this date, be taken back into service and within that time be placed in their former positions. We understand by the men all the men referred to in the agreement signed by both parties. In accordance with our understanding I shall expect to hear by wire immediately that the strike has been declared at an end. I will confirm this wire by letter over my own signature.
The position of Mr. Kelley, vice-president of the road, was set forth as follows:-
In the matter of the questions submitted for settlement with this company.
The following agreement will be the basis for the adjustment of the various questions at issue:-
1.	Employees in train and yard service who remained with company during the strike period, and those who took service with the company during that period and who are now in the service of the company, shall retain their respective seniorities as now listed.
2.	Employees who participated in the strike, but who were re-employed and have since been continuously in the employ of the company shall be placed in seniority standing with respect to each o'her in the same standing as existed before July L7th, 191*0, but this shall not affect
the position or seniority standing of those employees mentioned in Article 1.
Based upon the above a new seniority list will be made out at once and the various positions adjusted in accordance therewith.
In other words, those who remained with the company during the strike were put on the Class A senior list, and those who went out and were reinstated were given the same standing as to seniority that they had before, save as respects those who had remained with the company. It will be noticed that no mention is made in that communication of the pension fund.
Now, one of the regulations made by the Grand Trunk in connection with this pension fund was that any employee of the company might be laid off upon reaching the age of 65 years. Since the strike somb 18 conductors, many of whom had been 40 or 50 years in the employ of the company, have been laid off, and a number of them find themselves with very little money and without anything to do. The men claim that the substantial amount which the Grand Trunk Railway Company paid from time to time into this pension fund is virtually a portion of their wages that it was one of the conditions of their employment that they should have a claim on that fund. Now, this question will have to be settled within a very short time.


Is there any agreement between the Grand Trunk Railway Company and the men setting forth the conditions of this fund?


There is no agreement.
The Act sets forth the right of the company to establish this fund, in which the men shall participate. It will be found in the Statutes of 1907. The amount paid into the fund is a first charge of the earnings of the company; it is not an amount which may be paid after the settlement of other debts; really it is a first call on the earnings of the road, and that amount paid into this pension fund is really part of the wages of the men who consider that, having contributed for many years indirectly to this fund, they are entitled to their fair share-of the amount when they leave. The ground taken by the Grand Trunk Railway Company- is this. They claim that the men have broken their continuity of service; and as one of the rules of the pension fund was that the men must be continuously in service in order to participate in it, they claim that the men, having broken that rule, are technically not entitled to anything. There is no doubt in the world that, on the face of the matter and according to

all rules of justice, these men are entitled to their pension and their status in this pension fund. This technicality which is claimed against them is a matter over which they had no control; that is to say, the Grand Trunk authorities, not the men, made the rules and regulations, the result of this rule being that the men have been deprived of their right to a portion of this pension fund. The money being there, the men having contributed to it indirectly during all these years, and the question now coming before the Government in the form of an agreement between the Government and the Grand Trunk Railway Company, I consider that it is only fair and right that these men should be given their proper status in this pension fund and that those who have gone out should be given their rights as well. Some eighteen of these men, some of whom have been conductors of this road for nearly fifty years, have been forced out; these men, who have been honest and upright, have not been able to do more than keep themselves and their families respectably, and they find themselves at sixty-five years of age compelled to accept menial employment on the road, some of them handling gates at level cros