Bill No. 160, for the relief of Edward George Taylor.-Mr. Douglas (Strathcona).
Bill No. 161, for the relief of Margaret Swanston Neville.-Mr. Copp.
Bill No. 162, for the relief of Ernest Lillie Montgomery.-Mr. Fripp.
Bill No. 163, for the relief of Ethel Gordon Wright Ball.-Mr. Fripp.
Bill No. 164, for the relief of Ivan Ignatius Brazill.-Mr. Mowat.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has any action 'been taken by the Government during the past year to forbid meetings of Civil Servants in Government offices after working hours?
2.	If so, why was said action taken?
3.	Has the ruling, if any, been applied impartially to all Civil Service organizations and groups?
4.	Have any representations been made to the Government by any Civil Service organization that this privilege of meeting in Government offices be restored to the Service?
5.	Is it the intention of the Government to restore this privilege? If not, why?


1.	Meetings of organizations of a general character have never been authorized. The practice has, however, grown up in different departments of employees of the department remaining after office hours to discuss matters of interest mutually to such departmental employees. This practice has not been interfered with.


2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Yes.
4 and 5. There cannot be any question of restoring an alleged privilege which has never been authorized.
1.	How many miles of railway have the Government built in the Island of Vancouver, B_C, (as an extension of the Canadian National Railway), during the last three years?
2.	How many miles of steel have been laid on the same railway in the last three years?
3.	What is the total cost of the above extension?	.


1.	No grading done during this period.
2.	72.2 miles.
3.	Total cost of above extension during the three years in question was $1,735,748.86.


1.	What is the amount of Income Tax collected for the year 1919?
2.	What percentage of such amount has been applied to collection and administration expenses?


1.	Collections under Income War Tax Act in fiscal year 1920-21 were $46,381,806.64; of this amount $9,597,211.13 were collections made on assessments based on income for the calendar years 1917 and 1918; $32,685,630.24 for the calendar year 1919, and $4,098,965.27 applying to calendar year 1920. Total collections to date as at May 14, 1921, based on 1919 income, $34,485,640.61.
2.	The administration of the Business Profits and Income War Tax Acts is conducted by the Taxation Branch of the Finance Department. The appropriation is voted and spent without allocation to one or the other taxes, as the staff and outlay interlock.


What amount was collected through Income Tax on corporations in 1920-21?


$13,481,809.99, in addition to the collections made under The Business Profits War Tax Act, 1916, and Part One of The Special War Revenue Act, 1915.


1.	Have ex-members of the Canadian Navy the same status as ex-members of the Canadian Expeditionary Force who served overseas?

2.	Do they receive the same preference with regard to appointments to the Civil Service?


1.	Yes. A member of the Canadian Navy who has served in European or Asiatic waters during the war period has the same status as a member of the Canadian Expeditionary Force who had served overseas.
2.	Yes.


1.	Are there any statistics kept by any of the departments of the Government as to the amount of freight and passengers carried by the railways of Canada, both the Canadian National Railways and the Canadian Pacific Railway?
2.	Are there any statistics as to the number of passengers and number of cars handled by the various railway systems of Canada?


1 and 2. The transportation Division of the Dominion Bureau of Statistics publishes annually statistics showing amount of freight and number of passengers carried by the railways of Canada, both collectively and individually. It also contains complete information as to rolling stock and motive power.


1.	What was the revenue of the Post Office at Edmundston, New Brunswick, for the last fiscal year?
2.	What salary was paid the Postmaster of this office during the same period?


1.	$11,389.94.
2.	Salary allowance, including $1,054.50 arrears
from previous year.. $4,719.50
Money Order Commission.. 317.34
Postal Note Commission..	8.40


1.	Regarding an answer by the Minister of Justice on the 11th instant in which is given the reason for the dismissal of Mrs. Boucher as Postmistress at Pierreville, Yamaska County, is it not a fact that the outsider referred to is Mr. Aime Boucher, Liberal Candidate in Yamaska and son of the Postmistress?
2.	Is it not a fact that the only accusation against Mrs. Boucher was that she allowed her son to help her sort the mail?


1.	Yes.
2.	The accusation made against the Postmistress was that she had allowed her son,

the Liberal candidate, to enter the private office where the mails are kept and also to sort and handle mails in violation of the law.


1.	What are the names of the outsiders who have heen allowed to handle mail at the Post Office at Pierreville, as stated toy the Minister of Justice on the 11th instant lin answer to a question of Mr. Ball, M.P., regarding the reasons for the dismissal of Mrs. Boucher as Postmistress of Pierreville, Yamaska county?
2.	What was the exact nature of the reproached acts?


1.	Mr. Aime Boucher is the one outsider whom the Postmistress admitted had interfered with the mails.
2.	Assisting in sorting and handling the mail.


1.	Who is Post Office Inspector at Quebec?
2.	Has an automobile toeen put at his disposition?
3.	If so, what make is the car, and what number?
4.	Is It for official use only, or is it to be used by his family and his friends?
5.	Is a record kept of the official trips made by the Inspector?
6.	Is a record kept of all persons taking passage daily in such car, can the names toe obtained, and the mileage each day?


1.	S. T. Green.
2.	Yes.
3.	Reo T 6.
4.	It is for official use only.
5.	The official trips of all Inspectors are recorded.
6.	No.


1.	Has the Government taken control of the Dominion Shipbuilding and Repair Company Limited?
2.	If so, when and oft what conditions?
3.	How many steamers are under construction in the above-mentioned shipbuilding plant?
4.	Has the Government entered into any contract for the completion of the said steamers if any?
5.	If so, with whom and on what conditions?
6.	Are the said steamers presently insured? If so, to whom has the premium toeen paid and what is the amount paid to each insurance agent or company?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Two.
4.	Yes.
5.	The Collingwood Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., and the John Inglis Co., Ltd., have contracted to finish the ships and complete and install the engines and boilers respectively on the basis of cost of labour and material which they will have to furnish plus 15 per cent for profit.
6.	Yes. Toronto Insurance and Vessel Agency-$4,785.00.


1.	Has the Government taken control of Prince Rupert Dry Dock Engineering Company, Limited?
2.	If so, when and on what conditions?
3.	How many steamers are under construction in the above-named shipbuilding plant?
4.	Has the Government entered into any contract for the completion of the said steamers, if any?
5.	If so, with whom and what is the nature of the contract?
6.	Are the said steamers presently insured? If so, to whom has the premium been paid?
V. What amount has been paid to each insurance agent or company in this regard?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Two.
4.	Yes.
5.	The Wallace Shipbilding and Dry Dock Company, Limited, has contracted to finish the ships on the basis of cost of labour and material which they will have to furnish plus 8 per cent for profit.
6 and 7. Yes. Johnson & Higgins, New York and Seattle, $9,960.56.


For a copy of all papers, documents, correspondence and Orders in Council regarding the control, by the Dominion Government, of fisheries in the tidal waters of the province of Quebec, as well as a copy of the judgment of the Privy Council dealing with this matter.


For a copy of all documents, letters, scrip notes, transfers of lands consequent upon such scrip notes, and all and every other documents without reservation whatsoever in connection with the issue of Half Breed scrip to one Elizabeth Hislop.
.	THE BUDGET


The House resumed from Saturday, May 14, the debate on the motion of Hon. Sir Henry Drayton, Minister of Finance, that
Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair for the House to go into Committee of Ways and Means, and the proposed amendment thereto of Hon. W. S. Fielding.
Mr. Speaker, representing, as I do, a constituency in Western Ontario, and after listening to the doleful tale of woe which was told by the hon. member for North Essex (Mr. Kennedy), on Saturday last, I feel it is my duty to participate in this debate and to show, to some extent at least, the need of supporting a policy such as that proposed by this Government. If you will draw a line through Toronto, north to lake Simcoe, you will find that west of that demarkation there are constituencies represented in this House by forty-two hon. members. Fifteen hundred thousand people live in that locality, the assessed value of their property amounts to over one thousand millions of dollars. More industries are there located than are to be found in all the rest of the Dominion of Canada put together. In western Ontario we have not only a large number of manufacturing plants, but an intensive farming industry. In no place on this continent, is intensive farming carried to the extent that it is in the southwestern part of the province of Ontario. The hon. member for North Essex, who, I regret, is not in his seat, was rather pessimistic in his views as to what we might expect if the Budget presented by the Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton), were carried into effect. That hon. gentleman (Mr. W. C. Kennedy) represents the city of Windsor and the surrounding districts. There are 206 manufacturing plants in his constituency, and yet he is prepared to back up the Liberal policy that would wipe out practically half of those industries if it were put into operation. Let me read a letter which I received from the secretary of the Board of Commerce in that city, so that I may convey to the members of the House some idea of the enormous development in that territory. The following communication reached me on March 11, 1921:
In reply to your esteemed favour of the 8th, we now have two hundred and seven operating industries at these border municipalities. Forty-four of these came in during 1919, and over thirty last year. Practically all of them represent American capital and enterprise. When running full swing these industries employ nearly twenty thousand workers. As to the development of these communities,-we might say that in the spring of 1918 our collective population was estimated at about forty thousand. As some indication of the phenom-

enal increase that has taken place since then, we might mention that over thirteen thousand copies are now being delivered daily by the local newspaper to the homes of the Border Cities; and when one remembers the acute housing shortage from which we suffer, it seems fairly safe to adopt the ordinarily accepted average of five people to a home. This will enable you to form your own conclusions as to our present population; and it must be remembered, of course, that our paper is not going to every home, although it does go to most of them. If there is any further information that you may d^esire, be good enough to let us know.
Yours faithfully,
F. Maclure Sclanders,
Commissioner.
On the basis of five persons to a family, it will be seen that if 13,000 copies of this newspaper are distributed, the population is some 65,000. This Chamber of Commerce has published and distributed a pamphlet from which I desire to quote an extract. The article appears under the caption: "Rediscovered by American Manufacturers" and is in part as follows:
Further, business with many British possessions could be more advantageously conducted from Canada than from the United States, owing-among other things-to tariff preferential granted Canadian products. There were also many other sound and even compelling reasons for the establishment of American branch factories in Canada,-and, especially, at the Border Cities, which are so conveniently close to many very important industrial centres in the neighbouring states. And, so it was that in an astonishingly short time, the string of stagnant hamlets took upon themselves the aspect of a thriving, throbbing centre of extraordinary industrial activity. New factories literally streamed in. For instance, no fewer than 48 of such-large and small-located during 1919 ; while, for the first seven months of this year, others have established at an average rate of almost one per week. To-day, we have a total of 206 manufacturing concerns, practically all of which represent American capital and enterprise.
The foregoing has reference to the district represented by the hon. member for North Essex. Two hundred and six industries operate in that district by American capital, and yet the hon. member supports the Liberal policy as propounded by the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's (Mr. Fielding), in the statement which that hon. gentleman made, warning Americans, who might desire to come to Canada to locate and establish factories, thus assisting in the development of Canadian industry, that it would not be to their interests to come here, for, if they did, they might expect little support from any Government in Canada.


Hear, hear.


Did I hear some one say "hear, hear" in reference to that statement? Mr. Speaker, I cannot believe that any Government that might come into power in Canada would dare to tear down the tariff wall and wipe out industries that have been so successful in developing our natural resources and the trade of our land. The hon. member for North Essex, however, not only takes that position; he objects to this Government taking into consideration the fact that the antidumping clause will protect the manufacturers and further their interests. He says that there is unemployment in his city, some of the factories being shut down. I wonder whether he reflects that a great deal of that unemployment may be due to the fact that manufactured goods are coming into Canada from other countries which are turning out their products and shipping them into this country at below the actual cost of production. I wonder whether that hon. gentleman is aware of the fact that millions of dollars' worth of manufactured goods have been shipped into Canada during the last few months, below the actual cost of production, in the countries from Which they come, despite the anti-dumping clause. This anti-dumping policy is worthy of the support of every member of the House, and of the member for North Essex in particular.
Then my hon. friend found fault with the exchange situation as it affects Canada. What about the exchange? Do we want, as a people, to allow manufactured goods to come into this country from Germany, where the mark that was worth twenty-three cents before the war is to-day worth only one and a half cents, and where they are paying their labour on that basis? Does he want goods to come in from Italy, where the lire, worth twenty cents before the war to-day is only worth five or six cents? Does he want goods to come in from France where the franc has fallen in value, or from Great Britain where the sovereign has depreciated? In those countries they are manufacturing goods at the lowest possible cost, and it is up to the Finance Minister of Canada to see to it that the interest of the manufacturers of this country are considered in connection with the question of exchange. Now I claim that when we are looking after the interest of the Canadian manufacturers we are helping to develop our cities and towns, and our home market. In turn the people of Canada will be able to consume a large portion, at least, of the products of our farmers.
The hon. member for North Essex pointed the finger of scorn at the Minister of Militia (Mr. Guthrie) and called attention to the fact that he left the Liberal party and joined this Government in 1917. There is not a member on this side but feels proud and glad to know that the hon. member for South Wellington joined this Government, and assisted in carrying on the affairs of Canada in the able manner in which he has. The question is, did the Minister of Militia do right or did he do wrong in 1917? Is there any question but that he took the right position? All honour to the mep who came out boldly and manfully at that time, who left their party and joined the ranks of the Union Government in order that the affairs of the country might be properly administered. I regret indeed that any hon. member should have taken the position which my hon. friend from North Essex took in that regard.
We have in this House another gentleman from western Ontario who represents the county of Kent (Mr. McCoig) in which the beautiful city of Chatham, filled with industries, is situated. That hon. gentleman, along with the hon. member for North Essex, and other members for Ontario, attended the Liberal Convention in 1919, and helped to support the planks in the Liberal platform that would wipe out hundreds of industries in western Ontario-not a doubt about it. One of the planks of that platform is that the principal articles of food shall be placed on the free list. That platform also calls for free trade in agricultural implements. Let us look at the constituency represented by the hon. member for Kent. We find there two large sugar refineries in which are invested nearly $3,000,000. These refineries manufacture the raw material that is grown by the farmers in the western part of the province into the finished product and sell it to the people of Canada. That fact is surely worthy of some consideration. Yet the hon. member for Kent supports the policy of free trade in the principal articles of food, among which sugar surely must be included-he would support such a policy as that. These hon. gentlemen also advocate free trade in agricultural implements. Now there is a large *implement factory in the city of Chatham. What would become of that industry if we had free trade in agricultural implements? The Dort Motor Company also have a large factory located in Chatham- are they in favour of free trade in agricultural implements and machinery, which would include everything they manufac-

ture at their plant? There are also canning factories and the tobacco industry in the county of Kent. All these industries need a protective tariff at their hack to support them against foreign competition. Yet my hon. friend supports the Liberal platform which would throw the Canadian market open to foreign competition. A little further east is the county of Middlesex. My hon. friend who represents West Middlesex (Mr. Ross) has in his constituency large fruit areas, canning factories, wood turning establishments, and many other industries. What position is he going to take on this resolution? What position did he take in 1919? Why, he attended the Liberal convention and supported the resolution that would place the products of the bulk of these industries on the free list. A little farther east is the city of Kitchener. There you will find many other factories, and in the neighbourhood a big sugar refinery which takes the beets grown by the farmers and manufactures sugar from them. What position is my hon. friend from North Waterloo (Mr. Euler) going to take on this resolution? I ask the same question with respect to my hon. friend from East Elgin (Mr. McDermand)? I am glad to see the hon. member for that constituency in his seat. He is generally there; he is a good and faithful attendant at the House and a good citizen. I had the privilege of doing what I could during the space of a couple of weeks to show the people in his constituency that they should support the present Government. Let me tell hon. gentlemen two or three things about that constituency. We have heard a good deal of talk about East Elgin and what wonderful things were accomplished in the by-election there, but let us look at the facts. In round figures there are 13,000 voters in the riding of East Elgin, but there is only one town in the constituency-the town of Aylmer with 2,700 inhabitants and two or three small villages, none of them having a population ovep 300 persons. Of the total number of voters more than 10,000 live in the country districts; but notwithstanding that the representative of this Government was able to come within 200 odd votes of defeating my hon. friend. When people talk about this Government and the great defeat it received in East. Elgin they should remember the foregoing facts. Now, my hon. friend was hardly elected before certain representatives from that riding-including gentlemen connected with the canning industry- [Mr. J. E. Armstrong.}
who had voted against the Government went to London when the Tariff Commission sat there last year and pleaded with the Finance Minister to keep the duty on the products of these industries in order that they might carry on. My hon. friend knows full well that if the milk condensery and the canning factory in his riding were wiped out, the value of the farms throughout the district would be materially reduced. He knows full well that the canning factory distributed hundreds of thousands of dollars amongst the farmers of East Elgin, and that the milk condensery paid out over $900,000 for raw milk that was manufactured into condensed milk, and distributed throughout the country. I am merely making these statements to show that in that western part of the province-and I am sure that the same principle applies in many other districts throughout the Dominion-it is impossible for the people to accept the policy of free trade in fruit, in agricultural implements, in food products, and in dozens of other products such as are named in the platform of hon. gentlemen opposite.
Then I might turn to my good friend from West Lambton (Mr. Pardee). As he is well aware, the beautiful city of Sarnia is filled with factories, and the Board of Trade are urging Americans to cross the border and locate more factories in order to still further develop that city. Among its industries is a large plant manufacturing threshers and tractors. This industry and other industries would be wiped out if the policy enunciated by him and his colleagues in 1919 should be put into effect. For instance, in his city is an oil refining plant, the largest in Canada, erected at a cost of $2,500,000 or $3,000,000. The policy of his party and of the Agrarian group is to place lubricating, fuel and illuminating oils on the free list. Crude oil and gasoline are already exempt from duty. What else would be left to keep that refinery going if the free trade policy were in operation? And yet that one company alone has invested over $20,000,000 in refineries and stations throughout the Dominion. Unquestionably they would not operate in this country if you took away the little protection they now enjoy. It is apparent that many of our industries cannot possibly carry on without reasonable protection. I am not a high protectionist, far from it, but I am heartily in support of the policy of moderate protection enunciated by this Government, and I favour the Budget presented by the Minister of

Finance in support of the policy which we on this side of the House advocate.
Now, a word or two about my own constituency. In it there are fifty-one industries, twenty-one of them being entirely separate and distinct in their organization. Do my ihon. friends of the Agrarian party expect me to support their policy? I cannot do it. Do hon. gentlemen opposite expect me to support their policy? If I gave it my endorsement I would simply have to go back to my constituents and tell them what I told them last year, that over half of their industries would be wiped out if the policy of the Liberal and the Farmers party were put into effect.


They would not
believe you at all.


My
hon. friend says those industries would not be wiped out. That was the cry in 1906. But he and his party have a definite tariff policy, and its effect on my riding will be evident when I read this passage from the resolution on the tariff adopted at the National Liberal Convention of 1919:
That to these ends, wheat, wheat flour and all products of wheat; the principal articles of food; farm implements and machinery; farm tractors, mining, flour and saw-mill machinery and repair parts thereof; rough and partly dressed lumber; gasoline, illuminating, lubricating and fuel oils-should be free from customs duties-
That a revision downwards of the tariff should be made whereby substantial reductions should he effected in the duties on wearing apparel and footwear-
That the British preference be increased to fifty per cent of the general tariff.
And the Liberal party hereby pledges itself to implement by legislation the provision of this resolution when returned to power.
There is no question of doubt in my mind that if the Liberal party were to carry that policy into effect it would not only wipe out practically half the industries in Ontario, but it would also materially affect every industry in the sister province of Quebec. Hon. members from that province know full well that in supporting such a policy they are not acting in the best interests either of the people of their province or of the people of the Dominion generally, and I hope that when opportunity is given to the electorate of that fair province they will come out manfully and decisively in support of the protective tariff enunciated by this Government. We have 18,000,000 horsepower of electrical energy available, of which 14,000,000 is going to waste to-day. How are we going to develop that 14,000,000 horse-power up-less we encourage the establishment and
development of industries .that will use our raw materials and carry on a variety of manufactures? We have the second largest coal area of any country in the world. How can we develop it unless we take an active interest in a policy that will ensure a reasonable amount of protection to our industries? Why do American industries come to Canada? Not only for the purpose of taking care of their Canadian business, but in order that they may develop trade with the Motherland and our sister Dominions.
I wonder if we appreciate the enormous natural resources this country possesses? The output last year of our mines was over $400,000,000; of our forests over $182,000,000; of our fisheries over $60,000,000. Our farming industry produced over $2,000,000,000 worth of products. But it must not be forgotten that our manufactories produced goods to the value of $2,700,000,000. Surely, they are worthy of consideration, and I ask hon. gentlemen on both sides of the House to give this question their very earnest consideration, feeling sure that if they do they will support the policy enunciated by the Minister of Finance in the Budget which he has presented to this House.


(Translation.) Mr. Speaker, neither the speech of the Minister of Finance on this deficit-laden Budget, nor after all the speech from the Throne at the beginning of the session, were calculated to comfort public opinion.
If it be true that nations have the governments they deserve, Canada must be very guilty indeed to be deserving of the Government which gives itself airs under her eyes, gorgeously adorned with the name of National, Liberal and Conservative government, a compound name for a composite government having no authority nor cohesion, a name which has no meaning at all because it is intended to mean too many things. This so-called National, Liberal and Conservative government wearing that name as it would a patch-work recalls to memory that vaudeville character who sings on a lively tune: "A proof that I am something is that I do not know what I am."
How distant are the glorious days of the mighty Conservative party under the leadership of Cartier and Macdonald! That political party has passed through all the stages leading to its downfall. To mention but three of those stages: in 1911, Conservatives came into power by de-

nouncing reciprocity formerly advocated by Macdonald; in 1917 they throw to the dogs their old name, become "unionists" and seize power by means of an electoral plunder which will forever defile the memory of that party; and in 1920-21, the former Conservative party has completely degenerated and is totally in the hands of the Tory element, which under a spurious label seek to put the public on a wrong scent.
Divided, subdivided, torn apart and indifferently mended, the Government show themselves absolutely powerless to direct Canadian politics with foresight and firmness. Tossed about by endless eddies, the ship of state has, in three years, completely changed its crew, and its new pilot will not be equal to prevail against the storm which is brewing outside, nor able to long impose his authority over his immediate surroundings.
I know that the Prime Minister has audacity, and that he is capable of using the whip to tame those who dare raise their heads; he will cut to the bone. He is of those who cut the Gordian knot instead of untying it. But cutting is not enough, there is also splicing to be done. The Prime Minister does not seem to me particularly qualified to group around himself goodwill and tried talents desirous of directing and hastening, in a warm atmosphere of union and co-operation, the economic uplifting of our country.
The contact with the electors, in the course of the last months, has shown this Government, born from the tricked ballots of 1917, that they do not possess the confidence of the people. And there is no wonder in that, for this Government, in spite of all the false faces they put on are nothing but the Government of National Distress.
And, to begin with, can we feel safe as to the administration of our finances?
We are in the midst of a financial crisis, a great part of the responsibility for which is due to the Government. No doubt the war has brought about large expenditures and entailed heavy burdens. But the war is not the only cause of our financial disorder.
Let the Government search their conscience if they have any. Scandalous contracts have enriched favourites of the ministers. With their profiteers of all typ s; hoarders, bloated capitalists, speculating shareholders, they have cost millions to the country. These parasites have lived upon 
the Unionist Government like all parasites feeding upon the beast they cling to.
We have seen the Government embarking upon a ruinous railway policy. Instead of firmly pursuing a programme'of restoration of our finances, the Government has delighted in their lack of foresight. Hundreds of millions have been added to the already heavy liabilities of the country by the purchase of the Canadian Northern, by the purchase of the Grand Trunk,- condemnable measures which have been blamed by the serious business men of the country without party distinction and by the boards of trade of our largest cities.
The nationalization of the railways has entailed upon our Budget an ever-increasing annual deficit; a deficit of 40 millions in 1919, of 70 millions for the last twelve months, and which the Minister of Railways foresees will be of 100 millions at the end of the present fiscal year.
Sir Robert Holt, president of the Royal Bank of Commerce and Sir Vincent Meredith, president of the Bank of Montreal, recently advised the Canadian Government to renounce their public ownership policy and to take necessary steps to return the railways to their former owners.
Lord Shaughnessy himself has just advised the Government to abandon the direction of affairs which ever-increasingly deepen the abyss of our deficits.
To its already grave faults the Government still added others: for instance, in bringing from the United States self-styled experts to reclassify our Civil Service; experts who only bungled the former classification, and who cost us hundreds of millions of dollars.
The trade commission which was the charnel-house of all the claims of the consumers against the high cost of living, cost the country $25,000 a year.
Last session, the Government caused to be voted for military purposes, the sum of $12,000,000; this year they again claim $11,890,000 for militia and yet the war is over.
I neglect many instances and some of the worst. The Government indulges in this financial debauch at a time when our finances are in a pitiable state.
In 1914, our expenses were $127,384,473; in 1920, they reached $533,000,000; in 1921, they will come up to $591,500,000. The debt of the country, which, in 1914, was $335,996,850, that is $43 per capita, amounts in 1921 to $2,350,236,700, or $284 per capita.
Although in 18 years, from 1896 to 1914, the public debt increased to $77,000,000

from 1914 to 1921, in seven years, it rose to $2,000,000,000;. The interest on the debt, which in 1914 was $14,752,117, amounts to-day to over $140,000,000 yearly. We had, in 1914, a surplus of $35,000,000; our deficit in 1921 was $220,000,000. For 1920 only the debt has increased to $101,368,000. The Minister of Finance has declared with a cheerful mind that the total trade has increased from March, 1920, to 1921. It is true, but we must remember that our imports have increased by $175,000,000, while our exports have been reduced by $25,000,000.
The minister further states, in this House, with a smile of self-satisfaction, that our revenues, which were $349,000,000 on March 31, 1920, have reached $432,000,000 in 1921; but only for war taxes of all hinds, we have paid within the last 12 months $170,000,000.
When the Government claims a surplus of $69,000,000 over the ordinary expenses, they omit to say that they include in their receipts those extraordinary revenues derived from war taxes and amounting to $170,000,000.
Without any additional taxes for the 12 months from April 1, 1921, we would have to meet foreseen expenses of more than $591,000,000, receipts reduced to $375,000,000. Consequently, we would have, notwithstanding a deficit of $101,000,000 during 1919-20, another deficit amounting to $219,500,000, on March 31, 1922. Our national railways alone are to absorb over $165,000,000. The condition is such that provision must further be made for new taxes. Besides those $163,000,000 which our people have paid up in 1919 in custom duties; besides those $37,200,000 which they have contributed in excise duties, this Government has collected the following taxes:
On business profits	$40,000,000
On income taxes	 46,500,000
As war-tax of the Inland	Revenue..	79,050,000As well as other war	taxes	
2,355,000
It is according to those figures that we must judge of the evil deeds of the Government who, after having dragged us into debt beyond all measure, refuse to make the necessary economy to balance our finances and to carry on economic uplifting of the country. Far from that, the Government are taxing the people. The enormous fiscal effort asked from the Canadians will not give the results expected, if the Government does not cut down with a firm hand the useless expenses. In other words, the one remedy for the present conditions
is to practice a wise and strict economical hygiene.
The Government, it is true, says that they are willing to economize, and are doing away with certain expenses; but let us make a distinction. Our ministers who talk about economy have mostly in mifid the retrenchments to be effected in the present service, namely in the staff of the civil servants, and specially the mean reduction of their bonus, etc. But, those reforms are but slight economies. Moreover, it must be admitted that those who are in need the most amongst civil servants are not, as a rule, paid as they should be, if a decent living is to be guaranteed to them.
What I am censuring are the extravagant expenses of the trading and industrial Government. They have ventured into railway enterprises; the systems which they operate show a deficit of $70,000,000.
Not having profited by that disastrous experience, they now want to hazard themselves into a Government merchant marine, and, although they have asked us for that $20,000,000, last year, they want to spend this year $8,330,000 more.
What about our military expenses which, in peace times, amount to $12,000,000 each year! The Government have no right to be extravagant, and they are, when they make a gift of $25,000,000 to the provinces in order to build healthy houses, and another gift of $20,000,000 in order to improve the highways; when they spend annually $12,000,000 for militia; when specially, they grant $28,000,000 to a merchant marine, what are they going to answer when we ask them where all these millions will be derived from, when the Budget shows a deficit of $220,000,000?
It is quite plausible to give some explanations about different increases in the expenses. But there is a fact of the utmost importance, and it is the necessity of remedying our financial distress. It is a crime to increase by many millions the national Budget for new and dangerous undertakings. It is a mad ride towards bankruptcy.
Mr. Speaker, in these difficult times I have no confidence that the Government, with its bad antecedents, will adopt a consistent policy of economy, will equitably assess the taxes and seriously help the nation to recuperate.
The Government with which we are afflicted, is also the Government of National Distress, born of imperialism.

It must be remembered, Mr. Speaker, that the leader of this so-called National-Liberal-Conservative Government is the averred Imperialist who wanted to lead Canada to ruin for the benefit of the Empire, and that he has come to power just at the time when the policy he wanted and inspired is dragging our country to ruin.
I do not want to reopen a question which belongs to the past and which remains a badly closed-up wound. If I recall the lamentable conscription law, it is only with the object of connecting it with the Imperialist policy which has always been that of the Tories, and which is consequently the policy which prompts the present Government.
Many times we have proved that the voluntary enlisting was sufficient to maintain the four Canadian divisions at the front; but this was not the object of the measure, which so unfortunately divided the nation; its object was Imperialistic. As the tribute of $35,000,000 which a Tory Government wanted us to pay to England, conscription was an acute manifestation of British Imperialism, which tends to make of colonials, not citizens but subjects taxable in money and labour at discretion.
I will not insist upon a point which impartial history will bear out. Let me only observe, Mr. Speaker, that in Australia, conscription was viewed from the same angle as by the Canadian anti-conscrip-tionists, and was twice rejected there. It is important to recall these facts on the eve of the London conference to which the Prime Minister is so anxious to go.
If on October 28, 1917, the referendum before the people in Australia rejected Mr. Hughes' proposition about conscription, it was not due to lack of patriotism on the part of Australia; in that country as well as in Canada, the opposition to conscription was a protest against an Imperialistic tendency.
It behooves us in reality to understand the facts. In Australia, conscription or obligatory military service, had existed several years, since January 1, 1911, for the defense of the confederate states. In 1917, Mr. Hughes, the Prime Minister of the Federation, proposed to put the military forces of Australia at the disposal of the Government for the purposes of the war and wherever it would be thought useful to send them. This is the wording of the question submitted to the people:
Are you of opinion that, in view of the present grave circumstances, and for the duration of

this war, and in respect of the requisition of personal military service outside the territory of the Commonwealth, the Government should he invested with the same powers as they already have in respect to military service within the limits of this territory?
The result was negative.
It must be noted, Mr. Speaker, that the question to be voted upon was in effect:
"Do you wish that conscription which already exists for the defence of the territory be utilized for a war outside of Australia?"
The Australians considered that Mr. Hughes' proposition would only result in favouring Imperialism. That is why, Mr. Speaker, I thought it proper to quote the example of Australia. If I referred again to this measure, it is that in Canada as well as in Australia, it was an Imperialist movement. It was an attempt to finally and bindingly engage Canada in the war ventures of the Empire.
Now, the leader of the present Cabinet was the brain of the Borden Government that decreed conscription. The motto adopted by the present Prime Minister was "to the last man, to the last cent," in a war in which Canada's share should have been strictly limited to its national interests.
The party which now governs Canada is neither Unionist, nor Liberal, nor Conservative, nor National; it is the Tory party in which the mischievous element of Imperialism is preponderant
There is in your country a spirit which is not Canadian, for there is here a dynasty which comes down in direct line from the old Tories who played such a pernicious part in our history. In their minds the British Empire is to be an omnipotent state, its rights ever increasing while the rights of the individuals of the Canadians are reduced to naught.
They seek to domineer over our politics and to create a point of view as false as it is anti-national. In other words, the jingo-Tory-Imperialist element wish to change our political course, and suppress the Canadian feeling, replacing it by British pride.
It is to be feared that the Prime Minister may belong to this family; he has given proofs of this already. If we do not care to see him leave for London, it is because we dread the day when he returns. We fear that, because of his imperialistic feelings, his sojourn on the banks of the Thames may be to the detriment of Canadian interests. We fear that he may return from overseas entrusted with the mission to

make us endorse such agreements as we might regret.
We ask the Prime Minister to adopt, first, a Canadian policy which he will preach and extol until it triumphs both here and in London. And he may find a splendid example in another Canadian Prime Minister who represented our country, in the very heart of the Empire, at several intercolonial conferences. May the present Prime Minister who will leave in a few days-for England take example on the irreproachable attitude taken 'by Laurier, the illustrious son of Canada, a loyal subject of the British Empire, if ever there was one, and who, yet, never let another country take precedence over his own in his affections.
Face to face with the Imperialist doctrine stands the Canadian doctrine. Laurier had chosen the latter and was faithful to it to the last. In so doing, he was undoubtedly guided not only by his sincere patriotism but also by a clear-sighted love of the British Empire.
On each of his voyages to London, at each one of the intercolonial conferences which he attended, he had to choose between two tendencies: the Imperialist and the Canadian. He declared himself decidedly in favour of the Canadian.
On the eve of the conference of the Prime Ministers of the Empire which will be held in London and which the Canadian Prime Minister will attend, it is well to remember hpw, in the past and under similar circumstances, a great Canadian checked Imperialism.
Let us first take the Intercolonial conference which was held in 1902. So as to convince one's self of the energy displayed by Sir Wilfrid Laurier on this occasion, one need but glance at the official documents concerning the colonial conference which was held in 1902.
The principal questions which were discussed at this conference were: the political and the trade relations of the Empire and its naval and military defence.
We know that Laurier, so far as our political relations were concerned, would not even entertain the idea of possible changes in the existing situation. The conference passed only the practically meaningless resolution to hold, at least every fourth year, colonial conferences of the same kind as that of 1902.
As to our trade relations, our Canadian ministers endeavoured with care, but also very clearly, to make England understand that the preferential tariff which she had
obtained from Canada deserved that the latter country in turn be granted privileges on the British market.
But when Chamberlain showed his ill-will by not admitting that we were entitled to privileges for lowering our tariff-how quickly did be then change his mind!-the Canadian ministers had let it be understood that it might be possible to increase certain duties in favour of British goods, but, they said that, if after all these efforts to obtain a change in the tariff, the Canadian government found out that the policy of a mutual preferential tariff did not suit the colonies or England they would consider themselves free to adopt such measures as they thought proper.
On this point as well as on the other, Laurier stood for Canada, and he took great care not to take the least step towards this Imperialism by which Chamberlain tried to dazzle the colonial political chiefs. But it is mostly the question of naval and military defence which casts the greater light on the brave attitude taken by Sir Wilfrid Laurier and his ministers at the conference in 1902.
Let us first take the military defence. It bad been suggested that the conference pass a resolution by which each colony would have pledged herself to maintain "a military reserve for duty, in case of necessity, outside of the limits of the colony where the said reserve would have been organized". While the representatives from the Cape and from Natal were quite willing to accept the policy proposed by Mr. Seldon, and by the war secretary, and favoured by Mr. Chamberlain, the Canadian representatives, according to the official report of the conference, thought it would be better to improve the military training of the troops, organize the service and complete the necessary equipment for the mobilization of a field army, whilst the colonies would have the right to determine, when occasion would arise, how and to what extent they should help.
It meant that they refused. In order to be fully understood, our representatives added that "to organize a military force specially for the service of the Empire and practically under its control, would be to give up a prerogative which the colonies enjoyed." I ask you if that was not a strong claim of our rights as a Dominion.
Let us see now what took place about naval defence. On that issue, Laurier had a great deal to do so as not to be influenced in favour of a direct Canadian

We liberals wish him to know that we are strongly opposed to the centralization of imperial control and to any organic change in the constitution of Canada, so far as it concerns Canadian relations with the Empire, even after it is passed by Parliament, and before it is ratified by a Canadian vote, by means of a plebiscite. Such are the minutes adopted as the Liberal policy, by the national- convention, in 1919.
Besides, as was declared in this House by the leader of the Opposition, on April 27, last, the Liberals, whilst admitting that it may be useful for Canada to be represented at the next imperial conference, object to any decision being taken, during the course of the said conference, which might involve any change whatever in Canada's relations with other parts of the Empire, and they are of opinion that, owing to the present financial situation in Canada, nothing should be done which would be of a nature to involve the country in further expenditure for naval or military purposes.
In assuming this attitude we have been inspired above all things by a Canadian policy, the only one which will uphold the Empire, and will guarantee the survival of Canada and its complete national development.
Let us always have for object and for motto Laurier's splendid formula:
Imperial unity by means of local autonomy.
The hybrid Government who administer the country's business without the support of public opinion are still causing a national distress and they have set the nation at variance.
The truth of this need not be proven; it is written in large type of such size as to cast a shadow on all provinces of the Confederation from ocean to ocean.
The nefarious administration of the so-called Union Government has created a legitime distrust in certain provinces, it is the cause of the farmer's movement, it has irritated the working class, called forth protestations from the soldiers whose anger it has aroused. Never had we seen the country so badly at variance, never had we heard of such disputes.
The Prime Minister has realized how much this distrust, these quarrels have weakened his Government.
Scarcely had he taken the direction of public affairs, when he decided first to smile to the province of Quebec which until then had been denounced, calumniated and brought into disrepute by his friends.

Although certain papers have announced that the Prime Minister's affectionate demonstrations will soon be at an end, it is not yet too late to mention the subject.
As soon as the hon. member for Portage la Prairie became Prime Minister, he declared himself in favour of peace and union; he henceforth uttered only honeyed words, and he laid down the 