That the Public Accounts of Canada, and volumes 1, 2 and 3 of the Auditor General's report, for the fiscal year ending March 31st, 1920, be referred to the Select Standing Committee on Public Accounts.


Motion agreed to.
Right Hon. C. J. DOHERTY (Minister of Justice) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 35 to amend the Prisons and Reformatories Act. He said: There is one provision of this Bill which is of general application; its purpose is to raise the age at which persons defined as children may be committed to reformatories instead of to penitentiaries or goals. The present age limit is sixteen years; the Bill proposes to raise it to eighteen years. There have been pretty widespread representations on the desirability of this change. Furthermore its desirability has been impressed upon my mind from observation of cases of very young people, slightly over sixteen years of age, who have been committed to the penitentiaries, which, under the present law, was the only place to which they could be committed. The other provisions of the Bill are to meet proposed changes in the reformatory system in the province of Nova Scotia, in order to adjust our legislation to meet those changes which are desired by the provincial authorities. I think there will be an opportunity later on of fully explaining those proposed changes.
Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Mr. S. W. JACOBS (George Etienne Cartier) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 36 to amend the Bankruptcy Act.
Explain.
Mr: JACOBS:	Mr. Speaker, this is a
Bill to amend certain sections of the Bankruptcy Act in order to enlarge the scope of the Act which was passed last session. I may say that this amending Bill is introduced at the suggestion of the judge of the bankruptcy court for the province of Quebec. It is felt that the Act would operate more successfully were these amendments made.


Motion agreed to, and Bill read the first time.
Mr. S. W. JACOBS (George Etienne Cartier) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 37 to amend the Bankruptcy Act (French version).
Expliquez en
fran^ais.


Mr. Speaker, seeing that
the Bill is derived from the English law, perhaps I may be permitted to explain it in English. This is a Bill to amend section 9 in order that both the English and the French versions may harmonize. In the French version it is declared that certain property shall be movable and immovable; while in the English version it is declared that the property shall be real and immovable.


Motion agreed to, and the Bill read the first time.
That to-morrow the House do go into Committee of the Whole for the purpose of considering the resolution to amend the Opium and Narcotic Drug Act, Chapter 17 of the Statutes of 1911, as amended by chapter 31 of the Statutes of 1920.


May I ask the right
hon. gentleman who is Minister of Health for the time being?


Hon. Mr. Calder.


Motion agreed to.
AMES	[DOT]
On the Orders of the Day:
Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE. KING (Leader of the Opposition) :	Mr. Speaker, in
view of the declaration of Sir Herbert Ames, which was communicated by you to the House yesterday, and which appears
duly recorded in the Journals of the House at page 104 of the Votes and Proceedings of March 17, I desire to ask the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. Meighen) for an explanation of the answers which have been made to certain questions asked in this House respecting the resignation of the former member for St. Antoine. The declaration to which I have referred is as follows:	.
To the Honourable Speaker of the House of Commons:
I, Herbert B. Ames, member for the House of Commons of Canada, for the electoral district of St. Antoine, Montreal, do hereby resign my seat in the said House of Commons, for the constituency aforesaid.
Given under my hand and seal at Ottawa, this fourteenth day of February, A.D. 1921.
Herbert B. Aimes. (L.S.)
Witness, W. S. Middlebro.
Witness, Howard P. Whiidden.
I would direct the attention of my right hon. friend the Prime Minister to the fact that it is set forth in this declaration that it was given under the hand and seal of Sir Herbert Ames at Ottawa on the 14th day of February, 1921. The 14th of February was the day of the opening of the present session of Parliament. I would also direct his attention to the fact that the witnesses to the declaration are the hon. member for North Grey (Mr. Middlebro) the chief whip of the Government party, and the hon. member for Brandon (Mr. Whidden). It is known that Sir Herbert Ames has not been in Canada during the present year; he has been in Europe and has been there for some months.
Order. I regret to have to remind the hon. gentleman that while I wish to allow every latitude in the statement which he is making for the purpose of leading up to a question, it would be highly improper on his part to make any argument on the Orders of the Day when .here is no subject before the Chair. The hon. member, if he desired to go into the question fully, would have an opportunity to do so at any time on a motion to go into Committee of Supply.


I have no desire to present an argument, but I regard it as material to an understanding of the significance of the questions which I am about to read that I should direct the attention of the House to the date to which I have just referred. The first question with reference to the resignation of Sir Herbert Ames was asked by the hon. mem-

ber for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe) in the course of the debate on the Address. This question, which was asked on March 2 and will be found on page 489 of Hansard (unrevised), was as follows:
There is another matter to which I wish to direct your attention. Mr. Speaker. On July 21, 1920, the hon. member for Ste. Antoine. Montreal (Sir Herbert Ames), delivered a very eloquent address before the Empire Parliamentary Association in London on "The Dominions and the League of Nations.'' This address was printed, and I have a copy of it in my hand. With your permission, I will read the following words from page 5 :
"Now, I have just returned from a hurried visit to Canada. Mr. Balfour has alluded to the double capacity which I occupied at that time, and for the moment still occupy. For sixteen years I have been the representative of Western Montreal in the Canadian House of Commons. My resignation is in the hands of the Speaker because I have found thait my new work is quite enough to occupy all the time and attention that I am capable of giving to it."
This was on July 21, 1920. Why should the electors of St. Antoine, Montreal, be disfranchised? Why has the resignation of Sir Herbert Ames been kept secret and withheld? I am sure that it must have been intercepted on its way to Your Honour, because you could not have it in your hands without acting upon it-but that is always the humiliating method of avoiding an election and evading a defeat. Shall this be permitted to continue? Will the Canadian people stand for that much longer?
To this question, you, Mr. Speaker, made the following reply immediately upon eon-elusion of the speech of my hon. friend:


Two references in the
speech of the hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe) make it highly essential, 1 think, that the position of the Chair should be stated clearly and beyond all question	
The second reference to which I wish to allude has to do with the statement credited to the hon. member for St. Antoine (Sir Herbert Ames) that his resignation was in the Speaker's hands. The House will at once realize that it would never do for the impression to go abroad that the Speaker was a party to withholding a document of that character.


Hear, hear.


I therefore deem it my duty to make it clear to the House that I have not in my possession the resignation of the member for St. Antoine, nor have I ever received a document which was, or which purported to be, the resignation of his seat in this House.
On March 3, the day following, I addressed the following question on the Orders of the Day to the right hon. Prime Minister. It will be found on page 506 of Hansard:


On the Orders of the Day:
Is the
Prime Minister aware, of the hon. mofriber

for St. Antoine (Sir Herbert Ames) having made any public declaration to the effect that he had tendered his resignation as a member of this Parliament? Has the Prime Minister or any other member of the Government received an intimation from that hon. gentleman of his desire or intention to tender his resignation?
To this question the right, hon. the Prime Minister replied:


I have seen no public declaration made by or on behalf of the hon. member for St. Antoine, nor have I received any communication that I can give to the House.
On March 4 the following question by the hon. member for Charlevoix-Mont-morency (Mr. Casgrain) appeared upon the Order Paper; it will be found in Hansard, page 608:
REPRESENTATION OF ST. ANTOINE;


1.	Is it true that the member for Saint Antoine, Montreal, has sent in his resignation as a member of the House of Commons?
2.	If so, when was it received by the Speaker of the House?
It was replied to as follows, by you, Mr. Speaker:


The answer to the first
question is, No. The second question is answered by the reply to No. 1.
In justice, Mr. Speaker, to Sir Herbert Ames himself and to hon.; members of this House, I should like to ask the Prime Minister how it comes that this document, bearing the signatures of hon. members opposite as witnesses, happens to be dated at Ottawa on the 14th of February, of the present year, when Sir Herbert Ames, so far as is known, was in Europe at that date and has been in Europe all of the present year? Assuming that the declaration was made on the date set forth, the second question I should like to ask my right hon. friend is, who is responsible for having withheld this important document from you, Mr. Speaker, for over a month, from February 14 until March 17? The third question is, in view of the existence of this declaration by Sir Herbert Ames, what explanation has the Prime Minister to make of the answers given to the questions I have just quoted?


Noting, as I have, the formality with which the leader of the Opposition has framed his questions and the rather long recitals which preceded them, I suggest that it would have been fairer had he given
me notice of the subject matter; but that has not been his practice. However, there will be no difficulty at all in replying to his questions. Every answer given in this House by the Government as read by my hon. friend is absolutely correct. I knew of no public declaration Sir Herbert Ames had made; if Sir Herbert Ames himself had stated-I had not seen the statement before 

that his resignation was at the time mentioned in the Speaker's hands, it could not have been correct. His resignation was not in the Speaker's hands until shortly before the time Mr. Speaker announced it. The fact is that Sir Herbert Ames had his resignation made out and left with a friend, to be dated within certain limits fixed by him. His instructions were fully carried out and the resignation forwarded accordingly.
TEMPERATURE OF THE CHAMBER On the Orders of the Day:


I would like to direct the attention of the hon. Minister of Public Works (Mr. McCurdy) to a matter which, while not of urgent public importance, is of some importance to the members of this House. I refer to the temperature of the Chamber. For a week or more the Chamber has on frequent occasions been extremely draughty and quite cold, and I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not possible for him to make such arrangements as will enable us to do business in ordinary comfort.


The complaint which has been made by the hon. member has come from various parts of the Chamber, and concurrently complaints have come from other members that the temperature is too high. The official in charge of heating has instructions to keep the temperature of the Chamber as near as possible to 67 degrees, which, I believe, is proper for a House of this character whether on the Government side or in the shades of Opposition.
INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION On the Orders of the Day:
Hon. JACQUES BUREAU (Three
Rivers and St. Maurice) :	I see by an
Ottawa despatch in the Montreal Gazette that the Prime Minister has notified all parties interested in the Lake of the Woods control legislation to appear at Ottawa to present their case on Monday next at 11.30 o'clock. Have the parties representing the Americans and

the parties representing Canada on the International Joint Commission also been notified? I will put the question otherwise. Has the International Joint Commission been notified to appear with the Manitoba, Ontario, and other people interested?


That is, on Monday at 11.30?


Yes.


No. Monday at 11.30 has been fixed as the date on which any parties interested in the legislation who wished to make representations against it may be heard by the Government. The International Joint Commission, neither American nor Canadian section, has, so far as any knowledge has reached us, any objection to this legislation.


On the Orders of the Day:
I should like to call the attention of the Government to an article appearing in the Montreal Gazette this morning regarding the Roumanian bonds. The article reads:
Roumanian bonds pay no dividends. Canada's chances of securing interest soon are very slim. Canada's chances of securing payment of the irterest on the bonds representing the $25,000,000 loaned to the Roumanian Government two years ago as a trade credit has practically disappeared for the present.
The article further states:
The Roumanian Government now states that ir is unable to pay these bonds, and proposes that they be renewed for one year, offering to pay interest at the rate of 8 J per cent instead of the 5 per cent originally fixed.
Is the Government aware of these facts, and has any proposition been made to the Canadian Government regarding a settlement of bonds and interest?


My recollection is that this matter has already been dealt with by a formal question and answer already given to the House. It is not new. The interest has not been paid. The only thing Roumania is now suggesting is that we should agree to defer our claim for interest, so that that interest would not be in default.


Has the Government arrived at any decision?


The Government is endeavouring to collect the debt.


On the Orders of the Day:
There appears in this morning's papers an article relating to the resumption of trade between Great Britain and Russia. Is it the intention of the Canadian Government also to resume trade relations with Russia, and in that case, will the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Sir George Foster) have his trade agents instructed to see what business openings are available for Canadian trade or will he leave Canadian interests to look after the trade themselves. I would point out to the right hon. gentleman that, owing to the difficulties of communication with Russia at present, it might be preferable that his trade agents be instructed to look out for business openings.


If my right hon. friend will kindly refer to Hansard of yesterday, he will find my answer to a question which is almost precisely the same as his.


May I ask the Minister of Finance if there is such a thing now as a Russian national currency?


I am afraid that that is a question of which due notice ought to be given.


On the Orders of the Day:
I see by the press that Mr. Lloyd George has declared that a commission is to investigate shortly the matter of the embargo on Canadian cattle. Has the Government any official knowledge of that and, if so, does it intend to be represented before or on that commission?


The Government has received a communication from the High Commissioner to the effect that such a commission was promised by the British Prime Minister. The terms of the commission have not yet reached the Government. It will depend upon the terms of the commission what action we should take, but I would think, undoubtedly, the Government would see to it that the facts in support of Canada's contention will be fully and carefully laid before that commission.


Has the Prime Minister observed a despatch stating that the Prime Minister of Australia intends to acquaint the Australian Parliament with the subjects to be taken up at the approaching conference in London and to give that Parliament an opportunity of discussing them? Is it my right hon. friend's intention to give this Parliament the same statement and a like opportunity?


I had not observed any statement by the Australian Prime Minister to the effect described by the hon. gentleman, but I had myself moved in the matter and a little earlier than he. I have already given this House, in outline, the subjects that will probably be discussed. The exact agenda has not yet reached us, but the three important topics that had been suggested were stated in an answer made about three weeks ago to the hon. member for Chambly and Vercheres (Mr. Archam-bault) and the answer to his question went on to state that, should it appear the desire of a substantial number of members that special opportunity be afforded in this House for discussion, it would be provided. Ever since that, at any time on occasions when subjects such as that might be brought up, the subject might have been discussed. Should further information reach us making certain that other important topics would be considered, I will feel it my duty to state those topics or their substance to the House.

The House in Committee of Supply, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.


Item No. 4 Justice

salaries-contingencies-


The consent of the House is necessary before this item is called, because the Estimates of this particular department have not been taken up before.


We had understood-
I hope, not misunderstood-that we would be permitted to go into Justice. Might I remind the hon. gentleman that I did not absolutely insist on my rights the other evening and, perhaps, one good turn deserves another.


I claim that a minister
who wants to go on with his Estimates like this, should, before going on, ask for the consent of the House.


I quite concede that.
If I was under a misapprehension, I am sorry, but I thought the House understood that I was to go on.


It was announced definitely last night that agriculture would be taken up.


And Justice.


The Prime Minister
said any others might be taken up.


I said Justice as well.


Members of the House must consent to that. The announcement of my right hon. friend is not sufficient.


I quite agree with that, but let me read what I said last night:
Mr. Fielding: What business will be taken up to-morrow?
Mr. Meighen: The motion to go into Supply.
Mr. Fielding: On the same Estimates?
Mr. Meighen: On the same Estimates and those of the Department of Justice, and any others that we may have a right to go on with.
Mr. Bureau: That is rather vague.
Mr. Meighen: I do not think that there are any others that we have a right to go on with, consequently they could not be taken up but by consent. If we do ask for consent it will be on the Estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce. If all those go through, we will proceed with Government orders.
So the Department of Justice was specially mentioned, it being the understanding, as I was informed by my hon. friend, that he would be permitted to go on, in view of the fact that he did not insist on his right to go on with his Estimates on Tuesday night, I think it was, when they were reached.


My object is not to raise any opposition, but to affirm a right. I do not think this vote should be called by the chairman before a formal motion is made asking for the unanimous consent of the House. There is no objection to giving unanimous consent, but it ought to go on the record that that is the proper procedure.


I quite recognize that I am not entitled to proceed without the consent of the House, and I beg through the chairman to ask whether the House is prepared to consent to my taking up the items I have mentioned.


The point raised by the hon. member for Three Rivers (Mr. Bureau) is, of course, as admitted by the right hon. the Minister of Justice (Mr. Doherty) well taken. The Estimates of the Department of Justice having not yet been

taken up this session, and this being Friday, it is necessary that the committee should give its unanimous consent before these Estimates can be considered. Is it the unanimous desire of the committee that the Estimates of the Department of Justice be now considered?


Carried.


If the objection of one member is sufficient to prevent the Justice Estimates being proceeded with now, I wish to object.


May I ask my right hon. friend what is the difficulty about proceeding with the Agriculture Estimates? We were in the midst of a very interesting discussion last night, and we do not want to lose the thread of our thoughts.


There is no objection at all to proceeding with Agriculture first, but I understood from the Minister of Agriculture last night that there were only four items left, and we thought it would likely expedite matters if we went on with the Justice Estimates first, and took up the four remaining items in the Agriculture Estimates later. I think the long experience of my hon. friend from Shelburne and Queen's will lead him to concur with me in that expectation.
I do not want to call attention to the fact that the Government might have insisted on its right to go into the Justice Estimates the other night, especially as it promised that ample opportunity would be given for a motion on going into Supply on another day on the Justice Estimates. That having been done, I think it is hardly fair that objection should be raised. However, it has been raised, and we will go on with the Department of Agriculture.
Department of Agriculture-Publications, $34,500.


Would the minister explain what these publications are?


Our Publications Branch was located at 66 Queen Street, but we are now moving to the Robinson Building on the same street. We publish what is known as the Agricultural Gazette. It is published about six times a year, and has in its columns all the latest information regarding agriculture. It is distributed to the Departments of Agriculture in the various provinces, institutions of learning, agricultural societies, and members of Parliament. The Publications Branch also maintains a distribution office, through which the reports and bulletins of the department
[The Chairman.]
are issued. During the last five years this branch has distributed some 13,000,000 bulletins and during seven months of the present year 1,150,000. The branch also prepares press notices.


Are these publications intended to be distributed to the agricultural societies in the different provinces? If that is not already being done, I think it would be a very good idea, because while these societies may get instructions from other sources, direct instruction from the Minister of Agriculture by means of these reports would be of great assistance to the farmers.


Is my hon. friend referring to the Agricultural Gazette?


Yes, and other publications of the Branch.


The general course
followed is to distribute the publications to those who directly apply for them. We have found that if distributed freely, the publications often fall into the hands of men who have no particular interest in them, do not read them, and consequently do not benefit. But when a man takes the trouble to write a letter for a certain publication, we assume that he takes an interest in the work in question, and the publication is sent with some beneficial object in view. We do not distribute except to people who send in an application, but we gladly send our publications to those who do.


I would suggest that the
different publications be sent either to the Governments of the different provinces, or to the secretaries of the agricultural societies in each province. In New Brunswick we have about eight or ten agricultural societies. I think this would afford a direct channel of instruction to the farmers throughout the country, and would prove very valuable.


Does the
minister think that the nation gets full value from the expenditure on the Agricultural Gazette and these various leaflets? This item is not a very large one, and I have no desire to obstruct, I need not tell my hon. friend, but we all realize the need of economy, and it has got to be begun somewhere. There is nothing I am more struck with in connection with government generally than the deluge of printed matter that descends upon the heads of members of Parliament and, I assume, upon the Senators also. It would be a mistake for me to judge the activities

of my fellow-members by my own, so I will content myself with saying that I have not time to read anything like all the material that is sent to me, not only from this department but from other departments of the Government. If I did, I should have no time for the Scriptures, and that would be a very serious matter for me, as for other hon. members. I see my hon. friend (Mr. McKenzie) smiles, but it is not quite a smiling matter, I may tell him. Is the minister quite sure that we get value in these publications? Thirteen millions of leaflets is a tremendous crop.
I am not sure that all the crops raised under the Department of Agriculture bear anything like a fair relationship to this one. But I am confident that if this particular crop is meant for seed, then more of this seed goes to waste in the ground than most of the other crops raised under the direction of my genial and able friend.


Perhaps the minister will allow me to ask a question before he replies to my hon. friend. Is there any systematic scheme of circulating these blue books that are printed in the department? From my own knowledge the information contained in some of these publications is valuable and so long as money is expended in printing them, and the postage is free, I think it is unfortunate that this literature shodld not find its way to the farmers. I am sure it would do them some good. The hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Clark), says that his whole time is occupied in reading the Scriptures. Well, if he does not gain any better results from his reading of the blue books than he does from his perusal of Holy Writ, I would say let us publish no more blue books. However, that is a mere aside. When the money in connection with this work is spent and the pamphlets are published, it is really too bad that they should be thrown away from year to year. But it is evident that they must be discarded if they are not sent to the farmers, and a little extra labour would put them into circulation so that the people generally, and particularly the farmers, would be able to get the benefit of the information thus published. Let me urge upon the minister the necessity for the widest possible circulation of all literature prepared by his department.


First of all, for the information of the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Clark), I think that excellent results are obtained from the distribution of these bulletins. We do not distribute them except to those who send in their
names with a request to be placed on our mailing list. Those who desire to have these publications select bulletins dealing with the particular line of work in which they are interested, and the mere fact that they go to the trouble of writing to the department and requesting that they be supplied with these publications, is abundant evidence that they are interested and are anxious to have information. As a pratical farmer and stock man I have derived a great deal of benefit, not only from our Canadian bulletins, but from United States publications. For a number of years I kept my name on the mailing list at Washington for agricultural bulletins, and I can assure the committee that on various occasions the information contained in a single publication, if followed, was enough to ensure success, while ignorance of the instruction imparted would, in all probability, mean failure. Now, let me make it clear that we carefully watch the situation in order to prevent any waste in these pamphlets, and the plan of sending publications only to those who request them has worked out as economically as any scheme could.


How much per year is spent on the Agricultural Gazette?


The expenditure for this year is $18,000.


Will the minister be kind enough to see that copies of all his publications are distributed throughout the county of Kamouraska? I had occasion to refer to this matter the other day. The agricultural school at St. Anne de la Pocatiere, as I was informed by the professor a few days ago in a letter which I sent to the King's Printer, has not been receiving all the bulletins published by the department. The same thing applies to the classical college in the same place. The greater part of that institution	was
destroyed by fire last winter, and the library containing over 35,000 volumes was completely wiped out. I wish the Minister would note these facts and see that these institutions are properly supplied. I might add that the school of domestic science for girls at St. Pascal is also in need of such publications of the department as are suitable for the work there. I am sure the minister recognizes the needs of these schools. As I said the other day, his deputy frequently visits the county of Kamouraska and is aware of its importance, and I think he will agree with me that the requests of these colleges for these publications are only reasonable.


Both these institutions are now on the mailing list, but if they are not receiving a sufficient number of copies of any publication, or, as the hon. member suggests, are not receiving some publications at all, I shall be only too glad to look into the matter and see to it that they are both properly supplied.


The minister is evidently overlooking the third. May I remind him of the school for girls at St. Pascal?


I have seen in the press the statement that the department has decided to discontinue the' publication of the Gazette, the explanation being that the ground is so well covered by agricultural magazines throughout the country that there is no great necessity for this particular publication. I have in my hand another publication issued by the department, and one which has been very freely distributed throughout the western part of Ontario in all public places such as banks and post offices, where there is a fine stack piled up on desks for people to make use of. There is on the cover of this publication a map showing the location of the various farms, and the following inscription accompanies the picture:
In the above map, note the location of experimental farms and stations. The superintendent of the experimental farm or station nearest to you will be pleased to give you any information in his power. Why not communicate Vvitn him ?
Well, it is rather unfortunate, as one may discover from a study of this map, that the experimental farms are practically all in Eastern and Western Canada. It is true that about five hundred miles west of here there is a little tobacco farm in the county of Essex, I think, or Kent. But many of the people throughout Western Ontario are not very much interested in the growing of tobacco. I would suggest that if it is not the intention to provide experimental farms in western Ontario, then this circular should be distributed where it is more acceptable, because it is an absolute waste of money to publish this pamphlet and leave it in public places in that part of the country for distribution when there is not one person out of a thousand in Western Ontario who is greatly concerned about the growing of tobacco, and that is the only farm with which people could communicate. More than that, this circular has, in the past, been very largely circulated in the Old Country, having been available there in the emigration offices, and I want to point out 
that it conveys a very unfair impression to the prospective immigrant regarding this country. He looks over this map and sees the location of these farms, and finds that Ontario is scarcely recognizable on the map. West of the Great Lakes you will see the circular dotted with experimental farms and stations, there being no fewer than thirty-one altogether, while in Western Ontario, there is a little farm in the bush, away north on the Grand Trunk Pacific, and a little tobacco station at Harrow. If the minister wants to economize, I suggest that he send no more of these publications into Western Ontario until there are some radical changes in the experimental farm system.


I have frequently read some very interesting articles in the Gazette. They are usually not written by officials of the department, and I wonder whether the contributions are paid for.


They are free contributions.


Item agreed to.
I now repeat the request made by the Minister of Justice for the unanimous consent of the committee to take up the Estimates of the Department of Justice. Does the committee give its unanimous consent?


Carried.
$25U00()Ce SaIaries' $190.832,50; Contingencies,


I notice a good many increases. I presume they are statutory increases allowed from year to year.


They also include the results of the recent reclassification.


Who is the Assistant Deputy Minister?


Mr. Edwards.


Who is the senior advisory counsel?


I am not in a position at the present moment to mention who is the senior. But the accountant of the department will be here in a moment or two and then I will be able to give the hon. gentleman that information. I may say that this ranking of seniors results from the classification of the Civil Service people who divided the counsel into senior advisory counsel and junior advisory counsel fixing different salaries according to the position.


I notice that the Deputy
Minister of Justice receives a salary of $10,000 a year whereas the Deputy Minister of Agriculture only receives $5,500, and the deputies of other departments $6,000. Does the minister consider that discrepancy fair and equitable?


I am not in a position
to say what would be a fair and equitable salary for the deputy minister of agriculture, or the deputy minister of another department; but parliament in 1913 or 1914, fixed the salary for the deputy minister of justice at $10,000 and it has continued at that figure ever since. I am quite confident we would not be able to obtain the services of a counsel of the eminence and high qualifications of the gentleman who is at present Deputy Minister of Justice at any lower figure than the salary that is provided.


I see there are eight
lawyers employed in the department as counsel-3 senior advisory counsel, 2 advisory counsel and 3 junior advisory counsel. Has any one of these eight gentlemen any special diities, is he supervising any part of the law department, or are they all on the same footing and working in the same branch?


They are all working
under the direction of the deputy minister, taking up such matters as he assigns to them. I may say that we have two gentlemen who are especially qualified in the law of the province of Quebec, and who occupy themselves principally if not entirely with matters under that law. I can now inform my hon. friend (Mr. Proulx) that the senior advisory counsel are Mr. Renaud, Mr. Chisholm, and Mr. Bill.


Bill who?


It is not an undue
familiarity. That happens to be his surname.


There are two other
advisory counsel and three junior advisory counsel. The designations are new, I never saw them in the Estimates before


It is the work of Griffenhagen.


How many lawyers have been appointed to the department since 1911?


The designations to
which the hon. gentleman refers are the result of the classification as applied to existing officers. I do not think we have
made one addition to the number this year, in fact the estimates show that 4 p.m. to be the case. As the hon. member knows, the department was classified in common with all the other departments, and this system of classification was adopted in which the lawyers employed in the department were divided into senior advisory counsel, advisory counsel, and junior advisory counsel.


Are they appointed by
the Civil Service Commission and are their salaries fixed by that body?


Their salaries were
fixed by the Civil Service Commission. They were already in the department before the present Civil Service system came into effect. If the hon. gentleman will refer to the Estimates he will see that there are no new appointments.


Will the minister say which of these officers appoints the lawyers who represent the department before the different courts in the respective judicial districts?


I think that as a rule the lawyers are selected because of the nature of the different cases. It is not a matter of practice to appoint a lawyer to do all the business in a district. In many instances it does happen there is one lawyer who deals with practically all the cases; but as I understand the practice, lawyers are selected rather with a view to particular cases and the particular business to be done. That selection is usually done by the assistant deputy minister in consultation with the deputy minister, and occasionally with the minister.


The reason I ask the
question is that I happen to be in the courts quite often and I see the Department of Justice represented in many cases, but in no single case during the last few years have I seen a lawyer who happens to be a Liberal representing the department. In these days when there is "no political patronage" I would like to know what officer it is who knows the lawyers so well as to always select the few Conservative lawyers, in the city of Quebec for instance, when there is a case in which the Department of Justice is interested?


I shall make enquiry
as to who has that particular scent.


It is a matter of
intuition.


It must be a
matter of instinct.


I understand there are law officers in every department of the Government. Do these officers relieve the counsel of the Justice Department of any of their work, or do the latter take up en banc the various questions that are submitted to their department after the law officers have passed on them?


Everything is subject to review by the Department of Justice as provided in the statutes. When matters call for litigation, or serious questions arise, they are always submitted to the Department of Justice. I understand that these law clerks-I think it is rather a misnomer-are in the different departments for the convenience of being available with .regard to purely routine matters that require to be dealt with from day to day.


When the Crown is represented in the courts by the officers of the Department of Justice-the deputy minister or some of these counsel,-and costs are allowed to the. Crown, who gets those costs, the department or the counsel?


The Crown gets the costs-when they are paid.


It seems to me that when a lawyer acting for the Crown is successful and gets costs, surely that should be enough to encourage him to do as well the next time or better.


Every lawyer does the best he can at all times.


That argument is of general application, but we are fortunate in having lawyers who do so well that they need no encouragement to do better.


Has the vacancy
caused by the retirement of the warden at St. Vincent de Paul filled; and if so, by whom?


That really comes
under the penitentiary item which we shall be dealing with in a minute or two, but I have no objection to giving the information now. The warden at St. Vincent de Paul has retired, and the question of appointing his successor in going through the machinery of the Civil Service Commission.	.


I notice on page 75 of the Estimates that one law clerk stenographer receives $2,100, but no 
others received more than $1,200. I also notice that the highest-paid senior law clerk stenographer gets $1,740. How does it come about that one clerk who apparently is not a senior is receiving so much more than even the senior law clerk stenographer?


I believe the explanation of that difference is that that particular officer is under the old system under which law clerk stenographers got an annua" increase, and it is simply by the number of years that that law clerk stenographer has been in the service that that result has been brought about.


Has he the same duties to perform as those who get only two-thirds of his salary?


I do not know that the duties can be described as being much heavier, t was the law though, and this lady-I am sure that will appeal to the hon. gentleman-gradually acquired this large salary by reason of the additional number of years she has been in the service; and I suppose, from a lady's point of view it is worth a good deal to have to admit the acquisition of those additional years. However that may be, I may say that that particular employee is about to retire, so the anomaly will disappear.


I do not suppose that, like the laws of the Medes and Persians, this system cannot be changed. It seems to be very unfair.


Of course, it would be very unfair where a party was appointed under a certain system, and acquired a right under that system, to deprive her of that right. However, the lady is retiring very shortly.


What is the duty of the confidential messenger?


He is a political
booster.


No, the position is
purely non-political. The confidential messenger is a personal messenger of the minister, and it must be apparent that many things have to be dealt with, other than those political, where the minister needs a messenger in whom he can place implicit confidence.


I see in the Estimates "Allowances to Private Secretaries." Has the minister two private secretaries?


Yes; and I am blessed in the fact that they are both bi-lingual. One is a gentleman whose mother tongue is English and the other is a gentleman whose mother tongue is French. We have a very considerable French correspondence in the department, and I do not think we would be able to get along with less assistance in that regard.


Does not the
minister think that that would be a good rule for all the departments?


I always seek to set
the kind of example that ought to be followed.


What salaries are being paid to these private secretaries?


One gets $3,360 and
the other $3,180.


Does that include $600
allowance to each?


No, that is the salary
without allowance; but that $600 is divided between the two secretaries.


The allowances to private
secretaries are given at $1,200.


The other $600 is for
the secretary of the Solicitor General.


I have never been able to
understand why these allowances are made to private secretaries in addition to their salaries. Why should not their salaries be inclusive?


That is a survival of
an old practice also, and it applies to all private secretaries appointed under that system.


I know it does.


Under the old practice, when a private secretary was appointed he became a clerk in the department with the salary attached to whatever class he was assigned to, and this $600 allowance was made because of the fact, as I understand it, that the private secretary of the minister-differing in that respect from other clerks-is not called upon to attend simply during the fixed hours of the day; he has to be at the disposal of the minister late and early when the minister needs him.


Late possibly rather than
early.


In some instances more often late than early. But it may be a little more burdensome on some persons to be late. I understand that is the reason
why that special allowance was fixed. With regard to those to whom it still applies, they are gentlemen who were in that position when that was settled, and to take it away from them now would be equivalent to reducing their salaries.


I have no desire to suggest
that it should be taken away. I only wanted an explanation, because I find it all through the Estimates and I really did not understand why their salaries came from two sources.


What is the name of the purchasing agent of the department?


Mr. Dillon.


Is that gentleman still in business as a druggist?


Not that I have any knowledge of.


Is it not the rule that the purchasing agent of a department must not engage in any outside business; that he must give his whole time and attention to the work of the department?


I understand there is such a general rule, not with regard to the purchasing agents particularly, but with regard to Civil Service employees.


Can the minister say that Mr. Dillon is not engaged in the business of selling drugs?


I have no knowledge of his being engaged in that business. There is a firm which is managed and administered, so far as my knowledge goes, by other people; I do not know whether or not he is a stockholder in the concern: I can ascertain that if the hon. gentleman is interested to know. I know that Mr. Dillon has given most active and energetic service to the department; I have never found that he was not available when needed.


Shortly before the session opened, the members of Parliament received a circular letter from a gentleman who described himself, if I mistake not, as the head of a purchasing commission, which had been formed in direct contradiction to the will of Parliament. The matter was brought up last session and the session before and an attempt made to form a purchasing commission, but the measure was not carried because hon. gentlemen on both sides were opposed to it. Shortly before the session

opened a commission was formed by Order in Council. This being the case, why should there be any purchasing agents for the different departments?


The hon. gentleman is quite mistaken when he suggests that a purchasing commission was appointed in direct opposition to the decision of Parliament. He is quite mistaken, and so is the hon. gentleman who shakes his head, because I do not think either of them know the nature of the commission that was appointed under Order in Council. It was a totally different thing from what was contemplated by statute; it made provision for general supervision and direction, by one body, of the purchasing of the different departments. Even when we had a purchasing commission with the wider powers, appointed under the War Measures Act, that commission acted in direct communication with the purchasing agents of the different departments, who submitted to the Purchasing Commission their operations. When the supervisory or directing commission to which the hon. gentleman refers was appointed, the same system continued as between them and the purchasing agents of the different departments.


Was there a
purchasing agent for the Department of Justice before the War Purchasing Commission was instituted?


Yes.


The same one?


Yes.


What is the name of the confidential messenger?


Mr. Pearson, a gentleman whose services we had to dispense with during the war because he was engaged in the trenches. Of course, his position was retained for him.


Item agreed to.
Justice-Miscellaneous Expenditure, $10,000 ; living allowance for judge of Atlin district, B.C., $1,200 ; office expenses of purchasing agent, $2,000.
I would, like
to ask why an appointment of a judge has not been made in the Yorkton judicial district. Since the death of Judge Parker some time ago, that district has been without a judge. A court house has been erected at a cost of between $150,000 and $200,000. I am informed that the judicial 
district of Yorkton is the second largest in Saskatchewan, and the Law Association there are very anxious that an appointment should be made.


We had a general intimation from the provincial authorities that they were contemplating jsuch regroupings as might result in a diminution of the number of judges to be appointed. We did not, therefore, make haste to fill all the vacancies that existed.


What is comprised in the item "miscellaneous expenditure"?


The item covers costs of administration of justice in the Northwest Territories as now constituted and in any unorganized territory; expense incurred in connection with extradition cases and cases of fugitive offenders from or to other parts of the Empire; expenses of commission of inquiry; copies and translations of evidence required in dealing with applications for clemency; sundry small expenses not otherwise provided for. This is the usual amount that we ask for. The expenditure last year was $7,560; in 1918-19, $8,361; in 1917-18, $9,905.34. I do not think it is possible to estimate it any more closely.


Why is there a living allowance for the judge of Atlin district, B.C.?


It was provided for at the time of his appointment. We went into the question a year or two ago whether the conditions still justified the payment of this living allowance, and we satisfied ourselves that they did. It is further to be said that the gentleman accepted the appointment with that provision made at the time. Quite apart from that, however, the district is a remote one and I think that the conditions fully justify the granting of a living allowance.


Is the cost of living any higher there than elsewhere?


I am not prepared to
give the details just now. As I stated, we went into the question a couple of years ago, and we felt satisfied that it was preferable to continue the allowance. It must further, of course, be considered whether it would be right, years after the gentleman had accepted the appointment with this allowance attached to it, for us to intervene now to take it away. Such action

1U81
might, perhaps, be open to question. In any new cases, we have avoided providing such allowances, and with the exception of the Yukon where an allowance is provided by law, this is the only case of the kind.


As questions concerning judges are now in order, I should like to