Pages 1-1015	Volume II: Pages 1017-2053


Pages 2035-3039	Volume IV: Pages 3041-3619


-	OTTAWA
House of
Commons debates
Friday, April 21, 1922
Hon. D. D. McKENZIE (Solicitor General) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 51 to amend the Canada Temperance Act.
Explain.


This bill is intended
largely to assist local authorities in carrying out provincial temperance legislation. They have made the claim that they require some assistance by way of Dominion legislation to carry out the principle voted upon by the provinces and given effect to by provincial legislation. The present bill is with a view to supplementing the action of the provinces in that regard.


This is the Solicitor
General's (Mr. McKenzie's) first attempt at introducing legislation, but really I do not think he should be allowed to get away with the explanation he has made. He sates that the bill is to supplement provincial legislation, or to enable the provincial authorities to carry out their temperance aspirations and to do it by amendment to the Canada Temperance Act. Well, there has been much legislation along that line, but what is this legislation for? In what way is it to help the provinces? What is to be amended?


It is not usual at this stage to go into detailed explanations, these are generally reserved until the motion for second reading is made. I may say, however, that British Columbia has reserved to itself the right of dealing with the sale of liquor in a certain way, and it claims that its control in dealing with that liquor in the province is particularly interfered with by the promiscuous importation of liquors. The provincial authorities therefore ask this Parliament to say that inasmuch as the general sale of liquor in the province of British Columbia is prohibited by local statute, the importation of liquor into the province shall be confined entirely to the local government or its agents. That is the main purpose of the bill.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, before the Orders of the Day are called, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. It was intimated in the Speech from the Throne that the question of the natural resources of the prairie provinces would receive consideration. It is well known that the Premiers of these provinces are here and in conference with the Government. I would ask the Prime Minister, therefore, what progress has been made in dealing with the question.


The Premiers of the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta have been in conference with members of the Government yesterday and to-day, and progress has been made in the discussions we have had. My hon. friend from North Winnipeg (Mr. McMurray) intimated to me that he intended asking this question, and I therefore prepared and have brought with me a memorandum which will indicate the progress which has been made thus far. I may say that Premier Norris of Manitoba is obliged to return to Winnipeg to-night. The Premiers of Alberta and Saskatchewan are remaining. Our conferences so far as these two provinces are concerned will continue with them. As to Manitoba the following satement will indicate what progress has been made, up to date, between the Dominion government and the government of that province:

Supply-Live Stock

As between the Government of Manitoba and the Dominion Government it has been agreed,-
(1)	That it is desirable and just that such adjustments be made between the Dominion of Canada and the Prairie provinces with respect to their natural resources as will give full recognition to the principle that in this respect they are entitled to be placed in a position of equality with the other Provinces of Confederation.
(2)	That the Government of Canada will negotiate an agreement with the Prairie provinces with the above object in view, such agreement to be subject to ratification by Parliament and the respective Legislatures.
(3)	That failing agreement on any point as between the Dominion and the Province of Manitoba all such items so in 'dispute shall be referred to arbitration.
(4)	That any awards made by such arbitrators shall be subject to ratification by Parliament and the Legislature of Manitoba.


On the Orders of the Day:
I observe that the Finance Minister (Mr. Fielding) is now in the Chamber. Perhaps he will be able to tell us, approximately at any rate, when we may expect the Budget.


I am afraid I cannot gratify the reasonable curiosity of my hon. friend by mentioning a particular date. I realize that the session is moving on and that we should all like to have the Budget at a not distant date. I will try to bring it forward at a time when my hon. friend will feel the delay has not been unreasonable.


Within the next
month?


It is always embarrassing to tie oneself to dates.


It was equally embarrassing when the hon. gentleman himself used to insist, and when we complied.


I think I can make a contract, that I will bring down the Budget this session as early as my hon. friend opposite did a year ago.

House again in Committee of Supply, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
Department of Agriculture-Dive stock,


I desire to take up a few minutes of the time of the House on a matter of great importance to the electors in my district, and, in fact, of great

interest to the country as a whole. With the permission of the House I will read a resolution passed unanimously by the County Council of Napierville:
At a regular meeting of the Municipal Council of the County of Napierville, held in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court, in the Village of Napierville, at ten o'clock in the forenoon, the eighth of March, one thousand nine hundred and twenty-two, in accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Code, at which were present Messrs. Hilaire Damarre, Esquire, Mayor of the Municipality of the Village of St. Kemi; Alfred Marcil, Esquire, Mayor of the Municipality of the Village of St. Michel Archange; Wilfrid Gadouas, Esquire, Mayor of the Municipality of the Village of Napierville; Dosithde Pay ant, Esquire, Mayor of the Municipality of the Parish of 'St. Patrice de Sherrington ; Edouard Mailloux, Esquire, Mayor of the Municipality of the parish of St. Cyprien de D6ry and Warden of the County of Napierville, constituting a quorum under the chairmanship of the Warden.
"It is moved by Mr. Dosithfie Payant, seconded by Councillor Alfred Marcil, that a request be made to the Honourable the Minister of Agriculture, at Ottawa, to place an embargo upon the exportation of manure from Canada to the United States of America: which exportation is calculated to do injury to the gardening industry of this country, to lessen the crops in general throughout Canada; that copies of this request be sent to the Honourable the Minister of Agriculture at Ottawa, also to the Hon. Roch Danctot, Federal Member for the County." Resolution passed.
Edouakd Mailloux, Warden.
Jos. E. Dupont, Sec. Treas.
A true copy extract from the minute-book of the Municipal Council of the County of Napierville. Given at Napierville, Que., in my office, the 14th March, 1922.
Jos. E. Dupont, Sec. Treas.
Some ten years ago the farmers of my county, and of the county adjoining, could buy manure in Montreal and have it delivered to their local station for $13 to $15 a car. At the present time we have to pay from $50 to $52 per car. It is true, the freight has increased in that time from $6 a car to $13 a car. Hon. gentlemen will see that the freight charge has more than doubled, but the cost of the manure to us has increased about four-fold. The manure output of Montreal is practically controlled by one man, Mr. LeFebvre. This gentleman was a resident of my own riding for about twenty-five years, but has been in Montreal for a number of years now. For a time he supplied hay to the Canadian Pacific Railway-that is to say, to the Dominion Transport company which performs transport work for the Canadian Pacific in Montreal. Later he built sidings on the several railways at such points as Hochelaga, Point St. Charles, and other freight terminals of Montreal, and erected

Supply-Live Stock
platforms to facilitate the loading of manure on the cars. The big cartage concerns that handle the manure of the stockyards can take the manure to the sidings and load it into the cars from Mr. Le-Febvre's platforms. In the case of smaller stables whose proprietors have no dump-carts, it is the practice to call up Mr. Le-Febvre's office to haul away the manure as it accumulates. For this service Mr. LeFebvre is paid, as any carter would be paid, $1 or $2 a load. I do not complain about that, but what I do complain about is that Mr. LeFebvre is more lucky than any farmer in this Parliament or in Canada, because since he has been in that line of business he has improved his position by having a wider market, in the United States. There is a man not far from Rouse's Point named Mr. Miner, who buys from Mr. LeFebvre any amount of cars of manure for his farm, and I do not think there is a farm in Canada equal to Mr. Miner's farm. He has at least twelve to fifteen thousand acres. I am told he is worth many million dollars, and he wants to improve his land and produce vegetables of all kinds for the big New York market. He has got the money to do it. We farmers in my part of the country cannot afford to compete with Mr. Miner, because we have not got the millions. It is true that, during war-time, we had to buy the manure from Mr. LeFebvre at any price, because we needed it. Potatoes were selling at a very high price for two or three years, and at that time the farmers could afford to pay a big price for manure. But, as we have often been told in this House since the opening of this session, prices of commodities and especially of farm products have declined. At present prices we cannot make the raising of vegetables as profitable as it used to be. What will be the result if we are not able to stop that gentleman sending out the manure that costs him practically nothing? I say it is not the Liberal policy. Some of my friends have remarked that it is not Liberal to put an embargo on manure. Members from the West know very well that we are not now on new land. We are farming on very old land, and we must have manure. We may be asked, Why do you not buy fertilizers? I say that fertilizers cannot replace manure. My father said to me, when I was under his leadership: "Use abundant manure, and then you will succeed as a farmer; if not, you will not succeed." I think that is true.
65i
The riding in which I live lies south of Montreal; it starts a mile from the Victoria bridge and extends southwards. Twenty years ago, we were supplying the Bonse-cours market of Montreal with about two per cent of the vegetable requirements of that city. Those who visited Montreal some years ago, and Who have visited it again this year or last year, know that not many gardens are to be seen in what was called "the garden of Montreal" twenty years ago. If you leave Windsor station or the Grand Trunk station and go to Ste. Anne, what do you see? You see little bushes of all kinds; wild cherries grow there, I think, and ail kinds of weeds; hut you do not see what we saw some twenty years ago, namely, melons, cucumbers, cabbages and all other kinds of vegetables with which to supply the city of Montreal. The real estate boom came to Montreal as well as to the West, and made the farmers rich from the sale of their farms.


Those who got paid.


Yes; those who did not get paid are not rich, and I suppose they had to take back their farms. But conditions have changed; in order to have vegetable products with which to feed the people of Montreal, we on the south side of the river St. Lawrence must replace the gardens of the Island of Montreal, and we must go into mixed farming and raising vegetables of all kinds. We have been at that work now for the last ten years or more, and I say, without fear of contradiction, that my constituency to-day raises more vegetables than the whole Island of Montreal. As is well known, we have had and still have a good government in Quebec, and my colleague, the present Minister of Justice (Sir Lomer Gouin), was Premier of my province for fifteen years or more. He brought about the enactment of good lawis and we, the farmers, 'have profited by those laws. Throughout my riding, there have been constructed good macadam roads, without which it would be impossible to-day to supply the big city of Montreal. Those who live thirty miles from the Victoria bridge are really close to that bridge to-day; twenty years ago they were, comparatively speaking, very far away from it. For, at that time, we had mud roads; nowadays we have good macadam roads, and our farmers, having made money, have purchased two-ton trucks, and to-day they can go to Montreal, at any time during the year except, perhaps, when big snow storms occur in the winter, with sixty
Supply-Live Stock

bags of potatoes or a like quantity of any other vegetable products. This is the reason that we are getting along so well. And we want to do (better. We have been told on many occasions in this House, and told truly, that there is need of more production and still more production. If manure from the city of Montreal goes to the United States, and we cannot get it for less than $52 a car, its present price, and if we must sell our products at one-half or less what we received during the war, what does that mean? It means that we shall reduce our production. And what does that mean for the people of Montreal? If they do not receive from our part of the country the vegetables they require, they will have to go further away for those products and will have to pay about double what they would pay if we had what is necessary for that sort of cultivation, namely, manure from the city at cost price. This is what the people in my riding and the riding next to mine want. I am not sure if any of my hon. friends in this House think it is bad politics to ask this Government to impose an embargo to prevent shipment into the United States of the most essential requirement for successful farming. I do not know how the western members feel about this matter; but as a farmer myself, as one who has been in this House for quite a number of years and who is still a farmer, I would ask them to help me out on this question, because, as I have said before, in our part of the country we need manure in order to grow, not grain as is grown in the West, hut vegetables of all kinds for the benefit of the big population of Montreal-and I think the same thing must apply to Toronto and other big cities. We are situated very close to the boundary line, the distance from Montreal to Rouse's Point being about forty-three miles; and my friend, LeFe'bvre, who has all the sidings and controls all the manure, takes advantage of this to benefit the United States at Canada's expense. That is to say, if the farmers of my riding and of the riding of the hon. member for St. John and Iberville (Mr. Demers) refuse to pay $52 a ton f.oJb. delivered at their station, he tells them: "If you do not buy, I will go to the United States and Mr. Miner is open for all the surplus I have." This is the reason why I brought this matter before the House to-day. I do not want to dwell any more on this question. I think the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell) will do all that is possible for the electors and farmers of this country, who [Mr. Lanctot.l
at the present time are not too prosperous, and give us the manure we require to raise the best crops.


I do not wish to prolong this debate nor to delay the passing of the agricultural estimates, but yesterday reference was made to the cattle embargo removal in Great Britain, and I had my attention drawn to-day to a certain article in the press giving statements made by the Hon. P. C. Larkin, High Commissioner for Canada, on this subject. The statements that he made reflect upon the honour, integrity and loyalty of the prairie provinces, and I take exception to them. I wish, furthermore, to place this matter before the Government in order to be informed if they understand that Mr. Larkin is making such threats. We are quite prepared to believe that it is in the interest of all Canadians that the embargo should be removed; but we do not believe that the High Commissioner has a right to make a threat to the British Government at the expense of the prairie provinces. The article reads:
Representations of the strongest character concerning the effect which failure to remove the embargo on cattle would produce in Canada have been made to the British Cabinet by Hon. P. C. Larkin. The new High Commissioner has assured the Ministers that the Government's failure to redeem its pledge to remove the cattle ban would place a potential weapon of considerable power in the hands of the annexationists of the Prairie provinces-
Why the prairie provinces?
-and other foes in Canada of the imperial connection. It is understood that he has conveyed to the Cabinet the strong feeling which exists that the decision to leave the question to the free vote of the British Parliament is not regarded by Canada as fully implementing the Government's promise, as given by Lord Ernie during the war. The proposed resolution favoring the lifting of the embargo will probably pass the Commons, and may even pass the House of Lords if Canada makes its demand sufficiently strong, but even then it would be necessary to introduce and pass a bill to carry out the sense of the resolution, and such a measure would be bitterly contested.
Hon. Mr. Larkin has already made a good impression here and the High Commissioner's office seems in a fair way to become the positive force for the advancement of Canada's interests and ends.
Well, if that is the impression that Hon. Mr. Larkin is making, the sooner he is recalled the better. The minister of. Agriculture is a loyal citizen of the West and is interested in the prairie provinces, and I call this matter to his attention in the hope that he will not allow it to pass unnoticed by this Parliament. It is a reflection upon

Supply-Live Stock
the integrity and loyalty of the prairie provinces; we on this side of the House take great exception to the remarks I have quoted.


I did not gather,
from the reading of the article by my hon. friend (Mr. Lewis), the authority for the statement that Mr. Larkin had made the remarks attributed to him. I was one of those who had a final conference with Mr. Larkin, the High Commissioner, before he left Canada, and this question of the embargo was discussed. We were both of the same mind as to the nature of the invocation that might be made in the effort to have the embargo removed, and our common view was precisely that of the hon. member f.or Victoria (Mr. Tolmie) namely, that we should certainly persevere in the matter, but, at the same time, use the light pedal. It was our opinion that we should not go out with the club in hand; as was suggested yesterday, there has been too great a use of that weapon in the past in connection with the embargo, with mighty little prospect of success. That is not the way to approach anybody, but particularly the British public, more especially at this critical time when an election is in the offing. We should not put ourselves in the position of trying to embarrass the British authorities by apparently taking sides in an election which is a matter of entirely domestic concern. And in view of that conversation with Hon. Mr. Larkin I feel quite confident, at least until I have information to the contrary before me, that he never did indulge in such representations to the British government as are attributed to him. That is the position I will take until I have further proof to the contrary. I know what Mr. Larkin's views were, I know what mine are, and I know what opinion the leader of this Government (Mr. Mackenzie King) holds on the subject, and I feel quite satisfied that Mr. Larkin did not use the remarks ascribed to him.
With further reference to the question of embargo, I should say that, having very fully discussed yesterday the desirability of taking off an embargo, it is somewhat embarrassing to be asked to-day to put one on, even though one relates to animals and the other to animal product. The question raised by my hon. friend from Laprairie and Napierville (Mr. Lanctot) is, however, a very important one. Apparently in the past he has been able to secure natural fertilizer in the vicinity of Montreal at $13 or $14 per car, for which
he now has to pay $53 or $54* There is one obvious solution to that difficulty, and that is to give about a dollar more than the Americans give, so that the commodity will stay in the vicinity of Montreal. I have no doubt, of course, that the reply will be made that that is more than the business would stand. But, inasmuch as the placing of an embargo on even natural fertilizers would involve a government policy, I am not in a position to enunciate one offhand. I will assure my hon. friend, however, that anything that can be done locally will be done. I think that possibly something might be done in regard to freight rates.
I understand that our railways carry manures, both natural and artificial, on a cheap rate basis, and possibly some representation might be made to the authorities at Montreal towards solving the problem the hon. member has raised. At all events, we will inquire into this matter before taking the more drastic step of invoking the remedy of an embargo. After all-, an embargo is a restraint of trade, and I am sure my hon. friends opposite will sympathise with me when I say that just a little restraint . of trade as possible should be brought into play even for such a worthy purpose as this.


Will the minister get in touch with the Hon. Mr. Larkin by cable and let the House know, at the first opportunity, whether he did make the statements he is alleged to have made?


We should have
quite a cable bill-


Oh, oh.


Wait until I am through before you laugh.


I will pay the cable myself, if that is the objection.


My hon. friends might reserve their laughter until I have concluded my remarks. If everything that appeared in the press were made the subject of a cable, we should run up a serious bill, [DOT]and I do not see why we should do that. I have not seen the article in question, and I heard it but indistinctly. I gleaned the substance of it, however, and it did not occur to me that there was any necessity to cable Mr. Larkin asking him whether or not he was the author of these alleged statements. However, the First Minister is present and he may have something to say on the matter. I do not take much stock in these things, and I should not be
Supply-Live Stock

a bit surprised if, as a result of the discussion that took place yesterday in this House, some remarkable press statements should appear in the United Kingdom with respect to what transpired in this Chamber.


I do not care whether the minister communicates with Mr. Larkin by cable or otherwise, but I do think that this press report from the special correspondent of The Gazette in London should be either retracted or confirmed; for if it is authentic it is a reflection on the people of the West. The matter should be cleared up for their sake.


I think the minister spoke rather hurriedly, or he would not have given utterance to the expression he used, that the matter of cost should intervene as between correcting or not correcting a statement made by the official representative of this Dominion.


That is not what I said.


That is not what my hon. friend said? Then why was the matter of cost introduced if it has no relevancy to the question? Why was it brought in at all?


If you will permit me I will state again what I said.


My hon. friend will have an opportunity to explain himself, but the matter of cost was introduced by him-


Yes.


-in connection with the request that he seek to find out whether or not a representative of this country made certain statements attributed to him. It may be that there are false press reports which the Government does not see fit to correct or to pay any attention to. That is quite true. But Mr. Larkin represents this Dominion in Great Britain, and if there are attributed to him statements which he certainly should not make in that capacity, then it is the duty of the Government, undoubtedly, to ascertain whether or' not he did make those statements. If they were uttered they were uttered on behalf of this country. Suppose it turns out that he did not make them. Is it not well that this country should know that its representative did not so misunderstand his duty as to give utterance to such sentiments? The country is entitled to know, yes or no. Consequently the minister should say definitely and at once that he will ascertain 
whether those statements were or were not made by Mr. Larkin and let the House know accordingly at the first moment.


I have not yet seen the report. When I see it, if it appears serious enough I will carry out the suggestion made by my hon. friend and by the member for Swift Current (Mr. Lewis). But until I know the source of the report, and the value to be attributed to that source, 1 do not propose to send cablegrams on information of that kind.


Do you want to appoint a royal commission to find out.
Mr. MOTHERW'ELL: The remark I made was that if the Government paid heed to every press report, whether correct or incorrect, a very substantial expense would be incurred for cablegrams. I had not caught the word "annexationist." I do not wonder at the hon. member for Swift Current being exercised over it, inasmuch as the term has been often used against the prairie provinces much nearer home. I will reconsider my decision, Mr. Chairman, and when this estimate is passed I shall take such steps as may be necessary to meet the situation. Yes, it is a very offensive term, and until I get further evidence I shall not be satisfied that it was used by the High Commissioner. But, as I said before, it is often used much nearer home.


Mr. Chairman, I was much interested in the hon. minister's statement that he understood the railways carried both natural and artificial fertilizers at reduced rates. I sincerely hope his understanding is correct, but I am afraid it is not.


They carry natural fertilizers at reduced rates.


Did you not include artificial fertilizers?


Possibly not.


When the Board of Railway Commissioners ruled that gravel and crushed stone for roadmaking purposes would not be subject to the increased rates,
I inquired of them whether ground limestone for agricultural purposes and artificial fertilizers might not come under the same ruling, as I thought it was of more interest to the country at large to have cheap transportation of fertilizers than even of road-making materials. I would urge upon the minister to take up with the

Supply-Live Stock
Railway Commission the desirability of low rates on fertilizers.
I asked the minister yesterday afternoon, but did not get any reply, what was his attitude towards establishing an abattoir and cold storage plant for the maritime provinces.


I answered that question, but my hon. friend was out at the time.


Pardon me. I did not have time to read Hansard this morning. Mr. Chairman, I crave indulgence to refer to an item that I believe was passed yesterday afternoon while I was absent attending a meeting of the Pensions Committee. -Item 52, Administration of the Agricultural Instruction Act. Have I your permission, Mr. Chairman?


Agreed.


This, I imagine, applies largely to the expense of furnishing lecturers to instruct farmers how to farm. If that is so, I would impress upon the minister that it is not necessary to instruct farmers as they have been instructed in the past-


I might correct my hon. friend. It might be assumed that this item covers the activities of lecturers, but it does not.


I think the matter might well be discussed also under the item now before the committee. In times past we have had lecturers advising the farmers in New Brunswick, not to improve their methods, but to adopt different methods of farming. I am not referring to any particular lecturers, but, generally their policy has been to tell us that we have been absolutely wrong in the lines we have been following, and to advise us to adopt other lines which, according to their view, would be much to our advantage. I think money expended on such lectures is thrown away, because a farming community cannot discard their methods and embark on other methods at a moment's notice. If these lecturers are to instruct us in future, I would suggest that natives of the province whose farmers they are to instruct should be employed, in fact men who know the local conditions, because those conditions vary very much. I think it would he money well spent to provide instructors whose policy should be to instruct the farmers to improve the methods of the branch of farming which they are already carrying
on. For instance, it is waste of time for lecturers to tell the farmers of New Brunswick to go into wheat growing; and it is possible that advice to embark in dairying would be just as useless, due to the fact that we are too far removed from local markets and have no cheese factories to utilize dairy products. If those lecturers can show us how to carry on our present farming activities to better advantage by improved methods, the money would be well spent. I think the minister gave a reply to my question regarding the establishment of abattoir and cold storage facilities.


' With regard to the statement attributed to Mr. Larkin, I want to be permitted to give two reasons why I am satisfied that he never uttered it. My first reason is, my faith in his sound judgment, good sense and discretion; my second reason is, I read that statement, in almost the exact words, in the press a week ago, but attributed to somebody else, not named, in England. I am quite satisfied that the statement made by somebody else, evidently an irresponsible person, has been improperly attributed to Mr. Larkin.


Possibly this is an echo of one of the statements made by the right hon. leader of the Opposition (Mr. Meighen) last fall and still ringing down the halls of time.


It may be an echo of deliberate misrepresentation of statements of the leader of the Opposition, circulated for the same purposes that hon. gentlemen opposite circulated assurances that they would give cash grants to soldiers and other like favours; misrepresentations that doubtless were in the mind of the Minister of Agriculture a moment ago when he sought, in a covert way, to convey the impression that others had declared that there were annexationists in the West, but which he won't stand in his place and attribute to any individual in this House.


No.


No words of mine ever reflected in the least degree on the loyalty of western Canada, nor did any newspaper report that I ever read of any assertions of mine attribute such words to me. By the time, however, that they get on the lips of men who are anxious to make political capital, not for the sake of political reforms but for the sake of office, and to carry out in office exactly the things they denounced in opposition,-when they get around to the lips of men like that, they
Supply-Live Stock

finally reach the form which perhaps Mr. Larkin might have copied. But, if Mr. Larkin is over there copying misrepresentations, it is time he returned. I am quite ready to accept the judgment of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding). I cannot conceive that any man of Mr. Larkin's standing could make such a statement as this. I know what it is to be misrepresented, and I am not going to abuse Mr. Larkin until I know exactly what he said.


Taking the last criticism first, Mr. Chairman, I did not even look at the right hon. gentleman when I was speaking about the question of annexation. Why should he be so quick to put the cap on right over his ears without any suggestion on my part that it belonged there?


Will the hon. gentleman quote me when I put the cap on?


My right hon.
friend referred to it and said he had never dealt with it-


No; I said the hon.
gentleman would not attribute it to anybody in this House.


Well, the circumstances I had in mind related to the election campaign of 1911, in which reciprocity was an issue-why the air was blue with it. My hon. friends have very short memories. But let us get back to agriculture for a moment, and to natural fertilizers, not artificial fertilizers.
With regard to cold storage, I may repeat briefly what I said last night in reply to the hon. member for Victoria and Carle-ton (Mr. Caldwell). Under the terms of a cold storage act passed many years ago, substantial assistance was given to those engaging in the construction of cold storage plants. Until about 1917 or 1918, thirty per cent of the cost of construction was paid by the federal government as a subsidy to all cold storage plants constructed under plans and specifications laid down by the Department of Agriculture. That law was changed to apply only to municipal cold storages, in order that the burden on the revenues of the country might be decreased. Very few plants- possibly only one or two-have been constructed under the amended law. I would like to have advised the Minister of Finance to revert this year to the original enactment providing for the thirty percent subsidy, but I did not think I was justified in doing it this year. Possibly

we may be able to do so another year when the treasury is less depleted-and I think if we did, it would go a long way toward meeting the situation. Of course, I cannot pledge the Government to that policy. The question of cold storage is becoming a very vital one, not only in my hon. friend's province but in other provinces as well. British Columbia in particular.
The question of lectures has been referred to. I have driven twenty-five miles after dark from Abernethy to Indian Head to hear an agricultural lecture, only to listen to an address by someone who did not know beans when the bag was open. I do not know whether any of the lecturers my hon. friend refers to have been down in his district since the first of January. I am prepared to take responsibility for any shortcomings in that regard, even those which date back to the time prior to my taking office; if these men are there yet, I am responsible for it.


I am not referring
to anything just lately.


If my hon. friend will inform me confidentially as to some of the gentlemen who do not measure up, we will try to improve matters. There again, of course, I am up against the Civil Service Commission: we can dismiss them, but we cannot appoint others.
I think my hon. friend was correct in saying that the reduced freight rate does apply to the natural fertilizer, and many arguments could be advanced in support of the contention that it should apply to the artificial fertilizer also.


I would like to make a statement in regard to the ground limestone. In New Brunswick ground limestone is very badly needed; acid phosphate has a tendency to make the soil become acid, and the application of ground limestone is necessary to correct that condition, In order to provide our farmers with this limestone the provincial governemnt got a special freight rate from the railway companies which ensured the delivery of ground limestone anywhere in the province at $5 a ton. But when the last increase of freight rates came into effect, the rate on ground limestone was increased by about $2 a ton-I am not positive as to the exact amount, but that was the ap-
4 p.m. proximate increase. The result has been almost to prohibit the use of ground limestone in New Brunswick, to the great detriment of production. I

Supply-Live Stock
think that this matter should be brought very forcibly to the attention of the Railway Commission. I have in my feeble way tried to do that, but I was informed in reply that you could produce an argument in favour of a reduction of freight rates on anything. That was a rather flippant way to deal with a question which is of the greatest importance, to us at least. When you increase the price of ground limestone from $5 to $7 or thereabouts, through increased freight rates, it is a very serious thing, and I would like to see some action taken to afford us relief.


I will keep the matter in mind.


The minister will remember that his predecessor in office met those interested in the production and marketing of bacon through a conference held last fall, with a view of discussing the improvement of the quality of our bacon, both in its raw state and in the finished condition. What results, if any, have come from that conference?


The conference was held in November and was attended by representatives of all the departments of Agriculture as well as by producers and representatives of abattoirs, the idea being to work out a plan of grading of hogs or bacon. Shortly after the new government was formed we started to carry out the conclusions of the conference. The necessary Orders in Council have gone through, and the whole question has got the 'once over'. But it is amazing what an intricate matter it is to get appointments made. It is simply a question now of getting the men for the positions. As my hon. friend knows, advertisement has to be made and applications have to be received. I assume that when the positions are advertised there will be from 150 to 200 applicants for the 20 or 22 positions. It will take about two weeks to advertise the positions; then the receiving of applications will take a little while longer, after which the process of examination must take place, the rating of the applicants, and so on. I cannot, therefore, give my hon. friend any assurance when the actual grading of hogs will be in operation. My deputy tells me that with reasonable luck-because I cannot put it in any other way-we shall be able to put the ball into play about the first of June; we were aiming at starting about the first of May. We would like to commence when the business is slack, so there will be the least possible disturbance
to the old order of things in the introduction of the new.


Does the minister's explanation mean that his department is implementing the work done by those conferences? '


Yes.


Might I ask the minister's opinion as to the grading of live hogs? Does he think it will be effective, and what benefit will result to the producer?


Before I answer the first question I may say that provision for paying these men is made in the vote under discussion. Everything has been provided for:	Regulations	have been
drafted, Orders in Council passed, and the matter is now either before the Civil Service Commission or on the point of being sent there-I do know it has got to go to the commission. As to my hon. friend's other question, I was not at the conference referred to, but I have had a discussion with a number of those who were, and the idea is this: As time goes on the tendency in all agricultural countries, owing to the keen competition-not only to secure markets but to retain them-is to put all farm products on the market in a graded condition, and to encourage the buying based upon quality. That is to say, in order to get quality you must encourage quality, in order to encourage quality you must pay on that basis; and-just as the hon. member's wheat, oats, barley or rye out in Last Mountain is paid for on the basis of quality-the hope is that by the grading of hogs, which is certainly difficult but not impossible to carry out, payment will be largely made on the basis of quality and that will encourage quality. Now, the idea of these hog graders is not to grade every consignment that comes in, but rather to grade those that the buyer and the seller disagree on. If my hon. friend were the purchaser of hogs and I the seller, as long as we could agree on the grade there would be no difficulty about the transaction; but if we disagreed then the matter would be referred to this grader or, as it would be more proper to call him, referee. That is the way we propose to start. I think that even the grade my hon. friend and I might agree on should be made the subject of record even though we do not refer to the referee at all, so that we would be able to keep track of how the amount in hogs corresponds with the
Supply-Live Stock

amount in. first-class bacon the abattoir may turn out. The whole matter, I think, tends in the right direction. It is not desired to disturb the trade any more than is necessary. The grader may be said to be rather a referee. That referee will represent the abattoirs and also the producers and both will abide by his decision. In addition the understanding is that, based upon this quality, the abattoirs will bid in order to play their part and thus incidentally prevent their doors being closed for the want of business, a condition that some of them are in to-day. The abattoirs will bid a premium on all selects, of ten per cent, I think it is. That is the understanding, but it will not be easy to work out the proportion. It may gradually become absorbed into the general price. At any rate, I have explained the object we have in view, and that is the intent of the contract.


I would like to impress upon the minister the hardships that will be suffered by exhibition associations if a reduction of even twenty-five per cent is made in the grants for this purpose. I believe in economy, and I suppose we must think about economizing, but it seems to me that this is just about the last place where we should start that principle. I think we should do everything possible to encourage agriculture, and it seems to me that one of the best ways to do so is to encourage the holding of these fairs. In my constituency we hold an exhibition under the auspices of the Royal Agricultural and Industrial Society, an exhibition that boasts of being the best in the West, and personally I think it is a very good show indeed. We have a splendid display of agricultural exhibits and of live stock; it is a very complete and interesting exhibition. Unfortunately, I believe the exhibition associations have counted on having the full grant this year. I believe they were told that before any reduction was made they would be notified and afforded the opportunity of being heard by the minister. They received no notice whatever that any reduction was to be made this year, and they have made up their prize lists, and based their expenditures, on the expectation of the full grant. Now, I submit to the minister, it is hardly fair that this reduction be made without notice. I would also suggest to him that before his policy in this regard is finally determined he give the fair managers the opportunity of making representations to him. I think they have asked for a conference, and I would suggest in all 
seriousness to the minister that he might very well consider the advisability of having this conference with the fair managers of the whole Dominion before he finally adopts his policy with regard to exhibition grants.


I think my hon. friend looks so good natured over it that he rather expects this small reduction.


No, not for this year.


I would like to ask the minister whether there is to be any change in the vote for the National Live Stock Records. I believe there has been a vote of $20,000 a year for quite a number of years back to assist the National Live Stock Records in carrying on their work. It is well known that the work of the records board has increased very much during the last few years, and the live stock associations of the Dominion find a good deal of difficulty in carrying on at the present time-in fact, some of them have been compelled to increase their registration fees as a result of the increased obligations that they have had to assume. J notice there are twenty-six of these record associations and I will hurriedly run over the list. They are:
Canadian Aberdeen Angus Association, Canadian Ayrshire Breeders' Association, Can. Belgian Draft Horse Breeders' Ass'n, Canadian Brown ISwiss Association, Clydesdale Horse Association of Canada, French Canadian Cattle Breeders' Ass'n, Can. French Coach Breeders' Association, French Canadian Horse Breeders' Ass'n, North American Galloway Association, Canadian Goat Society, Canadian Guernsey Breeders' Association, Canadian Hackney Horse Society, Canadian Hereford Breeders' Association, Canadian Jersey Cattle Club, Canadian Kennel Club, Canadian P'ercheron Horse Breeders Ass'n, Canadian Pony 'Society, Canadian Red Polled Association, Canadian -Sheep Breeders' Association, Canadian 'Shire Horse Association, Dominion Shorthorn Breeders' Association, Canadian Silver Fox Breeders' Association, Canadian Standard Bred Horse Society, Canadian Suffolk Horse Society, Canadian ISwine Breeders' Association, Canadian Thoroughbred Horse 'Society.
I think the House will agree as to the importance of keeping the record of the pure-breds of all stock raised in this country. I believe that the outlook for the farmers of Canada depends more upon raising stock of a high standard than upon attempting to supply the demand for inferior animals, and I do not know of anything that will conduce more to the promotion of the interests of the live stock industry in the Dominion than assisting the live stock associations to carry on.

Supply-Live Stock
As I pointed out, the grant, I believe, for a number of years has been $20,000 per year, and I believe that for some time past the associations have been making requests of the Government for an increase. In this connection I might point out that the money received by these associations for fees, and for recording pedigrees and transferring records, in 1917 was $111,000 approximately; in 1918 $123,000; in 1919, $147,000; in 1920, $155,000; and in 1921, $171,689. There has been an increase in those five years of $60,615 in the fees they collected, which indicates that the work has spread very rapidly. I think more attention is being paid by the farmers of this country to improving the various breeds and keeping a record as to the purity of the breeds than there has been at any time in the past. I believe the department has endeavoured to do good work along this line for many years, and il am in sympathy with the demands which have been made by the live stock associations in the requests for greater assistance along this line. This item of $1,000,000 is the same amount that has been placed in the Estimates for many years past. The charge is often made that the grants for agricultural purposes are not as large as they might be, and this is one thing that might well receive the favourable consideration of the minister and the Government. I think an increased grant should be given to the National Live-stock Record, because the increase in the salaries which they had to pay has been very great indeed. I understand the salaries paid by the Records Board amounted to somewhere about $50,000 per year, and $20,000 seems a very small amount to vote towards assisting the Live-stock Records Board. I would suggest that the minister consider the requests which have been made by the Records Board and the Live-stock Associations for a more generous contribution toward expenses. The necessity should not be forced upon these associations to increase the registration fees, as the boards have done during the past few years. In the case of some of the boards the registration fees have been doubled during the last year or two as a result of an increased expenditure, and this is not conducive to the maintenance of the purity of the breeds, because in many instances, I believe, animals are allowed to go unrecorded if the fees are too high.


I quite agree with the hon. gentleman in all he has said. I am
not familiar with the details as to the amount of assistance given in past years, but I have in my hand an itemized summary of what we are giving them now. I might point out that not only is this an important branch with respect to preserving the records and pedigrees of animals, but it is also important by reason of the fact that it is taking care of new lines of activity. The work is extending all the time in many lines of work, which, in years past, they did not take care of, and I have no doubt as time goes on their activities will increase and widen in scope:
Grant to the Live Stock records $20,000	00
Printing	
5,944	26Stationery	
500	00
Salaries, for employees. Live
Stock Branch		5,840 00
Cartage	
120	00Rent	
6,249	00Taxes	
1,359	75Lighting	
239	23Power	
19600Water	
100	63Elevator Attendants	
1,260	00
Free Postage, estimated as
worth	 12,000	00
Total	 $53,808 00
In addition to what they have been getting last year, they have been given certain printing assistance and also certain additional office accommodation. I do not suppose there is a branch in the whole department where the officials would not tell you they could spend more money to advantage, and this particular activity is similar to the other branches in that respect. It is not spoken of usually as a branch, but it is similar to a branch, I have no doubt they could spend more money to advantage. They require additional office space and printing in addition to what they got last year. That is about the only difference.


I belong to a breed
association of some two or three thousand members, who are receiving no assistance, but who have had to increase their fees, and I believe this money might be used to better advantage. While I am in favour of the grant to this industry, I am not favourable to devoting the whole grant to the interest of special breeds. I believe this matter might well be taken into consideration in making an addi