I beg to lay on the table draft convention and recommendations filed at the third session of the International Labour Conference on the 25th October, 1921. This is the document requested by the right hon. leader of the Opposition yesterday.


On motion of Mr. W. F. Kay (Missisquoi) the second report of the Special Committee appointed to confer and act with the like committee of the Senate in further considering and determining the form of the memorial to be erected in the Parliament buildings to the late LieutenantJColonel George Harold Baker, member of Parliament for Brome, was concurred in.
On motion of Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King (Prime Minister) Bill No. 203 for carrying into effect the Treaties of Peace between His Majesty and Hungary and Turkey was introduced and read the first time.
On motion of Mr. Mackenzie King that the bill be read the second time:
Could not the second reading stand over till a later hour of the day?


Yes.


What is the explanation?


The bill is simply to provide machinery to enable the Government to deal with former enemy property and debts in Turkey and Hungary in a manner similar to that which is already provided for dealing with former enemy property and debts in Germany, Austria and Bulgaria. The House will remember that treaties between the Allied1 and Associated Powers and the latter countries were ratified by His Majesty, and that subsequently legislation was adopted to enable the Government to give effect to certain provisions of those treaties. A similar enactment was not passed with respect to the treaties with Hungary and Turkey, for the reason that they were not ratified at the same time as the others. The treaty with Hungary has been ratified by His Majesty, but not the treaty with Turkey, although it has been signed.


Are We likely to get anything out of Turkey?


That the
House may see the significance of the legislation asked for I might mention that one concern in Canada has a claim against these countries amounting to $600,000. I am informed that steps cannot be taken to deal with that claim until machinery is provided which will give the Governor in Council power to act under authority conferred by statute.


Is the bill printed?


Yes.


By unanimous consent the second reading of this bill stands until a later hour this day.


On motion of Mr. S. W. Jacobs (George Etienne Cartier), Bill No. 196 respecting a Patent of The Dominion Chain Company, Limited, was introduced and read the first time.
If I am in order, I would ask that this bill >be read1 a second time and referred to the Committee on Miscellaneous Private Bills.

Assiniboine River Floods


1 would ask the hon. member if the requisite petition has been lodged with the Clerk of the Private Bills Committee?


I believe it has, but I cannot sipeak positively.


What is the explanation of the bill?


I would ask that the second reading stand until we can get from the department a report on the bill.


The second reading
stands.


On the Orders of the Day:
On the 24th of April this House passed a resolution, which was accepted by the Prime Minister for the Government, in the following words:
That, in the opinion of this House, in vietv of the widespread unemployment with which the municipalities and provinces find themselves unable to cope, it is desirable that the federal government should devise some means of dealing effectively with the situation.
That was the order of Parliament; would the Government tell us now, before we prorogue, what means they have devised, since this resolution was passed, dealing with the situation?


The explanation, I think, can best be given in the language of a letter recently addressed to the mayor of one of our western cities, in which it was stated:
The intention is that the general question of unemployment and relief for distress growing out thereof will toe the subject of further careful general review within the near future and in anticipation of the needs of Canada during the coming winter.	-
It seemed inadvisable to convene a gathering of representatives of organizations in the various provinces interested in this matter while Parliament was in session. As soon as possible after Parliament prorogues the matter will be given the attention which it deserves and of the importance of which the Government is fully advised. It is only proper to say, though, that we think the unemployment situation has materially improved during the past few weeks.
223i


It very usually does
in summer time. The answer of the minister is- that nothing has been done by the Government but that others will be called in to do something later.


On the Orders of the Day:
On the 10th day of June, attention being called by the member for Macleod (Mr. Coote) to certain commitments of the present Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell) as regards the removal of the Chairman of the Railway Commission, the Prime Minister stated, as reported on page 2872 of Unrevised Hansard, that the Minister of Agriculture had made certain representations to the Government as regards such removal; that the same had been considered, but that no definite conclusion had been reached. May I ask if a definite decision has been reached, and if so, what is it?


No conclusion has been reached. The matter is still being considered.


On the Orders of the Day:
On
the 19th of May the attention of the Government was called to a very great flood disaster between Portage la Prairie and Winnipeg. The Prime Minister stated that that was being considered but that the Government had not come to a decision whether to grant relief or not.
Mr. STEWART	(Argenteuil) : The
Assiniboine river?


Yes. I have not observed yet that any relief has been provided. Has the Government decided to do anything or not to do anything, and if to do anything, what is it?
Mr. STEWART	(Argenteuil) : The
matter was taken up with the provincial government and an offer made that a survey of the whole situation in connection with the flooded areas of that river be undertaken at the expense of the federal government, on the clear understanding that that would not involve on the part of the federal government responsibility for

Assiniboine River Floods
the carrying out of any plans that might be suggested; that matter was to be decided upon later. The idea was primarily to get a complete survey and a knowledge of what would be required to obviate, if possible, a recurrence of the floods on that river.


I can see that the survey might have something to do with preventing floods in the future, but what it has to do with relieving the damage caused by a flood of the past I do not know. Has the Government decided to relieve those who suffered, or not, and if so, to what extent?


So far as I know, no claims have been made by any individuals to this Governmnet.


They were made by the member for Portage la Prairie (Mr. Leader), on May 19th and consideration was promised.


I would say-though I am not saying it in any way to make it official-that this matter should come through representations from the provincial governments, and I have so intimated on the occasions when the question has been brought to my attention. I do not think it would be the business of this Government to step into the province of Manitoba in this respect unless requested by the provincial authorities so to do, or to assist.


If so, I think that should have been the answer given to the bon. member for Portage la Prairie.


I do not know what the views of my right hon. friend are on this subject, but I may direct his attention and the attention of the House to the fact that in a district in the province of Quebec called tfhe Chaudnere valley, as a result of rains last week continuing for forty-eight hours, the whole of the area of the valley was flooded, and at least a thousand farmers lost all their crops. I do not understand, however, that they are submitting any claim to this Government. I believe, though, that they are submitting some claim for relief to the provincial government. I may say that a similar unhappy situation developed four years ago in the same valley, and no application was ever made to this government for relief.


Of course, this debate is out of order.


I was not arguing the matter; I merely called the attention of the Government to their promise and asked what they were doing. What I object to is the holding out of false hopes.


May I ask one question in regard to this matter? While on the subject of floods, I may point out that according to recent reports in the press a very serious flood has occurred in New Brunswick, with the result that much property has been swept away and considerable damage done. If relief is to be afforded by the federal government in the matter of floods in other parts of the country, I think we will have to put in a claim from New Brunswick. The destruction has included about six million feet of lumber, a sawmill, some bridges, farm property-


Order.


I wish to endorse what my hon. friend (Mr. Caldwell) has said in that respect.


Mr. Speaker-


Who started the flood?


I must remind hon. members that we cannot be flooded with a discussion of floods at this stage. The attention of the Government has been directed to these floods, and I think we should leave the matter there at present.


As one of the members most concerned with the overflowing of the Assiniboine river, I should like to ask if there will be an opportunity to discuss this matter when the Supplementary Estimates come up..


Certainly. The hon. member will have full opportunity for discussing the matter when the estimates are before the House.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to bring up a matter which

Privilege-Mr. Baxter
is not a pleasant one to deal with, but it is serious in its character, and I think as a matter of justice it ought to be brought to the attention of the House. Hon. members have always an opportunity of defending themselves from any attack made upon them within the walls of this chamber, and I am glad to say that such attacks seem to be rare. Persons outside of this House, officials- in the public service, striving to do their duty, have no opportunity to defend themselves except in the way in which I have been asked to present a defence on behalf of a gentleman who was attacked on the twelfth of this month by the hon. member for Victoria and Carleton (Mr. Caldwell). My hon. friend, in the course of his remarks, reflected very severely on the returning officer for that constituency. The returning officer has had his attention called to the report in Hansard of the remarks of the hon. member, and he desires to have a statement made on his behalf. He was charged with having made electoral subdivisions which were not warranted by law. He desires that this House should understand-


May I ask,
Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member is in order?


I was just about to
remind the hon. member that there is no such privilege. Bourinot at page 302 says:
Questions ot privilege may always be considered in either house without the notice necessary in tihe case of motions generally. By the 47th rule of the Commons it is provided:
"Whenever any matter of privilege arises, it shall he taken into consideration immediately."
It is the practice in the House of Commons to bring up a question of privilege after prayers, and before the house has taken up the orders of the day. Only in very aggravated cases, requiring the immediate interposition of the house, will any business be suddenly interrupted. If a member be insulted or attacked, or some disorder suddenly arises, a debate may be interrupted ; for as it has been cleariy expressed by an ancient authority, "Whether any question is or is not before the house; and even in the midst of another discussion, if a member should rise to complain of a breach of prvileges of the house, they have always instantly heard him."
Sc it must be a question affecting the honour of a member of the House. Hon. members cannot take up the cudgels on behalf of all the officials in this country. They have their recourse.


I bow to your ruling, of
course, Mr. Speaker, and I give notice that I shall take up this matter when the House is moved into committee of Ways and M'eans.


On the Orders of the Day:
The morning newspapers make note of the fact that there has been a severe electrical storm involving loss of life and considerable damage by hail in the western country. Hon. gentlemen laugh. It is no laughing matter when people lose their lives as the result of a severe storm. I rise to ask if the Government has received any more definite information than was contained in this morning's papers concerning the loss of life and property in that storm.


If my hon. friend is referring to the storm in western Canada, we have no information other than the press reports.


On the Orders of the Day:
Has the Prime Minister any information with respect to the Chinese immigrants I inquired about yesterday?


I have made inquiry and our information is that none have landed. However, I learn from another source that there are supposed to be that number on board ship.


On motion of Hon. Ernest Lapointe (Minister of Marine and Fisheries) the House went into committee to consider the following proposed resolution, Mr. Gordon in the Chair:
Resolved, That it is expedient to bring in a measure to make better provision for the improvement and management of the harbour of Trenton, in the province of Ontario, and to provide-
1.	That boundaries of the harbour be defined: harbour commissioners and a harbour master be appointed; and rules and regulations, and a tariff of rates and dues, be made.
2.	That the commissioners shail keep separate accounts of all moneys received and expended, and account therefor annually to the Governor in Council in such manner as may be directed.
3.	That the commissioners shall expend the moneys collected, after payment of the salary of the harbour master and the necessary expenses of maintenance of the harbour, in improving the harbour and its appurtenances according to plans to be approved by the Minister.
He said: The town of Trenton possesses the larger part of the harbour property, and they have quite recently incurred a
Trenton Harbour
rather heavy expenditure for the acquisition of another property. It has been represented to me by the town authorities, and strongly urged and recommended by my hon. friend from West Hastings (Mr. Porter) that the only way in which the town could collect dues was by the organization of a harbour commission. The town desires to get some revenue on the capital they have expended, and this resolution is simply for the purpose of enabling them to organize a harbour commission. It will not involve any expenditure on the part of the Government. It is simply for the purpose of allowing the town of Trenton to get some return on the investment they have made.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.
On motion of Mr. Lapointe, Bill No. 204, respecting the Harbour of Trenton was thereupon read the first and second times, and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Gordon in the Chair.
On the preamble.
I would like somebody
to explain why it is necessary to create a harbour commission at Trenton. There is not water enough at the present time for a vessel of any size to reach that harbour. Coming through the channel from the west there is only twelve feet of navigation. From the east up through the bay of Quinta there is certainly not fourteen feet of navigation, and the channel is a very crooked one. I cannot understand why it is necessary to have a harbour commission at Trenton, and I would like to have an explanation as to why this bill is necessary from the Minister of Marine and Fisheries. I know something about the harbour of Trenton- having been there many times in my boyhood days, and on a number of occasions since then-and to my mind it is absolutely unessential to have a harbour commission there.


I can only refer my
hon. friend to the hon. member for West Hastings (Mr. Porter). He has succeeded in convincing me and I hope he will convince my hon. friend from Welland of the necessity for this legislation.


I am afraid it is so
long since my hon. friend from Welland (Mr. German) was familiar with conditions at the port of Trenton that he has either forgotten what they were or he has not been keeping track of what has been going
fMr. Lapointe.]
on there in recent years. Trenton is at the southern terminus of the Trent canal where that canal enters the bay of Quinte, the latter being the outlet for shipping from either direction. Trenton is a town with a population of about 6,000 people, and a very Large amount of shipping passes through the port, apart altogether from what may be developed by the use of the Trent canal.


Can my hon. friend
give me any figures as to the extent of the shipping?


I will give the information in a general way; I cannot at the moment offer any exact details. The freight that enters the port of Trenton consists of material brought in from the United States to supply the large creosote works there, and the fertilizer works that are now manufacturing fertilizer and creosote in Trenton. There is also a large amount of coal shipped to the port of Trenton for distribution to various sections of Midland, Ontario. In addition a very large lumber industry is about to be developed there. A company has been formed with a capitalization of about $5,000,000. They have acquired the timber limits of other companies in the vicinity containing large quantities of timber and it is their intention to manufacture this timber into lumber in the town of Trenton and ship it from the port. Now Trenton heretofore had only owned a small portion of the dockage or wharf privileges at Trenton but recently, by expropriation proceedings, have acquired the whole or major part of these privileges. That involved the expenditure of a large sum of money on their part. The dock and wharf facilities have been acquired by the municipality for the purpose of enabling them to develop the harbour as far as they can. They will necessarily be put, to considerable expense in maintaining the harbour but, as conditions now are, will be unable to collect any harbour dues whatever, or any revenue enabling them to maintain the harbour in proper condition. The present bill is for the purpose of enabling the municipality to collect such dues as will afford them means to improve and keep the harbour in a proper state of repair. As to the number of vessels that trade at the port of Trenton, I may say that the same boats trade at Trenton that trade at the port of Belleville, which has been a government harbour, and under a commission, for a period of from twenty to twenty-

Trenton Harbour
five years. The same class of boats and of freight passes through the port of Trenton as through the harbour of Belleville. I may say that although the town of Treniton is considerably smaller than the city of Belleville, yet the tonnage which passes through the former is very nearly equal to that which passes through the latter. This legislation will not entail the expenditure of a single dollar on the part of the Government, it is only a matter of protection dn the interest of the municipality of Trenton to enable them to maintain the harbour in good condition and improve it whenever found necessary. The depth of water in the harbour is from fourteen to sixteen feet, which is ample to accommodate any and all boats passing through.


Does my hon. friend
say that there is fourteen feet navigation in either direction?


Coming by way of the
Murray canal there would not be fourteen feet, but in the other direction. Through the Narrows at the port of Deseronto there is a depth of fourteen feet or more. There was that depth last year and the year before, when the water was very low as I am advised.


I would ask the Minister of Marine and Fisheries if there is any intention on the part of the Government to spend a dollar of the public money on the Trenton harbour?


Not a dollar that I
know of.


As a result of this
legislation I am afraid we shall see a demand in future for the expenditure of public money on Trenton harbour. Notwithstanding what the hon. member for West Hastings has said there is not a sufficient depth of water in the approaches to Trenton harbour to permit navigation by a vessel larger than a few hundred tons, and to construct a channel navigable for larger vessels through the Murray canal or the bay of Quinte from Kingston will need a very large expenditure.


Let me tell my hon.
friend that the sum of $100,000 has already been expended in improving Trenton harbour and the approaches thereto, so that what my hon. friend is apprehensive of has already taken place.


The hon. gentleman's statement is a strong argument in favour of the bill. The only way to recoup the town for the money spent on that harbour is by collecting dues from the ships. As far as the fear of these gentlemen coming back and asking for more money is concerned, I would refer them to the hon. Minister of Finance.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


Bill No. 196, from the Senate, respecting a patent of the Dominion Chain Company, Limited.- (Mr. Jacobs).
The House again in Committee of Supply.
For the -purchase of five machines for affixing a distinguishing device and serial mimher on each Dominion Note, after the notes have been delivered by the printer and engraver to the Minister of Finance, and while the notes are in the custody and control of the officers of the Department of Finance, as provided for by Sub-section 2, of Section 3, of the Dominion Notes Act, 1914, $12,500.
The object of this item is to make a change with regard to the method of issuing Dominion notes. The notes are printed under proper supervision and they bear the signature of the deputy minister. Then, when they came to the Finance Department, there is a counter signature put on them by one of the young ladies employed for that purpose. It is a matter occupying a good deal of time, and it is proposed to substitute for that a stamp which will be kept in the Finance Department, dispensing with the services of these young ladies. Considerable economy will be effected in that way.


Item agreed to.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT. Department of Justice

Salaries-
James White, Technical Adviser to the Minister of Justice, transferred from the Conservation Commission $6,000
Assistant Private Secretary	 1,600
Two Clerk-Stenographers at $960.00
each	 1,920
Assistant Structural Engineer, Penitentiary Branch		2,700
Mr. MEIGHE'N: It would look from this as if the minister has been imposed on, and the whole balance of the staff of the Conservation Commission wished on his department. Really, I do not know how Mr. James White can be a technical adviser to the Justice Department. He
Supply-Justice
may be one of those men, quite a number of whom I have met, who believe themselves natural lawyers.
They have their uses.


I know something about this matter, and I suggest to the minister that in self defence he ask that this item be deferred.


I may say that Mr. White was previously on the Commission of Conservation, and he has been transferred and put in charge of research work in connection with the Department of Justice.
He has been engaged recently upon the Labrador-Newfoundland boundary. We have some work to perform in connection with that, ,and Mr. White has been employed upon it. He is very useful, I am told, to the staff and the deputy minister, and, I understand, he is to be there for one year.


Is there not some danger there? I do not know what special qualifications he has for investigating the boundary of Labrador. I have no fault to find with his qualifications for the position he held as secretary of the Conservation Commission. I am not discussing that at all, but that position was done away with for the sake of economy. Now there is no economy at all, if the members of that commission are going to be drafted back into the departments, into more or less artificial and ornamental positions. Mr. White was retired, and he was entitled to his pension. I do not know just what it was, some $4,000 odd for life, and I do not think he has any complaint. If he comes back now, I presume it would mean that the higher salary, if he is getting a higher salary now, for this short term, will be utilized to add to this $4,000 pension that he is entitled to for the remainder of his life.


His present salary is $6,000. If he had been pensioned last year, it would have meant a difference of about $1,500 or $2,000 at the most. If he was retired the Government might save $2,000 per year. I may say that the expenses of the Conservation Commission were over $300,000 per year. The only officer retained is Mr. White, and one shorthand writer, who draws a salary of between $900 and $1,000.


This is only the commencement of it.


Item agreed to.
[Mr. Meighen.j
Administration of Justice
To provide differential salary for certain judges of the Court of King's Bench and Superior 'Court of Quebec, from July 1 to July 25,	1920, notwithstanding anything in the
Judges' Act, 32 at $1'34.30, 15 at $268.81, $8,332.95.
Will the minister give us some explanation of this item?


The salaries of all the judges were substantially raised by 1011 George V, chapter 56, dating in the case of every province except Quebec from; 1st July, 1920, on which day the act came into effect. By section 5 of the act, however, it was provided that the section raising the salaries of the Quebec judges would come into operation upon and after a day to be named by proclamation of the Governor in Council. This proclamation was made on July 26, 1920, only, the result being that the judges of Quebec were twenty-five days behind the other judges of Canada ini receiving their increases. This item, I understand, was approved by my predecessor, but we could not have it voted before.
Mr. LEWItS: Has any provision been madte in the Supplementary Estimates for a judgeship at Gravellbourg in Saskatchewan, and have any other similar appointments been made in Saskatchewan?


Representations have been made to us with regard to the appointment of a judge at Gravelbourg, and I hope we shall be in a position, after the session, to 'give satisfaction to the people of that district.


May I make this suggestion to the minister? The province of Quebec has, of course, a different system from that of the rest of Canada.	In Quebec, there is no county or district lourt, as it is known in other provinces. In the other provinces these district court judges do not rank with the superior court judges, either as to salary or as to jurisdiction. They have jurisdiction up to small amounts running from $300 to $1,000, and they receive a salary of $5,000. The province of Quebec has no such court, and as a consequence all the judges are superior court judges, and draw the $9,000 salary of the superior court judges, although most of the time they are trying only $600 or $900 cases. Of course, nothing could be done that would disturb the status of any judge now appointed. Nobody would ask that; but not only would it be in the interest of economy, but it "would

Supply-Justice
be more in accord with common sense, if it could be effected, necessarily by provincial legislation, that a county court would be established in Quebec, thereby bringing the courts of that province into harmony with the courts of the other provinces of Canada. There would, of course, have to be new appointments to the county court, and the others would lapse only as the
4 p.m. members of the court were to retire or to die. That would seem to me a great reform, and the Minister of Justice (Sir Lomer Gouin) having very considerable influence in the government of Quebec as well as in this Government, he would seem to me to be particularly designed by Providence to exert some really great influence to produce this reform.


We have superior court judges in Quebec, and in the city and district of Montreal we have four circuit court judges. As to cases of minor importance referred to by the leader of the Opposition (Mr. Meighen), a change was effected in Quebec lately. At the last session of the provincial parliament, amendments were made giving jurisdiction, in circuit court cases up to $100, to the magistrates, so that there would be so much less work for our judges of the superior court. The number of our judges is certainly not too large with the increase in population in the different districts. With this amendment, which I have just mentioned and which has been brought about by the provincial government, I have reason to believe that the representations now made by the leader of the Opposition will be met; that is to say, no objection could be made for the future as to the jurisdiction given to our superior court judges. Small matters will be decided by the magistrates.


I see clearly that that will in time effect the same result. With the growth of the province, if magisterial jurisdiction is expanded instead of the superior court being expanded in point of numbers, the same result will be achieved.


Item agreed to.
To provide for the establishment of three detachments, two on Ellsmere Island and one on or near Bylot Island, Arctic Regions, $60,000.
Are
these new stations?


Yes.


For
what purpose?


For our Mounted Police.


What
is the necessity for these stations?


It is necessary to protect our rights against foreigners; to protect our fisheries, and to take care of our property generally.


Item agreed to.
To assist in the suppression of the White Slave Traffic, $2,500.
It seems to me that $2,500 is not at all adequate in connection with work of this character if anything effective is to be accomplished.


The same amount has been voted since 1914 under the recommendation of Colonel Sherwood. I am informed by the Chief Commissioner that the appropriation is sufficient.


Item agreed to.
Amount required to pay legal expenses etc., in connection with the case, Dominion Iron and Steel Co., Ltd., vs. The King re ships plates, $8,200.
Should this item carry
in the absence of the hon. member for Laprairie and Napierville (Mr. Lanctot) ?


Item agreed to.
Grant to R. G. Chamberlin, for special police service on the occasion of the visit of His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales to Canada in 1919, $1,000.
How does this come up now after an interval of three years?


Mr. Chamberlin's services were retained because Colonel Sherwood was engaged at the time and the government had to appoint someone to take his place. Mr. Chamberlin never received anything from the government.


Did he ever send a bill in?


It was left to the government and Colonel Sherwood. Mr. Chamberlin was always expecting something, and we now propose that $1,000 be paid him. I do not think it is too large a sum.


One cannot remember
all the particular items here of this character. Doubtless claims were made at the time and were refused by the late government for pretty good reasons. Of course, if the presentation of additional facts dis-
Supply-Justice

closes that an error was made at the time, that error should be corrected now, but I do not want the minister to undo all the good work the late government did.


Unless my
right hon. friend wishes this item to go through, I am perfectly agreeable to let it drop.


I do not know anything about it.


The Under
Secretary of State, Sir Joseph Pope, at the time of the Prince of Wales' visit thought it necessary to have some officer to take charge of the whole; tour. That work would naturally come to Colonel Sherwood if he was available, but he was not, and Mr. Chamberlin was borrowed from the Canadian Pacific Railway Company in whose employ he was at the time. On the representations of both Sir Joseph Pope and Mr. Newcombe, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Chamberlin contends that he had good reason to expect the government would give him some remuneration for the services he rendered. He received no compensation from the government, but he did receive his regular salary from the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. The work -he was doing throughout the tour was different in character from his regular work. This happened while my right hon. friend was in office, and unless he wishes to have the undertaking of Sir Joseph Pope and Mr. Newcombe implemented, the passing of the item is immaterial to us.


I was in office, but not in the Department of External Affairs.


You were on the exterior.


No, I was very much in the interior. I remember though that Mr.-Cham-berlin, who was at that time the head of the constable service of the Canadian Pacific Railway, did accompany the Prince of Wales. If Sir Joseph Pope and the officers of the department state that Mr. Chamberlin had a right to expect compensation upon the understanding they arrived at, I have no objection to the item passing; but no such representations were made to me.


Was not Mr. Chamberlin paid by the Canadian Pacific Railway?


No.


He was in the employ of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.


Yes; but had he been at his regular work his duties would have been much less exacting. lie had to spend his entire time going all over the country with the Prince. For that extra service he got no remuneration from the Government or from the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.


Could we not get out of our liability by giving him a decoration or something of that kind?


I understand the gentleman was receiving a pretty good salary from the Canadian Pacific Railway Company during the time he was engaged in this work and undter the circumstances I would think the honour accruing to him would be sufficient recompense. I think we are under no particular obligation unless we entered into an agreement with him at the time. The item ought to be dropped.


Item agreed to.
MILITIA AND DEFENCE Civil Government - Department of Militia and Defence-Salaries-
To provide for arrears of salary due to Alexander Tetu from the 15th July, -1919 to the 31st March, J.922	$ 120
Secretary to Executive	 1,800
Senior Clerk-Stenographer	 1,320
Clerk-Stenographer	 960
Confidential Messenger	 960
Are these all additions to the present staff?


The first item explains itself: this gentleman was promoted but strange to say was never paid the additional salary of $120. The other items refer to secretaries to the executives!. Under the Order in Council and by the full consent otf the Civil Service Commission, each minister is entitled to make appointments to these positions. Should any of the temporaries on my staff be refused re-classification, I would be -in a peculiar position if I had not some way of making such appointments.


The idea would be to take them on again?


In some instances we
may, in others we may not take them on again.


I understand that if it had not been for the amalgamation and resultant "economy" these expenditures would not be necessary.


Item agreed to.

Supply-Departments
Militia and Defence-Civil pensions-
Life pension to Robert Allen.. ..	$269	52
Life pension to Ronald Morrison.. 330 00
Life pension to Walter Pettipas.. 515 90
These items have appeared for some years. I would like to have some explanation as to why they are paid.
Mr. .GRAHAM:	These pensions were
granted before the act was passed by which such pensions may be paid year by year without a special vote. They have been voted in thiis way each, year since 1917.


They are for persons who were formerly employed in the Militia Department-ordinary pensions?


Oh, yes.


Item agreed to.
'Gratuity to the widow of the late H. N. P. Chesley, $466.67.
Mr. Chesley had been in the employ of the government for forty-one years. He was retired on the last day of April. Had he died on the last day of April his widow would have been entitled under the act to two months' pay, but he died four days after, and this item is to give his widow the two months' pay as if he had not been retired.


Item agreed to.
Department of Secretary of State-Salaries-
One Clerk-Stenographer	 $ 960
One Senior Clerk-iStenographer-
Further amount required	 15
Contingencies-
Further amount required	 2,320
Why is the minister asking for contingencies at this late hour?


My officers gave me an itemized statement, but I do not happen to have it with me. It is' for further contingencies required.


Let it stand.
Item stands.
Miscellaneous-expenses under the Canada Temperance Act-further amount required, $20,000.


How is this money to be spent?


At the last session of the Prince Edward Island legislature authority was taken for the holding of a plebiscite during the year and this is to make the necessary provision for it.


Item agreed to.
Air Board-to provide for the "7 ustruction of a 'building to house a wind tunnel for aeronautical research, $5,000.
Explain.


For some years Toronto University has been carrying on experiments in aeronautical research. They wish now to carry on their work in another part of the grounds and we are assisting in the erection of a new building for the purpose. The work is of great value to the Air Board.


Item agreed to.
Department of Immigration and Colonization-'Salaries-
To provide for one new Chief Clerkship	 $3,360
To provide for a further amount for a promotion from Head Clerk to
Chief Clerk	 120
To provide for a further amount for
one Head Clerkship	 480
To provide for a further amount for a promotion to a Principal Clerkship	 240
To provide for a new Division Immigration Inspector, Grade 1 .	..	2,040
To provide for one Senior File Clerk	1,320
To provide for one Senior Clerk-
Stenographer	 1,320
To provide for a further amount for
a promotion to Senior Clerk-Typist	180
To provide for eight Clerk-Stenographers at $960	 7,680
To provide for nine File Clerks at
$960	 8,640
To provide for one Clerk	 960
To provide for five Junior Clerk-
Stenographers at $600	 3,000
To provide for one Junior Clerk..	600
To provide for one Office Boy.. ..	330
This vote is necessary owing to the fact that the Civil Service Commission will no longer allow us to carry thirty-three temporary employees-. There are two new positions here, one occupied by Mr. Buskard, who has been transferred from the Prime Minister s office to the Department of Immigration, and one division immigration inspector. Of the thirty-three employees mentioned in the item, thirty-one have been in the employ of the department at Ottawa for a number of years in a temporary capacity, and their salaries have been provided and paid for out of the vote for immigration contingencies. The positions of these thirty-one employees are now declared to be of a permanent nature, and the payment of salaries is no longer to be made from the appropriation for contingencies.


Will this mean a saving so far as the main estimates are concerned?
Supply-Immigration


Yes, with the exception of three new officials on the Continent. There of our men are operating in the Baltic ports this year for the purpose of putting the vise on passports, which has heretofore been done by British consular officers. This will obviate the necessity of continental immigrants passing through England in order to have their passports vised. Outside of that there will be a saving.


Where is the new immigration inspector to be stationed?


Eastern Canada.


At what point?


These
men travel between the ports of Quebec, St. John and so on. This official will not be stationed at any particular place in that respect.


Has the Government considered the question of merging the Department of Immigration and Colonization with the Interior Department and having the three branches administered as they were before 1917? Everyone understands why this Department of Immigration and Colonization was created in that year. There was no immigration and no colonization in the midst of the war, but a position had1 to be created for Mr. Calder, who was at that time taken into the Government. Now that Mr. Calder is settled for life in a higher Chamber, does the Government not think that we might get back to the old system? The Department of the Interior handled this question of immigration from 1896, when Sir Clifford Sifton took charge, and has brought into this country millions of immigrants. The policy of the department now seems to be to prevent immigrants from coming to this country altogether, because an Order in Council was passed on the 9th of May declarting that after that date immigration into Canada is prohibited. That being the case, it does seem to me, it is the part of unwisdom to continue this elaborate department, which costs I do not know how many millions of dollars annually. The department was very well run as an adjunct of the Department of the Interior by the different ministers of the Interior who occupied that position and by the very efficient Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Cory. This Department of Immigration seems to be

used as a kind of refuge for every individual and official Who is being dispensed with or whose services are of little value. For instance, we find that Doctor Black, who, I think, occupied prior to November or December, 1921, the position of official organizer of the National Liberal and Conservative party, was found to be such a valuable assistant to that organization that when his services were no longer required he was forthwith made Deputy Minister of Immigration and Colonization, just immediately before the government went to the country, and when they were in what I might call articulo mortis. The government knew they could never come back, but evidently Mr. Black had to be provided for, for some reason unknown to me, and he was given this position of deputy minister at $6,000 a year, while other officials who had been in both the Immigration Department and the Interior Department were ignored and passed over. As I said before, inasmuch as we are not admitting immigration into this country at all, with the exception of female domestics and farm labourers, it does seem to me that these millions of dollars which are being spent might be saved, and the department go back to where it was before it wad separated from the Interior Department. I have no doubt that the very efficient Minister of Immigration and Colonization, who is also the Minister of the Interior, could function just as well from his department in the Langevin block, as when he is divided up and spends half his time in the Norlite building and the rest of his time in the Langevin block.


The hon. member did not fail to disclose what the originating impulse was of his desire for economy. He seems to have something :n his bosom against Doctor Black.


None whatever. I never spoke to Doctor Black in my life.


Perhaps th?t is why it is in his bosom. I am pretty sure that if he had, the prejudices he now entertains would be very soon swept away. I only rose to say a word with regard to Doctor Black. It is true he occupied the position of organizer of the party for a time, and while doing so he gave his entire time to it, but if that is an offence While a man is free, drawing no public money, disqualifying him from public office, then I am afraid the decks would have to be swept clean of very many deputy ministers, and

Supply-Immigration
very many other high officials, and included in those not only men appointed twenty or twenty-five years ago, but an almost equal number in the short but miserable term in office of my hon. friends.


Miserable?


Perhaps the word
wretched might have been better. I have in mind now Mr. Duncan Marshall, appointed without reference to the Civil Service Commission, a job created for him and trips found, etc. The position Doctor Black occupies was not created for any one. It is an office of great importance, and can only be filled by a man of efficiency and high qualifications.


Will the right hon. gentleman allow me to tell him that before Doctor Black's appointment we never had a Deputy Minister of Immigration and Colonization? The position was created for Doctor Black.


Hear, hear.


The hon. member says "hear, hear." I assure him he knows as little about it as the hon. member who spoke. When the position was created, Doctor Black was Commissioner of Agriculture for Canada, had not the slightest thought of moving from his position, and was in a position for which he was eminently qualified. Those were the facts when this position was created. Subsequently he became head of the Soldier Settlement Board'. It would not look from that as if the position had been created for him, when he was promoted to a very much more responsible position, even more responsible than that which he holds to-day. Hon. members of this House of all political persuasions, and I refer particularly to hon members to my left who were in the last House, were not at all ungenerous in their tributes to the very great success of Doctor Black's work as head of the Soldier Settlement Board.


He wrote the tributes himself.


I am sorry for my hon. friend's opinion of other hon. gentlemen in this House. I have in mind the hon. member for Victoria and Carleton (Mr. Caldwell). Does the hon. member suggest that his speech relative to Doctor Black was written by Doctor Black? I did not know that hon. gentlemen were so impotent either in the way of forming opinions or in the way of their utterance. No, the
work done there by Doctor Black was as eminent public service as has ever been rendered by an official of this country. It is a comparatively easy task to-day, with the lines laid down, the trail blazed, and all the main difficulties surmounted, to take a piece of machinery and by a little sandpapering and oiling let it proceed with its work, but the big difficulties and the big dangers were faced by Doctor Black, and they were surmounted by him, and surmounted with eminent success.


And' his present position is a reward for his services in that direction.


If it were, it would be eminently justified, but it is not. His services there most clearly show that he is big enough, yes, more than big enough, for the position he holds now, and whether the functions of the Department of limmi-gration are concerned more with bringing immigrants in or with sifting immigration and seeing that only the right kind come in, no matter which function is the more important, there is no officer of this Government, I venture to say there is no one outside the realms of the service, who is better qualified to perform that work than is Doctor Black. I would ask those who have been acquainted with his. work, whether in one office or the other, if it has not been performed with a single eye to duty and with marked efficiency, demonstrating no ordinary powers.
The hon. member says the office was created for him. There is no hon. member of this House who thinks that. It is utterly inconceivable. Doctor Black was in an office, he had previously .been president of the Manitoba Agricultural College, he was filling an office after the creation of this, one, let me repeat, and was promoted to that most responsible position of head of the Soldier Settlement Board, whose responsibilities he discharged with much success, and during a period of about three years. No, the Department of Imtaiigration and Colonization was made a separate department, or rather, a branch of the Interior was made a separate department, in order that that work growing in importance in this country might have the undivided attention of a minister. That 'became inpossible, with the contraction of the government later, 'but while it remained a separate department, the Mines Department was brought back into the Interior Department. The Mines Department is now added
Supply-Immigration

to the responsibility of that office, and, as well, the functions of the Interior Department have grown and multiplied in these years, and! I venture to say that the Interior Department, as administered to-day by the minister is four times in magnitude what is was in 1906.


When the natural resources of the western provinces are returned to those provinces what will be the functions of the Interior Department?


That will be the occasion for a re-consideration of the subject, but if my hon. friend expects that in the very near future then, in the words of the Finance Minister "I have not seen so great faith, no not even in Israel". We will pass that milestone when we rea.ch it. But let me impress this on the Government: I do not object to the expansion of the Department of Immigration and Colonization; I do not emphasize one function more than another-both are of paramount consequence; the getting of the right immigrant and the exclusion of' the wrong immigrant. Far better have the Mines branch in the Department of the Interior and have a separate Immigration and Colonization branch than to move the Mines branch out and to bring the Immigration branch back. I think it is one of the most important services the Government can render to expand the functions of that department and Increase its usefulness. And in doing so they cannot get a better man than the present deputy-in fact I doubt if they can get his equal.


By reason of his success as organizer for the National Liberal Conservative party?


I do not know that
I should answer that question. If I did it would be in the affirmative, but I do not want that to be any inducement to the minister to get him for his own purposes.


I suppose the fact that
the hon. gentleman is now sitting on the opposite side of this House indicates how successful Dr. Black was.


If a man has to be a success as a political organizer to get into the government service-that apparently appears to he the view of my hon. friend- I assure him that his party seems to be living up to that 'policy.


May I point out to the
right hon. g