Fifth report of the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce presented.- Hon. Mr. Maclean.
First interim report on the second part of investigation by the Royal Commission on Pensions and Re-establishment.-Hon. Mr. Beland.
I beg to move that the name of Mr. Garland (Bow River) be substituted for that of Mr. Reed on the standing committee on Banking and Commerce and that the name of Mr. Reed be substituted for that of Mr. Garland (Bow River) on the standing committee on Agriculture.


By unanimous consent. Motion agreed to.


The leader of the Opposition asked the other evening for certain additional information concerning the public debt and railway appropriations. The debt statement is brief, and with your permission, Mr. Speaker, I will read it:
Net debt, 31st March, 1922, as shown in the Public Accounts laid on the table of the House during present
	$2,422,135,801 73
Estimated amount to be added to the net debt in the year just closed as given by the minister in his budget speech	 49,293,086 00
Estimated Net debt March 31, 1923.. $2,471,428,887 73
The statement regarding railway appropriations is more elaborate, and I will send it over to my hon. friend rather than read it.


Hon. W. S. FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 180, to amend the Civil Service Superannuation and Rfrirement Act.
Is this simply to extend the so-called Calder Act?

Lake Rates


No. That will come up at another time. There is a clause in the old Superannuation Act which authorizes the Treasury Board to grant additional years in fixing a retiring allowance. We think that some embarrassment may arise from that, and we propose to repeal that clause so that if in any case it is deemed necessary to make any addition to the amount granted it can be done by special appropriation by the House, instead of by act of the Treasury Board.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Bill No. 176 (from the Senate), respecting The Northern Trusts Company.-Mr. Hudson.
Bill No. 177 (from the Senate), respecting The Subsidiary Court of the Ancient Order of Foresters in the Dominion of Canada.- Mr. Euler.
Bill No. 178 (from the Senate), for the relief of Winifred Scatcherd.

Mr. Church.
On the Orders of the Day:
I should like to ask the government whether it is the intention to introduce this session legislation to further extend the period during which oleomargarine may be manufactured and sold in this country, and imported. The act of last session only extended until 31st August, the right to manufacture and import oleomargarine, and until 1st March next the right to have that article in possession.


I promise my hon. friend that the government will give serious consideration to his representation.


In that connection may I state that I got a similar answer some two or three weeks ago. How long is this state of giving the matter consideration going to last?


The subject is very serious.


Is it not possible to get an answer without this evasion?


I do not think that is nice.


Perhaps it is not, but does the government deserve anything better?


I am afraid, to use the Asquithian phrase, my right hon. friend will have to wait and see.


On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to inquire when the report tabled the other day from the Royal Commission on Lake Rates will be printed and made available for the use of members.


I presume that the printing of this report is for the printing committee to decide. I think that is the usual course followed. I do not think these reports are printed unless so ordered by the printing committee. However, I will make inquiry for my hon. friend. I do not think any special instruction has been given about it one way or the other.


It is very important that this report should be printed and in the hands of members at an early date.


The printing committee can direct the printing of the report at once.


On the Orders of the Day:
It is reported from Great Britain in the morning press that the government has appointed a publicity agent or publicity representative in London, and that the appointee is one Mr. W. T. Cranfield, of Great Britain. May I ask if the report is correct, and when the process of appointing other than Canadians is to cease?


I must confess that personally I am not aware of the matter, but I will have inquiry made. Speaking for myself I am not aware of such an appointment; it may have been made in some one of the departments.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I have another question to ask. The Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Robb), in whose department the matter lies, is not in his seat, and I was withholding the question in the hope that he would come in. Probably some other member of the government will be able to answer. The question is this: Have the government had a request from either the government of Alberta or the government of Saskatchewan, or a joint request from both, to extend the wheat board legislation by order in council as provided by



The Budget-Mr. Morrison
the act of last year? Further, have any names been suggested to this government to handle the proposal for the present year?


This matter comes under the direction of the Minister of Trade and Commerce who, unfortunately, is not present. I will see that the inquiry is brought to his notice and that the information is given to my hon. friend as early as possible.


The House resumed from Friday, May 18, the debate on the motion of Hon. W. S. Fielding (Minister of Finance), that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the House to go into Committee on Ways and Means, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Robert Forke.
Mr. JOHN MORRISON'(Weyburn): Mr. Speaker, I wish to congratulate the Minister of Finance on this the occasion of his seventeenth budget. I am only sorry that it contains so little encouragement for agriculture and for the working classes in general.
* It has been frequently stated here, Sir, that Canada is passing through a very precarious era; and some speakers have been roundly denounced for attempting to relate just how bad the conditions are in their particular districts. Well, Sir, the conditions over some very large areas are fully as bad as have been described. Climatic causes have contributed very largely to these conditions. Adverse weather for four and sometimes fives successive years, together with high operating costs -some of which were controllable and others uncontrollable-have contributed to place matters in very bad shape. Other causes were -the non-appreciation of the real facts by the government, and that combinations of different kinds, who thought the country could stand it, have kept increasing their charges for their respective services, whether it was, lending money, carrying freight, or supplying coal, farm implements, or manufactured goods. When deflation struck the country, farming was the first industry to feel it, as the prices of farm products were fixed by world conditions plus the ability to buy and pay for those goods. Our income fell to one-third of previous years, but costs stood pat, they remained away up. The result is that the greatest basic industry in Canada to-day has a very low purchasing power. Our inability to buy means that the manufacturing establishments are only running from 25 to 75 per cent

capacity, and their overhead costs are very high. According to Mr. Bradshaw, General Manager of the Massey-Harris Company, giving evidence before a committee of this House the other day their overhead was up about 400 per cent as compared with that of pre-war days. Surely then protection has failed to fulfil its purpose in keeping our manufacturers busy. That grand old policy of protection, which the Conservatives boldly proclaimed in office and out of office, that policy which the Liberals denounced when in opposition and practised when they got into office, has failed to fulfil the expectations of its friends.
It is claimed, Sir, that the outcry of hard times in the West has injured Canada. Not very much I think. It has been my observation, Sir, that if there is anything wrong doers dislike, it is publicity in regard to their evil practices. We have tried other methods and we have failed to get any response, and yet when we tell the facts in order to try and bring about a remedy we are called calamity howlers. I do not think that the government could supply a remedy for every difficulty which exists, but there are measures which could be applied if this government was fearless and determined to give a square deal all round, if service was the big idea and fear was not so prevalent.
I think the British Preference should be increased to at least 50 per cent all round. That is a very desirable course in order that the prices paid for goods that we need shall be reduced to a reasonable rate. It will also make it hard for our oppressors to combine, and will render easy the enforcement of the Anti-Combines Act. If that is done, combines will find it very hard to operate in Canada. Another reason for increasing the British preference is to be found in connection with the shipping conditions. Referring to the annual report of the Canadian Government Merchant Marine, I find on page 5 a paragraph which reads as follows:
It is admitted by the best authorities that the past year was the worst in recent shipping annals. While tonnage offering increased to some extent the commodities were of lower value than in preceding years, and, as a consequence, the earnings fell off considerably. Outward tonnage was fairly well maintained, but on the other hand the inward business, more especially from the United Kingdom, Oriental and Australasian ports fell away to such extent that it was exceedingly difficult-and at times impossible- to obtain, and, on this account, a great proportion of the voyages during the year resulted in losses. The Merchant Marine had a deficit of $9,649,478. Our exports to Great Britain for the four years ending 31st March 1923 amounted to $1,480,427,628. Our imports from Great Britain were only $597,759,207, a balance in favour of Canada of $882,668,421, and average balance per year of $220,667,105.

The Budget-Mr. Morrison
Now sir, tliis one-way-load transportation is a very expensive business. That is another serious loss caused to us from over protection. When people stray from sound business principles their difficulties are always cumulative. One wrong leads to another, and one difficulty causes another difficulty. The way of the transgressor is hard in public business, the same as in private life. Surely our friends who are so long on loyalty and on patriotism should be willing to give the Motherland a chance. Great Britain is putting up a great fight to-day. She is a manufacturing nation as well as a good trader, but she has still
1,200,000	men in enforced idleness, because world conditions are bad. We must buy her manufactured products if we expect her to buy our wheat, flour, cattle, bacon, and dairy products. Nobody can continue buying if he cannot sell. Neither can a nation buy, if she does not sell. Britain has been our second best customer, the United States being first. For four years ending 31st March last our imports from the United States amounted to $2,714,149,766. Our exports were $1,668,020,011, a balance in favour of the United States of $1,046,129,755. Talcing the United Kingdom and the United States there was a trade balance against Canada of $163,461,334. Now there is something wrong when we find ourselves in that position. We must have such high duties that they are interfering with trade. Last year the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) brought down his budget and increased the duties on cigarettes and thought he would obtain increased revenue from that source, but he found he was $1,200,000 in the hole. I think that shows that when they overdid it in a little thing like cigarettes, many other lines of business were materially injured. Instead of getting more business, the customs tariff was so high that it killed business. We need more British commodities from that country, and one commodity which I would suggest to import more heavily would be British people, but as they come here we have to see that they are well looked after, and not exploited, as many of them have been in the past, not brought out and dumped on the prairies and on the newer lands, left to shift for themselves, and exploited by people who make a business of that game. The newer parts of Canada are deserving of more careful consideration of her various problems. We need extensions of branch lines of railway where there are large settlements of thrifty farmers who have been holding down the job since before the war, some of them hauling their wheat thirty or forty miles to the nearest railway. Many of our people in such 186i
circumstances are becoming discouraged and are going across the International boundary line. I think it is well worth while for the government to make an intelligent careful survey of all frontier problems and meet those people half way. If we do that we will find that we can hold them. I think it is poor business to spend a lot of money in bringing in new people and not providing for those who are discouraged. We have thousands of settlers to-day who are "broke." There are men who have not any money going across the International boundary line to-day with their families, and I am told that when a man goes broke he cannot get a clearance and make an assignment for less than $500. Those men could not find $500 to save their souls. Something should be done to save those people for this country. It is folly-it is worse than folly-to let those people drift. It is not justice to them. They have suffered this loss, not so much through their own fault as the general aftermath of the war, and I think some compromise should be effected which would save those people to Canada.
Now the problem of adequate credits is a live one from coast to coast to-day. Business men as well as farmers are demanding a better system. It is a difficult problem and worthy the attention of Canada's best men. Members of the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce will, I am sure, submit proposals to this House for much needed amendments to the Bank Act. I think we should have a commission on banking and credits similar to the railway commission or the grain commission. I do not know why any small bunch of men should have such arbitrary powers over the business of this country. These men have not been reasonable in the past, and we have no assurance that they ever experienced a change of heart. Now when banks want a renewal of their charter, they try to get it put through, and if they succeed the public will be at their mercy for ten years. The bank presidents and general managers who have been down here giving evidence before this banking committee have a lot to say about the stability of our financial institutions, but, Sir, there is nothing as unstable as the line of credit that the most people have been obliged to use, or to be satisfied with, during the last ten years. I know a farmer who was doing business with a bank for over twenty years before he ever asked to borrow a dollar. He had a first class farm, well improved, everything paid for and he had other investments! He went into the bank and asked for a loan of $200, and the manager told him he was very sorry but they
The Budget-Mr. Morrison
were not lending money that day. That money was wanted to pay for some cattle the farmer had just bought, and the man went out and got the money elsewhere. I recall another instance where a neighbour of mine had a half section, well improved, and he had horses and implements. He had borrowed some money from the bank, and when in December his note became due he wanted a renewal. He told the banker that he had paid up everything in the stores, paid his threshing bill, wages and taxes. He had paid all he said, but one lien note of $300 on a team of horses which he purchased for $600. He was at that time owing to the bank $300, and the manager said "That is all right, you just pay your note now, and you will be in good standing when your note for the horses becomes due on the 1st of March, and we will take care of you." The farmer took him at his word and paid the note in the bank. But when 1st March came around the bank refused to give him a loan of $300. The vendor of the horses had the team in town to re-sell them, when a neighbour came forward and loaned the farmer the money. I do not think the banks are doing justice to their customers in such cases as that to which I have referred. I could quote much worse instances than that of uncalled-for ill-treatment.
The banks tell us that money is tight. People who are tight when we want to do business with them are no good; we should have some way of keeping them in working order. We want continuity of service. Personally I have no complaint to make; but I have seen some gross injustices handed out to the people, and I do not see any reason why one group of men should be in a position where they can dictate the whole game right through. I do not think any man in the world is good enough to have an absolute say *over his fellow man; there should be some [DOT]check on him. Lack of continuity of service has been the chief cause of many people of this country getting into trouble. I have seen men canvassed to get them to use more credit, and later on the same bank manager who so canvassed them, came around and compelled them, when they did not have a crop, to give him a mortgage to protect their loan.
I would ask the hon. gentleman not to mention in the debate, mattters which are under consideration before a standing committee, the report of which is not yet before the House. That is one of the essential rules of debate.


I beg your pardon, Mr. Speaker. The United States is to-day providing for farmers a service which land mortgage companies and banks cannot give. Banks require their money out on short-term loans, because they have big deposits of money that are due on demand. They are, therefore, obliged to keep their assets as liquid as possible, and they are not in a position to lend money on live stock for one or two years until the stock grows to maturity. Our land mortgage companies also cannot touch that business. There are many farmers who have plenty of feed, but who cannot use it on this account, and there is no margin for waste to-day in agriculture in Canada. Our country requires a system of intermediate credit, similar to the United States' system, to suit the requirements of our live stock men. The Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell), in speaking the other day, scoffed at the idea of farmers consolidating their debts on the amortization plan. Why would that not be good business for farmers as well as for the British government? The British Government had their debts to the United States spread over a term of sixty years recently, and they are recognized as the best financiers in the world. What is our own government doing? It is not trying to pay off its debts in five years. The Canadian Pacific Railway Company, in fact all big companies, borrow money over a long term of years, and there is no possibility to-day of farmers being able to pay their debts off in a short term of years. Recently the Canadian Pacific set an example which shows some real appreciation of actual conditions in western Canada. They announced that they were calling in some 30,000 contracts outstanding with western fanners to whom they had sold land on a short term payment plan at 8 per cent interest. They are re-writing the contracts to extend over a period of thirty-four years on the amortization plan, where the interest and principle combined will not exceed 7 per cent. This is a lead for other big companies like the Hudson's Bay Company and many others that have made colossal fortunes out of Canada. Land mortgage companies and financial institutions that have big reserves, having put many people into a position out of which it is impossible for them to get, should compromise with them and make it possible for them to stay on their land. Most of this trouble has been caused by the aftermath of war, by uncontrollable conditions, and in war time we compromised with some of these companies and readjusted their bargains. Take the case of the Crowsnest pass agreement which was cancelled for a term.

The Budget-Mr. Morrison
The railways found out that they were up against uncontrollable, unexpected costs, and the position was compromised and rightly so. I do not know why the small man should not receive as fair treatment as the big corporation receives. I suggest that the government should take cognizance of the advice given recently by the hon. member for South York (Mr. Maclean), and put the fear of God into some of these companies, if they will not voluntarily compromise with these men, if, rather than compromise, they will drive men out of the country. The Shyloeks have had their day, and workmen and ordinary business men have had impossible conditions exacted of them. I hope the government will deal fairly and courageously with all sections and not permit these big corporations to jump on the farmers and reap the benefits of the compromise which the Canadian Pacific has made.
The Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) told us the other day that he had faith in the intelligence and industry of our people; that he had faith in the people and faith in the resources of this Dominion. I would remind him that another authority said that "faith without works is dead." It is all right to have faith, but there has to be a little more than faith in order to get this mess cleaned up and things in working order again.
The Minister of Finance proposes to give bounties to companies manufacturing hemp and artifical silk, and also to the mining of copper. Non-resident capitalists can come into this country, get the ear of the government and secure big bounties. On the other hand, men who are resident in Canada and who have got into hard positions, cannot secure the ear of the government to receive any redress. These companies come into Canada, and without showing parliament that it is necessary for them to receive financial assistance in order that they may gain a footing, and make a success of their industry, they can secure a gift from the public treasury; they can get help. But we come here and present an irrefutable case, and yet we are not listened to. It is outrageous that this pernicious habit of doles to companies without their proving a good case before a committee of this House should continue. If an industry looks good to capital, capital will come and develop it. If it does not, capital will not come by bounties alone. This government proposes to put a bounty on copper of 9 per cent of the output. That would be equal to a bounty to of about 11 cents a bushel on wheat. Supposing we clamoured for a bounty of 11 cents a bushel on wheat,
what would our Conservative and Liberal friends think? They would think that we were unsound, and they would be right. We do not want a bounty for ourselves, and we do not want it for the other fellow. What right has the government, when parliament is in session, to grant such a favour to any company? A matter of that kind should be considered in this House. The hemp industry proposes to establish a factory somewhere near Winnipeg and it is to get a bounty of $200,000 a year, extending over five years, on an investment of $5,000,000. Take a $5,000,000 investment by settlers coming on to the land: they will not get a $200,000 bounty; they have a penalty of more than $200,000 imposed upon the necessaries of life which they have to purchase before they can start. This penalty is not sliding down; it is climbing up for five years, and there should be a reversal of this business. The bounty should be given to the actual men on the land. When we went out West and got free homesteads, we had to live on the land. A non-resident could not get a free homestead. Therefore, the actual settlers in this country, the actual citizens of Canada, should receive preference, if any preference is to be given. I do not ask for preference, but I do not want the other fellow to get it.
We Progressives have received lately from different quarters of the House a great deal of advice about how to manage our business. When men propose to give advice, they will surely be sporty enough to take a little. I wish to advise the hon gentlemen on the treasuo^ benches that their stock has gone down greatly in our estimation. Last year a plea was made for a little patience; we were asked to give the government a little time because they had undertaken a very intricate task, and new men were on the job who were faced with many difficulties. Last year's budget wras claimed to be a step in the right direction, the inference being, of course, that when this budget was brought down we could reasonably expect a further step along the same line. Alas, however, it has been a step backwards. To-day we are convinced that the grand old Liberal party is simply a replica of the party as it was constituted in 1911, when Sir Wilfrid Laurier, that grand old statesman attempted to give us a fair and generous reciprocity measure. At that time Sir Wilfrid and the country found that there were wolves in sheep's clothing in that party,-high protectionists, camouflaged Tories masquerading under false colours. The mask was torn off, and all the protectionists lined up in their own ranks, and defeated
2932	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Boss (Kingston)
that measure, which would have been of inestimable value to this country, to the banks, the railways, the manufacturers, the labourers, the farmers and the professional men. The interests of the citizens of this country are all bound up together. To-day we have hard times, and hon. gentlemen to my right are charged by the people with a fair share of responsibility for this condition. The onlp difference I see between the two parties i3 that the Conservative party is true to false principles while the Liberal party is false to true principles. The people are tired of public men who make fair promises at election time and then do as little as possible to carry out those promises, through fear of some powerful interest. Canada is looking to-day for men like Mr. E. C. Drury, who will fight public evils in and out of office, and who dares to do right, refusing to compromise with wrong. Many good Liberals believe that their platform of 1919 is treated by this goremmen; merely as a scrap of paper, and respect for public men and members of parliament has not been enhanced in the public mind by this last budget. In conclusion, I want to tell my hon. friends across the Floor that I believe their term of office will be brief, because of their failure to implement their pledges.


Knowing that there are quite a number of speakers to follow me and that this debate must terminate at a certain time, I shall make my remarks as short as possible and shall refer only to the budget. Following our principles as a party, we cannot support the amendment; therefore any remarks I have to offer will be confined to the budget. I have the same opinion as the last hon. member (Mr. Morrison) in regard to this statement of the Minister of Finance; I think it is altogether unsatisfactory and is not in keeping with the promises that his party has made. To me it seems to be nothing more than a political cenotaph of the party platform of 1919, The Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding), the Minister of Justice (Sir Lomer Gouin), the Liberal member for Brantford (Mr. Raymond) and the Liberal member for North Waterloo (Mr. Euler) have sealed the tomb of this old platform which is dead so far as the party is concerned. It is quite true that there is a voice, but it is only one lonely voice in the wilderness, preaching this old platform of 1919, and that comes from the distant land of Prince Edward Island. It is to be regretted that the budget has created a great gap, leaving I.O.U.'s for the future; we regret chat we cannot settle our own accounts but are leaving a large amount of these promis-
sory documents for the future generations to meet. The reasons given for this state of affairs have been general. It is perfectly true that conditions in Europe are largely responsible for business conditions throughout the world to-day. It is a matter for regret that peace does not exist between France and Germany and that the old struggle is still going on, so that the old spite will be aggravated and the dispute prolonged. In addition to this, Europe is to-day divided up into a large number of small states, and this policy can but protract the unrest and dissatisfaction that now exist. To my mind, we as a British race made a mistake in the peace that has been arrived at, for I think that we should have stuck to our policy of the supremacy of the British navy. I believe that the supremacy of the British navy is the best guarantee of peace that the world has ever had or will ever have, and we can only regret that to-day on the Pacific coast we have no authoritative voice. Chinese bandits may seize our citizens, detain them, and murder them, and we are speechless and even helpless, because, as a matter of fact, the British navy has no strength on the Pacific coast. Years ago, if such a thing had happened, Britain could have spoken with some authority, and a matter of this kind would have been settled very soon.
There is another matter of complaint which has been spoken of by many hon. members, and that is the present exodus of our citizens. We have passed through the Book of Genesis, built up the country, and made a confederation, and now it seems that we have reached the Book of Exodus. There is only one suggestion which appears to me to be practicable in this matter, and that is that the government should at once institute a bureau of information so that every settler going from Canada to the United States might be questioned as to his reasons for leaving the country. We should then know whether men were leaving on account of the lack of work or were going to the United States to secure higher wages. We might also secure information as to why men were coming to Canada from the United States. Our trade commissioners in other parts of the British Empire should be able to give us information as to why settlers from Great Britain and Ireland are going to Australia and New Zealand in preference to Canada. Knowing that these people are loyal to the Empire, and would not, except for some good reason, prefer one part of it to another, we naturally ask ourselves this question; is the practice which now prevails of moving motions in this House of Commons for the purposes of disbanding the

The Budget-Mr. Ross (Kingston)
Royal Canadian Mounted Police, of doing away with military training, and of curtailing our naval activities, having some effect on those people who would likely settle in this country? This question naturally suggests itself to our minds: Are we doing any good to the people who would like to come to Canada from the great heart of the Empire, by moving such motions in this House and having them appear on our order paper?
There is another cause of complaint which perhaps will have little weight with the government, and that is the matter of party pledges and promises to the people of this country. During the last election the workingman and the poor man were promised that they would have cheaper food. What has been the fact? Last year a reduction was made on cocoa and liquid medicines. This year, according to the member for Brantford (Mr. Raymond) the government have gone one step further; they have reduced sugar somewhat, knowing that the price of sugar would jump away up beyond all expectation; but they have added to the liquid medicines. They have also given the workingmen and the poor people of the country an opportunity of buying brandy and sparkling wines at reduced prices. These fulfilments of the promises to the poor man are causing a great deal of complaint. There is no question that the prices of food to-day are not going down. In confirmation of this I may quote the prices of meats for 1921 and 1922 contained in tenders called for by a certain institution. In 1921 best breakfast bacon cost 30 cents; in 1922, 32 cents. In 1921 the best beef cost 16 cents; in 1922, 18 cents. In 1921 sausage cost 15 cents, and the same price prevailed in 1922. Smoked ham in 1921 cost 23 cents and in 1922, 28 cents. These prices are per pound, of course. These are merely a few instances; but if one goes through these lists it will be found that in nearly every case the price is up rather than down. So that the workingman has very little to be thankful for in last year's budget and in this. *
There is another cause of complaint. We do not usually grumble about the cost if a suitable service is given in return; but unfortunately the money taken from the pockets of the people is not being returned in the shape of suitable service. The first complaint I shall refer to is in regard to agriculture-the expense of the tuberculin test. Nobody seems to get any benefit from this expenditure. No encouragement is given to the farmer who has his herds regularly tested in order to keep them free of tuberculosis, for he gets no better price for his milk than the farmer who
does not trouble to have his cows tested. Money should be spent to ensure that every man who wishes to have his herd tested should get the benefit of this service.
Another source of complaint has already been referred to by a member from the government side, and that is the cost of special delivery of letters. I have many complaints in regard to this service. We pay heavy charges for the service and get very poor returns. When a man affixes a special delivery stamp on his letter he expects delivery will be made immediately the letter reaches the post office at the other end; but frequently delivery is not made for several hours afterwards, in many cases not much ahead of the regular delivery. These complaints are very general, and this service should be speeded up and be made what it purports to be- a special delivery service.
Complaint is also made regarding the large amount of money expended for military training. If we had adequate military training in return for this expenditure, well and good; but unfortunately we do not get anything like the proper equivalent, and I am surprised that the departmental officials informed the minister that last year's training was satisfactory.
I know for a fact that it was not, and I may add that under present conditions it never will be satisfactory. Military training, to be of any use, should have two objects in view: first, to train the rank and file, and, second, to train a staff. Now, there is only one way in which you can train a staff, and that is by having training camps where all branches of the service are assembled. A properly trained staff is indispensable and during the late war we had to have British staff officers attached to our brigades and divisions to supply our deficiency in this branch. I am not advocating an increased expenditure, but I do not think we gain very much from our present local system of military training-a squadron of cavalry here and a battalion of infantry there. We should have in certain parts of the Dominion central training camps where 4 p.m. all branches of the service would be brought together and where those of our officers who wish to go on staff service could get the necessary training. An efficient staff officer must have experience in every branch of the service, otherwise his training i incomplete and he cannot possibly measure up to the duties of his profession. We are certainly not getting an adequate return for the money we are spending to-day on military training, and I throw the suggestion out to the government that they should as soon as possible establish large camps where all
The Budget-Mr. Ross

(Kingston)
branches of the service may be assembled and where officers may be properly trained for etaff service.
I think the country is waking up to the fact that if we can do without cabinet ministers for three or four months while parliament is sitting, we can get along very well without them for the rest of the year. During the session cabinet ministers are required if at any time at all, and if we can go through a whole session without three or four cabinet ministers, surely the question must arise in the minds of the people: Are all these cabinet ministers required?
Changes in our income tax law have been suggested from time to time, and I propose to refer to one particular change which was suggested last session, but so far nothing has been done in the direction indicated. Under the income tax regulations a widow is granted exemption of SI,000 and a married woman $2,000. Why should such a difference exist? In many cases widows are continuing their homes and their household expenses are a heavy burden upon them, and there seems to be no reason why they should be discriminated against to the extent of $1,000. This matter was brought to the attention of the government last year, and I hope it will now be taken into consideration and both classes be placed on an equal basis.
Now, coming to reciprocity-


Hear, hear.


The hon. gentleman may not say "hear, hear" when he hears what I have to say, and that is that I am not at all in favour of reciprocity. I will tell you why. Reciprocity brings us into association with the United States in many ways, and I am going to point out how we have come under the influence of our neighbours to the south, and not always to our benefit. In our school system we have been dominated by the influence of the United States, and to-day the boy of poor parents is practically cut out from the technical courses. In my time a boy could take four years in medicine and graduate. In the past we have had some very, very successful physicians as the result of that four years' training. During the four years the boy was able to go out and earn money to put him through his course. Personally that was my experience. I had to put myself through college and earn the necessa'ry money to do so. To-day the course takes six or seven years. This is altogether due to the influence of the United States, to our trying to imitate their system. With the lengthened course the term 
has also been extended so that the boy has veiy little opportunity of earning his expenses, and consequently the boys of poor parents are practically excluded from these branches of study-all because of the influence of the United States over our school system.
Then, too, we have come under the influence of the United States in the standardization of our hospitals. And what has it cost us? We have followed their advice under the Rockefeller Foundation and have built up hospitals according to their standardization. This has resulted in a very expensive system of hospitals, a system not at all intended for our use, a system where the poor man has to attend the public wards and take the doctors in those wards, and all simply to fulfil American ideas of standardization in hospitals.
In addition to that, our political and our social system have altogether been dominated by the United States, and to-day people are doing nothing else in towns but weighing and measuring babies to see if they come up to certain standards. This is a social service that is altogether due to the influence of the United States, and it is dominated by them. Lastly, I do not think that this country of ours is to be at all benefited by the moral influence which would come from the United States.
If you take eastern Ontario, for instance, they have had a great loss in their cheese and butter trade through the influence of the United States, and the high price which they at one time got for their cream has lately been cut down and the farmers are left drifting. In all these ways the United States has had an influence over us which has not been at all beneficial to us. I believe that we can go on by ourselves and build up our own trade without throwing our doors open to these people. Our position is not so bad as some people are crying it to be. The position of Canada to-day as a whole is not one that we need regret. If you look over the list of our products-I have taken only a few of them-in wheat, Canada is third in acreage, being headed by the United States and India only, and in production it takes the same place. In oats Canada is second in production, and the second in acreage. In potatoes we fall down a bit to seventh in acreage, and fifth in production. In live stock there are only three or four countries ahead of us in the number of horses raised, and the same with cattle. We have a field crop valued at over $1,400,000,000. Our manufactures amount each year to over $3,000,000,000. We have live stock amounting to over $1,000,000,000.

The Budget-Mr. Robichaud
That is a condition that we need not cry about. It is a very successful condition, and I do not know if our friends to my left- I am not offering any criticism of the group system; I do not go that far; if the group system will benefit us, well and good, let it come-but this is a general condition of the country that I do not think our friends to my left could improve on if they were in power. All told we have a condition that is very .favourable, and I have confidence in the future. Like the hon. member for Brantford (Mr. Raymond), my confidence is largely in the people that we have. We must have confidence in our people. The people who are building up this country have never failed in any crisis, neither has the stock they sprang from ever failed in the past. Even when almost hopelessly beaten, with their faces to the foe and their backs to the wall they determined never to give up but to go on. The blood stream of this people is coming, and has come, from the centre of the great Empire to which we belong. Their hopes in that Empire are ours; their ideals are ours, and the hope of the future lies in a strong connection with that same blood stream, no matter whether it is found in Great Britain or Ireland, in Australia or New Zealand, in India, Africa or the isles of the sea. We need no other reciprocity than a strong confidence in that race and a strong connection in the future with that race.
I have confidence also in that other great race in this country, the French-Canadian. I have just as strong a confidence in the courage and the bravery of that race. History has never shown them to be thoroughly beaten. They proved their patriotism at Chateauguay and other scenes of struggle. In the Great War it was my experience to have about fifty or sixty of these French-Cana-dians in my unit, and I well remember that Sunday night in the middle of the gas attack when these men who belonged to the transport column of my unit and had no reason whatever to place themselves in the front rank, came to me and said, "Here, all our stretcher bearers are about finished. Will you give us a chance?" Fifteen or sixteen of them went up to the front as stretcher bearers and before morning five of them were dead, two of them died within twelve hours, and the rest were shot to pieces. With an experience of that kind one can well have confidence in these two great races making a country of which we shall all some day be very proud.


In rising, Mr. Speaker, to continue this debate
it is not my intention to add very extensively to what has already been said. I am rath&r inclined to express the wish that we should end this long debate and get down to the real business of the country with all possible speed. For the past four months apart from look'ng after the best interests of my constituents, a task which in itself was not such an easy one, I have endeavoured to follow the debates of this House in detail. I have thus been more of a looker-on than a participant in our deliberations, and at times, Mr. Speaker, I was inclined to believe that from some sections of this House there was more talk than real action. It is for this reason that I shall refrain from any lengthy discussion at this stage.
I am very sorry that the hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) is not in his seat for I wanted to avail myself of this opportunity to congratulate him bn the great wisdom he has shown in the preparation of this budget. Few men in this country can command in the same degree the admiration and confidence of the nation. He is a man with long years of experience. He has had a long life which he has devoted to the best interests of this country, and I can only wish him a still long and happy career filled with all the joys and contentment that could be wished for him.
In sizing up the political situation in this country there is one movement which gives rise to a great deal of speculation, and that is the political movement of our friends directly opposite-the Progressives. As a new member of this House I feel, Mr. Speaker, that I should be open to conviction in so far as the best interests of our country are concerned. To a young man brought up in the democratic atmosphere of Liberalism the prima facie evidence adduced by our highly educated friends has "been somewhat seductive But, Sir, the more I study the political policies enunciated	by our friends the
more I become convinced of the futility of their efforts.	I am ready to recognize the high and noble aspirations that prompt the efforts of our friends of the Progressive party. They certainly mean well; but unfortunately for themselves, and for the vast interests which they represent, it would appear to me that their actions are ill-advised and the manner in which they propose to carry out their object is somewhat inconsistent with the end in view. They have repeatedly told us of the conditions which prevail in me western provinces. Well, to a large extent we are ready to admit the truth of what they say, but the remedy does not lie in adopting the programme which they propose,

The Budget-Mr. Robichaud
but rather in adhering to sound national policies, policies thought out by the men who have seen the growth of this nation in all its phases. Sir, we want in this country of ours that spirit of nationhood which is so essential in the building up of a new country. We cannot permit class legislation. Whatever course we may pursue in our deliberations it must be one that is in the best interests of the nation as a whole. It is all very well to express an opinion on the present economic difficulties in Canada, but surely there is no reason for shouting from the housetops that blue ruin is at our door. Pessimists and quitters have been too free in their gloomy expressions. If I wanted to draw an exaggerated picture of the conditions in the Maritime provinces I would have no difficulty whatever in out-rivalling some of my extreme friends opposite. But, Sir, were I to do that I should be paying scant justice to the courage and the energy of the people of that part of Canada. The population of those provinces is endowed with more courage and more resourpe-fulness than any other people that I know of. Descending as they do from the pioneers who have experienced the hardships of primitive conditions in this country, that sturdy Scotch blood of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, the industrious loyalists of New Brunswick, as well as that nucleus of the French race, the Acadians, of the Maritime provinces, would not flinch from the difficulties of the hour. We have confidence in the future of our country, we believe that its prosperity is sure. We may be mistaken but we feel that the time is not ripe for any drastic change in our national policv.
Our friends directly opposite have suggested b. great many reforms in order to relieve our national troubles which, if put into practice, would inevitably kill the very object they have in view. In other words, it seems to me that tho remedy they propose would be worse than the disease. It is not the first time in our history that conditions have been admittedly unsatisfactory. Prior to the year 1896 there existed in Canada a condition of affairs which was none too good. There was a distinct period of depression. The ship of state was grounded and its crew, many of whom were in the state of mutiny, were leisurely awaiting the rising tide to refloat it. Happily the people realized the seriousness of the situation and handed over the administration of national affairs to the Liberal party under the direction of the late lamented Sir Wilfrid Laurier. The change of government was soon followed by a change for the better 
throughout the country. Throughout the length and breadth of Canada a revival of business took place and such an expansion of trade, such a growth of population and settlement that before long two new provinces had to be created. Soon after the late war conditions again changed for the worse. In 1921 Canada again experienced conditions similar to those which existed in 1896. Once more the ship of state was found to be badly equipped and its boatswain sleeping at the rudder. But to-day we are once more feeling the benefits of a change of government and under the Liberal regime we are proceeding again on the road to prosperity.
Sir, if the trade of the nation is in any way indicative of prosperity may I be permitted to quote a few figures showing that we are regaining our former prosperous position as a country. In the fiscal year ending March 31,
1922,	largely in consequence of policies pursued by the Conservatives, our imports amounted to $747,804,300. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 1923, however, those imports had increased to $802,465,000, an 