Bill No. 167 (from the Senate), for the relief of Christina Julia Hamilton.-Mr. Simpson.
Bill No. 168 (from the Senate), for the relief of Smith Kain -Mr. Church.
Bill No. 169 (from the Senate), for the relief of Gladys Malcolm Mushett.-Mr. Shaw.
Bill No. 170 (from the Senate), for the relief of William Francis Rafferty.-Mr. Irvine.
On the Orders of the Day.
I think I owe my right

The Budget-Mr. Raymond
hon. friend (Mr. Meighen) and the House an apology for having given an incorrect answer to a question that was asked me yesterday. My right hon. friend asked me if the government had extended by order in council the operation of the Wheat Board Act, and I replied, "not yet." I had in mind another matter. The answer should have been, that the extension was granted by order in council on the 7th day of April.


On the Orders of the Day.
Has the government yet taken action with respect to the Crowsnest pass or so-called Crowsnest pass agreement extension? It will be remembered that there was power to order an extension of the temporary arrangement, or so-called temporary arrangement, for one year. Has action been taken to do so?


That is the matter I had
in mind when I replied, "Not yet," to my right hon. friend.


When is it the intention of the government to take that step, or does the government intend to do so? It is clear that it had better be done now if it is going to be done.


The matter is under consideration. I will give my right hon. friend a reply later.


The House resumed from Monday, May 14, the debate on the motion of Hon. W. S. Fielding (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the House to go into Committee of Ways and Means, and the proposed amendment thereto, of Mr. Robert Forke.
Mr. Speaker, so far as the debate on the budget has proceeded, T should like to associate myself with the cheerful sentiments expressed by the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Stork). It came quite refreshingly after what we had been treated to for some hours before; it came like a refreshing western breeze, full of hope and inspiration. It was as though one had been reading in the Lamentations of Jeremiah, and had turned from that to the glad songs of Isaiah, the prince-poet of Israel.
I should also like to associate myself in the complimentary remarks that he made to the Minister of Finance. I am sure that not only hon. members on this side of the House, but every hon. member of this House, and, in fact, the countiy at large must thoroughly appreciate the great service that the Minister of Finance has rendered to Canada. A record of forty-one years of life devoted unselfishly, honestly, faithfully and patriotically to the service of his country is a record that is very seldom equalled in any civilized country in the world. Net only has his native province every reason to be proud of him, but the great Domin'c n from ocean to ocean has reason to be proud of and grateful for his services.
I am one of those who believe that in this particular budget that he has brought down now, he has rendered his country a great and signal service. I was pleased with it. Although it has been criticized by some hon. members opposite, it possesses many features that must commend themselves to the country generally. In the first place, there is no great disturbance of business; there is no attempt to do something spectacular. His position has been termed "standing pat", and some hon. gentlemen opposite find fault with the expression that the hon. gentleman used of "tariff stability". In my opinion, the very thing that we wanted in this country was tariff stability, and I am bold to believe hon. gentlemen misunderstood the way in which the word "stability" is applied. Stability as applied to a ship does not mean that it will not progress; that it will not change its position; but it means that it is not easily upset. Every time before a Dominion general election, there has been a feeling of anxiety throughout the business world of Canada, and to a somewhat less extent there has been a feeling of anxiety every time a budget has been brought down in this House by the Minister of Finance. But on this occasion a general feeling of confidence was established throughout the country. The people found in the budget speech many things for their general advantage, some things that were to the particular advantage of the farmers and people generally engaged in agriculture, and others particularly advantageous, perhaps, to the commercial and manufacturing industries of rur country.
I do not intend to take up the items of this budget in detail, but speaking in general of it, I think we may say that it is one that has given satisfaction in many regards, partly in the increase in the British preference which I thp'ight was what

The Budget-Mr. Raymond
was wanted by our hon. friends opposite, and the removal of certain taxes whose removal must be beneficial to those engaged in that industry, such as the sales tax on wool, the sales tax on drain tiles, the sales tax on furs, besides the removal of the excise tax on beet-sugar and the reduction of the excise tax on wines. While these items may not appeal to hon. gentlemen who live on the prairies, surely those who have to sell wool, those who have to purchase drain tiles, those farmers who have furs to sell, those persons who raise grapes for the purpose of making wine, or, as in the case of western Ontario where the industry is carried on to quite an extent, those who grow a great deal of beetroot for sugar making, should all certainly feel that something has been done in the way of helping along their respective industries. I regret therefore that there was no word of appreciation, not so much as a syllable, from hon. gentlemen opposite. I had hoped that they would feel some appreciation and would at least recognize that this much had been done, and if there was anything else that they wanted they might have mentioned it. Alas, however, not one word of appreciation comes from them for what has been done for them in these instances.
Had I not been so well pleased with the budget on hearing its presentation by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding), I think that the criticism of it that was made by the hon. member for West York (Sir Henry Drayton) would have given me some confidence in it. We all know that hon. gentleman's power and his knowledge of budget questions; we know that he has had an intimate association with the labours of a finance minister, having filled that important position himself. We know him also to be a man of great acumen and penetration. So, when we consider these qualities and reflect on the little objection which the hon. gentleman could find to the budget, we must come to the conclusion, I think, that the minister's statement was a pretty perfect production. The hon. gentleman's criticism rather tended towards the French treaty; in the latter part of his address he seemed to make a very strong point of the treaty and to repeat the arguments that were made at the time the treaty was before the House, to the effect that it reduced the taxes on luxuries and goods used by the wealthier class. That I took to be his argument when the treaty was under discussion, and it was repeated. But as I stated before in this Chamber when the treaty was being

considered, the satin, the silks, the cords, the braids, the twists, and all these articles that come in cheaper under the French treaty are the raw material of the dressmaker, the milliner, the tailor and the costume-maker, of all who make garments in our country for our people, whether they are rich or poor. Consequently, I pointed out, it was a relief to lighten the tax on the raw material of the garment makers, because the reduction helped those industries and helped to cheapen the clothes of everyone. Again, the hon. gentleman stated that brandy and champagne were luxuries. In the part of the country I come from, I beg to say that brandy and champagne are not luxuries; nor, Sir, is sparkling Burgundy a luxury. On the contrary, these things are classed with blue pills, calomel, salts, and various kinds of similar matters that must be prescribed as medicine by doctors. So that they are not only necessaries, but necessaries for the sick, and if these goods are lightened in any way by the French treaty the reduction is beneficial to those who suffer the afflictions of sickness under the hand of Providence. Now, I should not like it to be thought, *when I say that these things are not luxuries, that they are articles of common, daily consumption, in Ontario at least. But certainly Mr. Speaker, when one who can analyze this budget as thoroughly as did the member for West York finds so little in it to criticize, the effect must be to inspire greater confidence in all the friends of the Minister of Finance. The hon. gentleman's criticisms seemed like some heavy 12-inch howitzer, but the emplacement did not seem to be exactly accurate, the elevation was not precise, nor was the training direct. So that the little soixante-quinze seemed to get away.
In the remarks of the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Bancroft) I was much interested, particularly in the lengthy price list that was produced of Eaton's goods, as well as the comparison that was made-which was very instructive-with the goods of Sears-Roebuck, of Chicago. But, Sir, would it not be considered by Wanamaker, by Montgomery-Ward, by Seigel, Cooper, and by other large stores on the other side, a matter of partiality that only Sears-Roebuck should have the advantage of the great advertisement which was given that firm in the placing upon Hansard and the dissemination all over the country, of their price list? I feel sure there was a great deal in the hon. gentleman's argument; but without having the actual goods before me, and just taking the statement in one catalogue that a shirt is worth so much and

The Budget-Mr. Raymond
another statement in another catalogue that a shirt is worth something else, I would want to be quite assured that it was identically the same kind of shirt before I began to compare prices. This is another exemplification of the old adage that the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
We have heard recently of a number of young men who went over to the United States, induced to go there by the high wages on account of the boom. Those young men are now coming back because of the high cost of living on the other side. The member for Selkirk endeavoured to show that the cost of living was lower in the United States than it is here and that it was cheaper to live across the line than in Canada. Well, the Mayor of Brantford recently made the statement that many of the young men who had left that city and gone to Detroit and other American cities were coming back because the cost of living was so much greater in the United States than in Canada. There was another part of the hon. gentleman's speech that I could not help noting.
He stated that because the right hon. member for Grenville (Mr. Meighen) had nailed his protection colours to the mast, the two parties that were opposed to him at the last election received 2,120,000 votes whereas the right hon. gentleman got only some 900,000. I believe that was his statement. I could not help wondering, Mr. Speaker, when the hon. member made the remark, what the hon. member for Grenville was thinking; and it seemed to me, by a kind of telepathy, I suppose, that I could hear with my mind's eye, if I may use that Hibernianism, the reflections that were going on in the right hon. gentleman's mind. He was saying: Did I not try to cultivate you with 5 per cent of a reduction off the duty on cultivators? Did I not try to reap the harvest of your affection by throwing 5 per cent off binders? Did I not try to draw you to my way of thinking by making tractors absolutely free? Did I not try to bind you to my affection by leaving binder twine free on the list? And what was the answer? I am sure that the right hon. gentleman's reply to his own soliloquy must have been that ingratitude was "more strong than traitors' arms." There was no response from these gentlemen-no response whatever. And now when the question is brought up again we are reminded that duties were thrown off at that time to please the Progressive party. Duties have been relaxed now to please them. But nothing seems to please them, they do not appear to be delighted with anything. But is it a matter really to be sorry for? Because, knowing them personally and individually, I
can say they are mostly cheerful, healthy, happy men; but as a party, I should like to see them appreciate those things that are done for them.
Last night we had a very long address that, as far as I could make out, was on the subject of capital and-I won't say labour, but on the subject of capital and no capital. Now, capital is one of the most important considerations of this country and is something that needs to be understood by those that talk about it. When a man rises in this House and tells us what the wealth of this country consists of, and goes over our farms, farm buildings and live stock, our mines and forests, he must not lose sight of this fact, that so far as these represent the wealth of the country, they also represent the hard work and the savings of our people. If you follow that out you will find that the capital in our banks and our insurance companies represents the thrift and the savings and the self-denial of somebody or it would not be there. Therefore I say that when a gentleman rises in this House and suggests that we should make a levy upon capital to pay the national debt, I think he either does not understand what capital means or he does not understand the genius of the Canadian people; because it is contrary to our institutions, it is contrary to the whole spirit of our people to make a levy upon capital to pay the national debt. Why, think of it! These seventeen banks that seem to irk him so much and to grieve him because of their existence-indeed, he looks upon them as some big monopoly apparently-actually represent in many cases the property of widows and orphans.


Oh, oh.


I do not understand whether the objection is to the banks or to the widows and orphans. What I mean to say is this, that if they will examine the stocks of these banks and the stocks and bonds of our insurance companies they will find that they represent, as I say, the savings and the thrift of somebody. For instance, if a man dies and leaves an amount of money, what is done with it? It is put into seme sound investment for his family, and that investment constitutes the capital upon which the member (Mr. Woodsworth) who was speaking last night said he would like to make a levy to pay our national debt.
I do not understand a great deal that is said and written nowadays about capital and labour, how can we get money for nothing, and how the purchasing power of people can be increased without the people working and
The Budget-Mr. Raymond

saving. It may be my stupidity, Mr. Speaker, it may be the old-fashioned way in which I was brought up, but I think what a man does not earn by his hands and save, that he cannot have by enactment of parliament. There is no sense in spending money and calling it purchasing power and then throwing it back on to the general aggregation of the wealth of the country. Why, what are the mines and the forests that he spoke of?-and I doubt his figures in regard to these when he said they were only worth $1,200,000,000, because the forests of Quebec alone, according to a report of the government of that province, are worth $600,000,000; I believe our forests and mines are worth many times what he said they are worth. But what good are they ? How can you coin them, how can you issue paper against them? They are worth nothing until they are developed-they are worth nothing until the gold, silver, copper and iron are brought to the surface, until the trees are cut down and sawn up into lumber or converted into pulp and paper. And what does develop these natural resources? The capital of the country. And this capital, I repeat, represents the thrift and savings of the people. If >rou can point to so many billion dollars' worth of farms and farm buildings, to several hundred million dollars' worth of live stock, it is because the farmers have worked and earned and saved money; it represents their capital; and if you have mining corporations or milling corporations functioning, it is because somebody has saved the money for their purposes, and that money constitutes capital.
The idea of having ary hard feeling against capital or against capitalists, or making laws against capital or capitalists 1 Such legislation would be the wreck and ruin of any country. We have seen it done in Russia. We have seen war made upon capital in that country by gentlemen who hold something of the same kind of views that the Socialists profess. I must here admit that I cannot distinguish very clearly between a Communist, a Socialist, an Anareh'st, and an out-and-out Bolshevist; there may be a difference, but I fail to see it I think that anyone who understands this country realizes that it is necessary to have capital if we want to develop our resources, that while those natural resources are there under the ground they are of no value, and that it is only by capital that we can hope to develop them.
Now, the logical consequence of that is that we must have laws that make property safe, we must have laws that respect the rights of the people. We must not counten-

ance anyone who should change the basic principle of our jurisprudence, because if we do we shall have trouble. While we have, as I say, the gross example in front of us of Russia at the present time, we should proceed with due caution. We know what they did in Russia. They first destroyed their ruler, then they destroyed their parliament, then they destroyed their banks and merchant citizens and murdered them for their money, and finally they destroyed the farmers and took their wheat away from them.


Hear, hear.


These are facts. They may be uncomfortable to certain hon. gentlemen, but the farmers of this country should be mighty glad that we have-I won't say no Bolshevists, but so few.
Passing for a moment to the speech of the hon. Minister of Finance, I think we should realize that one of the greatest difficulties he has is to produce the money necessary to run the country. There are many things doubtless that we all would like to see done that he has not been able to do. But I do not think we should for a moment suppose that he has not seen them, I do not think we should imagine they have not come under his consideration and received the due exercise of his careful judgment. However, when such a general benefit to the country is offered as a reduction of the duty on sugar I should have thought it would have helped to sweeten the public generally-I won't say particularly hon. gentlemen opposite, but I should hope they would appreciate it because it is something that affects us all. For myself, I would have thought that had it been possible the Finance Minister would have abolished another tax that I feel sure has been brought to his attention, and being one of an important nature he will, I am sure, exercise his due judgment upon it. I refer to the removal of the war tax stamp from letters. It is something, I think, we should all be very glad to see removed. It is something, I feel sure, the hon. minister will remove as soon as it is possible to do so. It is something that, no doubt, can be removed by order in council, and I hope that later in the year it will be possible to remove this tax, because at the present time we are sending letters to Great Britain and to our sister nations within the commonwealth on which we are obliged to pay twice the postage that the citizens of the the United States have to pay on their letters. Where their postage has been two cents on letters forwarded to those places ours has been

The Budget-Mr. Raymond
four. I hope the time will come when ours will be reduced to a figure at least as low as that which prevails in the United States; and I feel sure that this would have been done had it not been for the unfortunate and regrettable illness of the hon. Postmaster General (Mr. Murphy). But we ought to remember that if the United States at the present time is leading us in the matter of low postage rates there was a time, in 1897, when Canada led the world by establishing penny Imperial postage. I say I hope the time will come, Mr. Speaker, when it will be possible again to send letters all over the British dominions at the rate of two cents.
There is a suggestion I would make to my friends the Progressives-and 1 would emphasize the word "friends," for notmuy thinks more of them than I do; and 1 know they will take my suggestion as I mean it. They seem to concentrate their whole attention on that poor item of our national programme, the tariff. On every question that comes up in the House, whether the French treaty or immigration or anything else, my hon. friends always manage to work around to the tariff, obsessed as they are with the idea of free trade. I would say this to them: that there are other questions well worth their consideration; other questions ten times more important to them than the tariff question. If they will consider the question of transportation and what it means to them coming and going, taking supplies to them and bringing their products away, why, the tariff, as a matter of supreme importance, will disappear; it will become a relatively small thing in their minds. The farmers of the West produced last year something like 400 million bushels of wheat and something like 1,000 million bushels of other grains. If they could only save 10 per cent on that by improving the transportation system, the whole amount involved in the tariff system would be equalized by the amount thus saved on the transportation of their goods. I say the matter is well worth their consideration. The tariff is not the only thing. But it is true that in developing these railways, in developing a transportation system and making it a success, it is necessary to have a tariff system; tariff system and transportation system and immigration policy must go hand in hand in the development of this country. It is not necessary to reiterate this; it has been referred to several times in the House. But I would respectfully urge my hon. friends to look at some other questions besides merely the matter of tariff.
Now, what do my hon. friends propose instead of the tariff? What do they suggest as
a means of raising the revenue that would be lost? They propose an additional revenue by way of income tax, a tax upon unearned income. But if they will examine the figures in the Income Tax department they will see how heavily the income tax already presses upon that part of our population which is included within our towns and cities-it does not press so heavily upon those in the country. I think my hon. friends would see that it would be impossible by any system of increasing the income tax-a tax which is imposed by the Dominion government, in Ontario by the municipalities, and in Manitoba, I believe, by the province-to attain their object. Then, they suggest an increase of certain duties on luxuries. Why, the people who would be buying the luxuries are the very people whose incomes they [DOT] rould reduce by increasing the income tax. The plan they propose, therefore, to make up the money that the tariff now provides would not be at all adequate; a fair consideration of it shows that.
But I would ask my hon. friends, how do they like the other substitute, the one proposed by the hon. member for Centre Winnipeg (Mr. Woodsworth). Among the suggestions he made, one, I think, was a levy upon real estate, upon the land. The whole tariff could very easily be made up by a levy upon real estate, a tax upon the land, but the reason it is not done is that such a tax is thought to be not quite fair to the farmers. Yet that is proposed by a gentleman who associates himself with my hon. friends and who finds that he is able generally to vote with them on their tariff policies and their resolutions. The tariff question is net, I think, rightly understood by some of those who undertake to discuss it.


Hear, hear.


Let me give hon. members my point of view, and they will see whether that applies to my discussion of it. The tariff is very often discussed merely as a question of political economy, discussed by people who take a theoretical view of things. Most of us are aware that on the basis of mere theory free trade can be argued very successfully, especially upon the presumption that every other country is a free trade country. But as a theory, simply as a theory, it is a dead, cold thing; it is the stillborn child of parents who suffered from academic anaemia. As a theory, free trade is something that never could take its place in the comity of nations to do its part for Canada. When we speak of the free interchange of natural products between Canada and the

The Budget-Mr. Raymond
United States, then we are dealing with something which, if consummated, would somewhat change the aspect of affairs. But we are situated beside a great country, a country of many times our population, with large well organized and well established factories; a country with a high protective tariff against us. What, then, can we hope to do with free trade? We have heard hon. gentlemen opposite tell us that the United States is a free trade country, but when they say that it is evident they have not tried to sell any wheat there; if they had, they would have found a duty of 35 cents a bushel staring them in the face; they have evidently not tried to sell any cattle there. They have not tried to sell woollen garments there, because they would find on woollen goods an absolutely prohibitory duty. And the same applies to cutlery and many other articles. Situated as we are, therefore, we cannot hope to succeed if we have free trade while the United States maintains its present tariff policy.
I do not look upon the tariff purely as a question of political economy that can be argued on a theoretical basis. I regard it from another point of view entirely. It may be a wrong point of view, but I can look back over the history of Canada and I can see that my contention of what the tariff question really involves is amply borne out. As long ago as 1805, 118 years ago, there was a similar discussion going on in Montreal and throughout Canada, which was a small country then. It was considered that the town interests were separated in some way from the country interests, and the question of duties came up. One of the sentiments expressed on the occasion of a great banquet in that time was: "Here is to our agricultural and commercial interests; may they work harmoniously together and both realize their advantages and responsibilities." I think the same sentiment is necessary to-day. But from that time down to the present the tariff question has always been raised in Canada. Some people think it is a new thing, but there have been tariffs practically ever since Canada has been a country. If to cease to have this tariff means-as it does mean-to surrender our market, to give up our commercial weapon of negotiation; if it means to lay our country commercially helpless at the foot of a rival, I say it is contrary, Mr. Speaker, to the spirit and nature of the Canadian people. That is my argument; the tariff is not a question of theory, and it never can be made a question of theory. It is a study in natural psychology. And I would ask you to look at these Canadian people and 
see what they are, see where they came from and the spirit of independence that they brought with them. You can go from one end of the country to the other. You can begin with those sturdy men who came from Scotland because they stood by the cause of the Jacobites and would never surrender, and who came over to Nova Scotia and that part of eastern Canada. You can take those people to whom I am, I suppose, by race more nearly related, so I will not say anything about them except that 't is said that the totem of their tribe is the bull dog on the flag and their motto "What we have we'll hold." No surrender has always been their motto. Or you can take those people who inhabit the western part of the country, and you have there a people of a strong, free, independent disposition, whose motto never could be surrender. If you take the people of the old historic province of Quebec why, Sir, the first military governor described them as the best and bravest people in the world-a man of an alien race, a man who belonged to the army that had been successful at the seige, Murray. That was his description of them, and there is nothing in their history from that day to this but carries out his words of that people-the best and bravest people in the world. Now, do you tell me that a people who have that blood of freedom flowing in their veins are going to surrender their market, throw down their boundaries and barriers and lay themselves helpless at the feet of a wealthy rival to the south of us? It is not to be thought of. It puts me in mind of the battle of St. Julien. If you want to see the concentrated essence of the Canadian people I would remind you of the post that was held by a Brantford boy. He got word during the hea' and struggle of that battle when men were falling thickly around him, "Hold the position at any cost"; and he sent back this answer, "We will hold the position till Hell freezes over." I quote that now because it is typical of the spirit of the Canadian people, and come before them in any way you like, bring down your tariff propositions in any way you please, with the duty off this or the duty oft that, but when it is a proposition to throw our markets at the feet of any commercial rival, I tell you what, gentlemen, you will never find it meet the approval of the Canadian people.


Would the hon. gentleman indicate what his conception is of the "proper
encouragement" to be given?


The Budget-Mr. Manion
ance in my section of New Ontario, and I
advocated this step to the minister.
Then, Sir, in regard to boots for cripples. It is a small duty it is true, but it is something that will be greatly appreciated by those who are affected. In this connection I have never been	able to see why we
should not take off the duties on all appliances for cripples in this country. I do not know why those cripples, who are handicapped before the world to begin with, should not have, at least, the benefit of any remission of taxation which may possibly be given to them. I say this very feelingly, because in the past summer a carpenter in my city, who has a little boy paralyzed from the waist down, found it necessary to buy a wheel chair to send that little lad to school. He told me that he had to pay a duty of $30 on the chair. I took the matter up with the Deputy Minister of Customs and asked if there was not some way by which this could be remedied, but he told me that according to the law, it could not be remedied. It is time, at least as regards cripples, that we should do everything we can to lessen their difficulties in life. That is one of the ways in which it can be done, and the Minister of Finance shoidd extend this legislation as regards cripples' appliances and should carry it out completely.
There is another matter which I wish to lay before the Minister of Finance; unfortunately he is not in the House at present, but I hope the matter will be drawn to his attention. According to my understanding of the budget -and I hope I am wrong-after August 1, the sales tax will not be permitted to be passed on by large dealers. I say 1 hope I am wrong, in certain connections at least, and the following is one of them. The other day I had a letter from a large lumber dealer in Ontario, in which letter he pointed out that he had made large contracts amounting to millions of dollars, under the law as it was before the present budget was brought in. He claims that under this new legislation, if he is not permitted to pass on the six per cent sales tax, he will not be able to continue, that this will put him out of business. It would be at least fair to have the Minister of Finance bring in a resolution to protect men of that kind who have made contracts in good faith under the law as it was.
The fifth point to which I wish to refer and which is, I believe, necessary to build up this country, is that we should have a little less pessimism in Canada than we have had in the past. It is true that conditions in Canada have not been good. It is true that

all of us, not only the farmers on the land, but citizens in the cities, have been up against a very difficult proposition. But I do not think it is necessary for a man in trouble to stand on the housetops and tell his troubles to the whole world. It is true that a foolish optimism is sometimes worse than pessimism, but we have reason for being fairly optimistic in this Canada of ours, and I am going to take the liberty of dealing for five minutes, not with the dreams but with the actual accomplishments of this country.
1.	As a wheat growing country, Canada stands third amongst the nations of the world. In wheat export, she stands first. Our total field crops amount to $1,000,000,000.
2.	As regards our gold output, Canada stood second amongst the nations last year, with one-fifth of the world's production, Ontario surpassing even California.
3.	Canada has the second-largest coal deposits in the world, and it is only a matter of time until our transporta.'ion difficulties are removed so that, at least, we may supply all our own fuel.
4.	Canada stands third in production of silver in the world. Last year we produced 21,000,000 ounces, being surpassed by only the United States and Mexico.
5.	Canada produces over 90 per cent of the cobalt produced in the world, 80 per cent of the nickel, and 80 per cent of the asbestos.
6.	Canada possesses 18,000,000 horse-power of potential riches in waterfalls, and only one-sixth of that has been developed.
7.	In pulp, paper and forest products, our exports last year amounted to $200,000,000 worth, or nearly as much as our exports of wheat.
8.	Finally, we have millions cf acres of fertile land, fisheries on all sides, iron ore to the extent of hundreds of millions of tons, because of which there is no doubt the day will come, in the not very distant future, when Canada will be one of the largest iron-producing countries of the world; and we have a vigorous, virile people.
These are only a few brief facts showing why this country may feel optimistic, and it might be well for us to forget, to a certain extent, some of the pessimism that we have been displaying too freely in Canada.
In addition to that, the other day I read a .statement bv Doctor O. 1(7 Baker, an agricultural economist of the United States Department of Agriculture, in which he said that there is practically no more potentially agricultural land left unutilized in the United States, that does not involve unprofitable

The Budget-Mr. Manion
expense for reclamation and clearing. He pointed out that in the United States there is a movement to limit production. According to a foreign agricultural economist, in the great grain belt of southeastern Europe, the peasant [DOT] proprietor is lessening production. Therefore grain growers of Canada and Canadians generally may look to the future with a little more optimism. It is true that conditions in the West are not good, but the rest of the country has also been hard hit. There has been a great deal of hardship, not only on the prairie farms of the West, but in the cities and towns. A short time ago we had a discussion in this House as regards mortgages on the farms of Canada. To have a mortgage, one must at least possess something to mortgage, and a large proportion of the people in the cities and towns have nothing that they can mortgage. Even as regards those of them who have homes, seventy-five per cent have mortgages on them. It is true that we must do all we can to aid the West, and it is the desire of every one in this country to do so. Some arrangements must be made for longer credit. Apparently, from the evidence given before the Banking and Commerce committee, longer credits than the banks can give and at interest rates better than the farmers can get at the present time, are necessary on the western prairies. Transportation must be looked into, and as far as we can we must lessen transportation costs. Any unfairness in the grain trade must be removed.
But there are some lessons of history which the people of Canada cannot forget in dealing with questions of this kind, and one of those lessons is this, that the United States, under a protective tariff, has become an immense, powerful, highly developed nation, probably the most highly developed industrial nation in the world to-day. Canada and the United States resemble each other more closely than any other two countries in the world. We are like the United States in people, in area, in resources, in thought, in nearly every way in which it is possible to resemble the United States. Therefore, it would be worth while remembering that Canada can profit by the lessons which she can learn from the United States.
The absurd claim has been made that the United States has been built up under a free trade policy. I use the word "absurd" advisedly, because if the United States is a free trade country, so is Germany, with her sixty-five or seventy million people and her different kingdoms with no tariffs in between. So is France; so is Austria; so is Canada; so are
all those other countries. Russia with a larger area, would be a free trade country also. Free trade and protection refer to international trade, not to internal or home trade. A country which collects twenty to thirty per cent, or even more, upon the vast proportion of her imports, is certainly anything but a free trade country, and that is what the United States does. The following are some of the duties collected by the United States on some of its imports. I will name only ten lines of goods:
Cotton clothing, 30 per cent ad valorem.
Wollen goods, 25 to 40 per cent ad valorem.
Carpets. 20 to 50 per cent ad valorem.
Automobiles below, $2,000, 30 per cent ad valorem.
And those are the automobiles that the farmer and small dealers require.
Cutlery, 25 to 55 per cent ad valorem.
Oil cloth, 20 to 30 per cent ad valorem.
Kitchen utensils, 25 per cent ad valorem.
Wool blankets, 25 per cent ad valorem.
Agricultural products-the Fordney tariff.
In 1920, practically fifty per cent of all imports into the United States were dutiable. Under such conditions, the United States is certainly a protectionist country.
How has protection affected the United States? If hon. members will investigate any of the industries of that country, they will find that they have gone ahead by leaps and bounds. I am going to place on Hansard five of the United States industries.
In 1890, the tinplate industry in the United States was practically non existent; yet by 1920, thirty years later, they produced 3,000,000,000 pounds, and the imports which they had previously obtained from Wales were practically wiped out.
In 1890, the United States produced 4,000,000 long tons of steel. In 1920 they produced
42,000,000 long tons.
In 1890, the United States produced $480,000,000 worth in the manufacture of iron and steel. In 1920, they produced $3,600,000,000 worth, or nearly eight times as much.
The total manufactured products of the United States in 1890 amounted to $10,000000,000 worth, and in 1920 to $60,000,000,000 worth.
The value of the products of their farms in 1890 amounted to $3,000,000,000 worth, and in 1920 to $22,000,000,000 worth. This is probably of more interest to the farmers. These figures which I have given cover a short period of thirty years. Probably there is not a man sitting in this House who was not in existence when the first facts which I have given were occurring, and to-day the figures that I have quoted reveal that all these lines have gone up six, seven or eight times. In the case of

The Budget-Mr. Manion

dozens of other industries, anyone who cares to look up the Statistical Abstract of the United States will find that the same thing is true in regard to every one of them. It is true that the United States is practically selfsupporting because of the high production of all lines of goods in that country. But that is to my mind just another argument favourable to a moderate protective tariff. It is also true that free trade might temporarily assist the farmers of the West; but in my opinion, and as was pointed out by the hon. member who took his seat a few minutes ago, it would ruin to a great extent the industrial cities of the East. And those cities would not suffer alone; the farmers who live in the vicinity of every such industrial centre would be affected as well. Would it be wise for the West to be benefited through the ruin of the East? I would ask another question also, and I would have it clearly understood that I do so out of no disrespect whatever; I ask the question with the greatest deference to hon. gentlemen from the West. All the countries of the world with the exception of Great Britain have been and are protectionist, and England has adopted the protective principle in certain directions recently. But even though England did adopt free trade in 1840, the fact that no other country has adopted it, the fact that all the nations of the world have considered it a poor policy, compels this question: Are we to draw the inference that those people in the West of Canada who advocate free trade have inherited all tne wisdom of the ages, notwithstanding that they are alone in this matter?


Does my hon. friend imagine that the world has been governed by the maximum of wisdom during the last fifty years, when he considers the condition in which it is at the present tiime?


Perhaps it has not been as well governed as it might have been, but I was referring to the tariff.


If the hon. gentleman followed my remarks yesterday he must hav" seen that I was contending that the tariff is the great bone of contention and the cause of ill-feeling, hatred, envy and jealousy, and in short is responsible for the condition cf the world to-day. I contend that the condition of the world at the present time has to a certain extent at least been caused by high tariff walls.


That is a matter of opinion. I think, personally, that the condition

of the world to-day is due mainly to the fact that the German Kaiser undertook to conquer it. That is my own idea.


Yes, under high tariff walls.


If my hon. friend wishes
to debate that question I can take it up with him. As a matter of fact the German Kaiser, under a high tariff wall, was conquering the world, and if he had exercised any sense he would have sat tight and conquered it commercially. Indeed, he was gradually encroaching upon England's commerce before the war. I have already on several occasions cited figures to prove that before the war Germany was outdistancing England in very many lines of commerce. She had gained upon England in many directions. For example, the basic industry of all countries is the production of iron and steel, and Germany had surpassed England in thirty years to a considerable extent in this industry. Germany, with her protective tariff, was surpassing England under a free trade policy; and there are very many serious-thinking Britishers who thought that England had been suffering to such an extent that it would be necessary for her to fall back upon the protective principle. I believe, too, that the time will come when she will adopt protection in many lines. There is this to be remembered about Great Britain. Great Britain is a small piece of land, 120,000 square miles in extent, which could be placed in about half the area of northern Ontario. England cannot produce raw materials on a large scale as can the United States or Canada. She must have free trade in raw materials and also to a certain degree in foodstuffs. Therefore what is good for England is not necessarily good for a country thirty or forty times its size, as Canada is.


But you told us that England would quit free trade.


And she has done so in
some respects. My hon. friend is a farmer. Would he tell me what he thinks of the protection given to industries in the United Kingdom now under the Key Industry Act.


The protection which is
enjoyed by the industries in Great Britain at the present time is protection that is given to key industries. That is a little different from straight protection.


It is protection to the
extent of thirty or forty per cent, and is intended to keep out the products of Germany and all other European countries.


Some protection has been
given in England to a few key industries.

The Budget-Mr. Manion


Will the hon. gentleman tell me what the cattle embargo was? Was it a precaution against disease or was it not rather direct protection for the cattle raisers of Great Britain?


I think it was protection, all right.


Then the hon. member admits that protection is given at least to many industries in the United Kingdom. I could recount many of the industries in Great Britain and show that the protective policy is being rapidly adopted in regard to a number of them. I do not think that Great Britain will ever go back to an absolute protective policy for the reasons that I have already given. The country is so small in area that she cannot produce on a large scale the raw materials that she needs for her manufacturers and the food that is required for her people. She must therefore of necessity resort to free trade to some extent. But the argument in regard to Great Britain, in view of these considerations, does not by any means apply to a country that is thirty or forty times her size, with immense natural resources awaiting development. Such a vast country could not adopt a free trade policy for reasons that would hold good in a country like Great Britain.


The hon. member stated a moment ago that the wisdom of this nation did not all lie in the West, and he added that the West had no right to ruin the East. I would ask him this question: Has the East any right to ruin the West by exorbitant taxation through the customs tariff?


I absolutely agree with my hon. friend that the East has no right to ruin the West; nor do I think that our tariff has been so high as to do anything of the kind. But I do not think, on the other hand, that the East should suffer in order that the West might be advantaged.


The West is suffering by reason of the oppression and short-sightedness of eastern capitalists who refuse to consider or to listen to statements made by western people, who, they declare, are mis-repre-senting the facts. But the hon. gentleman, I think, himself indicated a little while ago that he recognized the fact that the West was in a bad condition. Does he propose any remedy?


I am proposing a number of remedies. I admit that the West is suffering
to a great extent, but I submit at the same time that if we consider all the facts we must realize that there is not only one cause; there are some ten or twelve causes, two or three of which I have pointed out in regard to world conditions. I do not suggest for a moment that the East has any right to benefit at the expense of the West, but I repeat, I do not believe that the East has any more right to suffer in order that the West may be benefited. I take this attitude, however, that we should have a tariff sufficient to protect the industries of the country, and when I say so I am quite prepared to concede that the tariff has to be revised from time to time. And I was going on to deal with that a little later. I want hon. gentlemen to be assured that when I made the remark I did a few moments ago about wisdom, what I said was said in perfect deference to my hon. friends from the West. I certainly did not mean to stir up a hornets' nest around me, and I sincerely hope that my good friends have not taken offence.


You are very good-natured, Doctor.
Mr. MANION [DOT] It must be obvious, however, to anyone who looks at the question dispassionately, as I have done, for I am neither a farmer nor a manufacturer, that the vast balance of opinion of the world today is favourable to protection; and that is proven by the number cf countries who have a protective policy, as well as by the further fact that Great Britain, the sole free trader, is adopting the protective principle in regard to many industries.


If we have such vast resources, why do the manufacturers require that everything they need in the way of raw material shall be on the free list?
Mr. MANION' I do not know that the manufacturers want that, but I think that these materials should be on the free list so far as we can place them there. The manufacturer has to compete with other manufacturers in the world, and if he has to pay a very high duty on the raw materials he uses he cannot carry on that competition successfully.


Does my hen. friend not concede the same argument in favour of the farmer?
Mr. MANION- Yes, and as a matter of fact we have put most of the farmers' raw materials on the free list. Many agricultural
The Budget-Mr. Manion

implements are on the free list, and others enjoy a very much lower rate than many of the machines used by manufacturers. Now, I was going on to point out the necessity for periodical revisions of the tariff. I am not one of those who think that the tariff is going to stand as the laws of the Medes and Persians; I admit tha