Hon. E. M. MACDONALD (Pictou) (for the Minister of Customs and Excise) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to amend the Petroleum and Naphtha Inspection Act, chapter eighty-s:x of the Revised Statutes, 1906, by providing that the Governor in Council may make special regulations as to the sale of naphtha and its use for illuminating purposes, and that, subject to regulations made by the Governor in Council under authority of section three of the act, naphtha shall not be sold or offered for sale in Canada for illuminating purposes, except for the uses prescribed in section fourteen thereof.
He said: In the absence of the hon. Minister of Customs and Excise (Mr. Bureau) I desire to state that the subject matter of this resolution has been communicated to His Excellency the Governor General, who has been pleased to recommend it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
R Hon. E. M. MACDONALD (Pictou) (for Spthe Minister of Customs and Excise) moved s&'that the House go into committee at the next * sitting to consider the following proposed ' resolution:
That it is expedient to amend the Inland Revenue Act, chapter fifty-one of the Revised Statutes, 1906, by providing for the inclusion of certain employees as departmental analysts; that the certificate of departmental or provincial analysts shall be accepted as evidence in all prosecutions under the Act; that a penalty be prescribed for deodorizing or clarifying denatured alcohol or specially denatured alcohol; and that a cultivator of tobacco for private use may sell the surplus tobacco grown by him after paying to the nearest officer of Inland Revenue the duty of twenty cents per pound.
He said; In the absence of the hon. Minister of Customs and Excise I desire to state that the subject matter of this resolution has been communicated to His Excellency the Governor General, who has been pleased to recommend it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. E. M. MACDONALD (Pictou) (for the Minister of Marine and Fisheries) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed
resolution:
That it is expedient to amend the Canada Shipping Act, chapter one hundred and thirteen of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1906, by providing:-
1.	That no registrar shall register any ship purchased or otherwise acquired from a foreign subject or corporation where any bill of sale or other document under or by virtue of which the ship became vested in the applicant for registry contains any provision express, implied or constructive, restricting the use of the vessel or imputing any measure of continued control thereof by the government of a foreign country.
2.	That where in the opinion of the minister any person who applies to be registered as owner of a ship has not sufficient assets in Canada, other than the ship itself, to reimburse His Majesty for any expenses His Majesty may subsequently incur in connection with such ship, her master or a member of her crew, the minister may prohibit a registrar from registering such person as owner until security for such expenses, in such form and such amount as the minister may decide, shall have been furnished.	[DOT]
3.	That the Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing the manner in which grain cargoes shall be loaded at ports in Canada on ships bound to ports outside of Canada not within the limits of inland navigation, and for the imposition of penalties for breach of any such regulations.
4.	That the Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing the manner in which the Port Warden shall perform his duties, and giving him such additional duties as he may from time to time see fit.
5.	That annual returns shall be made by surveyors, and that provision be made for calculating tonnage.
He said: In the absence of the hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Lapointe)
Dismissal of Mile. Bovlay
I desire to state that the subject matter of this resolution has been communicated to His Excellency the Governor General, who has been pleased to recommend it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
On {he Orders of the Day:
I should like to ask the government what disposition has been made of the application of the Calgary Power Company for additional power privileges in Banff National Park?


That is a question I think for the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Stewart). I will direct his attention to it when he comes into the House.


On the motion of Hon. W. S. Fielding for Committee of Supply.
In the statement of business for to-day which was given last night but which I have not before me at the moment, I am pretty sure Supply was not mentioned.


I think it was mentioned.


Just for one purpose, to enable the hon. member for St'. John City and Counties of St. John and Albert (Mr. Baxter) to bring up a certain subject.


I stated, Mr. Speaker, that opportunity would be afforded for the discussion referred to but that afterwards we would go into Committee of Supply. At any rate, that was my intention, when I announced the business that would be taken up to-day.


That was not stated. I cannot dispute the hon. member's intention; all I can state is what he said. Hon. members must make their preparations in accordance with the government's statement. It is true that between twelve and one o'clock I was personally notified that the government intended to go into Committee of Supply on other matters, but even that notification to me is not sufficient. I did not get it myself until the time mentioned. But I am only one member; other members guide themselves by the notice of the government leader the night before, and would not be prepared, especially on important matters of Supply, because of the information given by the Minister of Soldiers' Civil Re-establishment. What the minister stated was that a motion would be made to go into Committee of Supply in order to afford the 
hon. member (Mr. Baxter) an opportunity of discussing certain matters in connection with the Post Office Department. Then he went
on to say:
If we have time we will take up the second readings of certain bills on, the order paper-
And he named a list of them occupying a space two inches long-


Three inches long.


Three inches is it?-which would be quite sufficient to take up to-day, I think.


I take it for granted that at this stage of the session, when there is time we always go into Committee of Supply. There are very few estimates to be disposed of.


It may, perhaps, clarify matters if I remind the hon. leader of the Opposition-I do not know whether he was here yesterday at three o'clock-that the hon. member (Mr. Baxter) rose and spoke for a few minutes on the motion to go into Committee of Supply, and it was agreed between the Postmaster General (Mr. Murphy) and the hon. member (Mr. Baxter) that the question should be deferred and should come up to-day on the motion for Supply.


I have no objection to (hat, that is quite proper. We expect a motion for Supply for that purpose but not for the other.


Hon. J. B. M. BAXTER '(St. John City and Counties of St. John and Albert):	Mr. Speaker, I shall try to bring the facts of this case before the House as briefly as I can. I regret that the documentation is rather large, and that it is necessary to refer to a good deal of it. I said yesterday that Mademoiselle Boulay, who was postmistress at Sayabec Station, had been dismissed from her pos'tion. As far as I can gather from the correspondence, her offence, and her sole offence, was the fact that she was a daughter of the previous member for Matane, Mr. Boulay. Of course, something else is alleged in the correspondence, and what that is and the way in which the removal of Mademoiselle Boulay was rather carefully led up to will be revealed by an inspection of the documents.
Now, the matter began as far back as the 4th January, 1922, when my hon. friend the Postmaster General received an offer, in perhaps rather unusual terms, from a gentleman named Eugene I.acroix who wrote from Sayabec under that date and said that he was just offering the minister a place to hold the post

Dismissal oj Mile. Boulay
office, that it was some place where the post office had been kept before but there was now another proprietor. It used to belong to Mr. Boulay, the deputy who had been beaten in the county of Matane and "we," whoever that may be, "had now acquired the property." He not only offers it but he says he desires to hold the post office, like so many other people who are desirous of holding some position under the government. He wants the Postmaster General to be good enough to give it to him and then he will make an arrangement with the Postmaster General. If the Postmaster General will give him the post office he will give him the building to hold it in for nothing and he thinks, and he says, "It will be difficult to do better than that.'* Evidently Mr. Lacroix was a very good supporter of our friend who now represents the county of Matane in this House (Mr. Pelletier). At any rate, he started the ball rolling. There were other gentlemen who also thought they had the support of the hon. member for Matane but perhaps they had not. I suppose they had no right to assume they had that support. The minister on the 12th January, very properly told Mr. Lacroix that this was a matter for the Civil Service Commission. Then Miss Boulay, who held the post office, had apparently heard that something was on foot. On the 17th January, she wrote the minister [DOT]saying that she had learned that Mr. Lacroix had caused to be sent a request under false [DOT]representations in respect to her; that he said to certain persons in order to get their signatures that she had resigned, and to others he said that he wanted the request signed in her favour so that the post office might remain in the building in which it was. Then (she says that she has not given her resignation to anybody, and asks if it is necessary lor her to sign a request for the purpose of annulling the request of Mr. Lacroix. Mr. Lacroix is told on the 17th January, that this statement has been put in and that the lady has no intention of getting out of the office-and the House will note that at that time the minister is finding no fault with her. On the 20th January, Mr. Lacroix presses his claim a little more. He now encloses a request signed by a number of people at Saya-bec, Station asking that the post office be left in the place where it was at the time, and in .case there should be any change of postmistress or postmaster to give the position to him. He says that he hopes to have a favourable response, that with a request as strong as this one he does not believe the minister can refuse him. He sends with that a document which is rather remarkable. Mr. 239i
Lacroix, the man who has apparently convinced the Civil Service Commission, sent a petition to the minister on the 20th January, signed by ratepayers of the village or .station of Sayabec, in which they say:
That they wish to put very respectfully before His Honour the Postmaster General that Mademoiselle Boulay, postmistress of the said village, having given her resignation ought to be replaced soon.
And they are made to ask that occasion should be taken to give Mr. Lacroix the appointment as the new postmaster, and they point out the advantage of having the post office in a central site which they understand he controls. This was certainly ingenious on the part of Mr. Lacroix. He does not get very much, perhaps, from the minister, who just simply acknowledges receipt of his letter, and tells him that he has not received the resignation of Miss Boulay, and that in consequence the position is not vacant. So that down to the 25th January the minister is finding no fault with Miss Boulay. On the 6th February we have a letter written by Mr. Pelletier, the present member for Matane, addressed to William Foran, Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, dated 6th February in which he says:-
A few days ago I wrote to the hon. Postmaster General in regard to a proposed transfer of the post office at Sayabec. My request has been referred to the deputy Postmaster General for inquiry and report. Thinking that this matter is under the control of the Civil Service Commission, I would, therefore, ask you to do nothing in this matter until I have the opportunity of conferring with said commission.
The previous letter, so far as I can find, is not on the files, and I do not know whether it refers to Mr. Lacroix, and I do not know what the contents were; it has not been returned. Then on the 28th February Miss Boulay writes to the minister and speaks of the lease of the building, the time of its expiration, and says that this building has. become the property of Mr. A. Lacroix since the 15th March, and that she has seen Mr. Lacroix and asked him if he would consent, after the expiration of the lease, to lease the building to her, but she has not been able to obtain any answer. On the 21st March the member for Matane again writes to the hon. Postmaster General and says:
In connection with the post office at Sayabec, I wish to state that, setting aside all political feedings, I must say in justice to all parties concerned, that Miss Boulay, the present postmistress at the above-named place is the daughter of my opponent Mr. Hermene-gidde Bouilay, and that the said Miss Boulay,
["I have the honour to inform the House that I have received the following letter:\nOttawa, 12th June, 1923.\nSir,-I have it in command from His Excellency the Governor General to transmit to you copy of a despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies enclosing copy of a note from the French Ministry for Foreign Affairs, conveying the thanks of the President of the Republic for the joint resolution of the Canadian Houses of Parliament regarding the gift of land on Vimy Ridge by the French government.\nI have the honour to be, Sir,\nYour obedient servant,\n(Signed) Joseph Pope. Under-Secretary of State for\nExternal Affairs.\nThe Hon. Speaker of the House of Commons,\nOttawa.\nDowning Street, 29 May, 1923. My Lord,-With reference to my despatch No. 193 of the 28th of April, I have the honour to transmit to Your Excellency, to be laid before your ministers, the accompanying copy of a note from the French Ministry for Foreign Affairs, conveying the thanks of the president of the Republic for the joint resolution of the Canadian Houses of parliament regarding the gift of land on Vimy Ridge by the French government.\nI have the honour to be, My Lord,\nYour Lordship's most obedient humble servant.\n(Signed) Devonshire.\nHis Excellency,\nThe Right Honourable Lord Byng op Vimy, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.,\nM.V.O., etc., etc., etc.\n(Translation)\nFrench Republic Ministry of Foreign Affairs\nAmerica.\nMonsieur l'Ambassadeur.\nI have the honour to acknowledge receipt of the letter dated the 28th April last, and in which Mr. Erio Phipps was kind enough to enclose two copies of a resolution adopted by the Canadian parliament, to accept the gift by France of a parcel of land, on Vimy ridge, where it is proposed to erect a monument recalling the achievements of the Canadian soldiers.\nMonsieur le President of the Republic, to whom these documents were presented in pursuance of the wish of the Canadian government, requests me to convey his thanks and wishes you to transmit to the government of Canada the expression of his gratitude.\nMr. Millerand has appreciated most highly the so cordial terms which the Canadian parliament made use of to express its gratefulness to the French government.\nKindly accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest esteem.\n(Signed) Poincare.\nParis, May 15, 1923.\nOn motion of Mr. Fielding the House adjourned at 12.20 a.m. (Wednesday).\nQuestions", 'Wednesday, June 13, 1923']
Hear, hear.


I hope the hon. member
will be able to carry the "hear, hear" out-
Dismissal of Mile. Boulay

side of this chamber, and go upon any platform in the country and advocate the spoils system, the slightest reference to which is met by a "hear, hear" from him.


Well, I can do it.


I have every faith in the
ability of the hon. member in performing that which he claims to be able to do, but I do not know that such a thing would be so distinctly complimentary to him. The letter continues:
And that the said Miss Boulay is the daughter of my opponent Mr. Hermenegilde Boulay, and that the said Miss Boulay during the campaign of 1921 allowed her father to hold political meetings in the post office. Therefore, knowing as I do, that the present postmistress has taken a very active part in politics, I feel the post office should be moved to a place where it will be exempt from all politicad influence.
And that is quite right. If Miss Boulay were guilty there should be only one rule to apply. No postmistress or postmaster has any business to meddle with elections. But I say Miss Boulay should be treated at least as a British subject and get some fair form of trial. She should have that undeniable right which has always been accorded by the laws of both the races represented here, that a person should be heard in his or her behalf before being condemned. And Miss Boulay was not heard.


The hon. member
is being heard.


The letter continues:
I therefore would recommend that the postmistress be dismissed and that Mr. Georges Bouchard, of Sayabec, who has a building that would suit the government and the public in general in that district, should be named in her stead.
I sincerely trust that you will take this matter in serious consideration and that you may see your way clear to grant my request.
Thanking you in anticipation, I remain,
Yours truly,
F. J. Pelletier.
Ten days is rather a long time. On the 31st March we have another letter from the member addressed to the minister and it is marked "House of Commons" and reads:
With further reference to the postmaster at Sayabec.
I am herewith enclosing two affidavits, one from Mr. Cote, merchant, saying that Miss Boulay has allowed her father to hold political meetings in the post office during the recent campaign.


Hear, hear.


How amusing it is to some hon. members. Is it really enough that a member of parliament shall write these things to make them incontrovertible? Would hon. members who laugh like to be tried in that way themselves if anyone launched an accusa-

tion against them? Would anyone be quite content to have the unsworn testimony of the prosecutor accepted as sufficient, and not be heard on their own behalf? I do not think so. And why should politics make a difference? Why should it obstruct the principles of fair play? I have also a letter from the member for Matane (Mr. Pelletier) which reads:
With further reference to the post office at Sayabec, I am herewith enclosing two affidavits, one from Mr. Cote, merchant, showing that Miss Boulay, the postmistress, has allowed her father to hold political meetings in the post office during the recent campaign; also one from Miss Aurelie Imbeault. showing that the postmistress was actively engaged in political affairs on voting day.
I therefore reiterate my request that she be dismissed and that the post office be placed in charge of Mr. Georges Bouchard who lives right close to where the post office is now, and I may state that he has very good quarters and the people of Sayabec are seemingily anxious to have Mr. Bouchard take charge of said office.
Hoping that this matter will not be delayed, I remain, Yours very truly,
F. J. Pelletier.
Now there was probably some conversation in the meantime, but we have no note of it in these records. I will turn for a moment to these returns. Here is a copy of an affidavit of Mr. Cote which says:
I, the undersigned, Louis Cot6, merchant of the village of Saindon, parish of Sayabec, having been duly sworn on the Holy Scriptures, deponeth and saith:
That on November 29 last, 1921, a political meeting was held by H. Boulay, candidate at the last general election, in the county of Matane, at the post office of Sayabec Station, of which Miss Adrienne Boulay is in charge.
And I have signed.
(Signed) Louis CotI.
Sworn before me at Sayabec, this 27th day of March, 1922.
(Signed) L. P. Joubert, S.C.C.,
District of Rimouski.
Now this affidavit is regularly sworn by some one who, of course, violated the law of Canada in swearing any one to an affidavit.


Why?


That surprises my hon. friend. There is such a thing as the Canada Evidence Act. There is also an act for the suppression of extra-judicial oaths. The furthest anyone can go is merely to make a statutory declaration. I will tell my hon. friend- and I am glad always to dispense a little information-that it is an absolute crime against the laws of Canada to swear a person to an affidavit unless with lawful authority. This, however, was taken in the absence of Mademoiselle Boulay. She never saw it. She was never confronted with the man who made it. Some one accepts it. She gets no

Dismissal of Mile. Bovlay
trial. She gets no hearing. It is matter for the judgment of the House if that is fair dealing. The affidavit to which I refer was simply a declaration on. oath that on the 29th November, 1921, a political assembly was held by Mr. Boulay, candidate for the constituency of Matane at the last federal election, in the post office of Sayabec station kept by Mademoiselle Boulay.
The next affidavit is by Aurelie Imbeault, of the village of Saindon, who is also sworn and who states:
I, the undersigned, Aurelie Imbeault, of the village of Saindon, in the parish of Sayabec, being duly sworn on the Holy Scriptures, deponeth and saith:
That Miss Adrienne Boulay, postmistress at Sayabec Station, has taken an active part in politics on polling day, by going in quest of women voters at their homes and taking them to the polling booth during the Dominion election of December 6 last.
And I have signed.
(Signed) Aurelie Imbeault.
Sworn before me, at Sayabec, on March 25, 1922.
(Signed) L. P. Joubebt, S.C.C.,
Dist. of Rimouski,
A declaration that she busied herself actively in politics on voting day by going to bring female electors from their houses to the polls for the federal election, in which, of course, her father was interested. That is the first instance that we have of anything like a charge. Then we have the reply to that on the 6th April from the Postmaster General (Mr. Murphy). He says.:
Dear Mr. Pelletier,	[DOT]
I am duly in receipt of your letter of March 31st enclosing affidavits in connection with the post office at Sayabec Station.
I notice that one of the statements is to the effect that the postmistress allowed the post office to be used for purposes which are improper and of a nature absolutely foreign to its destination as such. As an irregularity of so grievous a character cannot be tolerated, I have given orders for the dismissal of Miss Boulay.
Hon. gentlemen will note that the Postmaster General wrote to the depute for Matane in French. He received the letter in English. I suppose that is the explanation why the Postmaster General is not anxious to have a French-writing deputy. He can do the work himself.


If my hon. friend will permit me, he misstates the position of the Postmaster General in that regard. He is anxious to have a French-writing deputy.


I congratulate the Postmaster General upon his taste, but not upon his speed. The Postmaster General said:
I note that one of these declarations is to the effect that the postmistress has permitted the use of the post office for an improper purpose and one absolutely foreign to postal administration. As an irregularity so serious cannot be approved, I have ordered the dismissal of Mademoiselle Boulay.
Tried in her absence, condemned without a hearing, and executed without mercy. On the 7th April, Mr. Eugene Lacroix, who afterwards got the job, but who was not the protege of the member for the constituency after all, though, perhaps, he may have thought he was, wrote asking what had been the result of a requisition signed by 235 people that he had sent three months before. He states that every day his friends of Sayabec are asking themselves what has been the result of the request, and he cannot give them information for he does not know any more about the matter than they do. He hopes for a response very soon, and he remains the very humble and very obedient servant of the Postmaster General, from whom he does not get any particular consolation. The minister tells him on the 15th April that that is a matter for the Civil Service Commission, and he says: "In case there should be any change of postmistress at the place indicated"-that is on the 15th April, but on the 6th April the Postmaster General had given orders for her dismissal. One is not surprised; the whole thing is evidently a political affair. The depute for Matane had a candidate and that candidate was not Mr. Lacroix, it was Mr. Georges Bouchard; and naturally the minister is not going to assist Mr. Lacroix by giving him any unnecessary information. On the 19th April, Mr. Coolican of the Post Office Department writes for the General Superintendent to the Acting District Superintendent of Postal Service at Quebec:
It has been represented to the department that the postmistress at Sayabec station has allowed the post office at that point to be used for improper purposes, and in view of the fact that the post office is rented by the government a serious offence of this kind cannot be countenanced.
Under the circumstances the Postmaster General has authorized a change in the postmastership at Sayabec station.
Mr. Boulay, the father, writes to the Postmaster General saying that he wishes to ask a favour, namely to keep his daughter there as postmistress. He tells him that she has gained her living for six or seven years and that the department has nothing to reproach her with; that some instances are without doubt going to be brought before him for the purpose of having her dismissed, but he hopes he will grant her request. He says that the dismissal would not serve the Liberal party very much for about nine-tenths of the Liberals in the county are in her favour.
Dismissal of Mile. Boulay

Moreover she is a woman, and he says that if the minister will refer to the dismissals made in Rimouski at the time when he was a member, the minister will see that one woman only lost her office, all the others being kept on by him.
I know before we get through the discussion, that it will be alleged that Mr. Boulay caused numerous dismissals.


My hon. friend refers to Mr. Boulay. Is he the same gentleman who, when the Parliament building burned down, put in a claim for $200 for a bad promissory note and a pair of mittens?


I would be more than
happy if I could give my hon. friend any information he desires, but I shall have to say to him that, so far as I know, he is not.


He is the same one.


My hon. friend speaks of some instance of which I never heard. I brought the matter personally to the minister's attention on the 20th April, 1922, and this is the first that I had heard of it. I told the minister that it was rumoured that Miss Boulay was to be dismissed, although her father did not know for what reason. The minister then replied to me on the 26th April, stating:
This case has been before me for consideration, and in view of the fact that the postmistress allowed the building rented by the government for post office purposes, to be put to improper use, I have been obliged to follow the departmental procedure in such cases and accordingly gave instructions that her services be dispensed with.
In view of the courtesy of your letter, I may assure you that the circumstances of the case and the evidence submitted, amply warrant the action taken.
Now, so far as the record discloses, that is all I have; I have given hon. members every syllable of the testimony that was submitted to the minister. The minister continues:
From the terms of your letter, I judge that you are not acquainted with Mr. Boulay. At the first opportunity I will show you some illuminating exhibits from the official files.
I thought it was Miss Boulay that was on trial and not her unfortunate father. But as an excuse for the dismissal of the daughter there can be shown me some illuminating exhibits from the official files with reference to the father. Then we have a very large petition sent to the Postmaster General signed by numerous residents of this locality who say that Miss Boulay has for many years been postmistress in this place and has given general satisfaction, that the office has been
fMr. Baxter.]
kept in a perfect manner to the satisfaction of the public and the authorities of the postal department; and they insist strongly in their demand that she be allowed to continue in the exercise of her functions. They are strenuously opposed to any change in this relation. That petition was sent in in April, 1922, and, as I say, was numerously signed. On the 4th of May, Mr. Boulay, the father, writes to Mr. Tanner Green, inspector of post offices, that he is well enough informed to be able to deny swearing to the accusation in the name of Mile. Boulay and to demand an inquiry at which he desires to be called, if justice can be accorded. Mile. Boulay, he says, has never given any permission to make use of the post office for any improper purpose; and that such a suggestion is a black calumny.


Who signed that?


Mr. Boulay, the father; this is a letter to Mr. Tanner Green. Then we have Mr. Bouchard's application. There is a lot of correspondence leading up to that, and in answer to the civil service form, inquiring whether he has any defect of sight, hearing or speech, or any other infirmity, he says he has. That was the gentleman, however, who was being backed by the member for the time being. Some nine persons made oath again on May 8, 1922, that they were present in the post office at a political meeting held by Mr. Boulay and his friend Mr. Martineau at Sayabec. This is a solemn declaration, but they do not say that Miss Boulay knew anything about the matter, gave permission, opened the door or lent the key; it is alleged, only, that she was the holder of the office at the time. We also have a little sidelight on the way people were putting petitions around there when we find a lady making a declaration that she and others had been asked to put their names to a petition alleging that a request had been made that Miss Boulay might be paid her salary for the month of April. The lady who signs this says that the petition was supposed to be for the purpose of obtaining a pension for Miss Boulay, she having held the post office for more than ten years. But it was really a petition for the appointment of one of those who sought office.
On the 4th May, the Postmaster General apparently thought that it might not be quite fair to deal with the matter in the summary manner he had intended, and so he wrote to his friend the hon. member for Matane (Mr. Pelletier) enclosing some correspondence. He says:

Dismissal of Mile. Bovlay
In reading the enclosures, please note that Boulay denies, over his own handwriting, that any meeting was held in the post office.
After you have read the enclosures, I would like to see you about the whole matter, as it is evident that Boulay is in touch with his party friends with a view to having the matter ventilated as a grievance.
On May 6, the hon. member replies:
I shall read the enclosures very carefully and will be pleased to see you on Monday next and explain fully what the conditions are and have been at Sayabec.
I would not have asked the dismissal of the postmistress had I not been in a position to prove everything I have advanced against her.
That proof, however, has not yet been adduced. On the previous day, May 5, the same hon. gentleman writes Mr. Tanner Green, Inspector of Post Offices, and again recommends Mr. Bouchard as postmaster. He is persuaded that he is a sober man, is competent, and will know how to do justice to all the citizens of Sayabec. He recommends Mr. Bouchard to the Civil Service Commission and the Post Office Department. One would hardly have supposed that it would be necessary to have a Civil Service Commission if recommendations of this character were to go very far. Then the minister writes to Mr. Boulay stating:
In the course of the correspondence from you, I observe that you state that the Conservative party in 1911 did not dismiss anybody in your county without holding what you term a "reasonable inquiry". This statement led me to ask for the production of the files, and I regret to say that their contents are in direct contradiction of your statement. Without going into too many details, allow me to say that ^ in the case of the county you represented, I find, in your handwriting, one list demanding the dismissal of no fewer than 23 postmasters, on the sole ground that they had taken an active part in politics against you. I further find that in each of the 23 cases the postmasters were dismissed without any inquiry whatever, and without any other evidence than was furnished by the list in your handwriting, demanding the dismissals solely on political grounds. You must, therefore, admit that if the department were to follow the example furnished by the written proofs on file here, there would be wholesale dismissals in your county, as there were in 1911, on the mere demand of the sitting member.
But Mr. Boulay does not accept that view at all. On the 8th of May he says:
I have perhaps asked for the dismissal of these persons to put back the offices into the hands of those that the Liberal party had taken them from in 1896, and not otherwise. At the time I asked for the dismissal of these twenty-three postmasters this was refused, except in the cases above cited, without previous inquiry: and I defy you to prove to the contrary of that statement in any case in this county.
He alleges that political friends of his were brutally dismissed in 1896 without any other reason than politics. He asserts that he has not asked for the dismissal of anyone for political reasons. All that was asked generally in 1911 was simply the re-establishment in their original positions of those
people whom the Liberal party had thrown into the street in 1896 and very few were put back.
My friend from Matane (Mr. Pelletier), however, does not cease his efforts. On the 9th May he sends the minister an applicatior signed by Mr. Bouchard, who had succeeded in being placed temporarily in charge of the post office at Sayabec Station. The minister replies on the 13th May and says that the representations made on Mr. Bouchard's behalf will be referred to the Civil Service Commission, by whom, under present legislation, the regular appointment will be made. Then my friend from Matane comes back on the 2nd June with another letter to the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, in which, after acknowledging receipt of a communication from the secretary stating that the position is now vacant, he says:
I thank you for having advised me of the fact, and in passing permit me to say to you that Mr. George Bouchard, who was chosen as postmaster a couple of months ago, is very competent and, besides, I learn that he has spent $250 to $275 to repair the office. No doubt Mr. Bouchard will make application and you will see by his work that he is very competent to fill this position.
He adds he cannot recommend Mr. Bouchard too highly. On the 8th June he again asks the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to take Mr. Bouchard's application into his "serious consideration," and on the same day he sends, under separate cover, two more letters of recommendation on behalf of Mr. Bouchard. On the 4th July Mr. Tanner Green writes to Mr. Eugene Lacroix,-the man who eventually got the appointment-sending back his petition on the ground that it was not dated and that all he had was a typewritten copy. Then Mr. Lacroix writes to the Postmaster General that his petition was in the minister's office. He apparently could not get it there. It went back and forth and nobody knew where the 'missing petition was, but Mr. Lacroix writes Mr. Tanner Green on the 8th. July telling him that he has sent the original to Mr. Pelletier, who said that he had sent it to the Postmaster General. The writer also encloses a letter which he had received from the deputy for Matane and he wants to know where the original petition is. The Postmaster General even got a ruling from the Justice department, which states as a fact that the postmistress of Sayabec having allowed the post office to be used for a political meeting, she is guilty of improper conduct and subject to removal by the Postmaster General. One would still think the charge should be proved and the woman given a chance to defend herself. On the
Dismissal of Mile. Boulay

13th July Miss Boulay again denies that the meeting was held with her permission or with her knowledge. On the 3rd August the Postmaster General replies with the assurance that the proofs actually on file in the department are sufficient to show that no injustice has been done the postmistress.
On the 30th September Miss Boulay writes to the minister:
Having written you already many times asking you to be good enough to grant me an inquiry concerning my dismissal as postmistress of Sayabec Station, and never having had any response, I am again reiterating my request. I greatly desire to undergo an inquiry, and I hope you will accord it without further delay. You have no doubt received a copy of the petition from the public of Sayabec demanding that I be maintained in my office. The original was addressed to the Civil Service Commission.
In reply the Postmaster General tells her that he can add nothing to his previous communications upon the subject. On the 27th November Mr. Tanner Green writes the Civil Service Commission saying:
With reference to the commission's letter of the 24th instant, asking for further information regarding the comparative qualifications and premises offered by Messrs. Bouchard and Lacroix, applicants for the Sayabec Station postmastership, the undersigned advises that Mr. Bouchard, who has been in charge of the post office since the 8th April last and who previous to 1911 acted as assistant to his father, the then postmaster, is surely the better qualified of the two.
His quarters are sufficient, adequate and well located. Doubtless more central than Mr. Lacroix's, and therefore his selection would seem to be justified on these premises.
I do not propose to go into the competition between these two men or the attitude that has been taken either by the minister or his deputy in regard to the matter. I think I have referred to all the correspondence that is material, and I know it will be useless to take up the time of the House any longer.


Hear, hear.


Well, it is a great pleasure to have the concurrence of hon. members opposite in some things. I know there will be no change made in this postmastership, but I want to put it on record as a regrettable fact that anyone should be dismissed on the written evidence of witnesses behind his or her back without being given an opportunity to cross-examine or challenge the witnesses.
I think her request for a full inquiry should have been granted. No matter what may have been done in the past, I say
4 p.m. it is still more unfortunate if we are to have a continued system of reprisals after every change of administration under which we are to be looked upon as enemy parties, each seeking to acquire some advantage over the other. When this House

decided in favour of a Civil Service Commission it was to get rid of such a discreditable system. If, however, the Civil Service Act is to be practically disregarded, if we are to have dismissals merely at the request of the member for any constituency, and if we are to have a minister complaisantly granting such requests, we need not wonder if the Civil Service Commission gradually lapses into a body without very much vitality and accepts the pretty direct suggestions that are made to it through the medium of correspondence such as I have quoted.


Mr. Speaker, before dealing with the issue raised by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Baxter) who has just taken his seat I desire to thank him and the other members for the cordiality of the welcome which they extended to me upon returning to resume my duties in this Chamber after a long period of enforced absence. I desire also, Sir, to thank the hon. member for St. John City (Mr. Baxter) for his courtesy in allowing the matter under discussion to stand over from yesterday so that I might have an opportunity to familiarize myself with the facts of the case which he has brought to the attention of the House.
To give these facts their proper setting allow me to furnish some features which were not included in the hon. gentleman's statement. My hon. friend began his very temperate and fair presentation of the case by saying that judging by the record the sole offence chargeable to the postmistress at Sayabec Station was that she was the daughter of the previous member of parliament for that county. That, Mr. Speaker, I need not say is not correct, but I might add that if my hon. friend had been a member of this House from 1911 to 1917 he would be more fully aware than he is at present of the seriousness of the charge that he himself has made against the late postmistress at Sayabec Station. I would like to point out for the information of the House and for a proper understanding of the matter under discussion just how firmly entrenched was the Boulay dynasty at Sayabec Station. In the first place it is not the postmistress, the daughter, at all who is the chief actor in this matter. The moving spirit and the directing mind is the father, Mr. Hermenegilde Boulay. Mr. Boulay was the member for that county fjom 1911 to 1917. During that period, referring only to his activity in connection with the Post Office Department, he induced the Public Works Department to lease a building for post office

Dismissal oj Mile. Boulay
purposes to Mrs. H. B. Boulay, his wife. Then he made a charge against the then postmaster, had him dismissed on political grounds, and induced the then Postmaster General to appoint his daughter, Miss Adrienne Boulay, as postmistress at Sayabec Station. Then, as a good provider, as the head of a family ought to be, in order to see that nothing would escape the Boulay family, he had his son made the contractor for the carriage of the mails at Sayabec Station. So that my hon. friend, who apparently was unaware of these facts, will appreciate how deeply incensed was the Boulay dynasty when their entrenchments were disturbed by the unfeeling member for Matane (Mr. Pelletier). So much for the situation at Sayabec Station.
In connection with the renting of the building Mr. Boulay was not only not satisfied with having the ordinary arrangements applied in the lease that was made between the Department of Public Works and his wife, but he succeeded in having the rule applicable to such cases set aside. I might explain, Mr. Speaker, not for your benefit, because as a former Postmaster General yell are quite familiar with it, but for the benefit of my hon. friends in the House, that the usual practice in the case of an office such as that at Sayabec Station is to grant a rent allowance based on the revenue of the office, and when that js done the postmaster takes that amount and rents the office and pays for it himself. But not so with Mr. Boulay in the case of Sayabec Station. He first of all saw to it that his daughter got the usual allowance of $75 based on the revenues of the office, and then he got the Public Works Department to enter into a lease with his wife and add $125 more, so that they got $200 for this office which Miss Boulay should have provided out of the $75 allowed her by the Post Office Department. These are some slight features that have a bearing on the case.
Now let us for a moment dwell on the statement which my hon. friend extracted, and quite properly from a letter of Mr. Boulay which appears on the record, that is, that Mr. Boulay resented the statement that he had dismissed people on the wholesale scale charged against him, after 1911. Well, the records show that in this county there has been but one dismissal at the instance of the present member, while Mr. Boulay in a shorter time dismissed thirty-five, and I hold in my hand a list in Mr. Boulay's handwriting demanding the dismissal of no less than twenty-three people on the sole ground that they had been guilty of active political partisanship. I observe that my hon. friend quoted a statement from Mr. Boulay's letter to the effect that he had only made this request in the case of people who had replaced Conservatives who had been removed from office by the Liberals, but unfortunately for Mr. Boulay the document itself does not bear that out, because in certain paragraphs he does distinguish by asking for the reinstatement of certain people, but in other paragraphs he makes just the plain request that Mr. So-and-So be removed and Mr. So-and-So put in his place.


They were not removed, were they?


Yes, they were. They were removed on the authority of a little tell-tale pencil interl'neation which I will read, and which is as follows: "O.K.-LP.P." in every case.


Whose initials are those?


L-P.P. are the initials of the former postmaster general, the Hon. Mr. Pelletier.


Does it say that an inquiry was made?


No there was no inquiry made in any case. Now what are the charges in the present case? The charges on which the action was taken are two. First, that the postmistress allowed the building to be used for the holding of a political meeting. As to that we were furnished with a written statement by the hon. member for Matane.


He was not at the meeting surely.


I do not know whether he was there or not but in any event he makes the statement as a matter of personal knowledge and on his responsibility as a member of the House-a ground that in previous days was deemed amply sufficient to grant the request of the Conservative member supporting the administration of the day. But we have much more than that. We had supporting the statement of the hon. member for Matane the affidavit of Louis Cote which my hon. friend read, and which I propose to read in turn in order to make comment upon it:
I, the undersigued, T.ouis Cote, merchant ,of the village of Saindon. parish of Sayabec, having been duly sworn on the Holy Scriptures, deponeth and saith:
That on November 29 last, 1921, a political meeting was held by H. Boulay, candidate at the last general

Dismissal of Mile. Bonlay
election in the county of Matane, at the post office of Sayabec Station, of which Miss Adrienne Boulay is in charge.
And I have signed.
(Signed) Louis Cote.
Sworn before me at Sayabec, this 27th day of March 1922.
(Signed) L. P. Joubert, S.C.C.,
District of Rimouski.
Now, my hon. friend (Mr. Baxter) in commenting upon that seemed somewhat to attack the validity of the document, on account of the manner in which it was drawn up and sworn to. I understand, however, that the form in which this document was drawn up is a customary one in the civil courts of the province of Quebec.


In the superior
courts.


Part of my criticism is
that although a political meeting was held it does not appear that Mademoiselle Boulay had any knowledge of it or gave any consent to it.


It does not appear she
had any knowledge or gave any consent, but she must have given the key to her father because he said "It was I who opened the door."
My hon. friend also referred to another (affidavit supporting the charge of the hon. member for Matane. He read this in part: he did not read the whole of it. Had he read the whole of it I think the House would have been more impressed with its importance. I propose to read the whole of it. The affidavit in question is as follows:
We, the undersigned, of the parish of Ste. Marie of Sayabec, being sworn on the Holy Evangelists, respectively make oath and say, that on the 29th day of November last we assisted at a political meeting held in the post office of Sayabec Station, of which Miss Adrienne Boulay was the official at the time.
The aforesaid meeting was held by the candidate, H. Boulay, and his friend, Mr. Martineau of Quebec.
And we make this declaration solemnly, knowing that it is of the same force and effect as if made under oath, and in virtue of the Canada Evidence Act,
And we have signed,
This is the part my hon. friend omitted:
E. Banville,
Leopold Joubert, cult.
Francois Jean, cult.
Louis Cote, marchand,
VrcrowEN Smith, inspecteur, Octave Ouellet, cult.
L. P. Lepage, M. dentiste.
Romeo Ringuet,
J. Geo. Bouchard, H.C.S.
Now this is a formidable list of names, and my hon. friend passed them over in presenting his version of the affidavit to the House. The affidavit concludes:

Declared before me at Sayabec, the 8th day of May, 1922.
(Signed) L. P. Joubert, J.P.,
District of Rimouski.
I have mentioned that Mademoiselle Boulay was not present at this meeting, but in a letter dated the 8th May, 1922, Mr. Boulay writes in the course of this communication addressed to me as follows:
A speaker made a speech in the waiting-room of the office, but it was without the permission and knowledge of the postmistress, because it was I who opened the door.
The father says the daughter was not there and the meeting was held without her knowledge and without her permission, and he gives us proof of that. He says "It was I who opened the door." Well, it is impossible to shift responsibility in that way in view of the activity of the father throughout all thes