Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister
of Railways and Canals) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 152, respecting the Canadian National Railways.
He said: The abject of section 1 of this bill is to enable the Canadian National Railway

Questions
Company to carry on the, express business as a department of the railway, taking over the business of the Canadian National Express Company and the Canadian Express Company. Section 2 provides that the Canadian National Railway Company may, if it so decides, sell certain parts of electric lines within the corporation of the municipality of the city of Toronto. Under the wording of the act these lines could be sold to a company. This section amends the act to make it possible to sell to a municipality or to a company.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Does the government intend to connect, by a branch line, Montreal with the National Transcontinental railway?
2.	If so, at what date do they expect to begin the necessary work?
3.	If not, would the government be disposed to grant subsidies to any person or company willing tc undertake said work?


Parliament yoted a subsidy in 1908 "for a line of railway from Montreal to a point on the National Transcontinental railway not exceeding 200 miles", and re-voted same in 1910. Any application for subsidy which may now be made would be dealt with on its merits, final decision resting with parliament.


1.	Were not the proceeds from the sale of preemptions thrown open in 1908 in what is known as the dry area in western Canada to be used for the purpose of constructing the Hudson Bay railway?
2.	How much money has been realized from that source to date?
3.	Was any other trust fund created for the purpose of constructing the Hudson Bay railway?


1.	There was no specific authority under the Dominion Lands Act 1908 for the sale of land for the purpose of Hudson Bay Railway construction, but pre-emptions were sold under the provisions of the said act.
2.	Sale of pre-emptions $15,649,674.83 to 31 March, 1923.
3.	No, so far as the Interior department is aware.


What is the total amount collected under the excise taxes, commonly called luxury taxes, imposed under section 19BB of the Special War Revenue Act?


Excise taxes collected under section 19 B.B. of the 1920 amendments to The Special War Revenue Act 1915.
Fiscal year, 1921, excise taxes, $31,921,756.51; 1922, $4,053,076.09; 1923, $8,212,775.99.


1.	What was the gross amount of income reviewed by the Tax Commission for the purposes of the income tax for the year ending March, 1922?
2.	What was the amount of income assessed for the purposes of the income tax for th.e year ending March, 1922?


1.	No information, as statistics were only compiled from taxable returns.
2.	$1,462,529,169.94.


1.	From what date was Miss Barbara Lee dismissed from the service of the Immigration department at St. John, New Brunswick?
2.	On whose recommendation was she dismissed?
3.	By what officer or officers of the department was such recommendation approved?
4.	For what reasons was it approved?
5.	Why was she dismissed?
6.	What part, if any, had a man named Byrne in
the dismissal?


1.	20th December, 1922.
2.	Mr. Jos. Byrne, officer of the Department of Immigration m charge of the catering at St. John, N.B.
3.	Mr. W. R. Little, Commissioner of Immigration, Eastern division, and Mr. J. E. Featherston, Supervisor of Personnel.
4.	Refusal to perform duties for which engaged.
5.	Answered by No. 4.
6.	Answered by No. 2.


On the Orders of the Day.
Has the Acting Minister of Immigration (Mr. Stewart, Argenteuil) any further word in regard to Alexander Howat?


We ar6 still in communication about the admission of Mr. Howat.
Italian Treaty


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. "BLACK (Yukon): I wish to draw attention to the fact that an unopposed motion . for a return was passed by this House on the 18th of last month, giving the names of newspaper companies and printing companies receiving money from the government, and the return has not been brought down.
We have that particular information ready, but another order was passed asking for the same information for five years, which we are preparing, and we will bring down within the next day or two the information for the five years.


Why is the information asked for delayed pending the other matter?


The greater includes the lesser.


The House has given the order.


I am not sure that the first order was completely ready to bring down, before the other question was asked, and we decided that it would be advisable to bring the five years down together.


That is not an answer at all. The hon. minister stated that it was ready. If it is ready there is no reason for delay. That is an order of the House and the return should be brought down when ready. The minister is simply trifling with the orders of the House.


On the Orders of the Day.
I believe that last year a Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into certain charges laid by the Great War Veterans against the Board of Pension Commissioners. That report has now been submitted to parliament, and printed and distributed to members. What is the intention of the government in regard to putting into effect immediately the conclusions of that Royal Commission?


Some legislation will be introduced later in the session to give effect to most of the recommendations in the report to which my hon. friend has referred.


Will an opportunity be given to discuss this report in the House?


I understand that an item for pensions was held over some days ago with

the intention of affording members an opportunity to discuss that feature of the report itself. I expect this item will be under consideration within a week.


Hon. W. S. FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved that the House go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution :
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to provide that a certain convention of commerce dated the fourth day of January, in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-three, entered into at London by the Plenipotentiaries appointed by His Majesty and by His Majesty the King of Italy be approved, and to give effect to the provisions of the said convention.
Will the minister please explain?


I think that would be more convenient in committee, if my hon. friend is content.


I am quite content. I do not want to delay this at all, if we have a clear understanding that by letting it go into committee, questions of principle will then be open for discussion.


I have no objection to going into the matter now. As regards the French treaty, for reasons explained, it became necessary to deal with details to a considerable extent, and, therefore, Schedules were attached to the bill. In this case we are relieved of the necessity of dealing with schedules because the Italian fiscal policy permits treatment of the question in a general way. Therefore, all we need to do is to adopt the few clauses in order to establish what we call the most favoured nation treatment.
Some years ago, in 1910, we came to an agreement with Italy, not in the form and shape of a treaty. A good understanding was reached, and for years our commercial relations have been very pleasant, although by the words of the agreement they have been rather limited. We agreed at the time to which I refer that certain mentioned products of Canada should be admitted into Italy under most favoured terms and reciprocally that certain mentioned products of Italy should be admitted into Canada similarly on the most favoured terms. The chief products of Canada, perhaps the products that most concern us were included in that list, and I presume that our Italian friends mentioned the things that most concerned them. The trade that has been carried on between Canada

Italian Treaty
and Italy lias been, on the whole, of a most satisfactory nature. I suppose the question of imports and exports has been disturbed somewhat by war conditions. The figures as they stand for a few years are as follows:
Year	Imports	Exports1914	
$2,090,000	$	514,0001918	
771,000	3,336,0001919	
555,000	13,181,0001920	
1,745,000	57,758,0001922	
1,387,000	15,335,000
Evidently 1920 was quite an exceptional year. Thus, as regards comparison, the trade is quite favourable to Canada. The existing arrangement is satisfactory as far as it goes, but it gives us no guarantee as to what may happen with other countries. It will be quite possible, under our present arrangement, for Italy to give more favourable terms to somebody else. Therefore, although no particular case has arisen demanding a treaty and business is satisfactory as far as it goes, we thought it well to guard against any misapprehension of that sort, and so we have agreed as regards, not only the limited list already mentioned in our existing agreement, but the products of Canada and the products of Italy generally, that we shall give and receive the most favoured-nation terms. No details are required. Whatever we grant to any foreign country we must grant to Italy. Whatever Italy grants to any foreign country she must grant to us. That is the whole story of the treaty.


I think, perhaps, we could make greater headway if, instead of discussing the matter now, we were to reserve whatever observations we have until the House is in committee, as long as it is understood that we can raise questions concerning the principles without being debarred from that point.


Surely.
Motion agreed to and the House went into committee, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Fielding thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 153, respecting a certain trade convention between His Majesty and the King of Italy.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
Hon. W. S. FIELDING (Minister of Finance) moved the second reading of Bill No. 153, respecting a certain trade convention between His Majesty and the King of Italy.


My suggestion to my hon. friend now becomes operative. Under my suggestion we would have no discussion on the second reading, reserving our remarks to the committee stage.


Surely.


Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
On section 2-Convention approved:
I have not a copy of the bill, but I presume this clause is merely putting into effect the treaty?


Yes.


Therefore, under this clause we can properly discuss the whole treaty. I was going to ask my hon. friend whether his view is, as mine is, that the effect of the treaty with France and this treaty with Italy is to extend, for example to Italy, the right of giving more favoured terms to all its border states than it gives to Canada. In the case of Italy, if I am right, that would [DOT]give Italy the right to prefer in her markets. France, Switzerland, Austria and Jugo-Slavia. I do not think there are any more,


I would not like to say that. Canada gives to Italy all that the French treaty gives to France. We discussed that in connection with the French treaty My hon. friend's interpretation of that I admit is possible, but I do not think it is of practical importance. Whatever we give to France we certainly give to Italy. That is plain enough.


Does the hon.
member not think the committee ought to know this? The explanation given to us in connection with the French treaty was that while the treaty might well carry that construction, and, indeed, it seems impossible that it could carry any other construction: all that France wanted was to be able to look after reparations and to give more favoured treatment under the reparations clauses. Of course, the obvious answer there was: if that be the fact, if that is all that France wants, why was not the treaty so drawn? The trouble is that we must take the treaty as we have it, and we should understand what we are doing. As drawn, it provides that France can give to her neighbours, Spain, Switzerland and Belgium, more favoured treatment than she may give to Canada. Surely we should know where we are. If my hon. friend is in doubt about it, should not the point be cleared up before we go on? I
Italian Treaty

thought it was conceded in the discussion of the French treaty that whatever the reasons might have been, whatever the argument of France was, the neighbours of the French republic might be given better treatment than Canada.


Whatever rates we give
France we are certainly bound to give to Italy. There is no dispute about that; that is the meaning of the favoured nation principle.


Certainly. Then when I came to find out what was given to France I thought my hon. friend acknowledged that under the terms of the treaty the bordering states might receive benefits over and above the benefits guaranteed Canada. If I am wrong my hon. friend will set me right.


I told the hon. member
that such was a possible interpretation of the treaty. I think the leader of the Opposition (Mr. Meighen) called attention earlier to that phase of the question and I said that the treaty was open to that interpretation but that I was satisfied that this was not what the French government had in mind. And that is what I say now.


My hon. friend admits that the treaty is open to this interpretation, and that being the case, Spain, Switzerland and Belgium, for example, are entitled, if France chooses to give it, to more favoured treatment than Canada may receive under the treaty. Following up just exactly what my hon. friend has stated, that Italy is entitled to everything France has got,-the selfsame covenant-it is obvious that Italy may give to France, Switzerland, Austria or Jugo-Slavia a preference in her markets against Canada. Surely that is the case. But if my hon. friend disputes it I suppose we shall have to debate the question. I think, however, it must be apparent that this follows necessarily from what he says.


I am not very much concerned about the neighbouring countries coming into conflict with Canada. I have said that whatever we give to France we give to Italy and all the other favoured nations, but I do not seriously look upon Jugo-Slavia as a competitor of Canada. The main object of the treaty with France.is to see that we get even terms with the United States. I say now that in this case our chief competitor will probably be the United States, and if we get even terms with that country I do not think we need be very much disturbed about all the others.


I wonder if m;. hon. friend realizes the situation; I am sure he does. He says that Jugo-Slavia cannot be looked upon as a competitor with Canada.


In Europe


In Europe, yes. I would point out to my hon. friend, though, that the vast amount of the exports of this country to Italy consists of wheat, and I am going to ask the Minister of Finance whether once upon a time central Europe was not a great wheat producer and whether there are not wheat fields .to-day on that continent which, if not perhaps actively under cultivation in Jugo-Slavia at least-and my information is that they are-are at any rate potential competitors of the Canadian wheat producers in the Italian wheat market. I should have thought that wheat raised in any quantities in central Europe and sold in the Italian market would be an important competitor against this country.


Wheat is free in Italy, and all countries are treated alike. I do not think therefore that there is anything to be alarmed about in that regard. All I can say is that if at any time Italy granted preferential treatment to any other country competing with us in wheat it would be good ground for us to give Italy notice to terminate the agreement.


My hon. friend is getting back to the chief argument he used in reference to the French treaty, which was that he could get rid of it in six months.


Surely.


But he cannot get rid of this treaty in six months; this is for four years, subject, if I remember rightly, to cancellation on a year's notice. So that the argument about being able to get rid of the agreement if it is not satisfactory does not apply here. I want to impress upon my hon, friend that the result of the treaty as negotiated is this, that if Italy chooses to put a duty on our wheat and flour she may do so and at the same time give a preference to Jugo-Slavia. She may give free entry to Jugo-Slavia and hold her tariff as against Canada. If I am wrong will my hon. friend put me right?


There may be a possibility of such a thing, but I must say that it is so utterly unlikely that I cannot treat it with as much gravity as my hon. friend does.


But we have here a solemn document which is supposed to cover

Italian Treaty
these things. If we have not reserved to us in connection with our chief export to Italy, namely wheat, that which my hon. friend declared to be the real reason for making the treaty, that is, the assurance that Italy will not give someone else better treatment, what is the use of having the treaty? After all, wheat is our chief export to Italy and if my hon. friend can rely on Italy not to give a preference in respect of this commodity to other countries as against ourselves then there is really no use for the treaty. The effect of the treaty is to enlarge the scope of the most favoured nation compact, as pointed out by my hon. friend; it is a recognition of the principle. But it further complicates the situation to this extent, that so far as Italy is concerned the favoured nation treatment is to apply for four years subject to termination at the end of one year's notice. I do not know whether my hon. friend thinks or does not think that the most-favoured nation arrangement is a good thing for Canada; he has not t9ld us yet his view on that question. But we did the best we could to point out to him in connection with the French treaty just exactly how that most favoured nation provision works as regards Canada on the one side and France on the other. I notice'that the matter has been discussed in the other House, and I see that Hon. Senator Beaubien is reported in the Senate Hansard at page 350 as follows:
In our exchange of commodities with Spain, from 1912 to 1922, both inclusive, ten times out of eleven our imports have surpassed our exports. In the nine months ending December 31, 1922, our imports have exceeded by 200 per cent our exports to that country.
In the same period of 11 years-from 1912 to 1922, both inclusive-we imported from Switzerland over 60 million dollars' worth, exported to that country less than 4i million dollars. Whenever Switzerland bought $1 worth of goods from us, we purchased $15 worth of merchandise from her. During practically all this time Switzerland was a free-trade country and we could hope for no valuable tariff concessions from her. Lately Switzerland has adopted a policy of moderate protection, and we might perchance obtain from her useful tariff privileges. She imports yearly 250 million dollars' worth of products which we can furnish, amongst them, cereals, prepared foodstuffs, live stock, leather, furs, asbestos, mica, iron and steel sheets and tubes, agricultural implements and machinery, small hardware and tools, stationary and portable engines, varnishes, lumber, wood-pulp, paper, boots and shoes, cotton goods and tobacco.
On the other hand, our clientele, which is of great value to Switzerland could be easily shifted by tariff rearrangements to France. In 1921 we imported from Switzerland a total of $8,671,608, out of which textiles and fibres amounted together to $7,266,353, all of which textiles and fibres could have been purchased in France.
Hon. gentlemen will observe, Mr. Chairman, that the senator takes the position which we took in connection with the French treaty;
that the French treaty, as the result of the facts which he points out, could be much better described as a treaty, not with France for the benefit of France, but a treaty with France for the benefit of the most favoured nations. It was in that connection that I particularly pointed out to the hon. minister the position of the silk industry which France was so much interested in, that in connection with a tariff which was supposed to be for the benefit of France, she sent us $1,000,000 worth of silk products, while Japan and Switzerland sent us $8,000,000 worth, and that while there was some assistance given to France, at the same time the effect is to help France's competitors in our own market absolutely to the same extent as we help France. So that France is not helped very much after all.	.
The hon. gentleman will also recognize this fact in connection with that very item of silk goods-and it comes in here again because the basis is the same-that we have a silk industry in Canada. I am going to point out to my hon. friend what has been done in a country where the manufacture of silk is just as foreign to it as it could be said to be foreign to Canada, where they are not entangled with the most favoured nation treaty clauses in connection with their tariff. The statistics of the United States show that their silk industry-which industry was entirely formed in that country as a result of a protective tariff, and which has resulted in silk to-day being cheaper in the United States, even with a high tariff, than it is in Canada -those statistics show the silk industry to be in this condition: In 1919-I am sorry I have not the later figures; I think they are better-there were 1,369 establishments; their employees numbered 126,782; they had an invested capital of $532,732,163; they paid in wages $108,226,330, and the value of the product was $68S,000,000. So there is a country which grows just as much silk as Canada does and no more-that imports every single bit of silk, whose people to-day are enjoying silk at a lower price in their common markets then we enjoy in Canada. Under a protective tariff-and it was a high one-they have worked up this industry, and at the same time besides having cheaper silk they distribute $108,000,000 among their wage-earners and produce manufactured articles to the value of $688,000,000. Is it any wonder that the ministry has to report an exodus from Canada to the United States? I merely point out these facts to my hon. friend.
If any further evidence is required as to the effect of the treaty, having regard to the activities of other most favoured nations, I
239S
Italian Treaty

have a list of the different countries supplying Canada with goods similar to those received from France for the years 1914, 1920, 1921 and 1922. If my hon. friend desires the information I will read it, or if he likes the figures can be placed on Hansard.


The hon. gentleman's remarks have touched some really important questions and some questions that I think are not so important. First, let me again remind him that he may talk of these silks coming in, whether they come in from France or from Italy, Switzerland or Japan, the greater proportion-I will not raise the question of 90 per cent and 10 per cent-but certainly the greater proportion of these silks have got to pay a duty of 27i per cent, less 10 per cent discount. It is necessary to keep that in mind. The whole tendency oi my hon. friend's observations is that we are bringing in these silks for nothing. If these enormous quantities of silk are paying this duty it is a good thing for the revenue. And I think 27*i per cent, less 10 per cent discount, take it all in all, is not lacking in a fair measure of encouragement to the silk industry of Canada. I think it will be held by many in this House that 27i per cent less 10 per cent, or a net duty of 25 per cent, is a pretty stiff rate and a fair measure of encouragement to our domestic industry. Wiser people than myself will say that any industry which cannot live in Canada under a 25 per cent protection is of questionable value to the country.


Hear, hear.


But I want to say this. My hon. friend in referring to the United States tariff on silks says that silk is cheaper in the United States than here. If he has made inquiries and finds that to be the case I will take his word for it, but offhand I think he is mistaken; I do not think that as a rule goods that are paying high duties are cheaper in the United States than here. However, no industry ought to complain if it is allowed 25 per cent protection in Canada. I think the silk industry is not going to suffer under these circumstances. But if my hon. friend thought a high protective system was so valuable, why in heaven's name did he not put it in force when he had a chance? Again and again he talks of this high protection as if it were something very good. We have a moderate system of protection now. Some people do not like to call it protection. But if my hon. friend thinks that cheap silk and general prosperity could be created by raising the tariff, why in heaven's name did he perambulate this country from Dan to Beersheba

and end by doing nothing? WThy did he say in the Speech from the Throne that he was going to revise the tariff and then not revise it at all? I do not think my hon. friend has so much faith in his own high tariff ideas. If he really believed so much in its merits he would have given us a high tariff long ago. On the contrary he gave us a tariff not very much different from what we have to-day, and yet my hon. friend


Oh, oh.


What is the fun? We
took something off last year, and we are going to take off-possibly we could take off something this year if we wanted to.


Oh, oh.


At all events the point
of my remarks is this: My hon. friend i3 trying to establish that you can bring about prosperity by increasing the tariff; I think I am not misstating his position. Well, I ask him in all seriousness, why did he not do it? He went all over the country; he travelled from ocean to ocean, as I have said; he accumulated a vast amount of information, and the result was that he made up his mind to do nothing. Well, I do not think he ought to complain of what we do under similar conditions.
My hon. friend talks of the favoured nation provision as if it were something created by these treaties. Again I must direct his attention to the fact that there is nothing in this treaty, there was nothing in the French treaty which says a single word about what rates should be given to Switzerland or Japan or any other foreign country. The privilege of importing from Switzerland, from Japan and all those other countries arises from treaties made not by this government, but by governments of long ago, treaties which the hon. gentleman respected and recognized when he was in office. If they were the wrong thing; if favoured nation treatment is wrong, then why did my Conservative friends, in all the years they were in power, allow these treaties to stand? The Swiss treaty to which my hon. friend refers was in force during all the years that he and his associates were in office, and they did not seem to find anything wrong with it. How is it that it is only now discovered to be wrong? I cannot understand that. Again I say that if there is anything arising out of this so-called favoured nation treatment, it has been there for years, and that when my hon. friends had to deal with it they accepted it as something good and stood by it. Only now that they are sitting

Italian Treaty
on the other side do they suddenly discover a very great evil in it.
The main question is this: Is favoured nation treatment a sound policy or not? Many hon. members will think it is not. For myself I would say that it might not be well to apply it universally. There might be conditions under which the favoured nation treatment would not do you much good. I would not value an agreement with the United States now on the favoured nation principle because the best they can give us under present conditions would not be anything favourable or satisfactory. But where a country has a low or moderate tariff, what more can we ask from them? Take the case of Switzerland; my hon. friend says their tariff is a low one. Well, can we expect them to do more? If they give us all they are giving to the wide world, and if their tariff is low, what more can we ask? We have had that question debated many times, and I suppose it will be debated again. But if you have no favoured nation treatment you must be forever on the watch to gain access to the markets of another country.
Let me illustrate by an incident from my own experience. In the early days of the Liberal government I remember the latP Mr Barker, of Hamilton, a very able member of this House, getting up one day and saying that some of the manufacturers from his city had gone to Japan and that on the same vessel that carried them there were some American manufacturers of similar goods. He went on to say with indignation, "You will wonder when I tell you that what actually happened was this: the United States goods were allowed entry into Japan at a low rate while we in Canada had to pay a high rate for the very same article." Well, the fact was that a few years before, a treaty had, been entered into between Great Britain and Japan with the privilege that Canada might or might not adhere to it. The Canadian government of that day-I am not sure at the moment who were in power-thought it would not be wise to adhere to the treaty, the consequence was that Canada was not included in the favoured nation arrangement, and when cotton goods from Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, and similar goods from New York arrived in Japan, the United States goods were admitted at a low rate and the Canadian goods were taxed at a high rate. There was an illustration of what resulted from our not having come in under the favoured nation provision. Well, the Canadian government very soon got busy and adhered to the treaty, and from that day to this United States goods and Canadian 153
goods have gone into Japan on the same terms. That shows how some other nations may get ahead of us where there is no favoured nation treaty as applying to our own country.
I am not laying down the doctrine that in all cases we should adopt the favoured nation principle, but in the main, especially in the case of a country which has a low tariff, I think the principle is a good one. No country will give to Canada, or to any other country, exclusive commercial privileges; but the best it gives to any country it may hold itself free to give to any other country. It would be preposterous for us to go to Switzerland and say: You must give us a lower rate than you give a certain other country. No country would do it; we would not do it. We would not give exclusively to any one country any special commercial privilege. We might give what we thought would suit them, but we would retain the right to extend the same privilege to any other country. And I repeat, if a country has a low tariff and is giving us the best it is giving to anybody else, what more can we ask? That, in brief, is the argument for the favoured nation principle. There may be cases in which its application might not be wise if, for instance, we discovered that we were suffering any great injury through the admission of Swiss silks at 27\ per cent less the discount, why, we could get rid of it, I suppose. But it was there all the time my hon. friend was in power; he did not want to get rid of it then, and I am not sure he wants to get rid of it now.


It is always a great pleasure to hear from my hon. friend (Mr. Fielding), even though the subject may be old and threadbare and pretty well washed out. Now, he says, why did we not increase the tariff? I would ask him to turn up any of his own speeches or the speeches of his leader when we were in power and to answer his own question from the arguments then advanced. Why, the whole time that hon. gentlemen opposite were over here they were declaiming to the House that we had no mandate and could not do business of any kind at all.


Did you believe that?


That was the claim then made. No, we did not believe it. We believed we had the right to try to keep things going on in Canada and to put the country in proper shape after the war. And we were right in our belief; we were successful in our work, because when my

Italian Treaty

hon. friends attained power they were able to say that no country in the world was in better shape than Canada was. That is what we did.


In spite of a Tory government.


My hon. friend asked, why did we not do it? Why did not my hon. friend himself do what he said he was going to do-reduce the rates of duty? What was his answer? Why, his answer was that the great American republic was doing something. What did we say? We said that until the policy of that country was absolutely fixed; that until they were really committed to a course of action, Canada would do nothing to give them the slightest excuse for their action in the premises. That is the stand we took, and twelve months later that is the stand my hon. friend takes; yet he turns round now and says, why did we not do it? That is the kind of argument we get when we try to talk business.


Oh, oh.


That is the sort of argument, and one or two laughs-that is all. During the last session, although my hon. friends were insistent in their argument that we had no mandate, no right to do anything, the demand was nevertheless repeatedly made that a redistribution bill be brought down. But last session, a year afterward, hon. gentlemen opposite said that it was impossible to bring down a redistribution measure-although one of the claims previously made -was that there should be a special session of parliament to deal with that question. Well, two years afterwards we still have not a redistribution measure, although I understand there is a committee somewhere, waiting and hoping and struggling to get something like a settled declaration of government policy. That is how we stand on the question of what we have done. But what difference does it make whether we did the right thing or the wrong thing? The question now is what ought to be done today for Canada, regardless of old history, regardless of efforts to draw herrings across the trail. Is my hon. friend content with the exodus from Canada? Is he content with the conditions in his own province to-day-idle factories; 15,000 people moved out of Halifax since he came into office? Does he like that? And if he does not like it, should we not discuss it instead of simply saying nothing is to be done for Canada because I happened to be in office, I think it was two and a

half years, and did not do then what is now the right thing to do, not being met with the same necessities for action that this government is met with? The exodus came with this government, the exodus was not with us.
My hon. friend says that if I have made an investigation of the silk price business he is quite ready to take my word. I will tell him frankly that I have not, but I am going to ask my hon. friend to ask the ladies of his own family whether they cannot buy their silks in the United States cheaper than they can in Canada. I need not go any further. Ask them if they cannot get their silk stockings when they are across the line cheaper than they can buy them here. I know that is what my women folk tell me, and they wonder why it is. The answer is not to be found in the tariff, as my hon. friend understands it, it is to be found in connection with the silk industry just exactly as it was shown in the tin plate industry in the United States' and practically every other industry in that country. Why, the time was when there was not a single tin plate mill in the United States. The United States imposed a very high duty on tin plate, 75 per cent if my recollection is correct. The price of tin plate went up, and although previously Welsh tin plate had been sold altogether in the United States and not a bit of tin plate had been produced in that country, within a comparatively short space of time the United States was not only producing all her own tin plate but exporting as well to the Mother Country. I do not know how it is to-day, but I know that at the time I made the investigation my hon. friend speaks about, tin plate was selling lower in the United States than it was in the Mother Country. That is what they did with the tariff, and what they did there for tin plate they have done for silks here. Would it not be a good thing if we had that $108,000,000 of wages spent in Canada to-day? Would it not be a good thing if there was just a little movement from the south to the north instead of an uninterrupted stream from the north to the south? I ask my friend seriously to consider the position in which he finds this country getting to-day, and seriously considering it I think he will come to the conclusion, if he does not find himself so tied down by pledges here and pledges there -and I have to congratulate him on the ease with which he can get rid of these things- that we need a little more industry at home and a change in the direction of that stream, turning it from the south to the north.
My hon. friend is probably right in what, he says about the favoured nation treaty. It

Italian Treaty
is an old treaty, and we did not do anything to hurt it. He did a very good thing-I have given him credit for it before and I have to give him credit for it again-when he got rid of the favoured nation treatment 4 p.m. of Germany. He did a good thing for Canada then, but that is a long time ago, and the necessity for action to-day is more insistent that it was in the past. Our condition is more serious; our need for employment at home is greater now. If it was right for the hon. gentleman to do that with respect to Germany, will he not be good enough to look into the question to-day and see if something cannot be done in tint connection? As I say, I have all the figures. They are all worked out, but I do not want to take up the time of the committee in reading them. I shall be pleased to send a copy of them to my hon. friend or to hand them to Hansard for the information of the members. My hon. friend will find that these figures substantiate just what I have been saying.
What my hon. friend says is perfectly true about the first start of that most favoured nation clause. It can be got rid of so easily. If my hon. friend will refer again to the speech of Senator Beaubien in the Senate he will find that he can get rid of that clause just as easily to-day as he got rid of it when he was dealing with Germany.


I would like to inquire from the minister what the Italian rate is, whether the tariff generally speaking is ad valorem or specific duties.


I think it is mostly specific duties. It is a moderate tariff on the whole, to the extent that I am acquainted with it. It is not an excessive tariff.


Would the minister consider giving the committee a list similar to the French list of the principal exports, so that we can get a general view? I think it would be a good thing for the trade of the country. I would like to see what the duties are on the different things we have for export.


In the case of the French treaty there was a long list of items many of which my hon. friend thought were not im portant, but in order that the committee may know the extent of our exports in the principal articles I am quite willing, before the third reading of the bill, to bring down a list.


I would like to see a list of our exports in the principal articles. Our exports to Italy are very limited, leaving out some of the articles in the French treaty that the minister refers to in the French treaty. I
153&
am not interested in those, and I think very few others are, but I would like to see what the Italian list is in the articles of importance to this country.


I shall be very glad before the third reading to bring down a statement showing what our principal exports to Italy are.


May I ask the minister if Italian goods in order to receive the benefits under this treaty, are required to be imported through Canadian ports?


Yes. The French treaty requires that, and in order to get the benefit of the French treaty they would have to accept the same conditions.


I am referring to Italy.


Italy would have to come under the same conditions.


Is it so stated in the treaty?


Not expressly so. It is a favoured nation treaty. Whatever the best terms we give to any other foreign nation Italy can claim, and the best terms that were given to France contain the condition the hon. gentleman mentions. They can get the benefits only by accepting the responsibilities.


Is it not a fact that it is only to France that the Canadian port clause applies? These duties we are giving to other countries too, and as a consequence any goods that another country sends to us at a certain rate Italy can get at the same rate, and does not have to send them through Canadian ports.


My impression is that they will be subject to the same restrictions that France is.


I do not see the reasoning at all. It is only France that has the Canadian port clause. Any other nation to which we are giving these rates has no Canadian port clause. Italy is entitled not only to as good treatment as France but as good treatment as any other country. Consequently the goods that another country can send in by American ports, Italy can send in too.


But I do not think any other country could. The privilege was especially given to France, and the other nations who get the benefit of the French treaty must comply with the same terms.


Perhaps we will have to await events. I would ask the hon. minister
Italian Treaty

this: Outside of one or two clauses reserving certain rights to France in respect of border states and the like, is the French treaty itself aything more than a favoured nation treaty?


No, I do not think it is.


I agree with the minister there. He stated in his speech that he would not consider a favoured nation treaty with a higher tariff country any good.


The United States for example.


France is a far higher
tariff country than the United States. Then does it not follow that his French treaty is no good?


That is a far-fetched
statement.


I do not see it. That is about as short a piece of reasoning as I have ever seen, and I do not see any escape from it. The minister says the French treaty is a favoured nation treaty and nothing more. He says that a favoured nation treaty with a high tariff country is no good. France is the highest tariff country in the world.


I said a favoured nation
treaty with the United States would be no good, because she is a high tariff country.


The minister illustrated it by the United States, and I think he is right, but it follows that his French treaty would be no good. I am sorry that reasoning did not appear to him.


I for one would not be inclined to offer any adverse criticism to this proposal. In my judgment, it is a far superior agreement, so far as Canada is concerned, to the French treaty. Many of the objectionable features of the French treaty are eliminated when we come to the Italian treaty, notably those provisions which appear in respect of the right of France to make such treaties as she may see fit with bordering nations, also the reservation on the part of France in respect of her colonies and protectorates, and also the reservation on the part of France in respect of enemy countries. Those features are all eliminated when we come to the agreement with Italy. This apparently is a most favoured nation agreement, out and out, and as I read it, I am inclined to differ from the opinion expressed by my hon. friend the member for West York (Sir Henry Drayton) in regard to border states. I would doubt if Italy were entitled to any reservation in re-
spect of border states, although France is undoubtedly entitled to such reservation. I think I would be inclined to take issue with the opinion expressed by the Finance Minister in regard to shipment to Canadian ports. As I read the agreement with Italy, there is nothing to bind Italy in respect to shipments to Canadian ports from Italian ports, but there is in the treaty with France. There is express provision in the treaty with France, in article 11, in regard to natural and manufactured products originating in and coming from France, when imported into Canada. I would doubt very much if that provision in the French treaty has any application to the goods of Italy coming to this country. Therefore, I submit it is at least doubtful whether there is anything in the Italian treaty which would compel shipment of goods to Canadian ports, in order that they might obtain the benefit of the most favoured nation treatment. The Italian agreement is very straightforward and very simple, as compared with the arrangement made with France. Article 1 merely provides for the imports of the two countries at the lowest rates of tariff granted to any foreign country. Article 2 applies to the exports of both countries at lowest rates granted to any foreign country. Article 4 provides that each country shall receive the most favoured nation treatment. Article 5 expressly provides that the convention shall apply to the colonies and possessions of Italy, and then provides for the termination of the treaty. If the principle of making agreements with other countries in the world, upon what we know as the basis of most favoured nation treatment, be a good one, then I think, in respect of Italy, we probably have a model convention, and I do not anticipate that any particular ills will flow from it. I would be inclined to think that, in respect of the trade of Italy there might possibly be some advantage to this country, as well as to Italy, and I would doubt very much if the provision in the French treaty in respect of border states would apply at all in regard to the treaty now made with Italy. Certainly, it would not apply in regard to the case of Jugo-Slavia, which was cited by my hon. friend, because that is not one of the border states of Italy. The border states of France would be Spain, Italy, Switzerland and Belgium.


And Germany.


And Germany. There is in respect of these countries a special reservation in the French treaty which is omitted

Italian Treaty
in the Italian treaty. I do not think Italy could take advantage of that reservation, but I may be wrong in that respect. However, I think that in the question asked by the hon. member for St. John (Mr. MacLaren) there is a suggestion which we should clear up before the matter is finally settled. I am inclined to think there is nothing in the present arrangement with Italy to compel shipment to a Canadian port at all. A shipment may be made from an Italian port to an American port, and the provisions of the treaty still apply to the imports of this country in the matter of duties, whereas in the French treaty it expressely provides for the shipment of goods from France to Canada. That cannot apply to Italian goods, because they would necessarily be shipped from Italy to Canada. If goods originating in Italy were shipped from France to Canada, they might be entitled to the same treatment as French goods under that treaty. But I doubt very much if any would come that way. It would requre a special provision with respect to goods shipped from an Italian port to a Canadian port-


Will the minister state whether there are any of our actual exports to France that secure at the hands of Italy favoured nationed treatment under this agreement that did not secure it before?


I think not. I think they already had our principal exports under the agreement made some years ago.


Is there any real permanency to this agreement that did not attach to the other? What were the terms for cancellation in the other treaty?


It was not a treaty in fact at all before. It had not the form of a treaty, but it was an understanding come to here in Ottawa with the Italian consul. My recollection is that it required four months' notice, but substantially it covered our main exports. As I said a while ago, there is not much extension of business in this treaty, but it is a benefit to have it in a permanent form. That is all.


It really is a matter of form. I have not been able to find what form the last agreement took. Was it not ratified by parliament? [DOT]


No. I think it was done by order in council, and did not require ratification by parliament. It was not done by form of treaty. The Tariff Act authorized the
Governor in Council to extend the benefit of the intermediate tariff, and my recollection is that it was done under that provision.
Mr. A1EIGHEN: It was done under statute.


Yes.


It really was a statutory
enactment.


Yes.


The only difference was that it had a four months' notice of cancellation, whereas this has one year. The rest is a difference of form.


This is more comprehensive, It includes all things.


The other included all that we sold.


Perhaps it did.


I suppose this would apply to the list of mysterious drugs that appear in the French treaty?


It would include them.


Why was the term four years fixed as the length of the treaty? Four is an unusual number; the usual term is five or ten years.


The idea was that the term should not be made, too long. We thought it well to withhold the right of parliament to revise its judgment upon the matter.


It had no connection with other expiring treaties?





This term was fixed just arbitrarily at four years?


I think the Italians
talked of a longer period, and we thought it wise not to make a longer period.


I notice the name of Lord Curzon of Kedleston in connection with this treaty. If we are to judge from the pronouncements of the government and the statement of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Lapointe), this government would consider it a great indignity that a British plenipotentiary should sign, along with Canadian p