Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 136, to amend the Immigration Act.
He said: Mr. Speaker, the few amendments we are proposing to the act are merely to make it conform to changed conditions. Some sections with respect to alien enemies are being amended, and in the case of section 41 we are reverting to the old Section in substitution of

the amended section of two years ago. We are also increasing the fines from $10 to $20 where shipmasters are negligent in reporting desertion.
What is the change in section 41?


We revert to old section 4 of two years ago.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Is the Montreal Cold Storage a national institution?
2.	To what extent is it financed by the government and at what rate of interest?
3.	What are the net results (profit or loss) on the operating expenses of this storage for its first year's operations?
4.	How will deficits be met, and in event of loss will harbour dues be increased to meet same?
5.	Are the rates charged by the Montreal commission lower than other public cold storages charged previous to opening the Montreal commission's plant?
6.	Is it the intention of the government to subsidize cold storages to be operated by co-operative associations in various parts of the country with the idea of having a chain of storages in the country to supply the Montreal Cold Storage and thus have all under government control?
7.	Would there be any discrimination against private individuals or corporations who might desire a subsidy for a cold storage plant, or is it intended to assist only rural communities that are organized?
8.	Has any provision been made for the continuance of a subsidized cold storage in case of disorganization of the co-operative societies?
9.	In the event of public cold storages being closed as a result of competition is there likely to be any increase in the rates charged by the Montreal commission ?


1.	The Harbour Commissioners of Montreal have at that port a cold storage plant in addition to other cold storage plants at Montreal.
2.	The building of this plant was financed to the extent of $2,765,000 out of money loaned by the government under statutory authority and secured by debentures bearing interest at 5 per cent.
3.	Operation and maintenance, 7 months, $113,789.62; interest on cost of construction, 7 months, $80,665.60; total reoeipts for 7 months, $55,416.45.
4.	It is confidently expected that the plant will in future be self-sustaining, but any deficit that may occur will be met from general harbour revenues without increasing harbour dues.

Questions
5.	The rates charged by the harbour commissioners' cold storage plant are the same as those charged by the other cold storage plants in Montreal, with the exception that in the case of the former no charge is made for insurance.
6.	No.
7.	The Cold Storage Act, as approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Colonization, provides that subsidies be paid only on account of municipal and co-operative cold storages.
8.	No provision has been made for the continuance of a subsidized cold storage in case of disorganization of the co-operative societies, but the act will provide that the government shall hold a lien on the cold storage for the full amount of the subsidy.
9.	There is no likelihood whatever of the rates in the harbour commissioners cold storage plant being increased if the other cold storages become closed as a result of competition, the intention of the harbour commission being to make the charges for this service as low as they possibly can, having regard to revenue requirements.


1.	What investment, if any, has the government in the plant of Canadian Vickers?
2.	What moneys, if any, are being paid Canadian Vickers, and for what services?


1.	Not any.
2.	An annual subsidy of $105,000 is paid by agreement under authority of the Dry Dock Subsidies Act, 9-10 Edward VII, chapter 17 (1910), amended by 2 George V., chapter 20 (1912).


1.	What is the revenue of the Custom House, at
Hawkesbury, Ontario?	*
2.	What amount is paid in salaries to the Dominion government employees, at Hawkesbury?
3.	What are the names, salaries and date of appointment of each government employee at Hawkesbury?
4.	Why was Dr. R. P. Pattee superannuated?


Department of . Customs and Excise

1.	Revenue for the fiscal year 1922-23, $54,380.10.
2.	Salaries as of 1st April, 1923, $3,180.00 per year.
3.	Alex. Aiken, salary $1,080; employed January 22, 1917; permanently appointed October 1, 1917. W. T. Emonds, salary $1,140; employed February 18, 1913; permanently
appointed July 10, 1914. H. M. Mooney, salary $960; employed January 17, 1921.
4.	Retired order in council of May 18, 1921, under the provisions of the Public Service Retirement Act on the recommendation of the chairman of the sub-committee of council on reorganization and efficiency approving of a report and recommendation of the chairman of the Civil Service Commission.
Post Office Department-
1.	No information.
2.	No information.
3.	James G. Higginson, postmaster, salary $2,836.66, out of which the postmaster pays his assistants; appointed 1st June, 1869.
4.	No information.


Referring to part K Auditor General's report for the year ending March 31st, 1921, at page 102, the item Interior-Protection of timber, $2,623.08:
1.	How was this sum expended?
2.	To whom was it paid?
3.	What service or material was received for same?
4.	Was same paid through any Yukon official?
5.	If so, through whom?
6.	If not, through what official of the government was same paid?


1. This money was paid from Protection of Timber Appropriation and sent to F. G. Ber-ton, Mining Recorder, Whitehorse, Yukon Territory, as follows, in payment of accounts rendered for fire-fighting:
August	17,	Cheque No.	203 for $ 210 45	November	12,	1J ))	1027 "	2,344 03December	17,	13 ))	1604 "	3 601921 January	31,	)) J>	1895 "	5 00March	9,	* })	2136 "	60 002. F. G.	Berton, Mining	$2,623 08 Recorder, White-	
horse.
3.	-
Travel-
Sept. 12, 1920, F. G. Berton, one-half expenses, Fire Inspection
trip	$	11 50
Fire fighters, etc.-
June pay list	$ 210 45
July pay list	 198 65
August pay list	 1,339 35
Services, 1 man, 1 day.. 5 00 W.P. & Y.R. Transport. 16 45

Questions

Auto Hire-
July 30, 1920, F. E. Harbottle	 30 00
July 29, 1920, R. H. Palmer	 74 00
Hardware-
July 30, 1920, John Sewell	 55 05
July 30, 1920, W. A.
Puckett	 100 95
Provisions, etc.-
From July 30 to August 20, 1920, Arctic Trading Co	
514	53From July 30 to August 20, 1920, White Pass & Yukon Rte. Freight. 7 15 Services, 75 hours, Aug- ' ust 1920, James Miller Services	
60	00


4.	Yes.
5.	F. G. Berton, Mining Recorder, Whitehorse.
6.	Answered by No. 5.
2.	What was the address and occupation of each member of the commission previous to his appointment?
3.	When were they appointed, and for how long?
4.	What is the salary of each commissioner?
5.	Are these salaries fixed by statute or are they voted annually?
1.	Leslie H. Boyd, Fort William, Ont.; Matthew Snow, Fort William, Ont. and Winnipeg, Man.; James Robertson, Fort William, Ont.
2.	Leslie H. Boyd, K.C., Montreal, Que.; Matthew Snow, Secretary Northwest Grain Dealers' Association, Winnipeg; James Robinson, Vice-President Saskatchewan Co-operative Association, Regina, Sask.
3.	Leslie H. Boyd, March 27, 1917, period of ten years; Matthew Snow, April 19, 1922, period of ten years; James Robinson, September 1, 1922, period of ten years.
Leslie H. Boyd, Chief Commissioner, $6,500 per annum; Matthew Snow, Commissioner, $6,000 per annum; James Robinson, Commissioner, $6,000 per annum.
5.	Fixed by statute-Canada Grain Act.





1.	What was the revenue during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1922, from the Yukon Telegraph
System ?
2.	What was the revenue during the same period on the said system from messages sent and delivered within British Columbia?
3.	What was the revenue during the same period on said system from messages: (a) Sent and delivered within Yukon Territory; (b) Sent within Yukon Territory and delivered elsewhere; (c) Sent from points outside Yukon Territory and delivered within Yukon Territory ?


With respect to this question, we are waiting for information, which will be ready in a few days.
BOARD OP GRAIN COMMISSIONERS Mr. COOTE:
1.	What are the names and addresses of the members of the Board of Grain Commissioners?
1.	What has been the gross amount of revenue per year, collected by the Dominion government, from income taxes in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba (separately), each year since the coming into effect of the said income tax?
2.	What has been the total cost of collecting thia tax each year?
3.	What has been the net revenue obtained from same?


In accordance with section 4 of the Income War Tax Act payments made under the Business Profits War Tax Act are deducted from the amount of taxes that would otherwise be payable under the Income War Tax Act; also as the administration of both acts is conducted by the same staff the answers hereinafter given relate to the collections and expenses in these provinces under the two acts combined.
1	1919	1920	1921	1922	1923Manitoba	
$3,552,115	21	$4,627,585	75	$6,079,860	12	$7,439,409	42	$5,164,930	23Saskatchewan .. ..	457,433 88	1,261,685	48	1,519,890	82	2,665,235	37	1,738,248	78Alberta	
699,874	98	2,213,708	03	2,232,193	75	2,707,262	26	2,120,915	97
2.
Manitoba	
8	25,166 82 $ 117,270 60 $	93,484 45 $ 118,317 46 $ 112,313 36Saskatchewan	25,583	45	194,311	86	161,073	09	181,955	62	166,669	87Alberta	
25,209	37	101,425	87	79,093	65	95,163	87	100,025	72
3.
Manitoba	
$3,526,948	39	$4,510,315	15	$5,986,375	67	$7,321,091	96	$5,052,616	87Saskatchewan	431,850	43	1,067,373	62	1,358,817	73	2,483,279	75	1,571,578	91Alberta ..	....	674,665 61	2,112,282 16	2,153,100 10	2,612,098 39	2,020,890 25

Questions


Referring to Hansard, page 2029, the Minister of Immigration stated, first column, that the total amount loaned under the Soldier Settlement Act was $94,993,421.38. At the foot of the second column he made the statement that the amount of money expended on loans was:-
Year	Loans
1918- 1919	$ 1,383,391 82
1919-	1920	
42,715,374	341920-	1921	
22,833,186	291921-	1922	
11,501,160	09

What is the explanation for the difference in the amounts ?


The loan disbursements for Fiscal Year 1920-1921 should read $32,833,186.29 and not $22,833,186.29; also the total loan disbursements quoted in the previous column ($94,933,421.38) are up to January 31, 1923. Therefore, it the amount disbursed from April 1, 1922, to January 31, 1923, ($6,560,308.84) is added, the statement printed in column 1, Page 2,106 will be found to be correct, viz:
Year	Loans
1918- 1919	$ 1,383,391 82
1919- 1920	 42,715,374 34
1920- 1921	:. 32,833,186 29
1921- 1922	 11,501,160 09
1922 to January 31,1923 6,560,308 84


1.	What was the total number of employees of the Board of Grain Commissioners at Fort William in the year 1922, and what was the total of the salaries paid during the year?
2.	What number of persons were employed in the Weighing department in each month, and what was the amount of wages paid to them in each month?
3.	What was the amount of grain weighed by this department in each month?
4.	What number of persons were employed in the Inspection department in each month, and what was the amount of wages paid to them in each month?
5.	What was the amount of grain inspected by this department in each month?


On the Orders of the Day:
Is the government able to give us any information in regard to the strike at Thetford Mines?


Mr. Speaker, the first information received by the government in regard to this
strike was this morning in a letter from the correspondent of the department at Thetford Mines. The strike appears to have started on Monday morning, some four hundred men being concerned. The company has closed the mines, and the employees so far have refused to consider returning to work unless and until the manager is removed. The provincial government is looking into the situation, That is all the information we have at the present time. My department has an officer on the spot making further inquiries to see if we can assist in settling the trouble.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I notice in to-day's Citizen a-news item to the effect that the horses donated to Canada by the Shire Breeders of Great Britain have arrived at the Experimental Farm and will be kept there for a few days, their ultimate destination being Lacombe, Alberta. I should like to ask the minister (Mr. Motherwell)-unfortunately he is not in his seat at the moment-if it is the intention of his department to send all of these horses out to the West, or will any of them be retained in Ontario for the improvement of the breed in this province?


I am sorry that the hon. Minister of Agriculture is not in his seat at the moment, but I shall have pleasure in directing his attention to the question which my hon. friend has asked.


On the Orders of the Day:
Can the government give us any information with respect to the killing of two American citizens by the crew of a Canadian patrol boat off Vancouver Island yesterday?


A preliminary report has been prepared in connection with this incident. Here is what has been supplied to me:
The fishery protection steamer Malaspina, Captain Newcombe in command, sighted the United States schooner Siloam, of Seattle, engaged in fishing within one mile of Solander island. Upon sighting the schooner, the captain blew three whistles, the usual signal for the schooner to stop. No attention having been paid this signal, the Malaspina fired three blank shots across the bow of the schooner. The latter continuing, two solid shots were fired across the

French Treaty

bow, but still no attention from the schooner. The captain of the Malaspina at this point hailed the captain of the schooner again, requesting him to stop, but he declined to do so. Two solid shots were then fired but missed, after which the Malaspina demanded that the schooner stop, warning the captain that if these instructions were not obeyed the vessel would be sunk. The schooner persisted in paying no attention to this warning, consequently no alternative was left to the captain of the Malaspina but to fire a rifle volley at the pilot house.
Unfortunately a man was wounded, but the schooner stopped and the schooner's boat brought the wounded man to the Malaspina and then headed for the shore. The report continues.
The Malaspina lowered a boat at once and a line was put on board the schooner, when it was discovered that the crew had scuttled her before leaving. The Malaspina then endeavoured to tow her, although full of water, and obtain medical aid for the wounded man. The Mounted Police and other authorities were notified and tried to arrest the four other men of the schooner's crew who had escaped.
It is the opinion of the officers of the department that these men are not American citizens, though they were on an American schooner; they are probably foreigners. We will have a final and more complete report in a short time.


I placed two questions on the order paper on 5th March. These questions were passed as orders for returns and appear in the votes and proceedings of 7th March. I should like to know when I may expect to receive an answer to these questions?


The questions were in a form which seemed to us to be incomplete. If the hon. member had in proper course moved his motion I would have asked an amendment which would have covered all the ground he wished to cover, and something more. The matter, of course, can only be brought up in its proper order. If the hon. member attaches importance to it, I would arrange with him as to what the amendment should be and we can bring down the return even yet.


If I caught the minister's remarks, he does not propose, without an amendment, to bring down a return which has been ordered by the House?


My right hon. friend (Mr. Meighen) is wrong; the return has not been ordered by the House?


That was the statement of the hon. member for Halton (Mr. Anderson).


No, I do not think he meant that. The motion was put on the order paper and the hon. member was not here when it was called; at all events it was not moved in its proper order. My recollection is that it is still on the order paper as a notice of motion.


They are in the Votes and Proceedings, and one has been passed as an order for return. The statement in the Votes and Proceedings of March 7th is that an order of the House had been issued to the proper officers to prepare the information asked for in the notice of motion.


Possibly I have the
wrong impression in mind; I will look into the matter. Certainly, the order I had in mind stood as a notice of motion. In view of the hon member's statement, however, i will make inquiries.


There w'as also a question in my name which stood as notice of motion for an order for return. Then there was also an order of the House which was the result of a notice of motion.


Perhaps I have been referring to the wrong one. If so, my remarks have been out of place.


On the Orders of the Day:
A number of papers in the United States and Canada are calling attention to the conditions which exist with regard to the rum running traffic. It is claimed that Canada is being used as a base for this illicit traffic from this country to the United States, and further that the new regulations are not at all effective in preventing this evil. I should like to ask whether the government is bringing in any measures with a view to dealing effectively with this matter?


The government is exercising every care to see that the existing regulations are carried out. Thus far it has not been possible to devise more effective means than those we already have. It is probable that some of these reports are not well founded. However, I shall have pleasure in directing the attention of the minister to the matter and having it looked into further.


The House resumed from Thursday, April 19, the debate on the motion of Hon. Mr. APRIL 26, 1923
French Treaty
Fielding for the second reading of Bill No. 23, respecting a certain Convention of Commerce between His Majesty and the French Republic.
Mr. Speaker, I desire to continue, though I fear my remarks will have to be brief, the discussion of the second reading of the French Treaty Bill. At the last sitting I called attention to the valuable concessions this country had given, concessions that aggregated a loss in revenue unquestionably amounting to between half a million and a million dollars-revenue that was derived from the users of undoubted luxuries and now must be made up by taking more or declining to take less from the pockets of the users of undoubted necessities. The price we pay does not end there. The price we pay involves as well disabilities upon primary producers of this country, producers of wines, producers, or contemplated and quite practical producers, of silks and many commodities in respect of which we now have remaining little more than a nominal duty against the importation. Every single item that appears in the schedules of the treaty affecting goods coming to Canada is a real item; every one is an item of some importance; many of them are items of major importance. The French negotiators did not consider that printer's ink was of particular value in a treaty; they wanted concessions that were concessions, and they got them. They did not think of the wisdom of going back to their parliament with a long list of articles which eve'n their parliament would know nothing about, such as was the course pursued by our representatives.
I want now to dwell on what we obtain which is alleged to be of value in the treaty; and I will not need to be detailed at all. The hon. member for Lincoln (Mr. Chaplin) has placed upon Hansard figures taken from our export and import returns that bear directly on the value of this treaty on both sides, on the value of every concession or of everything that is supposed to be a concession to us. All that has been said about the treaty, assuming everything the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) has uttered to be correct, does not shatter in the least degree the case made by the* hon. member for Lincoln. The Minister of Finance says, "Oh, we get concessions here in respect of certain goods asked to be reduced by the Canadian Manufacturers' Association," and he read a list of those goods, undoubtedly articles in respect of which he has already had the duty reduced down to the
American level, in some cases down to the minimum tariff, but in all cases to the American level, and he says: Look at that for a triumph! Is not that something worth while? Those articles, he says, are not to be treated with scorn as the hon. member for Lincoln (Mr. Chaplin) treated them. Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Lincoln treated no article that the minister mentioned with scorn, not at all. He admitted they were concessions. But are they of much value? Surely ministers do not come here and say they sat for three, four or five months in Paris trying to get a few spare parts of implements down to the American level of duty.
Take the minister's speech and read the articles to which he attributes so much importance-certain portions of agricultural implements, canvass for binders, magnetos for another implement that we sell to France, that is for automobiles, and other articles of similar kind. Read the list from beginning to end and I venture to say that there is not one article that the French people would not readily have reduced to the American level in their own interests for reasons that are so obvious that we would not need to send anybody to France. These articles are binder canvasses, canvass straps, magnetos, ordinary cast iron spares, straight solid steel shafts, tubular bored straight shafts, spark plugs and certain articles of a similar character in iron and steel. The French people are using the completed products of these goods. They have our binders, our mowers, our automobiles, and they found they could not get these spare parts except over a prohibitive duty. Why, the French people, one would think, would be at the door of their government to have these articles reduced. But it is worth something to Canada. No one disputes that it is of some value to the manufacturers of these goods, and they would ask for it, but it is no triumph for the Canadian negotiators and no real concession on the part of France. Grant the reduced duties on these articles, and everything the Minister of Finance has mentioned, and in sight of that meagre array just let us bring to our minds what the Minister of Finance has given.
I will refer in a moment to the contention of the minister that he could not do any better, that he did the best he could. But it is surely worth while for us to compare the conditions under this treaty with the conditions that existed before. If it is not, then the Minister of Finance simply raises the white flag and he says: We have got to do what ("very high tariff country in this world tells us; we have to do it; we have to bow-down and submit to the exactions which any
French Treaty

country wishes to impose. If the treaty we have with them is not good enough for them and they want something more to their advantage, all they have to do is to say so. That on the plea that he could do no better is the position of the Minister of Finance.
No, Mr. Speaker, we must compare the conditions under this treaty with the conditions that existed before, and I say that we would be infinitely better off without this treaty and have the conditions that existed before; and if France wants to get rid of the conditions that existed before, surely we are not going to proclaim that we are absolutely without weapons while France has all the weapons in her hands.	[DOT]
The minister has his schedule A in respect of which he has the French minimum tariff. Well, the French minimum tariff may be of value on certain goods, and may be of no value at all on other goods, and I venture to say that the Minister of Finance has not secured one single reduction in respect of schedule A, his best schedule, that is of any substantial value to the Dominion of Canada. But it is his best schedule. Most of our exports are under that schedule, the body of our exports that go to France to-day are under the general tariff, the general tariff being as regards them the same as the minimum tariff. Surely the minister was not afraid that there would be a penalty duty imposed against Canada. Our wheat, our grain and all these things that we export in tremendous quantities do not go very much into France, it is true, because the duty is so high, but they are our chief exports. The French general tariff is the same on them as their minimum tariff, and on the first page of Schedule A which embraces 65 per cent of the exports of Canada, the minister has secured reductions on five articles not one dollar of which we ever send to France, and the exports of Canada in relation to all of them and the possibilities of exports, well, they are almost negligible. They amount to nothing at all. Relative to the trade of the nation they are merely chicken feed, and the same applies to page 2 and page 3 of schedule A. The minister has nothing for this country on these pages. Go over , them one after the other. I think the total number of articles that come after page 1 of schedule A on which the minister has secured reductions is 19, and you can go over them one after another and you will rind in nearly all cases, and in all cases of consequence, that we are buyers of the same' goods from France or from the world, and in many cases from France herself, buyers in large amounts, and not exporters at all. Where we are exporters it is in trifling sums, (Mr. Meishen.]
and very little or nothing to France. Now what value is such a schedule to this country? Is it worth while paying an annual sum of from five hundred thousand to a million dollars for? Is it so worth while when we must throw down our bars on luxuries to Japan, to Italy, to Switzerland and all of some eleven favoured nations?


Does the right hon.
leader of the Opposition mean to* infer that it is an expense to the Canadian people to get goods at a lower cost?


Yes I do, when we have to pay extra on goods that we need far more. I wonder if the hon. member for Brome (Mr. McMaster) was in the Liberal convention in which they solemnly resolved to tax luxuries? He was there. Now he is going to support a bill which reduces the tax on luxuries and consequently imposes a heavier tax on necessaries. That is what I am against.
Now leaving schedule A, which is the best schedule, we have nothing at all that compares with the concessions granted-nothing at all. I venture to say, Mr. Speaker, that in respect to schedule B there are at least twenty-five penalties imposed on us the injury to Canada as regards any one of which is greater than all that we get in the whole of schedule A. In schedule B there are thirty articles, our large exports many of them, exports of which we send a substantial quantity to France, in respect of which the minister has gone over and yielded to the demand of France for a far higher duty than existed before. I say again, you can take not all of them upon which the tariff against us is raised by this treaty-there are about three not of very great consequence, but not more than three-there are twenty-five at any rate that are of outstanding consequence, and all of them or nearly all are of consequence to the agricultural producers of Canada. Is this the way to get wider markets? How are hon. gentlemen who are down here on a crusade for wider markets going to go h^me to their constituencies and say: The first vote I had on any treaty for wider markets I cast to curtail and contract the markets for the agricultural products of our country, but I did it because the Minister of Finance told me that when another country had a higher tariff than we had, we simply had to do it and that if we. pursued a low tariff doctrine, the same thing is what we would have to do every time. Such is the answer they will hat e to make, to their constituents as to why they voted for this contraction of the agricultural products markets of this country. The hon.

French Treaty
member for Brome shakes his head. Does he not see in this treaty agricultural products and manufactures of agricultural products one by one to at least twenty with the French duty raised against them, and he cannot point to one agricultural product with the duty lowered? Now he shakes his head; let him speak.


I point out a well-known economic fact-that if you allow goods to come into your country at a low rate of duty you help the exports from your country to the country from which the exports come.


I see. So by reducing our duty on brandy we help our exports of meat.


Yes.


I see.


That is a well-known economic law. Of course, I would not say that brandy was a wise example.


I would not think so -nor is silk, nor anything else that we reduce.


But it is correct economics.


Would the hon. member also explain how, by lowering the duties on embroideries and silks, of which we import millions of dollars worth, we are going to help the farmer to sell his cattle?


Exactly.


We will? With the tariff raised against us on cattle?


Exactly.


We cannot help but bow in admiration before the optimism of the hon. member for Brome (Mr. McMaster). Yes, in every respect the farmers, through this treaty, have barriers put up against, them. They have had to submit to the erection of higher barriers against the sale of the agricultural products of this country; against poultry, against meats, against potatoes, against vegetables, against condensed milk, against stock, against the main agricultural exports of Canada save grain alone. In respect of grain they have the general tariff of France and nothing more. In respect of live animals we have not yet succeeded in selling any to France.


Any what?


Any live animals. As regards those we have a higher tariff even than we had before. The possibility of widening our markets for stock in France is Stopped.
If we could not sell any in the face of a tariff of 20 francs, we are not likely to sell any in the face of a tariff of 21i francs. In other cases we have to face a duty of 100 per cent more than we previously had; and a duty of 50 per cent more is frequently found in this new French tariff. And this is what we are asked to submit to. We are asked to take this because-in the words of the Finance Minister-after five months' work he could not for the life of him get anything better. Now, I want hon. gentlemen to reflect upon our position in that regard. The Canadian ministers had, in order to maintain that this is a low tariff country, in order to save the face of the Minister of Finance-who has been preaching low tariff in opposition and binding himself to general reductions every time he got on his feet-they had to curtail and contract the export market for the agricultural products of Canada. What a fine confession to make to the agricultural producers of this country. I can imagine the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Marine and Fisheries sitting beside the statesmen of France negotiating this treaty as one by one these articles were produced. Condensed milk was laid before the Minister of Finance and he was told, " You will have to submit to 50 per cent more duty, half as much again, on this; you will have to submit to a higher duty on live stock; you will have to submit to a duty of half as much again, or more, on meats and vegetables of which we export large amounts representing a value of millions ". The minister, I fancy, protested, and kept on protesting-for five months, but the French negotiators sat there with the Liberal platform in their pockets. They had the Liberal convention report, they had the resolution moved by the minister himself iu this House, and they said to him, " What do you propose to do if we increase these duties?"; -and the minister could not say that he would raise the tariff against French luxuries imported into this country. If he did they would laugh at him. He could not even protest against higher duties on articles going into France. The French negotiators would say to him, "You have been arguing in your parliament for years that the putting up of duties by us only hurts ourselves" and so he could not complain; he did not have a word to say for himself. All the French negotiators needed to have was simply the record of the speeches of the Minister of Finance in this parliament, the record of his resolutions, and they would be still better armed with a copy of that precious document the report of the Liberal convention of 1919. Faced with these things the minister was helpless, and that is
French Treaty

why he is back to this House with this treaty. But is his quandary any reason why we should accept the treaty? Is it any-reason why this House should accept this humiliating surrender which the Minister of Finance proposes to us? This is a capitulation-in every line of the treaty it is a capitulation to France. In many respects it is a bigger capitulation to Japan from whom we get nothing at all than it is to France; a bigger capitulation to Switzerland, in many respects, than it is to France. All this we are asked to take from the Minister of Finance on the mere plea that he could not do any better, when we know the reason he could not do any better was his own insincere conduct in opposition. For his conduct this country is now paying the penalty in the form of this treaty.
Will the minister suggest to me anything, save those things that he gets under Schedule A, that is of value to this country? I do not know of anything that he gets that is of value anyway to the agriculturists of Canada. He does get something that is better in respect to certain manufactured products which I have named; but even in getting them he does not secure any concession from France which could not have been secured with far less trouble and infinitely less sacrifice on the part of the government of Canada.
I want again to inquire why the Minister of Finance comes to this parliament with an illusion, a grotesque pact-a poor, helpless treaty, surrounded and buried in pure padding? "Oh," he says, "We may make some of these things some day." Is that a real excuse for having these articles in the treaty? I turn the minister's attention to a page and a half containing over one hundred articles, page 21 and half of 22, and I take the chance of saying to the minister now that he cannot tell me what one of those articles is. I will go further. I venture to suggest that there is not a member of the government that has the faintest idea what one out of those one hundred articles is at all. I admit that I do not, and I do not know where to find out.


How could anybody
else expect to know if the minister does not?


Maybe the member for Brome would and for the purpose of this inquiry, although not for any other purpose, I will include him as a member of the government-will he give the information to this House? All this was done simply to cover the surrender of our interests that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Marine and Fisheries made in their negotiations; it was done simply to cover up the surrender of our real interests under this copious pact

of page after page of articles the nature of which none of us know and the names of which we cannot even pronounce. I invite any member of this House to take some of these products with names of thirty or forty letters and practise for half a day the pronouncing of them. I conjecture the result would be that nobody could tell what he was saying. This is a feature of the treaty we have entered into.


The value of a pharmacopoeia does not depend upon its pronun-ciability.


Will the hon. member tell me the value of even one of these one hundred articles. On the authority of the best chemist we can find-


Dr. Sheard?


-we are assured that none of them was ever made in this country. In a letter that was read to the House at the last session the best chemist in the country stated that although these products are made in some other land none of them was ever produced in Canada save one and that the ingredients for this one exception all had to be imported. Yet this is supposed to be a treaty. But the matter is serious. In respect of real exports from Canada it is very serious. We are going to suffer a handicap from the day this treaty goes into effect onward because of the surrender of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Marine and Fisheries; and all we have to weigh is, whether the reasons for the surrender were such that we should now accept this treaty as part of the inevitable. That is all we have to weigh. Nobody disputes that we are injured by this treaty. The Minister of Finance himself in his speech says that the French people were not willing to compete with us as favourably as they were back in 1907 when he made his previous treaty.
There was a temporary extension of the 1907 treaty with some alterations in 1921-a very good extension under all the circumstances. This was in effect when the Minister of Finance went over, and he said France was not ready to treat on so favourable a basis as in that, which is another way of admitting that he has brought back worse conditions than he took over. There is no use labouring the matter further, but I venture to say any hon. member of this House who will examine the schedules and our exports will place a far greater value upon what this country loses by the treaty than did the Minister of Finance.

French Treaty
But he says we have secured on some articles the schedules already accorded the United States. Now I do not dispute-and the hon. member for Lincoln (Mr. Chaplin) did not dispute-that this was worth something, but is it something for which we should make large-very large-concessions to France? Why, let me ask, should we be penalized by France as between ourselves and the United States of America? I should like hon. members to reflect on that and try to answer. Does any hon. member know why the United States should enjoy, for no concession whatever, for no pretence of a concession, in the face of a policy that definitely denies a concession, something that Canada can only secure by granting heavy concessions? Would it be much of a triumph if the Minister of Finance had come back with equal conditions as between this country and the United States in the tariff of France? I do not think it would. But that he has not obtained-not by a very long way. The United States are not letting silks, embroideries, satins, brandies and champagnes, and all these other products into their country, the way we are doing in Canada. They are not imposing taxes on necessaries in order that they may relieve the consumers of luxuries. They are not doing such things in order to get, as they do get, everything we are getting by this treaty.
I wish to refer to another phase. When we grant to France the right to send her silks to Canada at a certain rate of duty, we grant the same thing to eleven favoured nations, with the result that in case after case we are making far more concessions to the other countries than we are making to France herself.


Does that hurt France?


Undoubtedly it does- and it hurts us. It merely puts more taxes on the users of necessaries in our country. If it does not hurt Canada, if it helps Canada, why leave any tariff on? That is where the hon. member for Brome (Mr. McMaster) is, but not where the Minister of Finance stands. Who is going t-o argue that it is a benefit to us to maintain our taxes on necessaries and reduce our taxes on luxuries? The supporter of this treaty is bound so to maintain, or to admit, that we make very serious concessions for worse than nothing.


Why could we not collect some of our taxes in some other way than by transferring the duties from luxuries to necessaries?


I think the Minister of
Finance will have to do just that. But the
hon. member for Brant (Mr. Good) must remember that last year the way he increased taxes was chiefly by a 50 per cent increase in the sales tax, which came on everybody. Does the member for Brant hope to reduce the sales tax by relieving the users of luxuries of their taxes? Indeed he does not. He shakes his head honestly in the negative. If we do not get an increased sales tax this year, to make up what we are losing under this, or if we do not get a reduction when we should otherwise get it, it is because of the blunders of the concessions of this treaty, and he who votes for the treaty votes to shut the door on the reduction of our sales tax, and he votes to shut the door against relief on the necessaries of life. Of course the Minister of Finance knows that just to the extent this treaty operates that is what he is doing.


Not necessarily.


What is the plan proposed by the hon. member for Brome?


I think, perhaps, the
leader of the Opposition might realize that even in silks the reduction of duty might mean increased imports, and might mean greater revenue raised.


It might, but the Minister of Finance himself estimates that it will be $S50,000 less. In any event I am not quite able to understand just how this country is going to get richer or pay debts faster by buying more silks and champagnes or buying more of anything that is embraced in the schedules of the treaty where we make concessions to France.
I want to impress upon the House instances that go to show what we are actually doing when we sign this treaty. I call attention to the main exports of our country to France. Take them one by one from the largest until you get through, fifteen to twenty, and on each one you will find higher duties put up against us by France. Then take the imports of this country which compete with our own productions in some instances, and which in almost every instance are luxuries. Where we take the tariff off for the sake of France on goods she sells us of $100 value we sometimes take the tariff off Switzerland on goods she sells us of $300, $400, and even $1,000. That is a splendid way to make a concession to France, is it not? I have before me a list of the goods so affected, and I would like the House to bear with me while I call attention to some of them. I commence with braids and cords. We are lowering the duty to France, though she only sends us $46,000 worth odd, but we
French Treaty

are taking it off similarly to Switzerland, which country sends us $112,407, and Switzerland gives us nothing. It is true she does not pay us by raising the duty against us. I suppose from that point of view really Switzerland is better entitled to it than France. In respect of France, for doing this, we have the duty raised against us on our main imports to that country. In respect to Switzerland we do it for nothing at all. But let us pass on. In the matter of brushes, where France sells us $42,000 worth, Switzerland sells us $114,000 worth or about two and a half or three times as much, and we are making concessions on that article to Switzerland for nothing whatsoever. Going from that to buttons, where -we buy $11,000 worth from France we buy from Japan $107,000 worth, or nearly ten times as much, so that where we are making a concession of $1 to the French exporter to Canada, we are making a concession of $10 to the Japanese exporter to Canada. Will any hon. member tell me why we should do that? If we are bound to be making concessions on these lines of goods, we should have done two things first. We should have had a comparable tariff on them or, at least, a tariff from which we could have come down, and secondly we should have got rid of the necessity of making concessions to countries which give us nothing at all.


The hon. member's premises are wrong.


How?


What about the barrier we put up against the Mother Country?


What has that to do with the case?


It has a good deal to do with it. The hon. member is talking about barriers being put up against us. We are putting up barriers and there is no complaint.


I know we do, and I do not see any of them reduced here. I would like the hon. member to compare the reductions elsewhere.


We are not lamenting the reductions.


I do not want to treat the hon. member discourteously but I do not see his point. By making these concessions on luxuries and making ten times the concessions to Japan-


Buttons are not luxuries, they are necessities.


-but I venture to say the necessities in the way of buttons are manufactured here. I do not think we are getting many from Japan. I think my hon. friend will find that he has not worn very often, nor have I, the kind of buttons we import from those countries.


I should like to correct the right hon. gentleman as regards that. The situation is exactly the reverse. The kind of buttons imported from Japan are the kind we wear on our vests.


It would be a great deal better for us if we made them in Kitchener-


I would grant you that.


-or some other town. If this does not hit one way, it hits the other. It injures us every time. Buttons are about the only things that are not luxuries under the schedules.


Brushes.


We make brushes in this country. I venture to say we do not get anything but fancy brushes from so far away as that. Does my hon. friend know about that?


My interest in brushes is not as great as that of the leader of the Opposition.


I will pass on, for I do not want to dwell too long on the infirmities of the hon. member. The next article is clocks and watches. Of these we import $3,829 worth from France, but from Switzerland we import $75,586 worth. For the sake of making a concession to France at our expense, we make virtually twenty-five times that concession to Switzerland.


Think of the saving of time.


We did not save much
time in making this treaty. We lost about five months, and we also lost a great deal to this country. The next item is electrical apparatus, telephones and the like. Of these, whereas we bought from France $1,231 worth, we bought from Japan $18,000 odd worth, making about sixteen times the concession to Japan that we make to France, and all at the expense of this country.
The next item is embroideries. We buy $17,700 worth from France, and from Switzerland $100,598 worth. Of handkerchiefs we bought from France $5,000 odd worth, from Japan $77,000 odd worth, and from Switzerland

French Treaty
$225,000 odd worth; or hon. members will see that we bought some forty times as much from Switzerland as from France. We open our doors to all these countries with no concessions from them at all, and we also open them to France for the privilege of having the duties on our staple exports raised against us.
I could pass from one article to another, silk ribbons, toys, silk fabrics, various other things, some of them somewhat hard to pronounce, and in respect of every one of them we make many times the concession to favoured-nation countries that we 'have made to France.
Besides all this, we fix specific duties on our goods, duties that we cannot vary. This applies to quite a part of the treaty in relation to the duties of Canada. France does [DOT] not do so. We bind ourselves besides to maintain the same parity between our minimum tariff, and our general tariff as we have to-day. France makes no such covenant with us at all. Moreover, France has reserved the right-and there is no corresponding reservation for this country-to give to all neighbouring, as well as former enemy countries, all concessions that she gives to us. If she exercises that right, do hon. members know of anything that we can get in there under this treaty that will be of any value at all to Canadian exporters? Let her exercise that right in favour of all those neighbouring states, and she has cancelled or all but cancelled the meagre concessions that we already have. The ministers came back and they did not know the effect of that concession. When the matter was put to them in this House on the reading of the resolution, I think it was the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) who stated that this clause applied, as in previous treaties, just to a certain border zone, bordering on France. It is true that in previous treaties it applied only to such narrow border zone; but in this treaty there is no restriction at all. It applies to all the territory of all nations adjacent to France.
The hon. member for Chambly and Vercheres (Mr. Archambault) has argued-and I admire the ingenuity of the argument; I think he was driven to it-that he does not consider this treaty solely on an economic basis, and as a matter of dollars and cents. He says: "France suffered terriffic losses in the late war; she lost her million or two million men; she lost another two or three or more millions in disabilities. She lost as well tremendous amounts in property destruction. She sacrificed, of the very manhood and wealth of her nation, relatively more than any other nation that went through the war." In all that
I concur; but I do not think the hon. member for Chambly and Vercheres will say that I have at any time in my life shown anything but sympathy for and a real desire to help France in her struggle. I think I anticipate the character of campaign it is proposed to wage against those who question the desirability of this treaty. It seems to be disclosed in the speech of the hon. member; but they will have to direct it at all events against some hon. members who have in the crucial past done everything in their power and at considerable risk to render practical and needed assistance to France. I do not, however, believe in mixing up trade 