Mr. DENIS (Joliette) presented the third report of the special committee on Pensions, Insurance and Re-establishment of Returned Soldiers.
Mr. Speaker,
I beg to move, seconded by Mr. Pelletier, that the third report of the select standing committee to supervise the Official Report of Debates be concurred in.


Motion agreed to.
(Translation) presented the
seventeenth report of the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce, as follows: Your committee have had under further consideration and study the report of Dr. H. M. Tory on Agricultural Credit, which was referred to them on May ttlh, 1924.
Your committee find that the credit of persons engaged solely in farming or the tillage of the soil is affected by certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.
Your committee, therefore, recommend that legislation be introduced at the present session of parliament amending the Bankruptcy Act as follows:
"An Act to Amend the Bankruptcy Act."
"1. This Act may be cited as The Bankruptcy Act Amendment Act 1924.
"2. The Bankruptcy Act is amended by inserting after section SB thereof the following section:-
" 8c (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, if the Lieutenant-Governor in Council of any province has authorized any officer of the provincial government, charged under a .provincial statute with duties which in the opinion of the Lieutenant-Governor in Council are analogous in any respect to the duties of custodian and trustee, to act as custodian and trustee under this act, the official receiver shall in the case of an assignment by a person engaged solely in fanning or the tillage of the soil appoint such officer as custodian.
" (2) Any officer so appointed to the office of custodian by the Official Receiver shall thereupon in addition to such office be and be deemed to be the authorized trustee as if appointed under subsection (1)
Banking and Commerce

of section 15 of this Act, and shaJl continue to be the authorized trustee until properly removed under subsection (2) of the said section 15.
"(3) In case any such provincial officer is appointed custodian and trustee, he shall not be entitled to be paid any remuneration as custodian or trustee nor any of the costs enumerated as costs of custodian in Part III of the General Rules, but shall be entitled to his lawful disbursements.
"3. Section 59 of the Bankruptcy Act is hereby amended by adding thereto the following subsection: " (2) Paragraph b and c of the preceding subsection, shall not apply in the case of an application for discharge by any assignor who at the time of the authorized assignment was engaged solely in farming or the tillage of the soil."
He said: Mr. Speaker, I beg to move, seconded by Mr. Jacobs, that the seventeenth report of the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce be concurred in.


Mr. Speaker, I can hardly think that the hon. member wants the House to concur in the report without a moment's consideration. It is rather an important report if I caught it rightly.


I moved concurrence with a
view to expediting the legislation, if any, to be brought down in accordance with the committee's recommendation, but in view of what my right hon. friend says I will leave my motion as a notice of motion for Monday next.


Stands.


Mr. Speaker, I beg to move,
seconded by Mr. Jacobs, that the sixteenth report of the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce be concurred in.


Explain.


By way of explanation, I beg
to read to the House the report, concurrence in which is now sought. It is as follows:
Your committee have had under consideration the various matters referred to them by the order of reference, and have reported on same from time to time.
Your committee, in addition to numerous meetings of sub-committees, have held thirty-nine sittings on twenty-seven separate days,.,have heard the evidence of ten witnesses, and had twenty-three exhibits filed before them.
Your committee sumbit herewith for the information of the House a printed copy of their proceedings, the evidence given before the committee, and also certain documents submitted to the committee as exhibits, but not contained within the proceedings.
Your committee recommends that the order of reference, reports, proceedings and the evidence given before the committee, together with a suitable index to be prepared by the clerk of the committee, be printed as an appendix to the Journals of the House for the present session and for distribution, and that rule 74 be suspended with reference thereto.

The evidence and the documents referred to are of great importance, and I think hon. members will find them of sufficient interest and profit to warrant their being printed and distributed with the sessional papers.


Mr. Speaker, I have no
special objection to the motion in this case; any objection I might have would be of a general character. I notice, though, that the report which we are asked to adopt does not recommend any particular subject of legislation or any special legislation. In this connection may I interject a suggestion which I hope may be useful? I think we are somewhat overdoing the deciding of things by committees. If committees are to make recommendations, such as have been made almost without number this session-sometimes, I fear, too expeditiously-and then we are to be faced, on the order "Motions," with a motion, without notice, for the adoption of such recommendations, all the safeguards of	parliament	are swept	away.The motion to adopt a particular line of action recommended by a committee fixes the conduct of the	House.	It	is noteven like	the first	reading	of	a bill,a mere	preliminary	and	introduction.
It is the determined and final action of parliament, and parliament must reverse itself or this becomes legislation in due course. Ordinarily we have, I think, fourteen different stages which must be gone through, in order that there may be nothing precipitant, in order that the utmost consideration may be given to every step we take; and even then if parliament errs at all it errs in cluttering our statute books with too much legislation. I deprecate the habit that I think we have got into this session of having committees recommend a certain legislative course, whereupon the whole thing is thrown in the face of parliament without a moment's notice and we are expected to debate it and decide it then and there. When such committees do report with recommendations of this character I suggest the wisdom of leaving the report on the files of the House, on the Table, for consideration in the meantime by members and for the study of those who may have the leisure to do so. But the initiation of legislation should be left where it has always been; the responsibility should be where it has always rested.


I agree with the right hon.
gentleman (Mr. Meighen) as to the advisability of laying on the Table reports of committees and allowing them to remain there a certain length of time before they are concurred in. That is why I did not press my

Criminal Code
motion on the other report in respect to the Bankruptcy Act. The report now presented is merely to order the printing of the evidence and proceedings of the committee and their distribution to hon. members. Moreover, this report was presented to the House yesterday; it is not one of those I presented today.
As to the advisability of entrusting committees with work of this kind I am afraid I must disagree with my right hon. friend. The work done by the committees of the House during this session has been extremely valuable. Committees can mere easily give full time and detailed attention to the matters that come before them than the House can, and the work of the House is thus expedited.
I suggest further that next year or at some time in the future an amendment should be made to our rules to provide that even the budget and the estimates should be studied in committee. That would save the time of the House considerably, and more attention could be given to the details than can be given under the present procedure in committee of the whole, owing to the desirability of expediting the business. I think it is one of the usages of the British House of Commons to entrust to a committee the study of these matters. I know it is in France, where what we call committees are called commissions; any important piece of legislation is thoroughly gone into by a commission of the House before being reported. I agree with my right hon. friend however, as to the advisability of having reports of important committees laid on the Table in time to permit their consideration by the House as a whole.


I do not wish to be
misunderstood in the matter-and I have no right to speak again except by permission. My objection was not so much to the hurry of moving the adoption of the report; my . objection was to the principle of moving the adoption at all when such report embodied and recommended a course of legislation. This forces the House to determine in one debate and usually without notice-in fact, it may be always without notice-a	course of action
which by the rules of parliament requires at least twelve or thirteen different stages at which variation may be suggested or moved and during which the deliberate judgment of parliament is matured and finally determined. It is not, let me repeat, so much an objection to the moving of the adoption of the report after the report has been laid on the Table for some days; it is to moving the adoption at all and getting the judgment of parliament that way instead of by the more constitutional course.


I am inclined to agree to a considerable extent with what my right hon. friend (Mr. Meighen) says; it would not be fair to the House to ask concurrence in the report of a committee recommending important changes in any policy of the country without giving hon. members full opportunity to consider and study the suggested changes. But I rise to ask my hon. friend (Mr. Vien) whether the Bankruptcy Act was referred to the Banking and Commerce committee for consideration and study. I see from their report that changes in the Bankruptcy Act are suggested.


The question came up incidentally in connection with rural credits. In the report of the committee the amendments proposed are only in connection with rural credits. The preamble of the report states clearly that the committee have considered the matter of rural credits and, that the credit of people exclusively engaged in farming is being affected by some provisions of the Bankruptcy Act. They recommend that the amendments embodied in the report be enacted into law.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. S. W. JACOBS (George-Etienne Cartier) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 251, to amend the Criminal Code.
Explain.


Mr. Speaker, the object of
this bill is to prevent the publication of false, defamatory and seditious matter which is intended to produce such feelings of ill-will and hostility among different classes of the community that a breach of the peace is likely to follow, or lawful business pursuits are likely to be interfered with.


Mr. Speaker, as the seconder of the bill, which I did not know anything about before my name was put as seconder, I may say that I am extremely pleased to see that the bill is introduced in the House just on the eve of the twelfth of July.


Mr. Speaker, any gibe that the hon. member for Lotbiniere (Mr. Vien) is inclined to make with regard to the twelfth of July will not affect those who celebrate that day, because they are among the best citizens of this country. If his reference is that on that day things are said that are libellous and defamatory, he is talking without knowledge, and he is libelling a class of persons who have shown their pa-
Criminal Code

triotism, their love of order and their good citizenship for over one hundred years in the history of this country. If the occasion required, Mr. Speaker, I could elaborate what I am saying and point out that the day against which my hon. friend has made a gibe is one of the most important in the history of the human race.


Oh, oh.


Well, seeing that my remark is not received with general acceptation I may be permitted to say that that day marks the permanent establishment, not for one class, not for one race, but for the whole of the human race, of the principle of civil and religious liberty. There is no greater boon that the people of this world enjoy than that. The event was the consummation of a thousand years of struggle, the Magna Charta being a part of it.


The twelfth of July is not
until to-morrow.


I think under these circumstances I am perfectly justified in replying to the gibe which my hon. friend made with regard to that day and those who celebrate it.


I hope we shall wait until to-morrow to celebrate the day.


I know the hon. member is acting on a presumption which is hasty. I am quite certain that the bill which the hon. member for George Etienne Cartier has in mind is directed more against recent remarks of the hon. member for Rimouski (Mr. d'Anjou) and the hon. member for Vaudreuil-Soulanges (Mr. Ouimet).
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Bill No. 249 (from the Senate), for the relief of Henry George Stuart Johnston.- Mr. Boys.
Bill No. 250 (from the Senate), for the relief of Florence Ethel Armstrong.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to inquire of the government if they have any information to give the House as to whether it is intended in the near future to amend the Elections Act to provide for the transferable vote in single-member constituencies.


I regret that I cannot do more than repeat what I have said to my hon. friend before, that the matter is still under consideration.


Hon. J. A. ROBB (Acting Minister of Finance) moved the third reading of Bill No. 240, to amend the Bank Act.
I
beg to move:
That this bill be not now read a third time, but that it be referred back to the committee of the Whole House with instructions that section 131, subsection (a), of the Bank Act be repealed and the following substituted therefor:
In case of the insolvency of any bank;
(a) The notes issued or re-issued by such bank intended for circulation and then in circulation, together with any interest paid or payable thereon, as hereinbefore provided, shall be redeemed out of the Bank Circulation Redemption Fund up to the amount of the said fund, and the balance of such notes, if any, then remaining unredeemed, shall be a first charge on the assets of the said bank. If upon the winding up of the said bank and after all liabilities have been paid there remains in the hands of the liquidator any balance, the same shall be used to reimburse the said Circulation Fund by the amount contributed thereto by the other banks and used thereout for the redemption of the said notes. If the said balance remaining in the hands of the liquidator is not sufficient to reimburse the said Circulation Fund by the said amount, the other banks shall contribute thereto as provided for in section 66 of this act.


I am not going to delay the
House beyond a moment. This question was fully discussed and considered by the Banking and Commerce committee, and the proposition was not adopted by that committee. I do not propose at this late stage of the session to delay the House longer than to say that I am going to vote against the amendment.


We all have not the
advantage of being on that committee, and we would like to know what it means, so that we may not give a blind vote. Probably members of the committee do know, and I think we have the best right to call on the minister to enlighten us as to what can be said against the amendment, as well as what can be said for it.


This question was discussed
not only by the Banking and Commerce committee this year, but also by that committee last year. My hon. friend's friends were before the committee this year, and I do not think any good purpose can be served by delaying the proceedings of the House this afternoon.


I would just like to remark
that I do not feel like giving a vote upon this question at all, because I have no information whatever regarding it.


I had no idea this biLl
was going to be read a third time this afternoon, or I would have been prepared to give the House further information.
With reference to what has been said by the Acting Minister of Finance, (Mr. Robb)
I wish to say that this resolution did not come up last year before the Banking and Commerce committee, for the reason that most members of the committee misunderstood the working of the note circulation redemption fund. Most of the members of that committee were under the impression that the note circulation redemption fund was a real redemption fund, or an insurance fund. They did not realize that it was nothing of the sort until after the collapse of the Home Bank when the liquidator discovered that although some $2,000,000 of Home Bank notes were out in circulation they could not call on the circulation redemption fund for this amount-that the only amount which could be called upon, under the Bank Act, was the amount paid by that bank into the fund, which amount was only about $100,000. The aim of this amendment is to make the fund a real insurance fund. It is true that the amendment was defeated in the Banking and Commerce committee, but it caused probably more discussion there than any other amendment proposed. In my opinion the arguments in favour of the amendment before that committee were more convincing than the arguments against. The amendment was only lost by a few votes, and, therefore, I think it is only fair that it should now be brought before the House.


Before the hon. member resumes his seat will he explain to the House the system under which bank notes are now redeemed?


The bank note circulation fund is subscribed to by all the banks. According to the Bank Act the notes of a bank that are outstanding are a first lien on the assests of that bank. Although the note circulation redemption fund loans an amount, if need be, equal to the net amount of notes outstanding, it is a loan only. The failed bank can count as an asset only the amount it had paid into the fund:	As the notes are
a first call on the assets-including the deposits-of the banks, and as there are three other liens on the assets besides those notes, the
Bank Act
depositors are not very happily placed in having so little a lien on the assets of the bank. The amendment is submitted with a view of strengthening the position of the depositors who to-day are in the worst position of any of the creditors of a failed bank.


If I were
not so anxious to get away from the House and return home I should like to discuss this matter at some length, because it is a very important question. However, I shall not occupy more than three or four minutes of the time of hon. members. First of all it should be clearly understood that the banks in this country have a special privilege in being allowed to issue notes to the amount of their paid-up capital. This privilege, practically speaking, is not enjoyed by any banks in any other country so far as I know. I asked a prominent witness who was before our committee this year, after he had appeared before the committee, just what he thought of the note issue privilege in the Canadian Bank Act, and after he had looked into the act he told me that he thought it was a great source of weakness to any banking system to have such a privilege. This privilege is for the benefit of the banks. They make a certain amount of profit out of it, and I say that those who enjoy the profit from this privilege of note issue should provide the guarantee fund for the notes issued. But the Bank Act makes the note issue a first lien on the assets of the bank; they are paid before the depositor gets one cent on the dollar, and we are greatly concerned at this session of parliament with the safety of depositors. So long as the Bank Act remains in its present form, and with its present provisions, the redemption of notes certainly does interfere with the safety of depositors.
The amendment offered by the hon. member for Battle River (Mr. Spencer) simply provides that the bank circulation redemption fund, which has been contributed to by each of the banks, should first be used for the redemption of notes in the case of failure of a bank. Then, after the affairs of that bank are wound up and the depositors have been paid one hundred cents on the dollar, if there are any funds remaining, the note circulation redemption fund should be reimbursed out of the amount which is in the liquidator's hands. If there are no bank failures of course banks will not suffer any loss, if there are any bank failures or loss to the depositors, the loss will not be so great if this amendment is adopted. And surely, as I said before those who enjoy
Bank Act

the note issue privilege should pay for it. The Acting Minister of Finance says that this matter was discussed last year. Well, we discussed last year government inspection of banks. We failed to convert the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding), or the government, or the committee to the idea of bank inspection by the government. This year we have induced thm to bring in an amendment for government inspection of banks. Therefore, the argument that the Acting Minister of Finance has advanced is not a very sound one, and it is possible that in a few years we may convert him to the acceptance of some such provision as this in regard to note circulation. I believe the issuing of notes should be in the hands of the government, but while the banks have this privilege they should first be called upon to provide for the redemption of notes in the case of the failure of a bank. Because, as the general manager of the Royal Bank said when he was before our standing committee, the deposits were absolutely necessary for the carrying on of the banking business in this country, but the privilege of issuing notes was not necessary. This privilege is continued in the Bank Act at the request of the bankers, and again I say that the bankers should be called upon first of all in the case of the failure of a bank. If the funds in the circulation redemption fund are not sufficient to pay the notes the balance would still remain a first charge on the assets of the bank. The security of the notes will not be interfered with in any way. We simply ask the banks who are receiving all the benefits under the note circulation privileges to provide this additional security.


As I understand it, all the banks belonging to the Bankers' Association contribute to the redemption fund. In the case of the failure of a bank that fund may be drawn upon to repay the holders of notes only to the extent to which the failing bank has contributed to that fund. The amendment as presented would change the law in this respect-that the whole of that fund contributed by all the members of the Bankers' Association shall be made available to pay for the losses of any one bank. In other words, the banks which may be conducting their business properly and profitably and just as it should be conducted, are called upon to pay for losses for which they are not responsible. That seems to be an unsound principle and that is why I am opposed to the amendment.


Is it not a fact that the
redemption fund as now constituted in the event of the fund being called upon implies the principle against which you have registered your objection?


Just to the extent to which these banks contribute.


No. Suppose a bank fails,
and there are not sufficient assets in the bank to redeem the notes after you have collected all assets, including the depositors' money, then the purpose of the redemption fund is that it will be used to redeem notes still outstanding so that it will be seen that we have the same principle in effect now as my hon. friend objects to, but we desire to further extend that principle by the amendment.


I would like to cut through
all argument and present this view of it: That if the amendment is adopted the banks which have nothing whatever to do with the failing banks are made responsible, although they have conducted their business properly, for the losses sustained by the bank that is not wisely or properly conducted. That seems to me the one principle underlying the whole thing. One argument in favour of the amendment, which has perhaps a little force, is that the banks have the privilege of issuing notes for which I think they pay only one per cent-is that correct?


Yes.


-and they may issue circulation on which they can charge six or seven or eight per cent as the case may be, and therefore they may very well be called upon to contribute to that fund, and have the fund used for the purpose mentioned in the amendment. I say, there is some force in that. But if the banks have a privilege- and I think they have-for which they are not paying sufficient, then let them stand on their merits and charge the banks a sufficient sum for the privilege which is given them. Let each bank stand on its own bottom. I cannot recognize the principle that we shall make one bank responsible for the loss of another.


May I ask the hon.
member a question?


Certainly.


If the hon. gentleman
does not-

Bank Act


I rise to a point of order. The hon. member moved the amendment and subsequently spoke again, and he now wishes to address the House. This is the third time, and I do not think he is quite in order. At this late hour of the session it is not wise to permit a violation of the rule.


The point is well taken.
Any member can only speak once on the same motion. By the leave of the House I understood the mover of the amendment was answering a query by another hon. member. Of course he can only speak now by unanimous consent, and if that consent is refused, the rule will apply.


I simply wished to ask a question, with the permission of the hon. member who is addressing the House, who was then on his feet.


I have no objection.


Referring to the remarks of the hon. member-


His Honour the Speaker has ruled.


According to the rule
no member can speak twice to a question, unless he has been misquoted by some other hon. member. That is not the case in this instance. Therefore, the hon. member is barred from addressing the House, unless by unanimous consent.


I think, Mr. Speaker,
that you have misapprehended the purport of the hon. gentleman's statement. As I heard him distinctly, he was merely asking a question, with the permission of the hon. member who had the floor.


I understood that first he
was answering a question put by the hon. member for North Waterloo (Mr. Euler). Of course that would not come under the rule.


I simply asked the hon.
member for North Waterloo if he would permit me to ask him a question, and he said he was perfectly willing. Therefore, I think I have that right. Considering the statement that the hon. member (Mr. Euler) has made, I would like to ask him this question: If the bank which failed could not call on the note circulation redemption fund for more than that bank had paid in, what advantage is there, in his opinion, in having a note circulation fund at all? Or why should not each individual bank simply have a reserve fund of its own and do away with the note circulation redemption fund?


If each bank had a reserve
fund in its own possession, I should think that would be less desirable than having the central redemption fund where it is.
Mr. JOS. T. SHAW (West Calgary): First of all, the notes issued by the banks constitute a first lien upon the assets of the insolvent bank. The government has provided that the circulation redemption fund be contributed to and made up by the banks in proportion to their circulation. The only purpose it serves now is that in the event that the bank has not readily available within a limited time funds to pay the notes which constitute a first lien upon their assets, the circulation redemption fund is called upon to make up whatever shortage there may be; and that is only temporary, because, of course, the circulation redemption fund secures the notes. The notes are the first charge upon the assets, and the result is that the circulation redemption fund in the long run is never called upon, and has never been called upon in the history of the country, so far as I know. The purpose of the amendment is simply to make this a real fund, an insurance fund, so that it may be used in payment of the notes, and then if there are not sufficient, assets left to redeem the circulation redemption fund it will not be made up-


By the depositors.


-by the depositors. Then the banks will come in, after the depositors, to the extent of the circulation redemption fund that has been used. I think that is shortly the purpose of the amendment. It is to substitute the insurance principle, where now there is only a temporary purpose accomplished by the circulation redemption fund.


I think that if this motion
is worth while moving, it is worth while discussing. I am not prefacing my remarks that way as an excuse for making a long speech, but I think that we ought to know the import of the amendment.


I again rise to a point of order. The hon. gentleman has spoken.


I simply asked a question
of the hon. member for North Waterloo.


The rule is that no member can speak twice on the same question, but there are certain amenities which are observed by the House of Commons on debate. Where a question is put by unanimous consent, it cannot be considered as a speech. Therefore I cannot say that the hon. member has spoken twice.

Bank Act


My hon. friend (Mr. Martell) in the corner has spoken four times already, is he going to deny me the opportunity to speak once because I asked now a question? I would not have bothered the House with any remarks if the hon. member lor North Waterloo had not risen to present an argument against this amendment. I want to state briefly in reply to the hon. gentleman the effect which the amendment would have, and to answer what he put forward as an argument.
The present redemption fund may be called upon to redeem the notes of the bank, if all the assets of the bank have been exhausted and have not been sufficient to redeem the notes. That is the purpose of the fund. We want by the amendment to have that fund available to redeem the notes of the bank so that when a bank fails the notes are not made good from the depositors' money. That :s a brief statement of the amendment. My hon. friend from North Waterloo states tha: he wants to cut through all argument ana reach a conclusion without argument.


No.


He did not say that, but that is the effect of it.


I am not responsible for what my hon. friend thinks.


He says that a new principle is involved in this; that we are proposing to take money from one bank to pay the losses of another bank. That is the principle upon which the fund is organized now, and we are not altering that principle. If, however, all argument is cut it would be possible to come to the conclusion of my hon. friend. The amendment proposes to put the redemption fund on the basis of insurance instead of on a surety basis as it now is. The fund at the present time is a guarantee fund, whereas this would have the idea of insurance and would bring the fund into use immediatly in the case of a bank failing and thus the depositors money would not be called upon to make good the loss. That, I submit, is a very desirable result, and no good argument has been advanced against this proposal. I think hon. members will be obliged to do one of two things, either carry the amendment as proposed by the hon. member for Battle River (Mr. Spencer), or abolish the so-called guarantee fund entirely as having no justification.


When we make up the notes from the funds of the depositors, my hon. friend would desire to return to the days when, as soon as a bank failed, the bank notes which a man had in his pocket w'ere of no value.


I would desire in this regard merely to return to honesty. The people in this country have been, to use a common word, "fooled" by the redemption fund. The depositors in this country have been led to believe that the bankers had a fund out of which the notes of a bank would be redeemed in the case of a bank failure, but when a bank actually failed it was out of the pockets of the depositors that the notes were redeemed. There is no use trying to get away from that fact. I want to put a stop to misrepresentation by making the fund available for the purpose for which it was intended.


Mr. Speaker, this amendment was debated at great length in the Banking and Commerce committee, where all the arguments which have been advanced in this chamber to-day, and many more of a similar kind, were advanced in its favour, and none of them found favour with the majority of the committee. There are two major reasons that may be given against the proposed amendment and I will try' briefly to summarize them. One very-specious argument in favour of the amendment is that because recourse is had to the assets of the bank in finally redeeming a defunct bank's note circulation, therefore, there is a corresponding loss to the depositors. At first blush it might be held that that is correct. The notes in the first instance are paid out of the redemption fund if there are not in the hands of the liquidator sufficient liquid assets to redeem the bank's notes. That fund is reimbursed out of the assets of the bank as soon as its assets are liquidated, and it is only when there are not enough assets to pay the note circulation that recourse is had to the so-called redemption fund. It is argued, therefore, because this course is pursued, it is a distinct detriment to depositors who are really unsecured creditors. That argument loses sight altogether of the fact that when a bank note is put into circulation by a bank, a corresponding asset is received by the bank. Therefore, when one judges the matter wholly upon its merits, the argument advanced from that point of view in support of this proposition loses its whole effect.
The other major argument against this proposed amendment is this. It occurs to me that it is a little better than immoral to

Bank Act
suggest that, by compulsion, by legislation, a solvent bank, without having a single word to say about the management of a bank which goes into liquidation, without having had anything to say as to the reasons that may have put it into the slough of despond and insolvency, should pay the debts of an insolvent bank. I do not know of any principle upon which that can be sustained.


Under the act as it stands at present, if the assets of the bank that has failed are insufficient to pay the notes, would this redemption fund not be called upon to make up the deficiency?


It would, to the extent to which the bank had already contributed to the fund in the first instance, but there would be no further recourse to the fund. The situation which the hon. gentleman has brought up may never arise-has never arisen in this country.


Why have the circulation fund?


I know that argument will be immediately made. I answer by saying that it has a psychological effect in the minds of the note holders. It is a fund that is available in case the assets of the defunct bank do not pay the note holders. That situation has never arisen; it is not likely to arise; but it may arise, and in so far as the fund is good it should not be abolished. If we want to have a real bank circulation fund which would absolutely protect note holders, and it is not considered that the present scheme is good enough, I suggest that we adopt the national bank system and ask the banks to buy government bonds as a protection for their note issue. But, the minute you do that, you withdraw from the banks the privilege of lending to you or yours two or three hundred million dollars or whatever it may be that is now available for business in Canada. That will be withdrawn from business and it will be just that much detriment to business. Bv just how far you go that way, you will defeat the object which you have in mind which is to raise credit in this country.


I am not a member
of the Banking and Commerce committee, but I understand my hon. friends want the guarantee feature which would make all the banks contribute to a fund which would guarantee the notes of all the banks. This would1 enable one bank to interfere with another by checking up its credit.


I do not think we are going to give one bank the privilege of checking up another bank, but one bank is to pay for the notes of another bank.


I have been a member of the
Banking and Commerce committee for the last two years. The argument has been advanced here to-day that because this amendment did not carry in the Banking and Commerce committee, therefore, it is 4 p.m. not worthy of consideration. Personally I was not able to attend the sittings of the Banking and Commerce committee very much this year on account of being on several other committees which were sitting at the same time. Had all the members of the Banking and Commerce committee been present when this motion was before the committee I believe, it would have earned. Had I been present, I would have supported it as strongly as I could. Had I known that this amendment was being voted upon, I would even have left another committee on which I was sitting in order to attend to vote for this amendment because I believe it is sound.
The statement has been made that this matter was considered by the Banking and Commerce committee last year. That statement must have been made by mistake, because this year I find that all the members of the Banking and Commerce committee to whom I talked were as much surprised as I was to find this year, and not until this year, that this fund was not used solely for the redemption of notes. I think the recent bank fiasco first brought this to our notice. I do not think any person understood the purpose of the fund before; I know I did not and I have talked to several members who were also ignorant of its real purpose.


Is my hon. friend proceeding to argue that an honestly managed bank should be made responsible for the bad management of the Home Bank?


If this fund was created for the purpose for which the public believed it was created, for the redemption of notes of a defunct bank, it is a form of insurance to guarantee circulation.


No, it is the insurance principle which we are opposing.


The general opinion
has been that this fund was to ensure the payment of notes issued by a bank, which notes-the bank having failed-were of no
Bank Act

value. By the way, this motion does not mean that we shall go back to the old method, that when a bank fails its notes shall be no good.


That is the argument of my
hon. friend.


I am not responsible
for his argument. Suppose we admit the insurance principle. If I insure my buildings against fire, and during the period of insurance they burn down, I would be somewhat surprised if the insurance company told me: "We can only pay you insurance to the amount of the premiums you paid in." That would be comparable to the argument used in this case. If this is not the .insurance principle it should be made so. For instance, what right has a bank to take deposits from the public, and upon a certain condition arising to use those deposits to pay their note circulation? Well, that is what the present practice means if I understand it aright, and I think I do. I have not had the privilege of attending the meetings of the Banking and Commerce committee as often as I desired, but I have been following its work, and I think that as time goes on both this parliament and the public will be behind a good many of the propositions-not all, because I am not behind them all myself-made by the members of that oommittee.


Let us hear some of them.


This is one of them.
Among my acquaintances I have several men who have been prominent in banking circles, and they thoroughly agree with our contention in this matter, as well as with government inspection of banks and some of the other proposals that were placed before the committee. Their opinion tended to convince me of the desirability of supporting these two specific measures.


Mr. Speaker,
as has been remarked, this proposal received a good deal of consideration in the Banking and Commerce committee, and I think if it had not been for the activities of the "scouts" it might have got through.


Whom does the hon. member refer to as scouts?


I suppose that question might be considered embarrassing, but if the hon. member wishes to know, I am referring to certain gentlemen who were very active in [Mr. Caldwell.[
getting members into the committee to vote although such members were not often in attendance at its meetings. This happened not only this session but last session.
^ Mr. THOMAS VIEN (Lotbiniere) :	Mr. Speaker, I rise to a point of order. It is absolutely improper to refer to any hon. member as being persuaded by scouts to attend the meetings of the committee. The House knows how difficult it was for hon. members to attend the many committees which were in session day after day, and I am sure that on deliberation my hon. friend will withdraw such an inappropriate term.


Mr. Speaker, I do not wish
to reflect upon any hon. member, and if what I have said can be construed as such a reflection I shall be very glad indeed to withdraw the expression.
Undoubtedly there has been an entire misapprehension of the purpose and application of the bank circulation redemption fund. Only yesterday I was talking to a prominent member of the House, who did not happen to be a member of the Banking and Commerce committee, and he, too, was under the same misapprehension that most of us were under last year. The provisions in the act have been pretty much of a fraud upon the public, and it is the purpose of this amendment to embody what is the general opinion of the public in regard to this particular fund.
With regard to the observations made by some hon. members as to the liability which would rest upon well managed banks to help redeem the notes of badly managed banks which fail, it should be observed that at present the section dealing with this fund admits the principle; the only change suggested is to make the liability more direct. The hon. member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Hanson) and I think also the hon. member for North Waterloo (Mr. Euler), it seems to me, misstated the fact when they intimated to the House that this fund can only be called upon to the extent of the amount contributed thereto by the bank which fails. That is not the case. The fund can be called upon ultimately to make good the notes of the defunct bank if and after the assets of such bank have been exhausted.


Is not that an important consideration?


It may be, but it does not
touch the principle of the case. The principle

Bank Act
of insurance is admitted in the present provision of the act, and this amendment is simply to make more direct the liability which the banks are under now.


Is my hon. friend not mistaken when he says that the principle of insurance is admitted in the act? On the contrary, is it not the principle of suretyship? And is not the purpose of the amendment to change that to the principle of insurance?


It may be strictly accurate to describe the present clause as expressing the principle of suretyship, but even in suretyship there is an element of insurance. If I endorse somebody else's note, and he fails to meet it when due, I am liable for payment. If, as the hon. member for Victoria and Carleton (Mr. Caldwell) said, I have a building insured against fire, and I am careful and do not have any fire, I have yet to contribute to pay the losses of those whose buildings are burned down and who possibly were careless. I contend that to the extent that this fund may be ultimately drawn upon to make good the notes of a defunct bank, it involves the same principle which has been objected to, that is, the levying of a tax upon the well managed bank to make good the losses incurred by a poorly managed bank.


But if my hon. friend is asked as a favour to endorse a note, he complies with his eyes open, knowing what the legal incidents of his endorsement are in the event of the promissor being unable to meet the note when due? But in this case is he not saying to people who have nothing at all to do with other banks:	"You must make
good the lack of funds of a badly managed bank over which you had no control whatever?"


I would remind the hon.
member that the Bankers' Association, which is composed of all the banks, have the duty of checking up the circulation of each bank. In addition to that they have a direct interest in providing that all bank notes shall pass current at face value and shall not fall to a discount. I think that the Bankers' Association. if this amendment goes through, would be in very much the same position as that of a person who endorsed a note; they would be doing it with their eyes open and with a certain sense of responsibility for looking after the management of all banks that are members of the association. Now that the inspection of banks has been provided for,
the probability of loss to any well managed bank through having to contribute to make good the notes of a poorly managed bank is,
I think, very small indeed.


Does that
not almost remove the possibility of anything happening to the circulation? Is not the in-spectional element after all the chief element of security?


I sincerely hope so, but I do think that we ought either to pass this amendment or wipe the clause out of the Bank Act. Make it a real insurance fund or abolish it altogether.


Having said that, my hon.
friend must admit that if he holds the notes of a certain bank that fails, he runs the risk of finding them of no value.


I do not understand that Mr. Speaker, because the notes are a first charge on the assets of the bank.


You would have to wait
for the redemption of notes until after liquidation took place.


Possibly it would take some
little time to realize on the assets, but that difficulty might be overcome by making an advance to the bank in order that the notes might be quickly redeemed.


An advance from whom?


From the government or
from the Bankers' Association. The Bankers' Association -would be very definitely interested in the matter.


Would not the effect of
what my hon. friend is advocating be to make the different individual banks liable for one another, and would that not be tantamount in the final analysis to having but one bank in Canada?


I hardly know how to answer
that question; it takes us pretty far afield. Possibly we might overcome the whole difficulty if we had a Dominion issue of all bank notes, doing away with private issues. That, however, is a matter I do not wish to discuss at the present time. I submit that this amendment is quite worth while, and it ought to be passed or else the present provision in the act might as well be abolished.


In the event of the assets not being sufficient to pay the notes, is not this redemption fund then a very real asset, a very real fund to take up the balance?
Bank Act


It may be of value. I understand from the secretary of the Bankers' Association that only on one occasion in the history of Canadian banking has the fund been called upon.


But it is there all the
6ame.


It is there.


And my hon. friend said that if the amendment did not pass he would be in favour of wiping it out altogether. That would certainly be a retrograde step.


I am not advocating that it be wiped out; I want to make it something real. I want to make it something more than a deception of the public.


The hon. member said,
"Wipe it out if this amendment does not carry."


Mr. Speaker, I hesitate to make any statement in regard to this matter, or even to vote, with the little information I have. I am not a member of the Banking committee and have not had time to study the question. I have tried to make up my mind just what the real facts of the case are. At the outset I may say that I would not be in favour of anything that would not make a bank note of its full face value even though the bank fails; that must be guaranteed to begin with. I always thought that the bank note circulation fund was contributed to by all the banks and that the whole fund was available for the redemption of bank notes.


That is correct.


Yes, but only to the extent that the bank in question has contributed to the fund.


No.


The section of the Bank Act provides:
That all payments from the circulation fund shall be without regard to the amount contributed thereto by the bank in respect of whose notes the payments are made.


Of course that would be a
sort of temporary loan.


It is a temporary loan.


It seems to me that the
banks have special privileges and they ought to assume certain obligations. There seems to be a certain amount of mutual responsibility, as is indicated by the banks having a note circulation fund. Each bank does not 
go by itself; apparently the principle is recognized that one bank is interested in the welfare of another. I do not think any serious harm will result if a certain amount of responsibility is spread over all the banks in regard to making bank notes worth their face value should the bank that issued them happen to fail. I do not think it will ever be the case, as suggested by the hon. member for North Waterloo (Mr. Euler), that one bank will have to make up all the deficits of another. We are not. dealing with the matter in that broad sense.
Last year hon. members in this part of the House voted solidly in favour of bank inspection. We have not forgotten that, and it makes me hesitate to find fault with any amendments tha