Mr. F. S. CAHILL (Pontiac) presented the fifth report of the select standing committee on Railways, Canals and Telegraph Lines as follows:
Your committee have considered the following bills and have agreed to report the same without amendment,
Bill No. 33, an act respecting the construction of Canadian National Railway line, Kamloops-Kelowna division, province of British Columbia.
Bill No. 34, an act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line to Cowichan Bay, on Vancouver Island.
Bill No. 35, an act respecting the construction of a Canadian National RaiJway line to Mile 100 on Vancouver Island.
Bill No. 44, an act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line between Hanna and Warden, in the province of Alberta.
Bill No. 45, an act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line from Loverna westerly in the province of Alberta.
Bill No. 61, an act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line, being a joint section from Rosedale southeasterly in the province of Alberta.
Bill No. 62, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadia'n National Railway line to Pine Falls in the province of Manitoba.
Your committee have also considered the foliowing bills and have agreed to report the same with amendments,
Bill No. 40, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line to Mile 41 of the Mel-fort Branch near Nipawin in the province of Saskatchewan.
Bill No. 49, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line between Dunblane and Mawer in the province of Saskatchewan.
Bill No. 54, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line between Radville and Fife Lake in the province of Saskatchewan.
Your committee recommend that the titles of the three last mentioned bills be respectively amended to read as follows: viz.
Bill No. 40, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line either to Mile 41 near Nipawin or in a northwesterly direction to a point in township 49, range 13, west of the second meridian, in the province of Saskatchewan.
MAY 8, 1924	186J
United Church oj Canada-Petitions
Bill No. 49, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line between Dunblane and Mawer or a point west thereof, in the province of Saskatchewan.
Bil'l No. 54, an Act respecting the construction of a Canadian National Railway line from or near Rad-ville, Bengough or Ritchie, in the province of Saskatchewan.
Petitions were presented from certain members of the following congregations, severally praying that the proposed legislation incorporating the United Church of Canada, be not
enacted:
E. H. Tew and others, of Assiniboia-Mr. Hopkins.
St. John's Presbyterian Church, Vancouver, B.C.; St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church, Vancouver, B.C.,- Mr. Stevens.
William Carruther and others, members or adherents of the Presbyterian Church,-Mr. Warner.
Petitions were presented from certain members of the following congregations and bodies praying that the bill now before the House to incorporate the United Church of Canada be passed during the present session.
Presbyterian Church at Govan, Sask.,-Mr. Motherwell.
Methodist Church at Boharm, Woodslee and Ruscomb; P.E.I.; Presbyterian Church at Wardsville, Ontario; Wesley Methodist Church, Fort William; Presbyterian Church at Khedive, Sask.; Methodist Church, Sydenham, Ont.; Methodist Church at Charlottetown, P.E.I.; United Church of Holmfield, Man.,-Mr. Reid.
Brown's Corners, Central and St. John's Presbyterian Congregations at Unionville, Ontario; Methodist Church at Fonthill, Ontario; Methodist Church at Plattsville, Ontario; Union Church, Oak River, Manitoba; Presbyterian Church at Elmwood, Ontario; Fenwick, Forks Road East and Mount Vernon Methodist Churches; Methodist Church at Thamesville, Ontario; Presbyterian Church, Carman, Man.; Methodist Churches at La Havre, Mount Pleasant and Dublin, Nova Scotia; United Church, Snowflake, Manitoba; Presbyterian Church, St. Lukes Congregation, Cape Breton; Grace Methodist Church at Fort William, Ont; Presbyterian Church at Kinmount, Ontario; Methodist Church at Elmvale and Allenwood, Ont.; Presbyterian Church, Maple Creek, Sask.; Methodist Churches at Northwood, Botany and Beechwood, Ontario >
Union Church at Decker, Isabella and Orrworld, Man.; Methodist Church, Tweed, Ont.; United Church at Toulon, Sask.; Methodist Church at Petrolia, Ont.,- Mr. Pritchard.
Methodist Church at Heborn and Port Maitland; Rae Street Methodist Church, Regina, Sask.; St. Andrews United Church, West Summerland, B.C.; St. Pauls Methodist, Church, Calgary, Alta.; St. Andrews United Church, Montague, P.E.I.; Methodist Church at Chumah and Hamiota; Presbyterian Church, Valleyfield, P.E.I.; Union Church, Ponoka, Alberta; Methodist Church, Clifton; United Church at Thessalon, Ont.; St. Pauls Methodist Church, Ottawa, Ontario; Presbyterian Church, Watson, Sask.; Trinity Methodist Church, Toronto, Methodist Church at Exeter, Ont.; Zion Methodist Church at Moose Jaw, Sask.; United Churches at North Antler and Pierson, Man.,-Mr. Sexsmith.
Union Churches at Avonlea and Hearne, Sask.; Methodist Church at Carleton Place, Ontario; Presbyterian Union Church, Edam; Presbyterian Ukrainian, Fort William, Ont.: Wesley Methodist Church, Ottawa East, Ottawa, Ontario; Methodist Church at Haleys Harton, Ontario; Methodist Church, Rose-mount, Montreal; Methodist Church, Wroxe-ter, Ont.; Union Churches at Hargrave. Harmsworth and Victor, Man.; St. Andrews Presbyterian Church at Sunderland and St. Johns Presbyterian Church at Creswell, Ont.; Methodist Church at Riceville, Ont.; United Methodist and Presbyterian Church at Ballersea and Sunbury, Ontario,-Mr. Woods.
Methodist Church at Yarmouth, N.S.: United Church at Elkhom, Manitoba; Methodist Church at Canning, N.S.; Presbyterian Churches at Grand Coulee and Sherwood, Sask.; Methodist Church at Plainfield, Ontario; Presbyterian Church, Pilot Mound. Man.: Methodist Church at Lethbridge, Alta.; Union Church Markinch, Sask.; Methodist Church Kildonan, Man.; Presbyterian Church, Clanwilliam, Man.; St. Pauls Methodist Church, Montreal, Que.; Union Church. Beaver, Man.; Union Church, Selton, Sask.; Methodist Church at Teeswater, Ontario; United Church, North Portal, Sask.; Methodist Church at Wheatley, Ont.; Presbyterian Church at Hanay and Hammond and Pitt-meadow's, B.C.,-Mr. Rankin.
Carmichael Presbyterian Church, Regina, Sask.; Methodist Church at Fullarton. Ontario; Westminster Presbyterian Church. Regina, Sask.; Methodist Church at North Earls-
Questions
court, Ontario; Rhodes avenue Presbyterian Church, Toronto; Presbyterian Church, Ar-gyle and Stonewall; Methodist Church at Wilfrid, Ontario; Strathroy Methodist Church at Stiathroy, Ontario; Mrs. W. C. Smith and 124 others, Oak Lake, Manitoba,-Mr. Drummond.
Presbyterian Church, Gabarus, C.B.; Union Church, Rose Plain, Sask.; Lucky Lake Congregation, Lucky Lake, Sask.; Methodist Church, Stratford District, Ontario; Methodist Church, Phippen, Sask.; Union Church at Treherne, Manitoba; Methodist Church. Munson, Alberta; First Presbyterian Church, Wilton, Grove, Ontario; Union Church at Heron, Sask.; Methodist Church at Magogue. Que.; Methodist Church at Monkton., Ontario; St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church, Glamworth, East Middlesex; Methodist Churches at Prestonvale, Boyds and Playfair, Ontario; Union Congregation of the Union Church at Port Sydney and Utterson; Tal-botville circuit Methodist Church of Talbot-ville, Ontario; Toronto District Association of Congregational Churches; Shaw Memorial Methodist Church at Montreal, Quebec,- Mr. Hodgins.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
What were the operating ratios of the Atlantic, Central and Western regions of the Canadian National system for the year 1923?


Atlantic Region	123.23
Central Region	 85.38
Western Region	102.80


government purchases of automobiles Mr. McBRIDE:
1.	How many passenger automobiles have been purchased by the government in each of the years-1919 1920, 1921, 1922, 1923 and 1924?
2.	What has been the cost of upkeep of such cars in each year?
BEAUCHAMP'S SENTENCE-THE LASH On the Orders of the Day:
It is two weeks to-day since the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) made a statement to the House with reference

to the Beauchamp case. On that occasion I asked him whether he would lay on the Table the actual order issued from the Department of Justice in the case and his answer was, "With pleasure". He has not given himself that pleasure yet. I do not know why two weeks should be required to lay on the Table one paper from the Department of Justice.
Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister of Railways): The Minister of Justice is giving himself the pleasure of attending a wedding to-day, but I will call his attention to the remarks of my right hon. friend.


Will my hon. friend
break in on the wedding to advise his colleague that I should like laid on the Table, as well, the general order in respect of prisoners to be lashed, referred to by the minister in his own statement? I have reference to the general order covering all cases and which, according to the minister, rendered the issuance of the order in this case, superfluous.


CONTINUATION of debate on the annual
financial statement of the acting
The House resumed from Wednesday, May 7, the debate on the motion of Hon. J. A. Robb (Acting Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the House to go into committee of Ways and Means -and the -proposed- amendment thereto of Mr. Woodsworth.
I wish to congratulate the Acting Minister of Finance upon the able, businesslike and statesmanlike manner in which he has introduced this his first budget in the House of Commons of Canada. It was not a lengthy address; but it was clear, concise and to the point, and left no doubt in the minds of all who heard it that a serious, determined effort had been made to fulfil the promises made in the Speech from the Throne.
The Speech from the Throne hinted at a balanced budget, and we find in the budget that there was a surplus of revenue over expenditure for the past year of $67,750,000 with a $30,000,000 reduction in the national debt, and a promised reduction in taxation of $24,000,000. Also we find that the customs tariff on agricultural implements has been reduced, and the sales tax done away with on these articles. The sales tax on boots and shoes has been reduced by half, and the general sales tax has been lowered from 6 per cent to 5 per cent, which, although it is not much of a reduction, will assist in a small

The Budget-Mr. Lovie
measure to reduce the cost of living for the workingmen all over Canada, who for the past few years have found it very 'hard to make ends meet and carry on.
For the past number of years Canada has had the unenviable reputation of being the most expensive country on the face of the globe to live in, and an appreciation of that fact by those in authority, and a determined effort to do something* to change these conditions, will go a long way towards restoring confidence in Canada by those who are seriously asking themselves the question:	Is
it worth while to carry on any longer in the face of conditions such as prevail at present, and have prevailed for the past few years? _ What are the conditions that prevail in Canada at the present time? Hon. members who have preceded me in this debate have each and every one described conditions such as actually exist in his own particular part of the country, and have made an honest attempt to find a cure for these unfavourable conditions, therefore, I will endeavour, with the permission of this House, to describe the position of agriculture in the province of Manitoba, the province that includes within its boundaries the city of Winnipeg, the gateway to the great West, and often named the Chicago of Canada, and which is destined in the future to outrival even that great American city. The city of Winnipeg is a large distributing and railroad centre. All the wheat raised in Manitoba and Saskatchewan, and until quite recently, Alberta, passes through Winnipeg, and is graded there en route to the head of the lakes. Large stock yards are located at St. Boniface for the handling of the live stock for the three prairie provinces, and large wholesale warehouses for the distribution of agricultural machinery and implements. There are also available all the necessaries of life to make Winnipeg a large distributing centre; but it is not a manufac-[DOT] turing city-at least not yet. These stock yards are a credit to the Department of Agriculture as well as to the United Grain Growers in Winnipeg, to the extent to which these institutions have contributed to the success that has been attained. And these are co-operating splendidly in order to retain the farmers of Manitoba in the business of fattening cattle in winter. The Department of Agriculture is paying fares of farmers to Winnipeg and paying half freight on all cattle taken from the stock yards for winter feeding. The United Grain Growers are doing an admirable work in the collecting and grading of cattle in carload lots for shipment, and these carload lots are made available to the farmers.
The province of Manitoba is largely agricultural; wheat is its main product, but in conjunction with wheat the farmers raise oats, barley, rye, flax, potatoes, vegetables, horses, cattle,' sheep and swine, and have for sale butter, cream, poultry, eggs, and so forth. The soil is really choice, being in most cases a deep black loam on a clay sub-soil, and the climate is admirable.
What is the financial situation of farmers in the province of Manitoba to-day? If the House will bear with me I will describe conditions in the exact words of one who described them to me, and who is experiencing these conditions. The language is not parliamentary, but is is expressive. Here it is: "We are getting enough to eat, but we are most viciously short of money." In the municipality in which my farm is situated the secretary-treasurer informed me during the Easter recess that on January 1, 1924, only 50 per cent of taxes were paid, and no mention is made of taxes that were paid by money borrowed from banks, loan companies, and so on as that cannot be ascertained. The crop of 1923, whichi promised a heavy yield, rusted badly, and was a financial loss, as the expense of harvesting and threshing was very great. The crop of 1922 did not pay more than 50 per cent of the cost of production, although it was a fair crop of splendid quality. The cost, of production in Manitoba is so high that agriculture since 1920 simply cannot be carried on profitably.
To get a foundation upon which to study this question, everyone should seriously put before himself this problem: Is a farm in Manitoba to-day an asset or a liability ? Frankly, in answering this question I would say, both from experience and observation, that a Manitoba farm is a liability. When we admit the fact that a Manitoba farm is a liability is it not a good premise from which to start to find a remedy for such conditions?
Now, the two main sources of revenue for Manitoba farmers are wheat and fat cattle. Wheat there is always a market for-at a price; but with cattle it is different, the demand being seasonal, but it is generally conceded that the spring market is the best market in Manitoba for beef cattle. Of course, there are other sources of revenue, such as sales of horses, swine, butter, eggs, poultry, and so forth, but these are only incidentals, wheat and cattle being by far the main money crops and wheat the principal one.


Order. There is too much conversation going on in the chamber. I think in justice to the hon. gentleman who is
The Budget-Mr. Lovie

addressing the House hon. members might keep silence.


Hear, hear.


Western Canada raises a large surplus of wheat which has to find an outlet on the open markets of the world in competition with wheat from all the great wheat producing countries. Her farmers are thus compelled, by circumstances over which they have no control, to take for their wheat, their main money crop, what it is worth on the open markets of the world, less storage and transportation charges. Their surplus cattle find an outlet in Great Britain, but again this is the proposition of a free trade market, and after long rail transportation charges are paid to the seaboard, and ocean carrying charges, about all that is left to the farmer is the pleasure that he can take out of the steers' company.
What are the main features that go to make a Manitoba farm a liability? High taxes, high cost of necessaries of life, including clothing, boots and shoes, high cost of agricultural implements, high freight rates, high express rates, and high interest charges on borrowed money. All these combined compose a dose of foes and woes, which are sapping the very heart blood, and demolishing the morale of every farmer in Manitoba.
To those who are giving the matter serious consideration, the most pressing problem in Manitoba to-day is: How to make Agriculture profitable? It is a recognized fact that if agriculture is profitable, every line of business will be profitable also, but if agriculture languishes all industries in turn suffer. Here I will quote from an editorial in the Free Press of recent date. It says:
Farming is the real business of western Canada. Western Canada, country, town and city lives on what is taken out of the soil. The more wealth produced out of the soil the better off the country will be. If the farmer is going to be put out of business by conditions that make it impossible for him to get even a small profit on what he produces, then the whole country is in for a bad time. Enabling the western Canadian farmer to make a profit on his grain and on his live stock should be the job of every citizen in this western country. To-day Europe is the main market for the farm products of western Canada, and the genius of the country should be devoted to making it possible for our grain and our live stock to be sold across the ocean in competition with the world and at a profit to the western farmer.
It is a truism that if the western farmer is making money a condition is created wherein the general business of the country is put on a firm foundation and is able to look after itself.
What has been the position of agriculture in the past and why was there no whisper of such conditions previous to the last few years? The answer is this. From the year 1907 to 1913 there was on an average 74 mil-

lion dollars per year being circulated in Canada for railroad building, as the Grand Trunk Pacific and the Canadian Northern were then under construction. The money expended on the building of these railways going into circulation kept the wheels of industry in Canada turning in good style and everything was prosperous. But about the middle of the year 1913 this expansion came to an end. Hard conditions and ' unemployment would have struck Canada then, only for the fact that the war intervened and enlistment for overseas service gave employment to thousands who otherwise would have been idle. Added to this was the phenomenal crop of 1915, and the money obtained for the manufacture of munitions, which, combined, brought a lot of wealth into Canada.
When the world war started in 1914, and for years previous, prices between farm products and other commodities had been fairly established and presumably in accord with economic law extending over a series of years. Then during the years of the war prices of all farm products jumped to unprecedented heights. Those conditions we need not discuss, except to say that it is astonishing how little our farmers have to show after this great outburst of seeming prosperity. High prices, aided and abetted by a cry from those in authority, to "produce, produce, produce, if we wish to win the war," led to expansion, extravagance, and real estate speculation, and during that time labour climbed the ladder very rapidly. If now we compare the present ratio between the prices of the things the farmers have to sell, and what they must purchase, we find that the balance has been rudely disturbed, and until that relationship has been restored we cannot look for a genuine and permanent prosperity. Looking at the question from the view point of permanent national well-being, we may well shudder when we contemplate the consequences in the coming years unless this disparity between agriculture and industry is removed, and there is no doubt but one of the great problems confronting us to-day is how to restore a proper and healthful relationship between our industries and our agriculture.
Now, how are you going to make agriculture profitable? The hon. member for Fort William and Rainy River (Mr. Manion), and every Conservative member who has spoken, suggests one method, and the Acting Minister of Finance in delivering the budget suggested another. I am going to give the Conservative plan and I will take it first-hand from an editorial in the Manitoba Free Press, which puts it in shorter and much better form than I possibly could. Here it is:

The Budget-Mr. Lovie
Make it possible for capital to embark upon large manufacturing enterprises; these will give employment to large numbers of men; this will build up towns and induce prosperity; there will thus be opened up markets for the products of our natural industries; everything will then be lovely and flourishing, and pulling ever more vigorously upon our own bootstraps, we shall rise higher and higher into the warm sunshine of prosperity.
The Acting Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) in his budget has suggested another remedy.
He says:
Of these basic industries I would place agriculture in all its various branches first. Next to agriculture I would put our forests, our minerals and our fisheries. A real national policy is a policy that will encourage the growth and development of these basic industries.
That is the soundest bit of fiscal wisdom that has been heard from a Canadian Minister 'of Finance for many a long year. An economic policy in keeping with these views is what Canada requires, and it is highly encouraging to note that the modifications and changes proposed by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Robb) are all in keeping with such a policy.
Now, the Conservative policy in a very few words might be summed up in the amendment, which was really the logical amendment to a low tariff budget, introduced by the hon. member for Kent, NJ3., (Mr. Doucet) in these words:
That the welfare of Canada requires a consistently maintained protective policy.
That sounds good. Who and what is going to be protected? Canada depends upon her natural resources for revenue, and of the four basic sources of wealth, namely, the ocean, the mine, the forest and, the farm, the farm easily holds first place, the value of agricultural products exported being greater than the value of the products. of the other three sources of wealth. Is it too much to ask that the attitude of the government in a country where agriculture holds first place should be to encourage and develop the basic industry of that country? Remove all handicaps that stand in its way and see that its produce has access to the best markets of the world at the lowest cost, at all times. Would a protective policy do that? Would it encourage and develop agriculture?
What is claimed by the exponents of a protective policy is that the tariff will shut out importations and enable industry to charge a big price to the people in the country. By getting a big price for their output owners of factories will be enabled to pay big wages to their employees, who in turn will be quite willing to pay an enhanced price for the products the farmer has to sell.
But do these employees of factories pay the farmer an enhanced price for his surplus products? Not much! There is at present a great disparity in quantity between what the farmer raises and what the city man consumes; so an export market must be found; and the exportable surplus-be it small or large-regulates the price the farmer receives for his goods on the home market. Consequently, a protective tariff gives him no advantage in selling, and works to his disadvantage in buying. WTere the population of a country evenly balanced between agriculture and industry, and that country entirely self-sustaining, a protective tariff would do no preceptible harm; it would simply be a merry-go-round which would hurt no one as long as no export trade was done.
Protection blooms and flourishes when the people of one section get an advantage by legislation over the people of another section of the same country, and this goes by the name of special privilege, but the real name is legalized robbery.
Will the protective policy advocated secure a home market for the farmer? Well, it might in a hundred years, but what agriculture needs is relief from the present unhealthy conditions; not a hundred years hence or next year, but now, at once, or else the farmers will be all in the poor house. Prompt action is imperative if Manitoba agriculture is to be salvaged. An increased dose of that protective tariff which has been largely responsible for the difficulties of Manitoba farmers in the past would mean sudden financial death to the majority of them, and agriculture in that fair province w'ould become a thing of the past.
Would the protective policy that is advocated assist marketing conditions for the Manitoba farmer? No! It could not do so because, first and foremost, the protective tariff would cut off importation and would stand in the way of the selling of our products. No nation can trade with another nation unless the trade is profitable to both. No nation can sell to another nation unless each is prepared to take goods in exchange for goods exported. One nation exports its surplus, which the other nation needs, and takes in exchange the surplus goods of the country it sells to. International trade is not carried on by the use of money, but goods pay for goods and imports exceed exports if the trade is profitable. The reason for that is that the value of the exported article purchases goods on the foreign market which after being taken to Canada are of more value than the ex-
1S66
The Budget-Mr. Lovie

ported article; thus it is in the interest of a country to stimulate and encourage trade rather than hinder it. Besides, with assured traffic two ways, transportation charges would be far lower than would obtain with traffic on a one way basis, and the trade would' be profitable to both nations engaged.
When a nation having a protective tariff wants to carry on trade, their method is- send an ambassador to the country to which they wish to sell their surplus to arrange for trade, and then raise a tariff wall against the surplus products of that nation, either to prevent those products from getting into the country, or else to make them so expensive that it is unprofitable to purchase them. It has been abundantly proved that the protective policy which is advocated cannot protect agriculture in Manitoba nor make it profitable. Those who will benefit by a high protective tariff are engaged in industry, and those who are going to suffer by this protective tariff are engaged in -agriculture. No one engaged in agriculture is asking for protection; they know such a thing is impossible unless it take the form of a bounty, and they realize that that is impracticable as well as dangerous. But what they do ask for and demand in no uncertain terms is that the handicaps imposed upon agriculture by a protective tariff be removed, so that they may have a fair share of the good things of life which those engaged in industry enjoyl Should the tariff be raised, good-bye to the free, independent, courageous spirit which carried the young Canadian manhood so gallantly through the world war; the Manitoba farmer will be so crushed between the upper millstone of high protective tariff, and the lower millstone of high transportation charges that he will be reduced to the position of a slave or a Russian peasant, not the sturdy, clear-thinking yeoman we all wish the Canadian farmer to be.
If the protective tariff was raised, would anyone in Manitoba be benefited. Most emphatically I say, no. Manufacturers and dealers think they would be benefited; that they could succeed in extracting a little higher price for their output than they can get at present. But let me tell the manufacturer and the dealer in all articles which the agriculturist purchases that the farmer's purchasing power is down to a very low ebb, and a little more will put him out of business altogether. The matter with agriculture to-day is that the price of things the farmer buys is altogether too high in comparison to the price he receives for what he sells, and
I Mr. Lovie.]
to pass legislation to make these necessaries of life and production higher in price would mean swift and sudden death to the farmer's business.
What is needed to make agriculture profitable in Manitoba is for the farmer to be able to purchase the necessaries of life and implements of production on the ratio of the price he receives for his produce-in other words, at a price set by the competition of the open markets of the world. The farmer knows that only under such conditions will agriculture, the basic industry of Canada, receive a square deal, and he is looking forward to a time when such conditions will obtain. He sees no reason why industry, which is catering to his requirements and which without him could never hope to keep alive, should be bolstered up by a protective tariff and given privileges for which he ha's to pay. The Manitoba farmer cannot understand why agriculture, which is the primary industry of the country, should be made to pay tribute to a secondary industry, neither can he understand the howl that comes from the owners of these industries that they must have increased tariff protection or else go out of business. The farmer argues -this way: That the ability of any industry to establish and sustain itself in a free field is the measure of its public utility, and industries which cannot support themselves are not wanted or needed, the proper maxim being "A fair field and no favour." A protective tariff was introduced into Canada to protect infant industries, but though a great many years have elapsed since then, these industries still continue infants in their desire for protection, and the length of time they -would continue to cry out for protection can only be measured by eternity, Experience has shown only too plainly that these interests figure that the fleecing of their fellow-citizens is a God-given right which no one has any liberty even to hint at taking away from them.
Let us now turn to the budget itself. The official opposition claims that the government has no mandate from the people to entitle them to lower tariff duties and that, therefore, before they do so they should appeal to the people; in other words, that there should be a general election. Let us analyse this demand. We all know that the Liberal party went to the country upon a platform of lower tariff; therefore it is obvious that their election on that platform gives them a mandate to make the duties lower. As the Manitoba Free Press says, it is hard to realize why a party elected upon such a platform should be censured and challenged for

The Budget-Mr. Lovie
reducing the tariff the little bit that has been done.
An attempt has been made by the Acting Finance Minister, in the budget he has just brought down, to grapple with the desperate situation which confronts farmers in the prairie provinces, but it is only an attempt and will not do very much towards relieving the situation. One thing it will do, and has already done, is to put the tariff squarely before the people of Canada as an issue, and personally I have no doubt the next election will be fought upon the tariff issue.
The one unfortunate thing about general elections is the fact that the real issue at stake is intentionally beclouded and sidetracked. Between flag-waving and the cry of loyalty and patriotism, the attention of the electors is drawn away from the real issue at stake; they are bamboozled and confused. The real issue in the next election will be high or low tariff, and it is up to every elector to make every prospective candidate declare himself squarely on that definite issue.
Now, what is wanted is a method of making agriculture profitable. The farmers of the three prairie provinces are doing their level best to have a wheat pool operating in each province to handle the 1924 and subsequent crops. The idea is to have an interprovincial pool in four years' time, and later an international pool to handle the wheat of the continent. They know they cannot raise the price of wheat on the world's markets, but they expect by the application of business methods and the prevention of dumping of wheat on the world's markets in a few months, to steady and regulate the price. The price of bread will not be raised to the consumer, as bread has been on the basis of 81.50 wheat for some time, but the pool will endeavour to see that the same intelligence and the same knowledge of world conditions are applied to the marketing of -tfheat for the benefit of the producer as are available to men engaged in marketing our manufactured products. The wheat pool is a big thing, the biggest yet undertaken in our western country, and something which may yet revolutionize marketing conditions for wheat.
I That there can be money saved on marketing wheat, no one will deny. Last fall feed wheat sold at from 35 to 40 and 45 cents per bushel, sixty pounds, and it had to be all wheat, otherwise it would be docked. Wheat j worth 40 cents per bushel by the load would be worth about 45 cents by the carload. At 35 cents the price would run to about $11.60 j per ton, at 40 cents to about $13,25, and at 45 j cents to nearly $15. At the same time that feed wheat is being bought on the open market at that price, recleaned screenings at
Fort William are quoted at $23 per ton. Recleaned screenings consist of small wheat, cracked wheat, buckwheat, and wild oats with the black seeds screened out. On that price of $23 a ton, freight has to be paid. Bran is quoted by the milling companies at $23 a ton, and shorts at $25. Not so much money can be saved on the high grades, but a lot of low-grade wheat is included in the output every year, which no one . can help, and which goes to the dealers practically at their own price. _
Now I wish to say a few words on the question of transportation. The long freight haul operates against the Manitoba farmer but that can be easily overcome as the Hudson Bay railway, which we expect to have built and completed at an early date, will cut off a thousand miles of haul by rail and bring the prairie provinces close to seaboard. When the question comes before the House, more will be heard about the Hudson Bay railway.
Then there is also the fact that the Crows-nest pass agreement will come into effect on the 6th of July next, which will give relief to both East and West in the matter of freight rates, if the government just sits back and lets the agreement come into effect.
Express rates are also very high. During the Easter recess while I was West there was a meeting of farmers to be held in the town of Carman to discuss the express rate situation. but unfortunately on account of a snowstorm the meeting did not materialize. I was however, given specific instructions to bring before the House this question of express rates and to see if something could not be done to reduce them and bring them more in line with the price the farmer and his wife are receiving for the products they have to sell.
Then, with regard to export rates on cattle, which have been proved1 time and again to be too high, I wish to quote from a speech delivered by S,ir Clifford Sifton before the Canadian Club last January. He said:
Then take the question of cattle. Our government got the embargo taken off cattle. The rate on cattle from Montreal to Liverpool was $15. The ocean steamship companies put it up to $25 a head. And let me tell you, gentlemen, the Canadian Merchant Marine, the organization built with our money, at a cost of $70,000,000-instead of helping the Canadian farmer in this matter, they were in the job against the farmer, right up to their necks!
There is nothing easier than to adjust this matter. The harbours of the world are filled with ships that have nothing to do-they can be hired, rented, chartered, without the slightest trouble. In twenty minutes the government of Canada could ensure a $10 rate from Montreal to Liverpool if they chose. Any well-informed person knows that $10 is a good profitable rate for carrying cattle from Montreal to British ports.
The Budget-Mr. Lovie

Colonel Mullins who is a very large feeder of cattle has this to say, with reference to the treatment he received in shipping a load of cattle across on the Victor, of the Government Merchant Marine:
The capacity of the Victor is 230 spaces, those in authority say, and you must put 270 head on and pay at the rate of $25 per head. I put 247 head on and paid for 270, making the ocean freight cost $27.33 per head. This is an injustice and goes a long way to discourage the producing of cattle.
The Manitoba Free Press, commenting on this, says:
The Canadian government's boat charged him $25 t head on the basis of 270 cattle for the boat, though the capacity of the boat at the standard rate of twp-and-a-half feet per animal is 230 head.
Although only 247 cattle were put on the boat the Canadian Government Merchant Marine charged on the basis of 270, making the actual charge $27.33 per head.
When Col. Mullins made a protest to the Dominion Minister of Agriculture he got, in reply, a telegram stating that as he had' shipped to Dundee in expectation of a better market the higher rate charged him was " warranted."
It is an acknowledged fact that rail transportation costs seven times as much as water transportation. We find that the rate from Winnipeg to Montreal by rail is from $10 to $11 per steer, while the ocean rate from Montreal to Glasgow is $20 or over, and as the distance is twice as great, the rates are practically the same. The ratio between land and water rates is generally seven to one.
Now I wish to say a word about income tax. I am not going to kick about the income tax, because I believe in it. In this debate we have heard a good deal both for and against the income tax as a means of raising revenue, and I am not going to enter into the controversy for or against, except to say that I believe the income tax has come to stay; but what bothers the farmers is the filling up of the income tax returns, as their system of bookkeeping does not lend itself to accuracy in detail. I have been asked to 'suggest to the Acting Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) the advisability of appointing some official in each municipality, probably the municipal clerk if it was thought advisable, to assist the farmers in making out their income tax return. As all hon.
4 p.m. members know, any member of parliament can call in the assistance of a gentleman, Mr. Gray, who is an expert, in filling up their returns, and he certainly does the-job in a very short time, and there is no trouble afterwards. It does seem to me a hardship that farmers should be put to all this trouble, and they are asking that someone be appointed to assist them in filling out their returns who would guarantee that

there would be no trouble afterwards. The filling up of the returns bothers the farmer considerably, but snappy letters asking fur further information six months after the returns have been made antagonize them, as these letters have a tendency, and are intended, by all appearances, to make farmers feel they are criminals instead of what they in the main are, decent, law-abiding citizens. A change would certainly be welcomed in the line of assistance to farmers in filling up in-' come tax returns.
Now a word as to mixed farming. Farmers are very often urged in this House to go in for mixed farming if their farming operations are not profitable, but no specifications are given as to the particular branch of mixed farming they should go into. I see by the Manitoba Free Press of 3rd December last, that the Solicitor General (Mr. McMurray) speaking before the Reform Club in Montreal, said:
Mixed farming is urgently needed in Manitoba. It is the only remedy in Manitoba for the problems confronting the farmer.
Mixed farming has been held up as a panacea for all the ills the farmers are suffering from. Well, Mr. Speaker, advice is cheap to give and those who know their subject the least are often the readiest to give advice. I should like to tell the House something that was told me by a gentleman actively engaged in mixed farming. He is a neighbour of mine and he and I were in Winnipeg buying steers for feeding. He said that the superintendent of the experimental farm at Brandon last summer sent out a request to all the farmers in the vicinity that any who felt they were not getting returns from their farms should write him a letter, and he would tell them how to put their farms on a paying basis. This friend of mind wrote to the superintendent, and the answer he received was this:
I do not know what to advise you to jnake your farm pay. You are doing everything now I could advise you to do.
This gentleman raises wheat, oats and barley, also pure-bred Clydesdale horses and purebred shorthorn cattle; he milks from twelve to fifteen cows, feeds a carload of steers every winter, raises Yorkshire hogs, and raises also all kinds of poultry; and yet he cannot make farming pay, and the superintendent of the Brandon experimental farm says, "I do not know what to advise you to make your farm pay."


Ask the
Solicitor General (Mr. McMurray).


Yes. There is another thing I want to touch on, it was drawn to my atten-

The Budget-Mr. Boucher
tion in a letter not very long ago. In Manitoba this year conditions are very much the same as last, because the spring is late and wet, and we are very much afraid of rust. This writer says:
I am afraid the spring will be so late the rust will get us again. The rust is supposed to winter over on the barberry bushes. The United States seems to be cutting them down and destroying them as fast as they can, and I have often wondered if Canada had any barberry growing wild, and whether they were doing anything to get rid of them. It might be a good idea to ask a few questions on the subject. The Canadian government should take steps to find out if there are any barberry bushes. I believe there are some in the Riding mountains, and if there are they should be destroyed as quick as possible. It would be a whole lot better for Canada than these far north survey parties who get free cigars and cigarettes because it is a hard country to work in. Give them work of more consequence nearer home and let them buy their own luxuries. I want you to look into the barberry bush and rust business and if nothing is being done, make them get to work pronto. Just think of all the work I did on that 200 acres of summerfallow, and if it gets rusted the whole thing is a ruination business, as far as I am concerned.
I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell), if it is in his department, or to the attention of the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Stewart), the matter of these barberry bushes, in order to see that they are destroyed, or else I will get into trouble with the writer of this letter.
Cheaper money is needed for the farmers. Farmers are borrowing money at high rates of interest. They cannot afford to pay the rates of interest they have paid in the past. The following is part of an editorial which appeared in the Free Press:
Something worth while has been gained by the now general acceptance of the view that our commercial banks are not equipped to supply short term credits. Dr. Tory says this explicitlj'. The banks, until very recently, stoutly disputed this contention, declaring that the farmers who were entitled to credit could get it from them and pointing to their very substantial losses as proof that perhaps an excess of credits had been granted. No one will deny that the aggregate of loans given to farmers throughout the West within, say, the last ten years by the banks runs into large figures and that the losses have been great; but the lesson from this is that our banks are not equipped to attend to this business of giving rural credit and make a bad job of it, both from the point of view of their own interests and with respect to the interests of the farmers. Commercial bankers are not, in most cases, competent to determine the extent and character of credit that should be given for farm operations. Also countless farmers have been ruined by being given credit and having it called in the middle of the farming operations which were intended to produce the money to pay the debt, under peremptory arbitrary orders sent out broadcast from a head office in Montreal or Toronto. No system of banking based upon a ninety-day turnover with renewals dependent upon conditions over which the borrower has no measure of control, is fitted to supply short term credits for farm purposes. These credits need to run from nine months for
ordinary farm operations to three years for the growing of live stock. Commercial banks cannot be relied upon to give these credits; and they should be retired from the job and the task of financing agriculture given to other agencies.
Nearly everyone who knows anything about financing farming realizes that a three months' loan is not of any use, and if the credit given to the farmer is going to be cut off at a critical period, he is going to be put out of business altogether.
In conclusion, I may say that this budget does not go far enough on the road I would like to see Canada travel, but I have consulted with some of my constituents and they are of the same opinion as I am, that it is moving in the right direction, and is only a forerunner of better things to come in the not very far distant future. Therefore I will have much pleasure in voting for the budget.


Mr. Speaker, ever since my entering this House, I have anxiously been awaiting the budget which is, at present, under consideration. I am, therefore, pleased to congratulate the hon. Acting Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) for having prepared and delivered such a budget, confident, as I am, that it conforms to the true Liberal principles as I have understood them heretofore and that it will be beneficial to the whole community.
I am astonished, Sir, to hear members who occupy seats on your right, in small number it is true, but whose talents and sincerity cannot be questioned, contending that the budget does not conform to the programme traced by the great leader who, during twenty five years, presided with so much glory and dignity over the destinies of the Liberal party. I am astonished, for if the contention of these hon. members is well founded, I am forced to confess that I have not understood anything of the political history of this country, and that I have preached, during the two electoral campaigns which I made, a gospel which does not conform to the teachings of my leaders. However, I know that I have -not been a heretic and this I can prove very conclusively by Sir Wilfrid Laurier's public statement to the Canadian people, in 1917:
Should the people entrust me with the administration of the country, I would make it a point to immediately unburden the farmer of all vexatious custom duties. .	.	.
I would immediately abolish the duties on farm implements and other necessities with reference to farming as requested by the western people. And, I would consider as an essential duty of my administration a general and thorough revision of the tariff aiming at encouraging production in Canada and relieving the Canadian consumer.



The Budget-Mr. Boucher
Is there any need of further proof? The extract which I have just quoted is a distinct, certain and absolute pledge, and, this pledge does not stand alone; all Sir Wilfrid Laurier's speeches contain similar ones; the whole of his life, his policy has had for its aim the lowering of duties in order to help the consumer, and it is thus the people understand it. It is especially in that spirit that his opponents understood it, when in 1896, playing the part of birds of ill omen, they spread all over, proclaiming to the people that the return of the Liberal party to power would mean the ruin of our industries and the closing of the doors of our factories.
False prophecies! Wrong conjectures! On June 23, 1896, the Liberal party assumed power, in spite of these inauspicious prophecies, and, what happened? The factory did not close its doors, bankruptcy did not appear on the threshold of ruined industry; on the contrary, the wheels of industry moved more rapidly and powerfully, the chimneys belched out greater volumes of smoke and the country experienced an era of prosperity, sucli as it had never enjoyed previously, and which all agree to look back to as ''the golden age of Canada."
What was, Sir, the reciprocity pact as to natural products put before the Canadian people, in 1911, if not a measure destined to favour the consumer, and especially to open up for the farmer, a market having behind it a population of 100,000,000, without gainsay, the most advantageous in the world, which, at present, is unfortunately closed to our farmer by the high tariff wall which the United States have erected? What' opposition did this project so advantageous to the farmer and consumer, meet in