Mr. H. B. McGIVERIN (Ottawa) presented the third and fourth reports of the Committee on Miscellaneous Private Bills, the third report reading as follows:
Your committee have considered Bill No. 47, incorporating the United Church of Canada, and have agreed to report the same with amendments.
Your committee have found it advisable to amend the preamble of the said bill so as to indicate the reason for some of the amendments which were made to the provisions of the Bill.
Your committee beg to submit herewith for the information of the House a copy of their minutes of proceedings. They have also had the bill reprinted as amended.
Your committee also beg to recommend, in accordance with the usual practice in connection with religious corporations, that the fee and charges paid on this bill, less the cost of printing and translation, be refunded.
All which is respectfully submitted.
I move that, in accordance with the recommendation

continued in the third report of the selectstanding committee on Miscellaneous Private Bills, the fees and charges paid on Bill No. 47, incorporating the United Church of Canada, be refunded, less the cost of printing and translation.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I have
received from the Civil Service Commission some further correspondence with respect to the revision of salaries of postal employees. This correspondence is between the officials of the Post Office Department and the Civil Service Commission. I presented the other day what I was given to understand was a complete return, but the member for East York (Mr. Harris) drew my attention to the fact that while it included correspondence between the deputy ministers and the Commission, there might possibly be other correspondence between officials of the department and the Commission. This is the correspondence I now lay on the Table.


(Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 187, to amend the Dominion Lands Act.


Explain.


This amendment to the Dominion Lands Act is to permit the department to sell small portions of land on .-chool sections. At the present time it is difficult to enter into an agreement of sale owing to the provisions of the act that require a sale by public auction. We frequently have application made to us for small sites for cemetery plots, school sites, and so forth, and in the case of the Winnipeg Greater Water District, the right	of way crosses these
lands. This amendment will affect only the sale of very small areas. We have consulted with the premiers of the three prairie provinces, and have their consent to this legislation, which will permit us to fix the value without a public sale in selling small parcels for the purposes I have mentioned.


The explanation does not explain to me. There always was a method of taking care of the sale of small portions. What I would like to get-perhaps the min-

Questions
ister could give it later better than now-is an explanation of what the new method is as compared with the old. They did not have to proceed by auction before.


I think my
hon. friend will agree with me that that has been the practice. I know that we have received a great many applications for sand pits, gravel pits, cemetery plots, and school sites particularly. In the case of school sites there never was much difficulty, but there is a great deal of difficulty in connection with other small parcels of lands.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 188, to amend the Land Titles Act.
He said:	This is an amendment to
the Land Titles Act to permit us to utilize the services of the Gold Commissioner in the Yukon rather than to emjploy a barrister, as the act now provides. The registrar at present is Mr. Black, and as we have been cutting down the staff very materially we now propose to have the commissioner exercise the duties that formerly devolved upon a barrister. We need legislation in order to carry out that purpose.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
Bill No. 177 (from the Senate), respecting certain patents owned by The Canadian Sumner Iron Works, Limited.-Mr. Stevens.
Bill No. 178 (from the Senate), for the relief of Katherine Goseage.-Mr. Ross (Kingston) .
Bill No. 179 (from the Senate), for the relief of Alice Moore.-Mr. Martell.
Bill No. 180 (from the Senate), for the relief of Alexander Cruikshanks.-Mr. Church.
Bill No. 181 (from the Senate), for the relief of Francis Albert Armstrong.-Mr. Martell.
Bill No. 182 (from the Senate), for the relief of Edythe Kathleen Victoria Canniff.- Mr. Hocken.
Bill No. 183 (from the Senate), for the relief of Helen Tuer.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 184 (from the Senate), for the relief of Gordon Allingham.-Mr. Chew.
Bill No. 185 (from the Senate), for the relief of Hilda Maud Ward.-Mr. Hocken.
Bill No. 186 (from the Senate), for the relief of Rosie Race.-Mr. Harris.
QUESTIONS:
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS-Mr. JAMES STEWART
1.	When was James Stewart appointed Canadian National Railway director?
2.	How many meetings of such directors has he attended since? When and at what places?


1.	October 4, 1922.
2.	1922, October 10, Toronto; 1923, January 29, Ottawa; February 19, Ottawa; March 19, Ottawa; June 11, Montreal; July 24, Winnipeg (Executive Meeting); 1924, January 21, Montreal; February 14, Montreal; May 19, Montreal.


1.	How many meetings of full Board of Directors of the Canadian National Railways have been held since July, 1922?
2.	What directors were at each meeting?


1.	The directors of the Canadian National Railway Company were appointed by order-in-council P. C. No. 2094 dated October 4, 1922, and the first meeting was held October 10, 1922. Nineteen meetings of the Board of Directors and two meetings of the Executive committee have been held.
2.	Canadian National Railway Company. List of Directors present at Board Meetings:
October 10, 1922: Major G. A. Bell, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. James Stewart, Mr. E. R. Decary, Mr. Gerard Ruel.
January 29 and 30, 1923: Sir H. W. Thornton, Major G. A. Bell, Mr. James Stewart, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. Tom Moore, Mr. E. R. Decary, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Mr. J. H. Sinclair.
February 19, 1923: Sir H. W. Thornton, Major G. A. Bell, Mr. J. II. Sinclair, Mr. E. R. Decary, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Mr. Tom Moore, Mr. James Stewart, Col. 0. E. Talbot.
March 19, 1923:	Sir H. W. Thornton,
Major G. A. Bell, Mr. E. R. Decary, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. F. G. Dawson, Mr. Tom Moore, Col. 0. E. Talbot, Mr. James Stewart.
April 16, 1923:	Sir H. W. Thornton, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Mr. J. H. Sinclair, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. Tom Moore, Col. 0. E. Talbot, Major G. A. Bell.
Questions

May 21, 1923: Sir H. W. Thornton, Major
G.	A. Bell, Mr. J. H. Sinclair, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. E. R. Deeary, Mr. Tom Moore, Col. 0. E. Talbot, Mr. Gerard Ruel.
June 11, 1923:	Sir H. W. Thornton, Mr. J. H. Sinclair, Col. O. E. Talbot, Mr. James Stewart, Major G. A. Bell, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Mr. Tom Moore, Mr. E. R. Decary.
July 30, 1923:	Sir H. W. Thornton, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. Tom Moore, Major G. A. Bell, Mr. E. R. Decary, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Col. 0. E. Talbot.
August 20, 1923: Sir H. W. Thornton, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Mr. E. G. Dawson, Mr. R. P. Gough, Mr. Tom Moore, Col. O. E. Talbot, Mr. J. H. Sinclair.
October 18, 1923:	Sir H. W. Thornton,
Major G. A. Bell, Mr. E. R. Decary, Mr. Gerard Ruel, Col. 0. E. Talbot.


1.	What was the date of the appointment to office of the present postmaster at Otterville, Ontario?
2.	Was the present postmaster appointed over the head of the assistant 'postmaster who had been acting in the capacity for several years?
3.	Was the present postmaster sixty-six years of age at the time of his appointment?
4.	If not, what was his age?


1.	October 27, 1922.
2.	Mr. Wm. Holmes was appointed to the position and the then acting postmaster, Mr. L. D. Hussey, was also considered, together with a number of others.
3.	The post office inspector's report of May 29, 1922, indicates Mr. Holmes as being sixty-five years of age. (Appointment was made in October of same year).
4.	Date of birth not available.


Mr. .ARTHURS:
1.	Were the steamships T. J. Drummond and J. A. McKee the property of the Canadian government?
2.	If so. when were they purchased and at what price?
3.	Were these vessels operated by the Department of Railways and Canals or any other department previous to operation by tthe Canadian National Merchant Marine?
4.	If so, what were the profits or losses annually during such control, on operating receipts and expenses ?
5.	What amount, if any, was charged for depreciation on such ships during the control of the Department of Railways and Canals?
1. While these steamers were operated by Canadian Government Railways revenue and expenses were as follows:

SS. McKee
Year	Revenue	Expenses	Surplus1917	$ 48,071 25	$ 40,584 38	$ 7,486 871918	
102,189 19	67,582	22	34,606	971919	
74,235	45	418,622	66	*344,387	21
'Deficit.
SS. Drummond
Year	Revenue	Expenses	Surplus1917	$ 85,620 00	$31,773 68	$ 53,846 321918	
197,045	94	70,606	39	126,439	551919	
139,380	23	58,705	90	80,674	33
2. During the time these vessels were in the service of the Canadian Government Railways no charge was made for depreciation. CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY SECURITIES
On the question:
What is the aggregate amount of bonds, debentures, debenture stock (perpetual or terminable), or other securities now issued in respect of the mileage of lines of railway either constructed, acquired, owned or controlled by the Canadian Government Railways (a) in gross; (b) per mile?


There is a
clerical error here, and very likely it is my own fault. Instead of "Canadian Government Railways," it should be "Canadian National Railways". The Minister of Railways will see the obvious clerical error there.


Stand.	.


What amount was paid to the Speaker's secretary, for the whole year, the last year of the regime of the late Conservative government?





1.	What are the railway mileages from Edmonton to (a) Vancouver; (b) Prince Rupert?
2.	What are the railway mileages from Calgary to (a) Vancouver; (b) Prince Rupert?
3.	What are the distances from the western entrance of the Panama canal to (a) Vancouver; (b) Prince Rupert?


1.	(a) 765.47; (b) 956.90.
2.	(a) Via Mirror, Camrose and Terminal
Junction, 993.07; via Mirror, Camrose and Tofield, 1,006.22; via Munson Junction, Camrose and Terminal Junction, 1,028.50; via Munson Junction, Camrose and Tofield, 1,038.95.	(b) Via Mirror, Camrose and Terminal Junction, 1,184.40; via Mirror, Camrose and Tofield, 1,197.55; via Munson Junction, Camrose and Terminal Junction, 1,219.83; via Munson Junction, Camrose and Tofield, 1,230.28.
3.	(a) 4,045 nautical miles; (b) 4,325 nautical miles.

Questions


What is the legislative or other authority for P.C. No. 607 of April 12, 1924, regarding "the withdrawal from disposal of the petroleum and natural gas rights, the property of the Crown, in townships 84, 85, 80 and 87, ranges 20 and 21 west of the 5th initial meridian"?
delay in obtaining coal. Because neither Inverness Railway and Coal Company nor Bras d'Or Coal Company, could make satisfactory delivery, and because Acadia coal is more suitable for use on Dredge No. 5, the coal was purchased from Hendry, Limited.


Section 76 of the Dominion Lands Act, which defines the powers of the Governor in Council, provides:
The Governor in Council may withdraw from disposal
under the said act any tract or tracts of land, provided that the reason for withdrawal shall be set forth in the order affecting the withdrawal.


1.	Is dredge No. 5 of the Department of Publio Works now at Liverpool, Nova Scotia?
2.	Is coal supplied to this dredge by contract?
3.	To whom was the contract awarded and at what
figure?
4.	(a) Were tenders called for, and (b) if so was the lowest tender accepted?
5.	Were other tenders receivd, and if so what are the names of the tenderers and the amount of the tender in each case?


1.	No. The dredge is now at Yarmouth, N.S.
2.	Yes.
3.	Hendry Limited, $9.45 per ton for best quality Acadia lump delivered aboard the dredge in such quantity and at such times as may be required.
4.	(a) Yes. (b) Yes, quality and suitability of the coal and the conditions of delivery being considered.
5.	Yes, as follows:
Name of tenderers Inverness Railway & Coal Co.
Ltd	
Bras d'Or Coal Co., Ltd.. ..
Hendry Limited	
Hendry Limited	
Southern Salvage Co., Ltd..
W. N. Macdonald	
Hendry Limited	
Hendry Limited	
Kind of	Price
coal	per ton
Inverness	$ 7 75
Bras d'Or	8 20
Acadia	9 45
Springhill	9 45
Springhill	9 50
Sydney	9 75
Old Sydney	10 55
Old Sydney	
M/R	10 15
The Inverness Railway and Coal Company were twice asked, by wire, to name wharf at Liverpool from which they would deliver coal aboard the dredge. They did not reply. Bras d'Or Coal Company was then asked to name wharf from which they would deliver. They named the government wharf. There is no government wharf at Liverpool. All wharves are privately owned, and none was available for use of the Bras d'Or Coal Company. Hendry, Limited, own a wharf at Liverpool, upon which they maintain a stock of coal, thus ensuring the dredge against any


1.	Is the coal for the public buildings in Liverpool, Nova Scotia, supplied by contract?
2.	(a) To whom was the contract awarded and (b) at what cost to the government?
3.	Were tenders called for and was the lowest tender accepted ?
4.	Were other tenders received, and if so what are the names of the tenderers and the amount of the tender in each case?


1.	Yes.
2.	Hendry Limited, $9.45 per ton for best Acadia lump delivered in bins.
3.	(a) Yes. (b) Yes, quality of coal and conditions of delivery being considered.
4.	Yes, as follows:
		Price	Delivery
		per	at
Name of tenderers Kind of coal		ton	Liverpool
Bras d'Or Coal Co.			
Ltd			49 95	in bins
Southern Salvage	Co.		
Ltd	9 45	in binsJohn Connor.. .	9 20	in binsJohn Connor.. .	8 60	f.o.b. carsGreenwood Coal	Co.	Ltd	8 50	f.o.b. carsEmmerson Coal	Co.	Ltd	. .. Emerson	8 35	in binsMaritime Coal Rail-	way & Power	Co.	Ltd	8 10	f.o.b. carsHISTORIC SITES


1.	How much has been spent on restoring historic sites in the province of Ontario during the past three years of record ?
2.	Of this sum how much has been spent on restoring the ruins of the battlefields of the War of 1812, 1813 and 1814 in the Niagara district?


1.	Up to April 1 last, the total expenditure in connection with the restoration, preservation, marking and protection of historic sites in the province of Ontario was $8,518.79.
2.	Up to April 1 last, $2,368.09 was spent in connection with the acquisition, restoration and marking of the battlefields of the War of 1812, 1813 and 1814 in the Niagara district.


Is Mr. A. B. Hudson, K.C., M.P. member for South Winnipeg, the same A. B. Hudson, K.C., M.P., who
Questions

is a member of the legal firm of Hudson, Ormond, Spice & Symington, the latter member of said firm being the Mr. Symington who is paid by the government as counsel on the Home Bank Inquiry?


Yes.


1.	What' public works have been or are being carried on at or near Harrigan cove, Halifax county, Nova Scotia ?
2.	Who is the resident engineer in charge of said work ?
3.	What foreman or foremen have been employed in
connection with said work?
4.	What are the names of all workmen employed on said work, what is the number of days work given by each, rate or wages and total amount paid to each?


1.	During the past fiscal year repairs at a cost of $1,459.09 were made to the public wharf at Turner's island which is situated at the west side -of Harrigan cove.
2.	T. J. Locke, District Engineer at Halifax.
3.	George Turner.
4.
J. H. Stow ell Jones, Walter G. McDonald.. Ernest Rudolph	
Thos. C. Atkins	
Burton E. Atkins	
Wm. Hartling	
Wm. Fraser	
Clarence Shiers	
Geo. H. Snow	
Frank P. O'Leary*. ..
John A. Fraser	
Harris Cross	
James Kirker	
	Rate of	Total
Days	Wages	Paid.. 32	$2 50	480 fiO2 50	55 002 50	77 502 50	51 252 50	62 502 50	62 502 50	70 002 50	58 752 50	46 25.. 241	2 50	61 252 50	61 252 50	10 002 50	10 on


1. Does the Post Office Department allow the T. Eaton Departmental Stores a commission on postage stamps used in their own business?
2. Does the Post Office department allow the T. Eaton Departmental Stores a commission on money order business?
3.	If so, what total amount has been allowed the Eaton concern (a) on commissions on postage stamps; (b) commissions on money order transactions?
4.	Are commissions or rebates similarly allowed to other departmental stores or mail order houses?
5.	Has permission been granted to the Eatons to install a mail metering machine?
6.	Where are these mail metering machines manufactured ?
7.	What per cent or rebate is allowed the Eatons on account of postage in connection with th'ise machines?
8.	Is any rebate or commission allowed the Massey-Harris concern on postage used in their own business?
9.	Is any postage rebate allowed the Canada Life Assurance Company on its mailings?
10.	Does the Post Office department propose to continue the giving of discounts to the Eaton Company to the prejudice of the smeller dealers and merchants o 1 Canad a general 1 v ?


1.	The T. Eaton Co. receives commission on stamps sold in post offices located in their stores, being the same rate paid to postmasters in other city sub-post offices.
2.	The T. Eaton Co. acting as a postmaster, receives regular commission on money orders issued, but not in money orders paid.
3.	Discounts on postage stamps and commission on money orders allowed post offices in T. Eaton Co. stores for the fiscal year 1923-4 [Postage stamps, $22,252.51; money orders, $2,018.48.
4.	Similar commissions are allowed to postmasters in sub-offices in any pface of business, including departmental stores and mail order houses.
5.	Yes.
6.	Stamford, Conn., U.S.A.
7.	Two per cent on the first $10,000 of postage purchased by meter each year; one per cent on all purchases in excess of $10,000, these being the rates applied to all postage-meter contracts in view of the work saved the post office through the use of these machines.
8.	No.
9.	No.
10.	There is no intention of treating subpost offices conducted by T. Eaton Co. differently from other sub-post offices.


1.	What was the total number of permanent civil servants employed in the various public services of Canada, exclusive of railway employees, during each of the years: 1917, 1918, 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922, 1923?
2.	What was the total amount paid to said employees during each of the above years?


1.	How many officials are permanently employed by the Canadian government in Great Britain, and what are their duties?
2.	What is the total amount of the salaries and other payments, if any, made to them?
3.	How many officials are temporarily emploved in Great Britain by the Canadian government at the Empire Exhibition or elsewhere7
4.	What are the duties of such temporary officials or employees and what will be the total cost of their services ?
5.	In addition to those already there, how jnanv officials does the government propose to send to Great Britain in connection with the Empire Exhibition and what is the approximate cost?
6.	Is the government bearing in part or whole the expenses of representatives of provincial governments?
7.	What are the duties of these provincial representatives, and will be the approximate expenses?

Unopposed Motions jor Papers


For a copy of the instructions given Dr. Hume with reference to the oil industry in Ontario and all letters, statements, documents and evidence taken or collected by the said Dr. Hume with reference to the said industry and of the report made by Dr. Hume thereon.


For a copy of all correspondence and other documents relating to the inquiry regarding Mr. Louis Gauthier, caretaker of the post office at Matane, Quebec; also a copy of evidence given at said inquiry, together with the investigator's report.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, reports, estimates and other documents exchanged between the government of Canada and the Historic Sites Board and the Queen Victoria Niagara Falls Park Commissioners, relating to the improvement, care and -betterment of the historic sites and battlefields, in the Niagara district, of the war of 1812-H.


For a copy of all correspondence in the possession of any department of the government concerning the removal or proposed removal from office of J. L. Bell, police magistrate at Whitehorse, Yukon territory.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, letters and other documents in the possession of the government relating to the capture by bandits in China of Mr. Jaffray, of Toronto, and the efforts of the government to secure his release.


Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Acting Postmaster General) moved that the House go into Committee of the Whole to-morrow to consider the following proposed resolutions:
Resolved, That it is expedient to amend the Civil Service Act, 1918, by providing,-
1.	That when it has been determined by the Governor in Council that any post office, the employees of which do not come under the Civil Service Act, is to be brought under the said act, any person then employed in such office who has had at least two years' postal experience, one of which has been gained in continuous employment in the office in question immediately preceding the date on which the status of the office is so changed, and who was at the commencement of his service writhin the limits of age prescribed for appointment to the civil service, shall, subject to the certificate of the commission that he possesses the necessary qualifications, be eligible for appointment under the said act irrespective of the principle of competition.
2.	That the salary of such person upon appointment to the civil service shall not be changed, provided that such rate shall not be less than the minimum
rate for the class, and shall not exceed the rate which he would have been in receipt of had he entered the service at the minimum rate for the class in which his position is placed and been allowed the usual annual increases to which his years of service would entitle him; and persons now employed in such post offices shall be considered for appointment to the civil service under the act to be based upon these resolutions irrespective of age.
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. P. J. A. CARDIN (Minister of Marine and Fisheries) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolutions: Resolved, that it is expedient to provide,-
1.	That the Governor in Council may, from time to time, advance and pay to the corporation of the Vancouver harbour commissioners, in addition to the moneys heretofore authorized to be advanced to the corporation for the construction of harbour improvements by existing legislation, such sums of money, not exceeding in the whole the sum of $5,000,000, as may be required to enable the corporation to complete construction of terminal facilities in Vancouver harbour for which the plans, specifications and estimates have already been approved by the Governor in Council, and to construct such additional terminal facilities as may be, likewise, approved as necessary, further to properly equip the said port.
2. That during the period of construction of the works referred to, the interest payable on the debentures to be deposited with the Minister of Finance and Receiver General, under the provisions thereof, shall bo deemed to be money acquired in the construction of such works and to be a part of the cost of the construction thereof, and may be paid out of the said sum of $5,000,000; the period of construction herein referred to shall begin on the day when the first advance is made on account of said construction, and terminate on such date as the Governor in Council shall determine.
3.	That no advances shall be paid, as above provided for, unless such detailed plans, specifications and estimates for the works on which the money to be advanced is to be expended, as are satisfactory to the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, have been submitted to and approved by the Governor in Council before work on the same has been commenced.
4.	That the corporation shall submit to the Minister of Marine and Fisheries for approval, monthly applications for such advances as they may be entitled to apply for, with statements, in detail, in such form as the Minister may direct, and, upon approval of same, authority for the payment of the amount applied for may be granted by the Governor in Council.
5. That the corporation shall, upon any advances being made, deposit with the Minister of Finance debentures of the corporation equal in par value to the advance so made, repayable within twenty_five years from the date of issue, and bearing interest payable half yearly at the rate of five per centum per annum.
6.	That the principle and interest of the sums advanced to the corporation under the authority of
Home Bank
any Act founded on these resolutions shall be payable by the corporation out of all its property and assets and out of all its tolls, rates, dues, penalties and other sources of revenue and income, and shall rank as a charge thereon and have precedence in regard to payment next after payments provided for in section twenty-seven of chapter fifty-four of the statutes of 1913, equally with the advances made under authority of chapter twenty-nine of the statutes of 1923.
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I beg to draw the attention of the government to an article published in the Ottawa Citizen, Toronto Globe and other papers, of Saturday, June 14th, which reads as follows:
Depositors prepare to move on Ottawa.
Proposed Toronto Deputation before Banking Committee numbers 150.
Toronto, June 13,-Meetings of Home Bank depositors in city branches took place to-night to prepare for the move on Ottawa, when the Banking and Commerce Committee of the House of Commons takes up the report of Mr. Justice McKeown, the royal commissioner.
W. T. J. Lee, chairman of the national executive, said to-night no reply had been received to the message asking if the Banking and Commerce Committee would receive a deputation representing all the depositors. The deputation, if sent, will number 150, but it is possible the Banking Committee at Ottawa may decide to proceed without any representations by a committee of the depositors.
May I ask the government if it is true that these gentlemen have received no reply to their requests.


I beg to state, on behalf of the standing committee on Banking and Commerce, that if this declaration was made by Mr. Lee, it was absolutely unfounded. On June 5 I received from the Secretary of the Home Bank depositors the following telegram:
Lieut.-Col. Thos. A. Vien, K.C., M.P.,
Chairman, Banking Committee, Ottawa.
The executive committee of the Home Bank depositors association desire an opportunity to lay the facts of this matter before your committee next Thursday or on Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday of the week following, the earlier the date the better. We would like time for about three speakers to be heard. Would be obliged for as early a reply as possible. Letter following.
I. E. Weldon,
Secretary, Home Bank Depositors'
Relief Committee.
The letter was received the following day confirming that telegram. I immediately ordered the clerk of the committee to answer, which he did on June 6, as follows:
I. E. Weldon,
Secretary, Home Bank Depositors'
Relief Committee,
8 King Street West, Toronto.
Your telegram and letter of fifth instant addressed to Chairman, Banking and Commerce Committee will be placed before committee at their first meeting on Wednesday next, eleventh instant, and their decision communicated to you immediately.
S. R. Gordon,
Clerk to Committee.
And by a letter of the same date, confirming that telegram, the clerk of committee wrote as follows:
Enclosed is confirmation of telegram sent you this evening in reply to your telegram and letter to the chairman of the committee.
Immediately upon the committee deciding on what day they can hear you and the number of speakers I will be glad to advise you.
In the meantime, I am mailing to you as secretary of the Relief Committee a printed copy of the evidence taken to date by the committee; also the " Orders of the Day " for Wednesday containing the " Notices of Motion."
Your truly,
S. R. Gordon,
Clerk to Committee.
On June 11, pursuant to this letter of June 6, the clerk of committee was ordered to send the following telegram, which he duly sent.
I. E. Weldon,
Secretary, Home Bank Depositors' Committee,
8 King Street West, Toronto.
House of Commons Banking Committee to-day decided hear three representatives your organization on a date to be decided after committee has received Mr. Justice McKeown's report. You will be advised of date set.
S. R. Gordon,
Clerk to Committee.
And on the 11th of June we received an acknowledgement from Mr. Weldon which reads as follows:
I beg to acknowledge receipt of your telegram of June 11th advising us that the committee decided to hear three representatives of the Home Bank depositors' organization on a date to be decided after committee has received Mr. Justice McKeown's report and that we will be advised of the date set.
We see by the press that Justice McKeown's report is now in the hands of the government and we presume therefore it will soon be before your committee.
Thanking you for your prompt advice of the committee's decision.
Yours very truly,
I. E. Weldon,
Secretary, Home Bank Depositors' Relief Committee.
I therefore w*as exceedingly surprised on Saturday last when I read in the Citizen and also in the Globe that Mr. Lee, Chairman of

Postal Employees
the National Executive Committee had stated at a meeting of depositors that no reply had been received to the message asking that the Banking and Commerce committee should receive a deputation representing the depositors,
. and moreover that it might be the decision of the committee to proceed without any representation by the committee of depositors. I immediately wired Mr. Lee on June 14, as follows:
I notice in Citizen this morning reference to your declarations of last night that no reply had been received to the message asking if the Banking and Commerce Committee would receive a deputation representing the depositors. Kindly inquire from Mr. Weldon your secretary, if he did not receive telegram and letter dated June sixth and June eleventh. We have his acknowledgment dated June twelfth. Kindly correct impression given to the press that committee did not answer your message.
Thomas Vien,
Chairman.
I confirmed that by letter of the same date, as follows:	,
I beg to enclose herewith confirmation of my telegram of to-day. It is with some surprise that I have read in the press this morning that no reply had been received to the message asking if the Banking and Commerce Committee would receive a deputation representing all the depositors. You will find by the copy of the correspondence exchanged and which I beg to attach hereto, that the committee has immediately answered by wire and letter.
May I further state that the committee has deemed it advisable to peruse Mr. Justice McKeown's report before it receives you so as to be able better to appreciate your representations when your delegation is received.
I may state that we shall endeavour to fix the 19th or the 20th to receive your delegation.
The committee will sit on Tuesday the 17th instant and will then fix a date and you shall be informed immediately.
To-day I received the following telegram from Mr. Weldon:
Have been away from office owing to illness past week just learned of newspaper report Lee interview stating no reply received our message asking interview Banking and Commerce committee. Cannot understand this report which we greatly regret. All our communications to you and Banking and Commerce committee have received prompt and courteous reply. Will use every effort to correct false impression.
I have received also from Mr. Lee the following telegram:
Just received your wire. Made no such declaration to press. Explain to committee. Will be in Ottawa Tuesday morning and will see you on arrival.
The House will note that Mr. Lee does not deny having made the declaration to the meeting, but denies only having made it to the press. As the Citizen, the Toronto Globe and several other newspapers contained the information in identical language, I think that we can fairly assume that the declaration was made to the meeting of depositors. I am glad that the interpellation of my hon.
friend gives me an opportunity of correcting the wrong impression given to the public. I do not believe that Mr. Lee intended wilfully to mislead the public; but the least that can be said, if he did make such a declaration, is that he should have taken the trouble of inquiring from the secretary of the executive committee as to the exact facts before making a statement which I consider unjust towards parliament and the committee.


On the Orders of the Day:
I understand the Prime Minister to have said that if there is to be any alteration in the schedule of postal workers' salaries as revised by the Civil Service Commission, it will have to be made by parliament. In view of the widespread dissatisfaction with the reduction in salaries as so provided by that schedule,
I should like to ask the Prime Minister if he will indicate in what way parliament can deal with this matter and when?


I might take advantage
of the question which my hon. friend has asked me just to read to the House the formal expression of view given to the government by the Department of Justice as to the power of the government to deal with any matter of revision and increase of salaries of members of the Civil Service. I submitted to the Department of Justice in May last two questions:	First, whether under the law the
power of revision and increase of salaries of members of the Civil Service resides in the Civil Service Commission or, second, whether the responsibility therefor resides in His Excellency in Council. The answer made and signed by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Newcombe, is as follows:
My answer is that the classification of the Civil Service including the several rates of compensation as prepared and signed by the Civil Service Commission of first October, 1919, was submitted to parliament, ratified and confirmed and stands, subject to such amendments in respect of rates of compensation as may be made by the Civil Service Commission with the approval of the Governor in Council. See sections 42 and 45 B of the Civil Service Act.
The Governor in Council has, in my opinion, no authority to regulate rates of compensation independently. He may approve the rates submitted by the commission for approval, and the rates will thus become effective, but he has no authority to approve or sanction any rate in excess of that which is recommended by the commission. Such an increase can be sanctioned only by parliamentary authority.
I think it is well that not only the House but the country should understand clearly that, as respects any revision of salaries of civil servants, the government stands precise-
Postal Employees

ly in the same relation to the Civil Service Commission as it does with respect to most appointments to the service. In order to remove from the arena of politics, as it is termed, any control by the government in the matter of appointments, this parliament, under a previous administration, gave to the Civil Service Commission full power of appointment of most of the members of the Civil Service. Parliament also gave to the commission like powers with respect to revision of salaries of civil servants, so that the power of revision of salaries of civil servants is taken away entirely from the government. This illustrates wherein to some extent we are being governed by commission and not in accordance with a system of a responsible government in the strict meaning of the term. The government, appreciating the position, took care at the outset to associate with the commission, the deputy ministers and the Board of Audit in the matter of the revision of the salaries of civil servants, and in particular the salaries of postal employees which were the first to be referred. On each of two occasions that a report was made by the commission, having learned that the report was not acceptable to the postal employees, the government took such steps as were possible to secure a further consideration by the Civil Service Comlmission of their report. The government has gone in that direction just as far as it is possible to go in the matter, and as my hon. friend has said, if there is to be any further change in salaries, they will have to be made by parliament itself. The government is placed in the position, either of asserting that it is not prepared to accept the legislation which is on the statutes and of being obliged in consequence to ask parliament to enable it to revise or amend that legislation, or to stand by the legislation as it appears. We have not felt, for the present, at least, that we would be justified in asking parliament to amend or repeal the statute under which the civil service commissioners have acted, nor to take action in any way other than in accordance with the recommendations of the commission.


I think the statement made by the Prime Minister just now would have been more appropriately made on an occasion when a discussion might follow. I do not take exception at all to the wording of the opinion of the Deputy Minister of Justice, nor do I .take exception to the statement of law as made in that opinion; but I
[Mr. Mackenzie King.J
do not think the occasion was opportune to make a veiled attack either on the present system or on the commission at a time when debate is necessarily cut off on the Orders of the Day. If the government desire either an alteration in the general scale or a change in the system, there is in both cases a way in which the government can bring that about. If, on the other hand, the government feel that what the commission has recommended is not fair and just, the government owe it to themselves to take such means as are in their power to remedy the situation.
If, though, the government feel that the scale recommended is fair and right-and their approval would seem to indicate that -then the government should not disavow its responsibility, and if it assumes its responsibility, in the event of improper interference with that responsibility, I am prepared to back the government. I do not like, however, the continual habit of shunting the blame on someone else, unless, at least, it it said that those have acted wrongly.


I do not think I can let pass the remark of my right hon. friend to the effect that in any way there was in what I said a veiled attack on the commission. I had not the slightest intention of making any kind of attack, nor do I think my remarks are capable of that interpretation. What I think is important is to make clear to those most affected and to the country the exact position in which the government have been placed by the law respecting the Civil Service Commission as that law stands on the statutes at the present time.


In view of the
probability of there being some trouble between the government and the men, is there not some action open to the government which might meet the situation?


The government will be pleased to receive from my hon. friend or any other hon. gentleman any suggestion he wishes to make in that regard.


Is the government not
able to take action itself?


If they cannot,
there is not responsible government.


On the Orders of the Day:
In view of the case now before the

Montreal courts, will the Prime Minister state whether the agreement between England and Russia of July 3, 1922, was endorsed by Canada? Whether the government of Canada has definitely recognized the union of the Soviet socialist republic? And, further, whether the government recognizes the so-called Ukrainian People's Republic?


May I consider my hon.
friend's question as being in the nature of a notice? I shall have to look into the matter and give it some little thought before undertaking to give an answer.


I would suggest that
we have an understanding now that our government is not in the recognizing business.


Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Argenteuil) (Acting Postmaster General) moved that the House go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to amend the Post Office Act by providing that the Postmaster General may prescribe and enforce such regulations as to letters directed to be registered, as to him seem necessary, in respect to the registration of letters and other matter passing by mail, and to the charge to be made for the same, and to compensation for loss not to exceed one hundred dollars in any one case.
Motion agreed to and the House went into committee, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
This will
simply put registered mail and small articles on the same basis as parcel post, and it gives to the department the authority to fix the charges. At the present time the maximum indemnity paid on the loss of registered mail is $25, and for the registration of such mail the Post Office Department charges a fee of 10 cents. In connection with registration it is proposed to charge a fee of 10 cents on a valuation of $25, 20 cents up to $50, 30 cents up to $75 and 40 cents up to $100. The purpose of the resolution is merely to unify the system as between registered mail and parcel post.


Is this resolution complete and effective? It does not specify in any way what the regulations are to be.


It gives discretion to the department. I have given the list of fees which are now charged.


Should not the resolution set out the effect of the regulations which are proposed? I do not see the value of a resolution if it merely says that the minister
Post Office Act
may make such regulations as he deems advisable.


My hon.
friend will notice that the resolution fixes the maximum compensation.


There is only one material point mentioned.


I have been informed by the Post Office Department that so far there has occurred the loss of only one article out of every forty thousand registered; and while I have quoted the larger fees in force in relation to parcel post, it is anticipated that probably these fees can be greatly reduced. Therefore the fees are now fixed, although the maximum of compensation is stated in the resolution.


Does the minister say
that only one loss has occurred.


That is the information.


I think I must have lost that one.


I am only
giving the information I have received.


The minister is not referring to registered mail but registered articles?


Registered
articles, yes.


Oh; and this is intended to increase the amount that may be fixed?


This is to
give the necessary power to fix the fees.


What fees are proposed
now?


The fee in effect at the moment is the one I have given.


And are these the fees that are now proposed?


It is anticipated that they may be reduced; hence they are not fixed in the amendment.


I understand that at the present time the liability was limited to $25.


On registered articles.


If the maximum liability is $25 how can there be a fee for a value up to $100?


This is to give the minister discretion-
Post Office Act


I know that; but the minister is giving the present fees.


On parcel post.


Yes, and the liability now is limited to $25.


On registered articles.


Then why should there be, as exists to-day, a higher fee for a $100 article when the limit of the liability is only $25 in any case?


There is no higher fee than 10 cents in the case of a $25 article.


The minister has not got my point. He gave us the fees now in force and he says that they range from 10 cents in the case of a $25 article to 40 cents in the case of an article of $100 in value. But he says that the liability is only $25 no matter what the value of the article may be.


Yes. But if the registration is more than $25 the higher fees are charged accordingly.


And up to what limit can one insure now?


Up to $100.


But I understood the minister to tell us that it was only $25.


That is what I am seeking to amend at the present time in so far as registered articles are concerned. The insurance of parcel post regulations went into effect in 1921 and we are making the law now apply to registered articles; registered articles which now carry a maximum of $25 we are making comparable with what applies to parcel post.


That is to say, in connection with registered articles the maximum liability at the present time is $25 and it is proposed that it shall be $100, the same as with parcel post.


Yes.


I do not understand the difference between registered mail and mail that is insured'.


Insurance is probably not the right term. If you register a letter and it is lost you recover at the present time a maximum of $25, and the same

applies to registered articles. Under the amendment of 1921 we can insure a parcel up to the value of $100. But we cannot accept registration of a letter for more than $25.


I understand that. But I
have a specific case:	I went to register an
article and was told it would be much cheaper to insure it. What is the difference? I do not get the point. I was told that the insurance rate was only half the registration rate.


For what amount did you insure?


About $10.


This amendment is to permit us to increase our guarantee for registered articles.


You cannot explain that
point?


I confess that I aim not sufficiently familiar with the details of the department to do so. By this amendment the department will be able to give a greater return for loss.


Is not the difference
this?-That a certain class of article can go by parcel post, and another class can go by registered mail. Insurance applies to each class, but, in respect of parcels, the value for which the department is liable is $100. This amendment is to make the value for which the department is liable in respect of registered mail $100, too.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Stewart (Argenteuil) thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 189, to amend the Post Office Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister of Railways and Canals) moved that the House go into comlmittee to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to amend the Canadian National Railways Guarantee Act, 1923, chapter 37, by repealing subsection four thereof and providing,-
1.	That nothing contained in the said act shall be taken to authorize the guarantee of any securities the issue of which has not been authorized by the said act or some other act of parliament, and

C.N.R. Guarantee Act
2.	That where parliament has authorized expenditures on equipment to the extent of twenty-five per cent of the cost of such equipment, the company may make or cause to be made one or more equipment issues for the remaining seventy-five per cent of such cost.
Will the minister explain the effect of the resolution first, please?


Mr. Speaker, it will be
remembered that last session a bill was introduced by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) with reference to these guarantees, and that it was subsequently amended in the Upper House. The Justice department now casts grave doubts on our power to guarantee securities at all, and the purpose cxf this bill is to cure those doubts without 4 p.m. baking away any of the restrictions imposed by the former act. When an equipment issue is to be guaranteed parliament is called on to vote twenty-five per cent of the issue, if it is to be guaranteed by the government. The second Clause of this resolution is to provide that when that twenty-five per cent is voted by parliament it shall constitute authority to the company bo .issue the remaining 75 per cent. Perhaps it would be as well ,to put on Hansard the opinion of Mr. Ruel as he gave it to me:
Paragraph 4 of section 2, of this last mentioned bill reads as follows: "Nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting power to guarantee any securities the issue of which has not been authorized by parliament."
The trouble with this paragraph 4 was that it prevented, in the opinion of the Department of Justice, the issue of equipment securities for the reason that equipment securities are obligations of the Canadian National Rolling Stock Company, Limited, which is a company incorporated under the Dominion Joint Stock Companies Act. General power is given the Dominion Joint Stock Company to issue securities, but the Justice department considered that paragraph 4, as above quoted, was dealing with specific authority to issue a specific amount of securities and that the general power in the general act to issue securities did not comply with the wording of the paragraph. Consequently we propose to amend the paragraph to read this way:
"Nothing herein contained shall be taken to authorize the guarantee of any securities the issue of which has not been authorized by this act or some other act of parliament."
The "some other act of parliament" covers the provisions of the Companies Act, and we have added the words "this act" so as to overcome the objection which was raised, but not seriously pressed, that the provisions of paragraph 4 destroy the power to issue securities giv