I beg to move, seconded by Mr. Lapointe, that the special committee to whom was referred Bill No. 2, to readjust the representation in the House of Commons, be given leave to report from time to time.


Motion agreed to.
I beg to present a petition from the Western Association of Congregational Churches,, representing all the Congregational churches in Ontario, west and north of Hamilton, in favour of church union.


I desire to present petitions from the members and adherents of Zion church and St. Andrew's church at Carleton Place, Ontario, and also from the members and adherents of Knox Presbyterian church, at Beckwith, Ontario, both opposed to the church union bill.


I desire to present a petition from the officials and members of the Methodist church of London, Ontario, for the incorporation of the United Church of Canada.


I move, seconded by Mr. Lapointe, that the name of Mr. Ward be substituted for that of Mr. Forke on the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce.


Motion agreed to.
That a special committee be appointed to consider questions relating to pensions, insurance and re-establishment of returned soldiers, and any amendments to existing laws in relation thereto which may be proposed or considered necessary by the committee, with power to send for persons, papers and records, and to print from day to day its proceedings and evidence taken, for the use of the committee, and to report from time to time, and that the said committee do consist of the following members, namely: Messieurs Arthurs, Black (Yukon), Brown, Caldwell, Carroll, Chisholm, Clark, Clifford, Denis (Joliette), Hudson, Humphrey, Knox, MacLaren, McKay, Munro, Pelletier, Power, Raymond, Robinson, Robichaud, Ross (Kingston), Sinclair (Queens, P.E.I.), Sinclair (Oxford), Speakman, Stork, Sutherland and Wallace; and that rule 11 be suspended in relation thereto.


Is it the unanimous
pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Motion agreed to.
I beg to move:
That the order for consideration of the motion for Mr. Speaker to leave the chair for the House to go into committee of Ways and Means have precedence over all other business except on Wednesday, April 16, and except the introduction of bills, until disposed of.


I have no objection to the budget being given reasonable priority, but I do not think it is necessary that it should have precedence over, say, the answering of questions. I am afraid the order paper would become badly cluttered if there is to be no answering of questions until the budget debate is disposed of. I should think that unopposed motions for papers might also be given consideration before the budget inasmuch as they take but a few minutes.


I think the request of my right hon. friend is reasonable.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion with the proposed amendment?


Carried.


Motion agreed to.
Report on Agricultural Credit, by Dr. H. M. Tory-Hon. Mr. Robb.
Civil Service Superannuation
Mr. J. A. C. ETHIER (Translation) Before, Mr. Speaker, passing to the Orders of the Day, I wish to draw the attention of the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) to an article which appeared, yesterday, in La Presse of Montreal, and which reads as follows :
Concert in the Penitentiary
The 35 members of the Knights of Columbus' orchestra, under the direction of Mr. J. A. Du Hayne, journeyed to St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary and gave a concert there yesterday afternoon, a delightful programme was rendered. It has become a custom to entertain convicts with musical concerts around New Year's day and Easter. Lt. Col. de la Bruere Girouard, Governor of the Penitentiary, thanked the musicians on behalf of the convicts.
I wish to find out from the hon. Minister of Justice how long has been in existence this custom of giving concerts to charm the leisure hours of convicts; who inaugurated this kind of pastime in the St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary; what was the cost of said concert and who is to defray the expenses; by what authority did the governor, the worthy Lt. Col. de la Bruere Girouard, become the spokesman for the convicts; in what manner did he express himself to thank the musicians on behalf of the convicts?
With reference, Sir,
to the question of treatment of convicts in penitentiaries, opinions vary. Many believe that this treatment should be as harsh as possible. On the other hand, I notice, in the Votes and Proceedings of the House, a resolution stating that under the present act the most elementary principles of ethics, hygiene and humanity are violated. However, my hon. friend finds that there is too much entertaining. I shall make the necessary inquiries so as to furnish the hon. member with the information he desires.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. L. II. LADNER (Vancouver South): Mr. Speaker, may I inquire from the Prime Minister if the government will consider having reproduced the beautiful painting depicting the visit of the late President Harding to Vancouver, the reproduction to be hung in the Hall of Fame in this building? The painting in question is being presented by Mr. R. J. Crombie of Vancouver on behalf of the people of Canada to the American nation,

and is now on view in Birks' store, Ottawa. President Harding's visit w'as the first of any President of the United States to Canada, and was a notable event in a century of peace. Has the government any plan to commemorate this historic event?
When the government begins to hang paintings in the Hall of Fame I think they should be originals and not reproductions.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, last week the attention
of the government was called to the fact that legislation had been introduced in the United States congress providing that no quota barrier should be erected against native born Canadians, but that other immigrants from Canada would be treated as though coming from the land of their birth. Thus Canadian citizens born in England would be refused admission if the British quota was exhausted. Has the government made any representations to the United States with respect to this discrimination against certain classes of our citizens?


Mr. Speaker, the government have no knowledge of any changes in the United States quota regulations which will affect Canada.


Hon. J. A. ROBB (Acting Minister of Finance) moved that the House go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution :
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to provide for the superannuation of civil servants, to provide for contributions by civil servants to the consolidated revenue fund, to provide for payment out of the consolidated revenue fund to civil servants and to the widows and children of deceased civil servants of superannuation allowances or gratuities, and to provide for the making of regulations by the Governor in Council to give effect to the terms of the said measure.
Motion agreed to and the House went into committee, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
Explain.


Mr. Chairman, it is intended
to go on with the budget debate, and we are merely advancing this resolution a stage so

that the bill may be tabled for the information of hon. members before the Easter holidays. The bill to be submitted will be based on the recommendations of the committee of last session, reported to this House on June 22, 1923, too late then for legislative action.
It will be introduced to carry out a promise made by the Prime Minister. It is proposed to submit the bill to a special committee for consideration-probably	the same special
committee that considered this matter last session.


Could not the
minister tell us now what in his view the charge on the treasury would be? Can he not give us any financial details at all?


I did have a memorandum of
such details but I cannot place my hand on it now. I shall be prepared to give the information as soon as the bill is referred to the committee.


I should have
thought the appropriate time to have the memorandum before us would be when the resolution is being discussed so that the committee may see what it is being committed to.
I hope my hon. friend will be able to find his memorandum, for it seems to me the information it should contain goes to the basis of the resolution,


I will give it to my hon.
friend later. If he does not wish to advance the bill at this stage, it must stand over until after the Easter holidays.


I have not the
slightest wish to delay anything. I only desire that we conduct our business in such a way that we may know what we are doing. If the government are not in a position to furnish the information now, perhaps they can send it over to us later on.


Shall the resolution
carry?


May I ask how rapidly
the government is proceeding with its plans for old age pensions and unemployment insurance? If I remember rightly, this superannuation measure was not mentioned in the Liberal platform, but the others were. It is said of the late Sir Richard Cartwright, that when a delegation came to him asking that a certain measure be adopted, he answered: He saw no objection; it had not been mentioned in the Liberal platform. Is it on that principle that this measure takes precedence over all that was contained in the platform? Also, what is the value of this resolution
15, 1924	1367
The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
stage if we are going it blind, if we are just to pass the resolution and be told later on why we passed it? The minister should have had his information here, perhaps not as detailed as is given on a bill, but at least he should have had some general information as to what the scheme is and what it entails. We have not the slightest information about it, and to pass it now really is grotesque; it is absurd.


I am prepared to send the information over to my hon. friend; I know it is in my desk in the office. However, if my right hon. friend desires it, we will let the resolution stand.


I do not feel content to pass a resolution that we know nothing about.


I move that the committee
rise, report progress and ask leave to sit again.
Progress reported.


The House resumed from Monday, April 14, the debate on the motion of Hon. J. A. Robb (Acting Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the House to go into committee of Ways and Means.
Mr. Speaker, I wish at the outset to associate myself with the sentiment expressed by the hon. Acting Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) when he delivered his statement to the House, in which he voiced his regret that the right hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Fielding) is not able to be in his place in the House and could not be here to present the annual financial statement. I am sure that it would have been a pleasure to. him to announce to the House and the country the successful consummation of the policy of economy and retrenchment which this government has put in force during the past two years. The announcement, however, that the Minister of Immigration and Colonization (Mr. Robb) was to take the place of the Minister of Finance was received by the people with confidence and assurance, knowing, as they did, that the record of my hon. colleague since he has been in public life would be assurance of the delivery of an able budget speech.
If I may be permitted, Mr. Speaker, I should like to review briefly a few of the steps that have led up to the conditions that
1368	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
obtain in Canada to-day and which have culminated in the announcement of the Acting Minister of Finance that the government have been able to balance their budget and to effect a considerable reduction of the public debt. I will ask hon. members to look back over the period of the last two years, or a little more, during which the present government have been in power. By doing this we will see the many obstacles which the government have had to overcome in arriving at the position indicated by the Acting Finance Minister.
When the government took office we found that the exchange as applied to our dealings with our greatest customer, the United States, was at a discount of from 10 to 12 and sometimes 15 per cent. Conditions generally in Canada were not good. Unemployment was rife in our industrial centres; we found it necessary during our first year of office to pay out over a million and a half dollars for unemployment. Business was not steady; business men were looking about for markets; the purchasing power of the people was lower than it had been for many years. That was the condition that obtained when the government took office. One of the first things we did was to review the estimates that had been placed befo.re council by the officials under the regime of the ministers who had gone out of power, and our first act of retrenchment and economy was that of cutting those estimates down to the extent of over $130,000,000. In doing that we had to exercise great discretion in matters of expenditure. I think the best way to illustrate that is to give to the House the total expenditures for the years preceding- and following the time of the government's accession to office. In 1920, the year in which the armistice was signed, the total expenditure of Canada amounted to $785,869,611. In the year 1920-21, in which the control of expenditure was, with the exception of the last three months, in the hands of my hon. friends opposite, the expenditure amounted to $528,283,199. In 1922 it was $463,652,436, showing a gradual reduction of expenditure. In the year that has just closed a considerable further reduction was effected, so that the total expenditure amounted to $375,213,651.
As well as effecting economies in expenditure it was necessary that we should look also to our revenue. The outlook in the year 1922 was such that if we had carried on affairs as they were left to us by the government that went out of power we would have been face to face with a deficit of $200,000,000 that year.
It was necessary to grapple with that con-
dition, and to that end we had to find more revenue. The revenue in 1920 amounted to $349,000,000, in 1921 to $436,000,000 and in 1922 to $389,898,000. In 1923 the revenue had increased to $405,414,000. We have heard some criticism in the House, and particularly in the country, in public addresses and in representations made through the press, to the effect that the government had increased taxation. Let me say emphatically that it was necessary in some way to provide for the commitments that had been made during the years of the war and after.
If it was necessary for the government to increase taxation, it was necessary only by reason of the fact that the government that-preceded us neglected to make a proper impost of taxation when the people of this country had the money to pay taxation, and I am free to say, and I think the people of the country will agree with me, that any increases in taxation that we found necessary to make were largely along the line of taxation upon those who were in the position to pay. We increased the sales tax, and we have heard a great deal of criticism, especially during the past year, of that increase, but let me say that this was done after the business men and those engaged in industry in this country, those who had experienced the results of the taxation of the former government, and particularly of what is known as the luxury taxes, were ready to say to us, and say without hesitation that the best method of imposing the increased taxation was by means of a sales tax. So I would say to those who criticise that method of raising revenue that it meets with the approval of those who have to pay the revenue very much better than any impost such as the luxury taxes imposed by the former Minister of Finance.
Passing from that phase of the financial situation, we had to provide for a revenue that would not only pay our interest and our running expenses, but also for the whole capital cost of the war. It is not necessary for me to go into detail, because it has been very well put before the House on two or three previous occasions during this session, but I think it is. something that is worth repeating, for if there is one thing more than another that my hon. friends opposite fell down in it was in not providing the necessary revenue to meet the expenditure when money was flowing freely into this country during the war. I say again that it was necessary for us to provide for the capital cost of the war and demobilization, which amounted at the end of the fiscal year 1920 to $1,670,406,242. Aside from that, the previous government added $13,733,333 to the national debt.

The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)


Is the hon. member aware that during the war Canada paid approximately 48 per cent of the cost of her share of the war?


If my hon.
friend will pay strict attention to what I am saying and look at the blue books also he will find that the capital cost of the war is still outstanding, plus $13,000,000 more.


The American Bankers'
Association engaged an expert to examine the cost of the war to all foreign countries, the revenues raised during the war, and the amount paid on war account, and if the hon. gentleman will read that report he will find that Canada paid during the war 48 per cent of the cost of the war.	[DOT]


My hon. friends on the other side are very ready to quote from the United States, but they were not so ready in years past to quote authorities from that country. If my hon. friend will look at the blue books published under the authority of this government and analyse the figures, he will find that those I have presented to the House are correct. There is nothing in the blue books or in any documents published under the authority of the Auditor General of this country that will show anything different. If my hon. friend has to go to foreign countries to bolster up his case and excuse the party he represents for not doing their duty during the war in finding the revenue necessary when such could have been obtained from the people who had the money, he must be in a very bad plight.
I was speaking, when the interruption took place, of the national debt. The national debt at the end of March last was $2,423,367,759.37. In the last two years our debt has increased considerably. In the year 1920-21, which was the first year after the armistice was signed, and a year in which the government of that day should have exercised a careful supervision over expenditure and exerted themselves to the utmost to raise the necessary revenue, the amount of $92,000,000 was added to our national debt. During the fiscal year ending March 31, 1922, $81,000,000 more was added. I may point out that for the last three months of that year this government was liable for expenditure, but the programme for expenditure was largely laid down by our predecessors in office, and all that could be done by us was simply to slow up on the expenditure, and I think it is safe for me to say that if there had not been a strong hand exercised during those three months in controlling expenditure the addition to our national debt would have been much
greater. During the first year we had control of affairs in Canada, our national debt increased by $31,000,000, but last year we are in the happy position of being able to say to the people of this country that our national debt did not increase, but on the contrary showed a net decrease of $30,409,109.37, or an improvement when compared with the year previous of about $61,000,000. That was largely brought about by exercising a strong hand on economy, and also by collecting the taxes that were properly due without fear or favour. If we do not act with firmness and see that those who are able to pay, pay their just share of taxation, we cannot expect to bring Canada back to the era of prosperity which we all so much desire.
It is also to be remembered when considering this phase of the financial situation, that a large part of our expenditure is expenditure which we cannot control. In the year preceding last, our uncontrollable expenditure amounted to over $300,000,000. During the year that has just closed our uncontrollable expenditure has been reduced considerably, and when we analyse the figures closely we find that that reduction in uncontrollable expenditure is largely due to the increased earning powers of our Canadian National Railways. The management of the National Railways has been of such a kind that it has given results in this country; the increase of revenue has been very marked, and the decrease in expenditure in carrying on the railways has been equally, if not even more marked.
One of the principal factors enabling the government to balance the budget this year was the success encountered in the management of the Canadian National Railways, resulting in a reduction of the uncontrollable expenditure this year to about $250,000,000. The balancing of the budget was also made possible by the economies carried out in the general expenditure on ordinary consolidated fund account. These economies were rendered more difficult by the fact that during the war public works in Canada were allowed to stand. I am not criticizing hon. gentlemen opposite because of the fact, I am simply saying that it is the case, and that we encountered that difficulty when we assumed office. We found thes that the public works of the country had deteriorated greatly and in consequence during our first year or two in office it was almost impossible to economize in expenditure of this character. However, although delayed at first in carrying out economy we have striven to make up for lost time, and the estimates presented to the House this session bear evidence as to the
1370	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
sincerity of our efforts along that line. Sir, what do these reductions of expenditure mean to the people of Canada? That has been very clearly demonstrated in the budget brought down last Thursday by the Acting Minister of Finance. The reductions of expenditure made in 1923 amount to $29,000,000, those in 1924 to $59,000,000, and our estimates for the year we are facing, compared with the total estimates for last year, will show a reduction of $46,000,000.
There is one remarkable feature in connection with the reduction of the national debt which deserves special emphasis. It is that there has been a greater reduction of debt than has ever been announced by any previous government. It is a greater reduction than the aggregate reductions which characterized the golden era of Canada's prosperity under the Laurier-Fielding regime, from 1896 to 1911. The reduction made this year is also larger than the aggregate reductions made during the years of Conservative rule from 1911 to 1921. Sir, the budget so recently brought down is one which we may well be proud of, and one that should excite great pleasure among the people of this country.
It is scarcely necessary to refer to the reductions of duty that have gone into effect; they are apparent to everyone. But there is one feature of the tariff question to which I should like to refer. It was argued during the reciprocity election of 1911, and the same argument was brought forward at political meetings during the recess and during the present debate, that the farmers of this country require more protection, that from year to year agricultural products from the United States are being dumped in this country thereby demoralizing the markets of Canada, and that more protection in the matter of grain, vegetable and animal products should be given to our farming population. Sir, from my understanding of the situation no more unreasonable proposition was ever placed before the people. Hon. gentlemen opposite who represent the "interests" of this country-and I do not think it is unfair to them to make that statement -must be extremely anxious to make out a case when they say that the Canadian farmers need more protection. I repudiate any such idea. I say the farmers of the Dominion are not crying out for more protection. Let me devote a few minutes to an analysis of imports of agricultural products that enter Canada, and for the purpose of the comparison I shall take the latest figures available, as given in the trade returns for the nine months from April 1st to 31st Decern-

ber, 1923; it is not possible to get the figures in detail up to 31st March last. The necessity for more protection for the farmer vas set out in the amendment moved to the motion for the adoption of the Address in reply to the Speech from the Throne this session. Is that claim borne out by the imports of agricultural products entering Canada from the United States? If we look at the trade statement to which I have referred we find the imports of animal and vegetable products-except chemicals, fibres and wood, amounted to $141,493,793. We also imported animal and animal products to the amount of $32,561,941. Now let me separate the imports of articles that are not produced in Canada from the imports of articles that are produced here. In the first table of vegetable products, mainly food stuffs, we find a total of $97,890,344 imported. Those imports are divided as follows, and I shall ask that the statement be incorporated in Hansard in tabulated form:
Imports of Vegetable Products
Of a kind Of a kind produced in not produced
Total fresh fruits	
Total dried fruits	
Total prepared fruits and juices	Canada $3,370,641 854,087 802,215	in Canada $12,318,349 4,316,865 896,331 2.950.058Total fresh vegetables.. ..	3.069,238	80,485Total vegetables sauces and	461,500 6.153,722	Total grain	1,881,227664,360 609.546	Total prepared foods and	Total vegetable oils for food	613,138Total sugar products and refined sugar	4,086,746	37,000.142Total teas, cocoa and spices	9,486,221Hops, etc	724,068	Various others	1,183,802	2,367,603Total	$22,979,925	$74,910,419
Grand total of Vegetable products (manly foods), $97,890,344.
Now, Sir, that is an analysis of import:! as applied to vegetables and vegetable products.


Could the hon. member place on the record the amount of vegetable products sold to the United States for the same period?


Yes. Our
exports during that period from Canada were $321,893,404.


Is that to the United States?


That is the amount of exports from Canada.

The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)


To the United States?


I have not analysed the exports to the United States. My analysis was of the imports. The duties we impose in Canada of course, have no effect on exports to other countries. The argument my hon. friend makes is that we should have higher protection in order to prevent the import of goods into the Canadian market.


No, it seems to me a fair comparison to examine our imports of animal and vegetable products from the United States. The figures on the other hand would only be the exports to the United States, not taking the entire exports of Canada.


If my hon. friend desires to analyse Canadian trade, he must go on the assumption that this country and other countries will produce and export articles that are indigenous to that country. In analysing Canadian trade we cannot confine it solely to the trade that passes between one country and another. If my hon. friend will look at our total Canadian trade he will see that the balance of trade between Canada and the United States is about $118,000,000 in favour of the United States. That is we still import $118,000,000 more than we sell them, but both the United States and Canada deal with other countries as well as dealing with each other, and if my hon. friend will analyse the trade between Canada and Great Britain he will find that the balance is about equal on the other side of the ledger. So that if we want to have a proper analysis of Canadian trade and our balance of trade, we must take into consideration the trade that goes to all countries. It is unfair to confine it to a comparison of the trade between any two countries. Now, sir, I might say with reference to the balance of- Canadian trade, according to my hon. friend's method of figuring, our exports exceeded our imports by $152,000,000 last year. In that respect I think our trade is in a very fair condition.


Did the hon. member give the imports of each animal product?


The table I
analysed so far only applies to Canadian vegetable products. If the House will bear with me I will give some of the importations of animal products. In giving this summary, or in dividing the imports, it will be necessary to go into more detail and take each item as it is, and show what the duty is on each of the various items coming into Canada, because it is only by doing so we can get a true conception of what it means to the
Canadian farmer, and what it means to, particularly, Canadian consumers, the labourers in the industrial centres who purchase these articles. During the period that I have referred to, the nine months ending 31st December, 1923, there were imported into Canada animal and animal products of a total value of $32,561,941. Included in this total are animals for exhibition purposes which may be classed as a kind not produced in Canada. For exhibition purposes, we have a reciprocity agreement with the United States; allowing their animals to enter Canada free of duty and sales tax which privilege they extend to those of this country:
Summary
Animals and Animal Products
Of a kind Of a kind not Produced in produced in Canada
Animals for exhibition	
Animals for improvement of
stock	 $357,357
Common live stock	 130,119
Other animals living	 103.449
Bone, ivory and shell products 102,791
Feathers and quills	 235.968
Fresh fish	 370,207
Dried, salted, smoked or
pickled fish	 444.466
Fish preserved or canned.. ..	717.385
Other fishing products	 62,996
Fur skins unmanufactured.. ..	5,921.873
Fur skins manufactured.. ..	79,556
Hides and skins, N.O.P	 5.297,049
Leather unmanufactured	 3.085.253
Leather manufactured	 2,229,534
Hair and bristles	 500,002
Meats, fresh, chilled or frozen 2,465,877 Meats prepared or preserved
or cannod	 3,256.724
Milk and its products	 773,426
Oils, fats, greases or waxes.. 2,386,893 Miscell. animal products.. ..	2,094,789
Total	$30,615,714	$1,946,227
Total, $32,561,941.
Exports, $110,176,144.


I am afraid my hon. friend's total is incorrect because the quantity of meat products imported, such as fresh pork and cured meats, aggregate more than the figures he has given.


I think the
hon. member will find that the figures I have given are correct; I can assure him that I have very carefully prepared them. There is another table included in these figures which I think we might well take into consideration as indicating a very important balance in trade. I refer to the summary of agricultural and vegetable products other than food. This summary is largely comprised of one or two items, and shows in one column
Canada

1372	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
what is produced in Canada and in the other the commodities not produced here. This list is as follows:
me analyse the figures so that hon. members may see the rate of duty imposed upon these goods at present:
Summary
Animal Vegetables Products Other Than Food
Alcoholic beverages	
Gums & resins	
Oil cake meal	
Oils vegetables not food.. . Plants, shrubs, trees & vines Rubber and its products.. .
Rubber manufactured	
Seeds	
Tobacco	
All other vegetable products Various	
Grand total Exports..	.
	Not
Produced	produced
in Canada	in Canada
$16,285,454	
498,815	$ 1,204,888
15,876	27,883
163,370	5,782,141
925,388	
	6,155.750
2,100.166	
2,341,940	389,286
4,663.875	
1,831,852	1,190,742
	26,023
$28,826,736	$14,776,713

I will now give a summary of the imports of the three kinds which I have given in tabular form:
Grand Summary
	Of a	Of a kind
	kind grown	not grown
	in Canada	
Vegetable products		
(a) Mainly food		$22,979,925	$74,910,419
Vegetable products		
(b) Other than food	28,826,736	14,776,713Animal and animal products.	30,615,714	1,946,227$82,422,375	$91,633,359Total	
I realize that I have trespassed upon the temper of the House in reading these tables, but there is a further analysis that is necessary before the full import of these statistics can be appreciated.


I do not wish to
interrupt the hon. member, but I scarcely understand how the animal products of Canada can be so low. As a matter of fact, during the year 1922, there was $9,286,000 worth of these products.


Well, I have
given $30,000,000 for nine months.


Does that figure
refer to such articles as might be produced in Canada?


The figures
refer to articles of a kind produced in Canada. Now, with reference to these imports, which we are told should be given more protection in order to prevent the commodities of other countries and particularly of the United States being dumped into the Canadian market to the detriment of the Canadian producer, let 
Total Imports to Canada for nine months ending December 31, 1923
Vegetable products
(a) Mainly foods	$ 97,890,344
Animal products	 32,561,941

Vegetable products
(b) Other than food	 43,603,449
Total

An analysis of the above figures reveals the following facts:-
Total Fresh Fruits
Principal fruits which may be grown in Canada.-
Value Rate of duty
Apples	$ 700,089 00c. per bbl.
Cherries	 105,978	2c.	per lb.
Cranberries	 191,303 25, per cent.
Pears	
768,872	30c.	per bu.Peaches	
510,604	lc.	per lb.Plums	
374,365	30c.	per	bu.Strawberry	
719,430	2c.	per lb.Total	
13,370,641
Principal fruits not grown in Canada.-
Value Rate of duty
Bananas	J 4,315,644 Free
Grape fruit	 513,947	Free
Grapes	 827,014 2c. per lb.
Lemons	
998,909	FreeMelons	
378,802	3c. each.Oranges	
4,532,146	FreePineapples	
520,586	FreeVarious	
231,301Total	$12,318,349
Total.. $15,688,990
The highest ad valorem duty is 25 per cent. The specific duties vary according to the prices of the articles, and in many cases they are even higher than 25 per cent. The point I make is that if we impose a further duty on these items, which my hon. friends opposite are so ready to ask us to do, it will not benefit our producers, because at the time of the year when these commodities are imported our fresh fruits are not in season, and consequently by imposing a higher duty we are simply making our labourers and artisans pay more for fresh fruits out of season without any corresponding benefit resulting to our own producers.


Is it not a fact that
these articles are also subject to a dumping duty in addition to the duties the hon. minister has cited?


The hon. member is quite correct; a dumping duty is imposed if the articles imported are sold here at a lower price than that which they command in the country of origin.

The Budget-Mr. Smclair (Queens)


Which adds to the protection.	[DOT]


It protects us from the dumping of inferior products. But it does not afford any protection to our people; it rather handicaps them if they want to buy fruit which is produced cheaply in another country. I do not think it is necessary to read the whole list of articles imported of a kind not produced in Canada; suffice it to say that they are mainly on the free list. Should any duties be imposed upon those articles, no benefit accrues to the Canadian producer because he does not grow them.
The argument I have presented with regard to fresh fruits is equally applicable to dried fruits, of which only a very small percentage are of a kind produced in this country and are valued at $854,087; whereas we imported $4,316,865 worth of a kind not produced in Canada. A small revenue tax is collected on these, varying from half a cent a pound up to 55 cents a hundred pounds. The same is true of prepared fruits of a kind not grown in Canada, of which we imported $896,000, and of a kind grown in Canada we imported $802,000.
Without wearying the House with an analysis of the whole table, I will deal with vegetables. These appeal more directly to the producer in Canada perhaps than any other commodity in this table. During the period mentioned we imported the following fresh vegetables:
Principal vegetables which can be grown in Canada
Cabbage.. Onions.. Potatoes.. Tomatoes,
N. O. P	
Value	Rate of duty
$	234,913	30%
337.650	30%
536,366	35c. per 100 lbs.
904,596	30%
1,055,723	30%

Vegetables of a kind not grown
Value
Sweet potatoes	 $80,475
Various	 10
in Canada Rate of duty 30%

1374	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
A large part of this represents horses for exhibition purposes. I may say that horses imported for exhibition purposes are exported but are not included as exports from Canada in our trade returns. Our friends would not say for a moment that we should put a duty, not to speak of a prohibitive duty, on horses or cattle coming in for exhibition purposes. We exported during the same period $392,651 worth for exhibition purposes. Cattle for the improvement of stock are free under the system of national registration; I need not go into that in detail. Of common live stock we imported only $130,119 worth, which paid a duty of 25 per cent, and in the case of horses a duty of $12.50 each. Of other animals, living, we imported $103,000 worth, to which different rates of duty applied. That makes a total value of animals imported of $2,340,188, 70 per cent of which represents horses for exhibition purposes. Our exports for the same period were valued at $10,791,026, over eighty per cent of which were cattle and were sent to the British markets.
I should like to refer also to the fisheries. We imported of fresh halibut during the period referred to, $36,916 worth at a duty of one cent a pound; of oysters in bulk, $156,000 worth at 10 cents a gallon; of fresh salmon, $80,000 worth at one cent a pound; of other fresh fish, $117,104 worth at one cent a pound. All these are subject to this low rate of duty. It would be unfair to contend that we should have a higher duty on fish. They are imported into Canada at a season of the year when we are not catching fish in large quantities, and to increase the duty would simply mean to increase the cost of living to the Canadian consumer. I do not think it is necessary for me to detain the House at further length in going into these figures. When my hon. friends of the Conservative party argue that the duty on these articles should be increased, they are simply asking for an increase in those living costs which already bear so heavily upon the labourers and artisans in the industrial centres. It is a mistake at this time, a mistake at any time and not in any way beneficial to agriculture, to increase the duties upon these articles.


Would the hon. gentleman say that the artisans and labourers of this country purchase these early fruits and vegetables that come in from the United States?


Certainly they do, in
some cases.


Will my hon.
friend tell me where they can get them if they do not purchase them? The ex-Minister

of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton), in the few remarks he made the other day after the budget speech had been delivered, referred to two articles that are commonly used and largely produced in this country, namely, eggs and cheese. I think he said that the imports of cheese into Canada had increased 86 per cent. Ordinarily when an outstanding statement of that kind is made, the period is given to which the figures apply. Let me give to the House a few facts in connection with the imports of cheese into Canada.


The period to
which the 86 per cent increase of imports from the United States applied was the year 1923, ending February 29, 1924. The figures with respect to the decrease of our exports, 50 per cent, were for the same year. Other periods, of course, might be chosen.


If my hon.
friend had then given the period to which his figures applied I would have had an opportunity to compare them with the actual facts. I would like to submit to the House a statement which I think is correct in regard to the cheese industry in Canada. I have under my hand a statement showing the imports of cheese for the last twenty years.


I was getting
mine down to date.


My hon. friend
says he was trying to get down to late figures, but he should also apply those figures to late facts. I will tell him what the facts are: We import very little, if any, cheese of the kind that is manufactured in Canada. The cheese we import is sometimes high priced, sometimes not-Italian and Swiss cheese, cheese of fancy kinds which certain sections of our population are anxious to have but which are not produced in our country. During the last year a factory was started in Canada with a view to meeting the demand for this kind of cheese, and I may tell my hon. friend that one factory is sufficient to supply that demand. So that when he makes the statement that our imports of cheese have increased by 86 per cent and gives no information as to the kind of cheese that is referred to and as to the conditions generally with respect to the manufacture of cheese in Canada, his statement is calculated to arouse a suspicion in the minds of our people which has no foundation in fact. The imports of cheese for the calendar year 1923 amounted to $614,872 worth, and our exports for the same year were valued at $5,902,300.
Our exports were of Cheddar cheese and our imports were not: scarcely one pound of our

The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
import was of this kind of cheese. So we find when we analyze my hon. friend's statement that it was made simply to create a spirit of unrest among Canadian producers and particularly among Canadian farmers, and made to bolster up the case for high protection on manufactured products. But every time that these assertions are made it is found that the real facts do not back them up, and especially is this the case in regard to cheese.


What were the
figures in regard to butter?


In 1923 we exported 2,403,086 pounds of butter and imported 1,523,381 pounds. Does my hon. friend think it would be wise to put a further duty on butter to keep it out?


As high as the
American tariff.


Does my hon. friend think it would be wise to increase the cost of butter to the labouring man and artisan in the industrial centres of Canada by a further duty on it?


Our exports exceed our imports, so we have a surplus.


To go into this matter thoroughly, my hon. friend from South Oxford (Mr. Sutherland) knows as well as any other member of the House, because he is a practical agriculturist, that in Canada, and when I say Canada I mean the whole country from the Atlantic to the Pacific, we have a season of high production and a season of low production, and that is so because of our northern latitude. During our season of low production is it fair to those who consume this article every day, and who have no season of high consumption and low consumption as have the producers, to put on a tariff and prevent the importation of this product which our people wish to buy, in order to protect those people whom a high duty will not protect? That is the whole point.


Is there a month in which we do not produce more butter than we consume in Canada?


There certainly is, and more especially in the outlying provinces. Conditions may not be quite the same in Ontario, because that is the most southerly situated province in Canada, but we cannot base our tariff policy on the needs of Ontario alone; we must take into consideration the whole of Canada when we are making tariff changes.


Why don't you?
88 i


My hon. friend is wrong. We did consider the whole of Canada. I wish to refer for a moment to animal products under the heading of eggs. Eggs have been referred to during this debate and also in the debate on the Address, as well as in many agricultural papers, and in fact the press generally throughout Canada. The general situation with regard to eggs, and I suppose the point my hon. friend has referred to is that the duty on United States eggs coming into Canada is 3 cents per dozen, while the duty on Canadian eggs going into the United States is 8 cents a dozen. Eggs are available to the common people of the country as a fresh and wholesome food and are used more than any other single article, because they can be purchased and kept in a fresh state and are available to the ordinary people when properly handled. Now what is the situation? The export and import figures show that for the fiscal year 1923 we imported 8,319,622 dozen, of which 8,256,168 dozen came from the United States. In dealing with eggs we must remember that it is an article in the production of which more particularly than is the case with any other article there is a season of high production and a season of low production. I think it is safe to say that in Canada generally during the months of December, January and February, our production of eggs in Canada is almost nil. Eggs are an article of food that our people wish to buy in the fresh state, and they will pay quite a premium for fresh eggs, so during the winter months there is a demand for fresh eggs which our Canadian producer's are not able to supply. I will read to the House a list of the imports of eggs into Canada, showing the provinces into which they are imported, and analyze the statement later.
Eggs imported in 1923
Quantity
Province-	in dozens	ValueBritish Columbia	. 298,950	$ 94,846Alberta	. 67,541	21,404Saskatchewan	. 23,516	7,896Manitoba	. 337,517	104,973Ontario	. 3,592,666	1,133,187Quebec	. 2,126,397	671,365New Brunswick	. 79.551	24,365Nova Scotia	. 95,374	28,448Prince Edward Island.. .	. 1	18Yukon	. 1,740	5506,623,253	$2,087,306
Not to take up too much of the time of the House, I may say that I have a table here which shows that the greater part of the importations of these eggs were made during the months of December, January and February, and a few in March. About five years ago the largest importer of eggs was the
1376	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Sinclair (Queens)
province of British Columbia, but during the past three years there has been quite a lot of activity to encourage the production of eggs in that province carried on by the department of my hon. friend the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell). The climate there is particularly suitable for producing eggs, especially during the winter season, and the result has been that to-day British Columbia is one of the smallest importers of eggs; in fact, they produce sufficient not only to supply their own needs but a considerable portion of the needs of the prairie provinces. You will see that almost the whole importation of eggs is into the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. Now, realizing that eggs are imported into Canada in the months when there is no production in this country, and the import figures show that during the months when there is production in Canada there is no importation of eggs worth speaking about, we see at once that a further duty upon eggs entering into Canada, which my hon. friend the Minister of Finance referred to a few days ago, would simply mean an increased cost of eggs to those who consume them in this country.
There is one feature in regard to the egg trade which may seem a little strange. During this time of the year, when eggs are plentiful in the republic to the south, it is common for large dealers to import eggs into Canada, and by means of that importation they are able to control and cut down the price in the Canadian market. I do not think that anybody whose economic principles are sound would object to that, because the cutting down of the price, when the supply is increasing, benefits the consumer although it may not be profitable to the producer. There is another feature about this question: When these eggs are imported and distributed in our Canadian market they have a tendency to decrease the consumption of eggs by our own people, a feature that is to be deplored. In order to offset that regulations have been passed requiring these low grade eggs to be marked according to quality in the same way that Canadian eggs are marked. Last year our inspectors inspected 6,623,253 dozen of eggs coming into Canada out of a total importation of 8,000,000 dozen eggs. I say that the Canadian producer is able to compete with his competitior in the United States providing that the competition is of a fair character. I think that the regulation now in force for the inspection of eggs is controlling and will continue to control the shooting in of low grade eggs from the American republic, to the extent that it affects or

destroys egg consumption in Canada. As to the decrease in prices in Canada, the needs of the industrial population in this country must be considered, and if these workers, under the operation of the law of supply and demand, can buy their eggs at a lower price they are entitled to do so. Therefore I submit to hon. gentlemen who advocate a higher duty on eggs that it would not be in the best interest of Canada, now or at any future time, to raise the duty upon an article which is really one of the necessaries of life, and thus cause the workers in our industrial centres to pay more for the commodity than they really would have to pay if our producers were in open competition with the producers of other countries.


Can my hon. friend give the estimated production of eggs in Canada, the estimated quantity exported from this country, and the estimated quantity exported to the United States?


I am not a
walking encyclopaedia


Pretty near.


-mueh as I
should like to give my hon. friend that information.


The hon. gentleman has been giving us the details of imports. Surely he can give us the figures in respect to the exports also.


In order to
assuage the anxiety of my hon. friend I may tell him that I am not refusing to give that information. I have before me a statement showing the estimated production of eggs in Canada. The first note I have relates to the statement of the ex-Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton) that the sale of Canadian eggs in the adjoining republic amounted to