Mr. VIEN presented the third reiport of the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce.
That sessional paper No. 152, supplementary report on agricultural credits by H. M. Tory, and laid on the table on March 31 last, be referred to the select standing committee on Banking and Commerce.


Motion agreed to.
Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister of Railways and Canals): I lay on the table a return in reference to the Crowsnest pass agreement rates.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Having reference to the old post office site, corner Pender and Granville streets, Vancouver, British Columbia: (a) has the government advertised this property for sale; (ty) when were bids due; (c) how many offers were received and from whom; (d) what was the highest tender, if any?
2.	Before advertising the said property, did the government secure estimate of value by individual appraisal; if so, by whom was the property valued and what was the amount of the said appraisal?
3.	Has the government secured information of the value of property similarly located which has been sold?
4.	Is the government aware that there has been considerable movement of property in Vancouver in this neighbourhood, with the prospect of steadily increasing values in the near future?


I would ask that this question be allowed to stand for the present. The government have advertised the

property referred to, and tenders have been received which are now under consideration.
Question stands.


1.	What amount of wheat was accumulated from samples at the grain inspection offices at Vancouver, Calgary, Moose Jaw, Saskatoon, Winnipeg, and Fort William, in each of the 3'ears 1923, 1923 and 1924?
2.	How was this wheat disposed of?
3.	What was the revenue received for same, at each of the above points during these years.
4.	What disposition was made of the revenue from sale of this wheat in each case?


![DOT] What was the total number of employees permanent and temporary of the federal government at Ottawa and elsewhere, connected with the Department of Agriculture, in the month of January, 1925?
2.	What was the total amount of salaries and bonus paid or due to the said employees for the month of January, 1925 ?


1. Total number of employees January 1925, 1,569.

Unopposed, Motions lor Papers
2. Total amount of salary and bonus, January 1925, $228,506.13.
This does not include ordinary day labour, which is constantly changing.


1.	How many Canadians, able to speak the French language fluently, are in the employ of the government at Wembley exhibition, Engfland?
2.	What are their names, positions and respective salaries ?
1.	Eleven.
2.	Name-Position-Salary.
A. W. Tolmie, Canadian Government Exhibition Commissioner, $4,320; J. O. Tur-cotte, Chief of Decorating Division, Exhibition branch, $3,240; J. Sylvain, Labourer, Exhibition branch, Sixty cents per hour; W. "Bayard, Foreman painter, Exhibition branch, Ninety cents per hour; Wm. Tomney, General utility man, Exhibition branch, Sixty-five cents per hour; E. C. Leveille, Constable, R.C.M.P., $120 per month; J. G. Pelletier, Constable, R.C.M.P., $2 per day; J. P. A. Savoie, Constable, R.C.M.P., $2 per day; Eric Brown, Director, National Art Gallery, $4,500; H. S. Spence, Engineer, Mines branch, grade (4) Department of Mines, $3,720; Yvet Lamon-tagne, Assistant Trade Commissioner, Department Trade and Commerce, $1,920.


1.	What was the total importation of potatoes from the United States of America into Canada, during the respective months of January, February, March and April, 1925?
2.	What was the rate of customs tariff applied to such importation ?


1.
Month	Pounds	ValueJanuary	.. 2,086,665	$ 25,372February	.. 3,126,789	32.890March	33.496April	.. 2,797.096	35,885
2. 35 cents per 100 pounds.


1.	Has the Post Office department received correspondence asking for the dismissal of the postmaster, at Aldouane, Kent county, New Brunswick?
2.	If so, what is the nature of the complaint?
3.	Who laid the information?
4.	If for political partisanship, will an investigation be held ?
5.	Who is the official investigator named by the government ?


No complaint has been received at the department.


For a copy of the report of Colonel Machin to the Governor in Council respecting the Quebec riots of 1917.


For a return showing: 1. The amount of Dominion notes advanced under the War Finance Act of 1914 (with amendments), and outstanding at the end of March, June, September and December of each year from 1914 until the present year.
2.	The amounts of securities accepted as a basis for the foregoing issues of Dominion notes, given for the same periods.
3.	The different classes of securities and the various amounts of each accepted for rediscounting, for the same periods.
4.	The different institutions (banks) which took advantage of the rediscounting privileges, and to what extent, for the above mentioned periods.


On Monday, in the
absence of the mover, I asked that this resolution should stand as I wanted to direct his attention primarily to the expense involved in preparing this return. I am not sure whal good service may be served by compiling the information asked for. My hon. friend, whe is chief whip of the party that stands for economy, will observe that the preparation of this return will not promote that purpose. That is one objection. Another possible objection is that we should be giving out separate information to competing banks. I would ask my hon. friend if he would not like the question to further stand in order that we may talk the matter over together and see if we could not agree as to what might be done to meet his wishes.


I may say that before placing the request on the order paper I corresponded with the Deputy Minister of Finance, and was assured by him that the information was readily available. Therefore I do not think this motion will involve any expense whatever. He suggested, however, that, there might be a question of propriety involved in question No. 4, as to whether or not it would be wise to publish the extent to which each of the banks use the War Finance Act. In viewr of his intimation that the information was all available, I think there is no ground ivhatever for the objection now raised by the Acting Minister of Finance.
Canada Grain Act


After the explanation my hon. friend has vouchsafed, in view also of his statement that he has already discussed the matter with the Deputy Minister of Finance, and finally having in mind the fact that he is seeking this information for the students of a university outside of Canada, it seems to me the hon. gentleman might very well at least drop question No. 4.


If the minister will take upon himself to answer all the questions but No. 4, I shall have to be content with that amendment.
Motion as amendted agreed to.


On the Orders of the Day:
I desire to call the attention of the government to a press despatch which says that an appropriation of $50,000 will be made this spring by the Dominion government for the opening of Vermilion chutes in northern Alberta. Will the Prime Minister tell me if this is correct?


Any appropriations to be
made will appear in the estimates. I did not hear the last words of my hon. friend. Does this refer to the Department of National Defence, or to what department?


I suppose it would be
the Department of Public Works, or it might be the Department of National Defence.


On the Orders of the Day:
I notice in the Citizen of this
morning an article headed:
Salary revision in postal service to be discussed.
Is it the intention of the government in the forthcoming revision of salaries to consider the advisability of doing away with the contract system in the rural service, and to place the whole service on a uniform basis?


What does the hon. gentleman mean by contract system?


The rural mail carrier
system.


I will have to refer the question to the Postmaster General
fMr. Good.l
(Mr. Murphy). He will give my hon. friend an answer at a later stage of the session.
BANKRUPTCY ACT AMENDMENT . On the Orders of the Day:


Does the government intend to bring down legislation this session with regard to a change in the Bankruptcy Act?


Yes, the
government proposes to bring down legislation in that regard. The measure will be introduced in the Senate, I think to-day or to-morrow, in order to expedite business.


Hon. T. A. LOW (Minister of Trade and Commerce) moved the second reading of Bill No. 113, respecting Grain.
I do not rise to speak on the motion at the present time, but to suggest to the minister that, outside of the members of the government, there is not one hon. member of this House who can possibly have read the provisions of this bill. It has been printed only this morning and hon. members received copies about noon to-day. The bill is almost half an inch thick. It is really a travesty on the House of Commons to suggest that the important stage of the second reading of this bill be taken this afternoon. What the government should have done was to introduce the bill and have it placed on the order paper before or during the debate on the budget. We would then have known something about it. I know it is similar to the old act. I have hastened through a few pages of it, and I read pretty fast; but to ask anybody to give a vote on the second reading to-day is really monstrous.


Does the hon. gentleman know that it is the intention of the government to refer it to the committee on Agriculture?


I know that.


And that an opportunity will be given to the House to discuss the measure when it comes back from that committee?


But surely the second reading is not a mere formality; the second reading is the important stage of the bill and the details come afterwards. Does the minister think it is right to ask members of this House to discuss a measure that not one single member can by any physical possibility have read?

Industrial Disvutes Act


Last night I announced that the Grain Act would be brought on to-day.


But it was not printed.


The sole motive of the government is to get the bill before the committee on Agriculture and Colonization at as early a date as possible, but if my right hon. friend or any hon. members feel that they would like a longer time to talk it over, we will not proceed with it to-day.-


I would suggest-and I
am not insisting on this-that the minister might make his statement in explanation of the bill and the various amendments-


I made a statement the other
day.


But not a complete
statement. There is the bill and it is voluminous.


It boils down to very few
changes. There are not very many.


I do not think the minister explained it thoroughly. If he explained the purport of the measure, then it is not much of a measure to emanate from such an expensive commission. I would be prepared to go on with the discussion, but I object to having a decision on the second reading -today, so far as my objection may be of any avail. I have no objection to the discussion, and I will take part in such a discussion myself.


We will let it go over if the
hon. member desires.


I have only expressed
my views.
Motion withdrawn.


Hon. JAMES MURDOCK (Minister of Labour) moved the second reading of Bill No. 25, to amend the- Industrial Disputes Investigation Act, 1907.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time and the House went into committee thereon, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
On section 1-Disputes to which act shall apply.
If hon. gentlemen will
turn to the printed bill which is on their files they will find the explanatory notes opposite the proposed amendments. These
proposed amendments are matters that will of course be considered by the legal gentlemen in the House, the purpose of the measure being to endeavour to continue the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act, and make that act applicable at least to such industries and conditions of controversy in any industry that the federal government would have authority to deal with. These proposed amendments are the result of the decision of the Privy Council on January 20, last which appeared to make inoperative the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act as it had been heretofore handled. I think the explanatory note will give hon. gentlemen a full outline of the intent and purpose of the proposed amendment.


It means that paragraph (i) of section 2A might have ended after the words "parliament of Canada":
Any dispute in relation to employment upon or in connection with any work, undertaking or business which is within the legislative authority of the -parliament of Canada.
The explanatory note means that the clause might have ended there, but that it has been thought advisable to insert in an enumerative manner the various subject paragraphs in order to make it clearer to those who are interested in the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes.


While I do not object to some of the enumerations, I think it would be much better if the paragraph had ended just where the minister indicates. To some of the enumerative paragraphs no possible exception can be taken, because the first four of them, at all events, are simply a repetition of the British North America Act, putting certain operations under the control of the federal parliament. Therefore, when you say that the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act shall apply to things that are under federal control, you have already said what is placed in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d). But
Industrial Disputes Act

when we go a little further and read some of the other paragraphs, I fear, while I do not intend in any way to oppose this legislation, that	we are simply	opening
up new avenues of possible litigation without obtaining any corresponding beneficial results.	I agree with the remarks
of the draughtsman in editing this bill that it is, perhaps, advisable to put, in a succinct form before the people who will possibly have resort to its provisions, an enumeration of the particular matters to which the bill will relate. But when we find that paragraph (e) includes:
Works, undertakings or business belonging to, carried on or operated by aliens, including foreign corporations immigrating into Canada to carry on business.
I very much doubt whether we can resort to the provisions of the British North America Act which puts "naturalization and aliens" under our jurisdiction, in order to provide that whenever a dispute occurs in an industry carried on by an alien, we shall have legislative power. I doubt if we can confer it upon ourselves. I know the Privy Council has, in many instances, reprobated attempts which have been made to legislate, under the name of the criminal law, with regard to things that are not at all criminal, and in every instance the Privy Council has defeated such attempts. No one knows what the highest court of last resort will ever do, but the Privy Council will show no more favour to am attempt to legislate on a different subject under the title of aliens than it does under the title of the criminal law. While a business is being carried on in any province by aliens, they take their status practically by permission of the federal government. They are accorded by the comity of nations, an opportunity to carry on business within our territory, but it has been held and it has been acted upon in many provinces, in fact, I think, in all provinces, that on the other hand the right to acquire land can be conferred only by the legislature of the particular province in which the land is situated. In other words, it is beyond the power of this parliament to confer upon an alien the right to hold land in any particular province. It can confer upon him the right to be a British subject; it cam make a British subject of him for Canadian purposes, and the moment he has the status of a British subject, his right to hold land is indisputable. But while he remains an alien, he must resort to the particular province to get his rights.
I am not going to pursue the discussion into any other region than that of pure law; but let us take, for instance, the business which 
is carried on in the Nova Scotia coal mines, and I do not intend to refer to the particular dispute that exists there at the present time. Supposing an alien owned a mine. That alien could not get title to the mine unless the law of the particular province permitted him to do so. But when he has that mine, as I understand the judgment of the Privy Council, his relations with his employees must be determined simply by the law of that province.
I think I am correct in that position. At all events, while I am not in a position to say that I am absolutely correct, no hon. gentleman whose mind is inclined to the opposite view is in a position to say that he is indisputably correct. I must grant the same liberty of thought to others that I ask for myself. But the moment you have two divergent views, which probably will be expressed in this House, you throw the whole thing into the melting pot of litigation once more. Instead of, by this enumeration, giving security to the man who reads the act that whatever falls within those phrases is within our legislative power, you only invite him to rely upon those phrases and send him eventually to the Privy Council to find out whether we have power to do what we are proposing to do to-day or not. While I do not oppose the legislation-and this is not in any sense a party matter-I think it is my duty to point out the danger which may result from legislation of this character. If it were within the competence of this parliament to restore what is popularly known as the Lemieux Act in full force, I would be * entirely in accord with the government and the Minister of Labour in trying to do that. But we cannot do it, and the fact that we cannot do it is surely a strong argument against an attempt to lead people to believe that we are doing something well which yet may be quite outside of our competence.
One other paragraph to which I should like to call attention is paragraph (iii);
Any dispute which the Governor in Council may by reason of any real or apprehended national emergency declare to be subject to the provisions of this act.
Now, the war brought about a new interpretation of our constitution and it was held that the war emergency evoked certain powers which were slumbering in the constitution or perhaps almost lay outside of it, and to which we had not given attention before. A great many things were done because of the existence of a state of war which undoubtedly could not have been done by this parliament or by the executive of the nation under peace conditions. But I desire to point out that the same declaration by the government, that

Industrial Disvutes Act
there is an apprehended national emergency, may fall far short of constituting the conditions under which alone this portion of the state can interfere. Once again I say I am not opposing these provisions, but I desire respectfully to point out that there is danger that in trying to remove the cause of uncertainty we are only by this enumeration adding to the possible causes of it with regard to this very difficult question.


This bill should be referred to a select committee of the House, who in my opinion could give better consideration than could this House to the important legislation involved. The minister has published in blue book form, extending over some 300 pages, the judicial proceedings affecting the constitutional validity of the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act of 1907 and amendments of 1910, 1918 and 1920. The subject matter of these proceedings was taken all the way from the courts below to the Privy Council and a very sound decision was rendered by the Privy Council. The minister's department had taken up the case of the employees of the Hydro Electric Commission, who had been given several raises in salary in a few years, and who were getting high rates of pay.
This bill now before the chair in my opinion has not been as carefully drafted as it might have been, and the litigation that has taken place recently has Cleared the air and! disclosed the proper relationship between capital and labour in these matters in Canada; and what this parliament should do is to stay in its own field of activity under section 91 and not go beyond that. Under that section a large number of classes of subjects are assigned by the act to the Parliament of Canada, all of a general, nature. But not satisfied with this ample scope within, the limits of the pond, this parliament through the Labour Department, in the original Industrial Disputes Investigation Act of 1907, undertook to widen the boundaries of its authority and to venture forth upon -the lake and the ocean and to brinlg within its jurisdiction local matters not properly within its competence to decide upon. Parliament has encroached upon the provincial field and interfered in matters defined under section 92 which relate to the provinces and the municipalities, including the control of such local departments, as street, fire and police departments and public utilities. If the employees in any of these local works are not satisfied with the wages paid them the minister can grant them a board; and not 'content with that the government has actually
granted a board in the case of a purely private dispute between the Hydro Electric Commission and their employees notwithstanding the fact that the commission are known to pay good wages.
There is no reason why parliament should not act within, its own sphere as prescribed by the act; it can deal with Dominion employees, and dear knows there is great occasion for proper action in this direction. It seems to me that the aiot might very well apply for example, to the post office and customs house staffs and the whole Civil! Service, and it might1 be invoked1 in connection with the grievances that exist in the Maritime provinces in the coal industry, it should also extend to the Customs department and to the work carried on by the Civil Service Commission. This parliament therefore has enough to do looking after its own end of the act without worrying about the provinces and the municipalities with their public utilities.
Section 2 of the act lays down the jurisdiction within which the Dominion may act under the British North America Act; and this comprises disputes relating to employment on works within the authority of this parliament; works, undertakings or business operated or carried on for or in connection with navigation and shipping, whether inland or maritime; railways ferries between provinces or between any province and any British or foreign country and various other undertakings of a similar nature. So far so good. And the explanatory note on the page of the bill opposite to this outline of subjects declares that the purpose of the amendment now proposed is to limit the application of the act to all matters not within the legislative jurisdiction of any province. That is all very well so far as it goes. But on page 2 of the bill all this is nullified by paragraph (f) which declares that certain works, although wholly within the province, may be declared by the Parliament of Canada to be for the general advantage of Canada. I contend that if this provision passes it will enable the Dominion to encroach upon the provincial field and that would be ultra vires of this parliament.
I think there should be a distinct line drawn between one field of activity and another as between the Dominion and the provinces and municipalities. Indeed, confederation would not have been possible had it not been for the fact that home rule was granted the provinces and the municipalities under section 92 of the British North America Act. I do not blame the minister personally for what he has done; at the start he did his best to bring
Industrial Disputes Act

the parties together in the unfortunate dispute we have had. It was not the first time the question had been raised, the minister, I do think, might have refrained from granting the board in connection with this particular utility. It had been the practice for some time in cases of these disputes for a board not to be granted,, unless with the consent of the municipality and the public utility concerned. In this particular dispute the board was granted and the minister declared that it was a matter of policy; the board was allowed against the protest of the public utility commission.
I have already suggested the reference of this bill to a special committee. Last session this very question was taken up by a special committee which considered industrial relations and very good work was done. The committee met only four or five times but the minister was present with officials from his department and the Justice department. And with reference to the act of 1907 the 'hon. member for Cape Breton South and Richmond (Mr. Carroll), I think, referred to the fact that several opinions had been given by the Department of Justice on the act some one way and others of a different character, with regard to the division of activities between the three legislative bodies in Canada. The committee last year went into this matter thoroughly, exploring not only the Dominion field but as weld the entire scope of the provinces and the municipalities; and the evidence given by some of the Minister of Justice's own officials to that committee went to show that such legislation as is now proposed in paragraph (f) on page 2 of the present bill must create trouble. It was lucky there was a privy council to say just where the line should be drawn. In my opinion, if the Privy Council ever performed a good day's work for the people of any overseas dominion it did so for the people of Canada when it gave its decision with reference to this particular act, because the decision went a great deal further than the act and laid down the scope of legislative usefulness not only of this parliament but of all the legislatures and municipalities of Canada. This decision is a very good one and has carefully mapped out the three spheres of activity. Paragraph (f), as I have said, provides that provincial works wholly within the province may be declared to be for the general advantage of Canada, and this was done recently in the case of the lake of the Woods matter. It cannot be defended and it would be unfortunate for this parliament to go beyond its own proper limits and to interfere with the public utilities of

the provinces and municipalities. Why, if this provision were enacted parliament might, although it seems extravagant, even declare some candy store on Sparks street to be for the general advantage of Canada, or it might do the same in regard to Ford's factory in Windsor, on the ground that it had some connection with the automobile industry of the Dominion and touched the question of transportation. I should like to see this question settled for all time. Agriculture is a matter of concurrent jurisdiction for the Dominion and the provinces, but if this bill becomes law we cannot say how far it may affect that industry and provincial jurisdiction, and even the agricultural industry might be declared to be an undertaking for the general advantage of Canada.
I think the minister would be doing a good day's work for capital and labour if he would consent to the appointment of a small committee to study this bill so that we may have a better understanding of what its enactment will entail. For instance, it contains a definition of what is a national emergency. Well, if there was ever an opportunity for the Labour department to do something under the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act it is presented to them now in the labour troubles in the coal district of Nova Scotia; there surely is a national emergency requiring the immediate and direct attention of the minister and his department. But in view of the declaration by Lord Haldane of what constitutes a national emergency, we would be treading on pretty dangerous ground if we passed this sub-clause 3 of subsection 1 of section 2 (a) as it is. A dispute between private individuals or between a public utility corporation and its employees is not a national emergency, and yet by this legislation the Dominion parliament seeks to take control of all the works and on the plea that a labour dispute constitutes a national emergency undertakings of the provinces and municipalities. When the act was passed in 1907 there were no public utilities in the sense that we have them to-day; for instance, the province of Ontario has made a total investment of $241,000,000 in its hydro electric undertaking. Had not the decision of the Privy Council been what it is, the legislatures of the provinces would have been reduced to the status of county councils. I should like to see the bill referred to a committee and so amended that it will be placed beyond doubt that this parliament has no control over any provincial or municipal undertaking.


Mr. Chairman, I do not agree with what has been said by the

Industrial Disvutes Act
hon. gentleman who has just taken his seat (Mr. Church). I am a one hundred per cent Canadian, I have said so before in this House, and to-day I am surprised at the absence of courage on the part of the government, and especially on the part of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), in not coming to this House and saying: The way to cure all these inconsistencies that have been found in our constitution is to have Canada become what everybody says she is, a sister dominion, the equal of the Mother Country and of the other member parts of the British commonwealth. We have the right, or we ought to have, to make our constitution, and to have it interpreted by our own courts, not by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, no matter how eminent its members may be. To-day by reason of this discussion we are admitting inferiority of position. We are not enjoying complete self-government now, we never have been, but we ought to be. This question will be in the courts again. Only the other day I read a discussion that has been proceeding in England in regard to what is to be the status of the colonies or the dominions. It is evident that Mr. Amery, who is the head of the Colonial Office, has made some progress, but to my mind his progress is retrograde, it is in the direction of bringing this Dominion more under the direction of the Secretary of State for the Colonies. I am afraid that as a result, instead of widening our powers and securing complete autonomy, they will be narrowed and we will find ourselves continued in our old colonial status. I challenge the Minister of Justice to say what the decision of the government is to-day in regard to this constitutional crisis. It should not be our attitude, as my hon. friend from North Toronto says, to rejoice and thank God that there is an arrangement under which disputes which we as Canadians should settle here shall be settled in the Motherland. I spoke on this question at the opening of the session and a large volume of correspondence afterwards came to me unsolicited, from young Canadians all over this country strongly supporting the view that I took in regard to the matter. They think we ought to have what our neighbors to the south achieved a hundred and fifty years ago. namely, the right to make their own constitution; and when they got that right they made their country a great country. If we have the courage to go ahead we shall be in the eye of the world perhaps as much as the Americans are; and I do not suggest by that that in any way we should break with the Mother Country. What I do say is that we
should rid ourselves of this incubus-because that is what it is-of the settlement of our disputes and the determining of these questions in the Old Land. I know pretty well what the view of this House is; I have talked a good deal to hon. members with regard to it. I have been ridiculed and criticized for the views I hold, but I am willing to stand for that. The Minister of Justice in this measure is merely sidestepping the issue. The real issue to-day is whether we are to make and interpret our own constitution or whether it shall be done for us; whether or not we shall remain in the position of an inferior, a junior-an infant in the eye of the law. And we can get this right if w'e ask for it. Will the Minister of Justice say we would be denied the right of jurisdiction if we applied for it?
Mr. LAPOiNTE: I agree with my hon. friend.


Then why does he not have the courage to state it as representing the party dominating this House today? That is where I want to see some courage. He says he agrees with me; why does he not live up to the agreement?


That is another question.


Yes, but it must be answered, and I am asking for an answer to-day. I have the courage to say what my view is and I know there are many in the House who agree with me. There are a great many in the minister's own province-eminent lawyers-who hold the same view. I hope he will not send this bill to a committee; I would like to see the discussion turn upon the broad constitutional issue, especially in view of the fact that the Parliament of Great Britain is ready any day to give us the power to deal with out own constitution and to make our own division of powers as between the federal and provincial authorities. When that is done we will make some headway.


If the British parliament did give us that right, could this parliament arrogate to itself certain powers without the consent of the provinces?


No, quite the
contrary. There will be a constitutional conference to settle the question. There have been a great many struggles for constitutional rights in the past; I am reading about them every day. And there is a deplor-4 p.m. able condition in Europe to-day because of the absence of constitutional government there. Answering the
Industrial Disvutes Act

hon. member (Mr. iMartell), I know we cannot settle the question in this parliament ; 'but the onus is on the government to call a conference of representatives of the Dominion and the provinces for that purpose. The Minister of Justice says he is going to bring the question up in connection with another matter affecting the Senate. Now is the time to settle these questions, and the government must have the courage to take the leadership or give way to others who will take it.


Who in Canada to-day is in favour of this change in our constitution?


I am, for one.


I am glad to know it.


I regret that my hon. friend has not that courage, although the people of his own province are waiting on the government to-day, almost in forma pauperis, asking to be helped out of their troubles.


Order.


Well, a freind of my hon. friend's went up to Toronto the other day and told a very doleful story of the condition of affairs in this country. The hon. member for Cumberland has been away to the West Indies to tell the troubles of this country there and how he seeks to get relief from them.


Will my hon. friend-


Oh, sit down a moment, please.


We want the truth.


Go where the
truth is. Now, I apologize for taking up so much time-*


Hear, hear.


The hon. member for West Toronto (Mr. Hocken) does not agree with me?


I did not say a word.


My hon. friend does agree with me very often. I read his paper carefully and I see that he is progressive in his views in the way of constitutional reform. But the responsibility of dealing with this matter is on the government; they cannot sidestep it by a measure like this. Constitutional government must be progressive in its character, its scope widens with the years; and we ought to see to it that we have the right to deal with these matters ourselves in our own way.


My hon. friend says the people of Nova Scotia came here in forma pauperis. That is a vastly different question from the one he is dealing with now and from the point he is advocating. Nova Scotia never willingly went into the confederation. We were sold into the confederation, as our people commonly say, for the price of a sheepskin. We were a prosperous people up to that time. I am not objecting to the constitution to-day as it affects the various provinces, but if we come here advocating what we believe to be our rights, we are asking only for what is justly ours, because we never had an opportunity at the polls to pronounce whether or not we were in favour of confederation. When confederation was brought about and the first appeal was made to the people of Nova Scotia, only one confederate was returned.


I sympathize very much with my hon. friend, and if he has any move to make in this particular I will join him.


I am a constitutionalist and believe that our remedy lies in trade treaties and railway considerations.


Well, I am sorry for that sort of constitutionalist.


The hon. member has been talking about half an hour; may I ask if he is for or against this bill?


I am against the bill unless the government take the leadership in the direction of a real cure for the situation.


Even if the government takes such leadership, the change could not be brought about in less than two or three years, and in the meantime what harm will it do to pass this bill? We have to have some machinery for dealing with industrial disputes. I have listened to the utterances of my hon. friend from South York (Mr. Maclean) for a quarter of a century or more, and I am charmed to find that after all those years he still retains that buoyant expectancy, that everlasting optimism, under the influence of which difficulties, in his mind, seem to fade away. I only wish all of us had that happy disposition; and that we may all be as youthful in spirit as my hon. friend when we reach his age. But my hon. friend, in speaking upon these matters dismisses, with a wave of the hand, some rather serious difficulties. He is even a little inconsistent sometimes. For instance, at one moment he states that the
Industrial Disputes Act
Right Hon. Mr. Amery is trying at the present time to encroach upon the freedom of this country with respect to imperial matters; and the next moment he says that all we have to do is to go to England and the Imperial parliament will give us the power-I suppose immediately, and without any consideration at all-to amend our constitution and do it in accordance with the views entertained in this House, notwithstanding the fact that, after all, the British North America Act is a pact between the federal authorities and the provinces and that we could not amend the constitution of this Dominion along the lines he suggests unless we secured the consent, I will undertake to say, of every province in Canada. I doubt very much if we went to the Imperial parliament and asked for legislation giving Canada the right to amend its constitution the Imperial parliament would consider it for one moment if even the little province of Prince Edward Island raised an objection to the proposal. Because, as I have already said, confederation was the result of a pact between the federal authorities and the local legislatures and that pact could not be disturbed without the consent of all the interested parties. But my hon. friend goes further. With one stroke of the pen, or with a mere wave of the hand, he is going to abolish the right of appeal to the Privy Council.


Oh no.


These are matters, I think, that ought to occupy our most serious consideration.


And now is the
time.


I submit it is not the proper time, when we are engaged in the consideration of a bill introduced to meet a difficulty which has been brought upon us by a judicial decision. Now, the facts are these: Under that decision the Industrial Disputes Act, otherwise known as the Lemieux Act has been found to be ultra vires of this parliament. At any moment there is a possibility that labour troubles may arise in this country and we have not the power, we are absolutely impotent, unless we pass this legislation, to deal with them. For instance down in Cape Breton a great labour struggle is taking place, twelve or fourteen thousand men are out of employment, women and children are suffering, and this parliament is impotent to help them or to bring about any meeting between the company and the miners in order to effect a settlement of the trouble.


Will this bill give that
power?


Yes, I think tihat power is conferred under paragraph (f) of section 1, although I admit a question, of law might be raised as to whether the intention is correctly expressed.
iMr. BAXTER: If the bill really gave such power I would be enthusiastic in its support, but what I fear is that no such power is conferred; the situation would be local and not national.


The paragraph in question
reads:
Such works as, although wholly situate within the province, have been or may be declared by the parliament of Canada to be for the general advantage of Canada, or for the advantage of two or more of the provinces.
If we lhad such a. law on the statute books to-day we could put through parliament a short act declaring the *vorks of the British Empire Steel Corporation to be works for the general advantage of Canada. When that act had been passed we would then be able to appoint a conciliation board, for instance, to deal with the unfortunate situation which exists in Cape Breton. I submit to my hon. friend from York (Mr. Maclean)-and we all recognize his enthusiasm in the cause of readjusting our constitutional difficulties, and his Canadianism; he is almost one hundred per cent plus Canadian-that we are confronted now with a condition of impotency.


Very well, let us remove the impotency.


If we can meet the situation by passing the present bill let us do so. Let us endeavour to do something to meet the situation which we find ourselves in at the present time.
Mr. HANSON; Just before the hou. member takes hie seat I should like to ask him this question: Is it not perfectly open to the legislature of the province of Nova Scotia to pass appropriate legislation to meet the conditions such as he has described?


They have done so have they not? Have they not introduced the principle of compulsory arbitration down there?


I am not sure; I am asking for information.


I fear the province has made a mistake in undertaking to force compulsory arbitration. You cannot in this age force men to do anything; you can conciliate them, you can balk and reason with them. Yes, legisla-

Industrial Disputes Act

tion has been passed in the province of Nova Scotia, but strictly speaking it will not meet a situation such as exists here which has become, in a sense, national in its character. This parliament could deal with such a situation in a broader and bigger way than the legislature of t'he province can in which the disturbance is occurring.


I am inclined to agree with the last remark made by the hon. gentleman, but I would like to ask the minister a question with regard to sub-clause 3 of section 2 (a) of this bill. Just what disputes dops the department contemplate should be covered by a power of that character? The language is very wide, and very comprehensive, and it seems to me that the power conferred there might be used in an improper way. I should therefore like to hear the Prime Minister or the minister-and the question is not put from any controversial motive, but with a dtesire to know what the minister or the government has in mind-state a case in which such power might be used with propriety by the government.


We have not heard
yet from the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), and we expected to hear from him.


I was about to rise three of four times but did not get the opportunity. I received a sort of challenge from my hon. friend from South York (Mr. Maclean). It is hard for me to be attacked by an old friend of mine, especially when he seems to have a doubt in regard to my national sentiments. My hon. friend is absolutely wrong, because this is not a question as between Canada and the Mother Country; in any respect whatever. There is no battle of any kind between ourselves and the Imperial parliament. The question, Mr. Chairman, is: What is the jurisdiction of the Dominion parliament and the jurisdiction of the various provinces? And if the decision which has been given in that case of Snider versus the Toronto Electric Commissioners, instead of being delieverd by the Privy Council, had been delivered by the Supreme Court of Canada we would have been placed in exactly the same situation. I do not think it is opportune, advisable or necessary to discuss the question of the propriety of having Canadian legislation submitted to the Privy Council in connection with a matter purely and simply of defining what are the powers of the provincial legislature and the powers of the federal parliament with regard to this legislation. I agree with my hon. friend1-I have said it and I repeat it-that if we were asking the right to amend our constitution it would not be denied, but it is a question for ourselves to decide, not only in this parliament

Industrial Disvutes Act
but in Canada; it is a question of asking for the revision of the pact which has been entered into by the several provinces of the Dominion. If my hon. friend wants to amend the constitution so as to have at all times the power to change or alter our own charter, I repeat what I said some time ago, that that charter is just as much the charter of the province as it is our charter, and before it is altered the provinces have a right to be consulted and to give their own opinions about it.


Why not consult them?


We are going to consult them. It has been announced that a conference would be held between the provinces and the Dominion for the purpose of considering the steps which it might be advisable to take to amend the constitution in some matters. My hon. friend agrees with that, but he says, " Wait, do not do anything for the purpose of re-enacting the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act before you hold your conference ". My hon. friend is wrong about that, as my hon friend from Cumberland (Mr. Logan) told him. Even if there is nothing coming from such a conference; or even if there is an amendment to the constitution of Canada, which might take some time to make, it is necessary-at least it is opportune and it is wise-to have on the statute books of Canada an act for the investigation and possible settlement of industrial disputes. Since that decision of the Privy Council the government has been petitioned from various quarters to do something in regard to this matter, to enact legislation to revive that old act. This request comes not only from the various labour organizations; but also from the employers. This act is recognized to-day as being a fine and fair way of trying to get at the settlement of our labour difficulties. Part of the decision of the Privy Council was to the effect that this parliament had no right to enact legislation for the investigation and settlement of the dispute between an employer carrying on his undertaking under the laws of the province, and within the limits of that province, and the employees. If the Toronto electric commissioners are an association under the laws of Ontario, operating in the province of Ontario under a sort of municipal organization, there is no doubt that they are and were a merely provincial body. The Privy Council has decided that, and we have no power to interfere in the labour difficulties between the employers and the employees under such cir-202i
cumstances. The purpose of this act is to have legislation for the investigation and settlement of disputes which are under the jurisdiction of the parliament of Canada. My hon. friend from North Toronto (Mr. Church) said that the Privy Council had done a good day's work in giving that judgment. I do not want to give expression to my own views in regard to that, but one thing is certain, that this judgment has at least the advantage of defining to a large extent the respective jurisdictions of the Dominion and the provinces. The bill now before us is based on the decision of the Privy Council, not only on the expression of views of the Privy Council but also on the expression of views of the counsel engaged in that argument, and on previous decisions of that body-on constitutional matters arising between the Dominion and the provinces. As to all the matters that are included or enumerated in section 91 of the British No:*h America Act, there cannot be much difficulty My hon. friend from St. John and Albert (Mr. Baxter) said that it would be better io contine ourselves to the first words of paragraph 1 of section 2A, ending with the words " parliament of Canada ", This act is to define the relation between employers and employees and is like the bill of rights of the organization in Canada.
It is in the hands of the labour men throughout the country, and it has been pointed out to us by those who represent labour that in their interest it is necessary that an enumeration of at least the main subjects .to which the act will apply should be given. That is the only reason for the enumeration. The hon. member for St. John and Albert expresses a doubt as to our right to enact paragraph (e) of section 2A. My hon. friend is a leading member of the Canadian bar and his views deserve more than ordinary consideration. But he has expressed a doubt and, as he said himself, he admits that the other side might be debated. This paragraph has been considered to be within our jurisdiction because of those words in section 91 of the British North America Act naturalization and aliens," which are placed under the jurisdiction of the Dominion parliament, and those further words: "regulation of trade and commerce." It is contended that the power to make laws for the regulation of trade and commerce and for naturali