Mr. PIUS MICHAUD (Restigouche and Madawaska) presented the first report of the select standing committee on Mines, Minerals and Waterways, reporting with amendments Bill No. 6, to 'amend the Yukon Quartz Mining Act.
Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 44, to amend the Migratory Birds Convention Act.
He said: This bill makes only three minor amendments to the act. The first, an amendment to section 4, makes provision for regulations which can be made conformable to the regulations of the province with reference to a person having game in his possession in the closed season. The necessity for this has arisen on account of a case which was taken to the court of appeal in Manitoba, where the party having the game in his possession, which would have been legal under the provincial law, was prosecuted. We are amending the act so as to make it conform with the provincial law. Section 2, amending section 5, permits us to have the game and fishery officers of the Ontario government aet as game wardens for the enforcement of the Migratory Birds Con-

vention Act. The amendment to section 6 is for the purpose of bringing into effect the amendment to section 4. There is no radical change in the act, just minor amendments for the purpose of making the act uniform in practice with that of the province.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
On the Orders of the Day:
I arise to a question of privilege.
Hansard 'at page 2384 records the hon. member for Parry Sound (Mr. Arthurs) last night as having made certain statements referring to myself to which I think it only fair to make brief reference. The hon. gentleman was discussing the very much debated question of Canadians going to the United States and Canadians returning, and he had been reading a statement alleged to have been made by Mr. MaicNeil of the Great War Veterans. On page 2385 of Hansard he proceeds to say:
In this connection I should like to remark that the Minister of Labour stated that many of these people are returning to Canada again and gave figures showing that in 1923, 43,432 returned and in 1924 the number was 43,316. He stated that these figures represented Canadians who had paid the $8 head tax and had obtained a refund on their return to Canada. I am quite sure that the minister, if he thinks the matter over in a sober manner and after due reflection, will not repeat that statement in public, because the figures as furnished by the American authorities of those who have actually returned and received a refund of head tax, during the five months beginning with April 1924 are respectively 265 , 215 , 259, 199 and 190. That is a vastly different story, because those figures constitute less than one-fiftieth of the number claimed by the Minister of Labour. I have other extracts on the subject, but I have no desire to take up time by reading them.
On February 9th, in this House, a considerable discussion along the same lines took place and that evening I sent a night lettergram as follows:
Ottawa, February 9th, 1925.


I rise to a point of
order. The hon. minister is evidently about to adduce-in fact he is already in process of adducing-an argument which would be an integral part of a debate. At this point the Orders of the Day cannot be availed of for that purpose. It is clear, even from the quotation which the hon. member has made, that there could be no matter of personal privilege involved at all.


This is a question of
personal privilege. It is intimated that the statements I gave to the House were false.

Privilege-Mr. Murdoch
I propose, and I think it only consistent to show they were true.


Order, order.


The hon. gentleman is
speaking to a point of order-


I am just going to give the original document received from the Secretary of Labour of the United States indicating whether my statements are false or true.


If it is a question, of privilege and affecting the honour of the hon. gentleman, he can only speak to that point and correct the statement made by the hon. member on the ground that he was misquoted or that he was practically described as a gentleman who did not speak the truth. If that is the point raised by the hon. gentleman it is certainly a question of privilege. The hon. gentleman should not however make a long speech. He should simply indicate how the statement made by the hon. member from Parry Sound (Mr. Arthurs) was not according to the facts and one affecting his honour.


I want to make myself
clear on this point. What I contend is this: The mere fact that one member has disputed the correctness of another member's statement is not an aspersion on his honour at all.


There is more than that involved in this, as I will show before I get through.


The hon. gentleman said
that that was precisely what was involved. It is not an aspersion on his honour, and is no foundation for a question of privilege.


I had no desire to impeach the hon. gentleman's honour. I was quoting from figures and statements made by a gentleman whose name I gave, and the fact that the hon. member's figures and my figures did not agree, so far as I can see, is no reflection either upon the minister or myself. This is a matter which constantly occurs in the House, and I do not see any reason why the hon. member should proceed to make a speech.


The hon. member said:
I am quite sure that the minister, if he thinks the matter over in a sober manner and after due reflection, will not repeat that statement in public.
I propose to repeat it.


It happens every day
that hon. members on one side will make statements that they consider true, and hon. members on the other side will controvert those statements when they consider they are
incorrect. This does not constitute a question of privilege unless the honour of an hon. gentleman is impugned. Impeaching the honour of an hon. member would give rise to a question of privilege; but in the present instance, from what I can gather, the hon. member from Parry 'Sound (Mr. Arthurs), had no intention at all to impugn the honour of the hon. gentleman, and I cannot detect a question of privilege.


I desire to conform to the wish of the House, but I claim that the hon. gentleman in his speech in substance called me a liar. That is exactly what it amounts to, and this is a question of personal privilege to show who is misrepresenting.


Order. If an hon. gentleman makes a statement denying what another gentleman has said, provided it is done in a gentlemanly way, it should not be considered as impugning his honour. I have been told on many occasions that I did not know what I was talking about, or that the statement I had made was not true. The other day an hon. gentleman said that a statement made by another hon. gentleman was false. I thought that was rather harsh, and I said that such statements should not be made in the House as between gentlemen. But, in the present instance, I do not see that the honour of the Minister of Labour has been impugned. Therefore I do not consider there is a question of privilege involved.


May I say another word?


Yes.


Is it not a question of
privilege for me to show the authority for my statements in order to show if they were false?


Order. It is ruled upon.


Do I understand that I may proceed?


The hon. member may
speak. I want to hear what he has to say.


I placed certain figures-


I rise to a point of order.


The figures that are controverted in the present instance have already been put in a regular way upon Hansard by the Minister of Labour. The other figures were put upon Hansard last night by the hon. member for Parry Sound (Mr. Arthurs). These two conflicting statements about the
2414	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Stewart (Humboldt)
number of Canadians emigrating to or coming from the United States do not constitute the shadow of a question of honour as between two hon. gentlemen, and therefore, in my humble judgment, I rule that there is no question of privilege in that. The hon. gentleman is simply enlarging his rights to take part in the debate, by replying at this stage. As the hon. gentleman (Mr, Murdock) has already spoken once, he must await another opportunity to reply.


I did place certain
figures on Hansard, but I did not give the letters of transmissions with which those figures were received.


I rise to a point of order.


The ruling of the Chair must be obeyed. Of course, the hon. gentleman may appeal from my ruling.


On the Orders of the Day:
Does the Minister of Railways and Canals consider calling a conference regarding the Peace River railway transportation question within the next few days, or soon?


We are all very anxious to know.
Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister of Railways and Canals):	My experience with
conferences is not such as to encourage me to have very many. The matter is not being lost sighjs of at all, and discussions are taking place, but I would not dignify them by the name of conferences.


Does that
mean "no" to the question? It is hardly an answer.


I am sorry that my hon. friend asks me so many questions about this. I must be allowed to select my own answers.


The House resumed from Thursday, April 23, consideration of the motion of Hon. J. A. Robb (Acting Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the House to go into committee of Ways and Means, and the proposed amendment thereto of Sir Henry Drayton.
Mr. Speaker, before this debate was ad-

journed last night or, perhaps, more accurately, early to-day, I had attempted to place candidly and frankly before the House certain reasons why I objected1 to the budget proposals this year. I had m'ade the. statement that it was because the fiscal and taxation policies reflected through those budget proposals were not in accord with any that I could support that I must oppose this budget. I had also made certain objections to the tariff commission that is proposed. I had also offered a suggestion as to an enlargement that might possibly be made of our annual financial statement that would make the financial condition of this country plainer to the average man. I had, in conclusion, last evening touched upon one of the taxation proposals or an amendment to a taxation proposal that is contained in the budget, namely, the enlargement of the application of the stamp tax on cheques to include certain papers which, prior to the present, have been exempted.
I had pointed out to the Acting Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) in his absence-and I am glad to note to-day he is in his seat and I hope he will give some attention to the statements which I made last night- that it was not a matter of asking for something that was not already recognized in the act. The act recognizes that exemptions are to be allowed; it always has recognized that. I tried to point out to him that it was bringing an unfortunate injustice to bear upon certain primary producers if he insisted that this tax be made to cover particularly those tickets or papers which have been issued and used in securing payment for cream, in the western provinces. I trust the minister will give some attention to the arguments that have been adduced. I am quite certain that before this debate is concluded other members wTho are just as interested as I am in the dairy farmers of this country, will place before the minister, if not similar arguments, at least arguments just as valid and strong as those I have attempted to give.
Now, Sir, proceeding, I want to touch briefly upon t'he amendment that has been submitted to the budget proposals of the Acting Minister of Finance. I said last night that I had attempted to approach the consideration of the budget this year without undue partisan feeling, without any shackles of party affiliations to bind me, and that I had come to my conclusions by duly considering the budget proposals before us. I said that I had attempted to approach the amendment in the same way. After having considered the amendment in that way, it seems

The Budget-Mr. Stewart (Humboldt)'
to me that I can state my attitude towards it perhaps by likening it to certain theatrical scenery that is very commonly used at the present time on almost every stage in this country. We have often seen before us on the stage a beautiful piece of scenery; and without any lifting of the curtain, by a playing of lights from the back upon the screen, that beautiful picture entirely disappears and another view takes its place. It is all a matter of how and where the lights are manipulated; the curtain itself remains stationary, and the scene changes as varying lights are thrown upon the screen'. Now, so far as the amendment is concerned I must say that to a member in my position it bears some likeness to this ic'hanging scenery; I think there is a simile between the two. There are certain things in the amendment that appeal to me, but after all the lights of this debate have been played upon it for the length of time we have now discussed these proposals, I am bound to say that the original beauty of the picture it presented has disappeared. By means largely of the lights played upon it, not from directly opposite sides but by gentlemen behind the scenes, we see now in place of the flowers of lower taxation which we beheld before, huge and barren rocks in the form of additional tariff burdens. It is hardly necessary for me after making that comment to say that I am in no better position to support the amendment than to support the budget.
I want to turn now to two or three matters which I consider of urgent importance, and first of all I shall touch upon one which has been for some time, and certainly at the moment is paramount in the minds not only of hon. members of this House but of intelligent citizens throughout the country; I refer to our railways and the whole problem of transportation. I do not intend to go at any great length into this question but I have one concrete suggestion which I desire to bring to the attention of the House. To my mind the problem of finding some solution for the difficulties in regard to our National railways as well as of the whole question of railway transportation costs generally is a matter of primary importance and should receive the consideration of parliament before anything else. As we are all aware, our National railways are carrying on under the handicap of an immense debt; and in view of the overhead charges which they have to face, the present prospects give absolutely no hope of our being able to meet the situation by means of the earning power of the railways. A year ago when the report of
the committee considering nationally owned railways and shipping was presented to the House it was advocated-I myself advocated it in the debate-that the capitalization of the Canadian National Railways should be reduced. And that is a matter to which I wish to direct the attention of the House just now. Various proposals might be made for the reducing of this capitalization and I shall submit one or two. It has been suggested recently in this House, and there have been comments in the press to the same purpose, that the proper solution would be found in the nationalization of the great competing line of the National system, that is to say, the Canadian Pacific Railway, and the union of the two systems into one great whole. I am in accord with those who look to this proposal1 as something that will eventually materialize, but at the same time I want to consider just now the situation as it actually is; I want to consider what the question is that we have to deal with immediately. I would point out that even if we contemplated such an undertaking there would still be a necessity for re-valuing the Canadian National railways, and I would suggest reducing the capitalization of the Canadian National system at the present time by at least the current balance sheet deficit, which is a matter of some $344,000,000. That would then place the Canadian National Railways in the position of having equal assets and liabilities, at least in so far as the accounts and paper figures are concerned. We might go further than that, we might cancel the whole of that item termed "loans from the Dominion of Canada and interest thereon," amounting to over $598,000,000. Or we might go even further still; personally, I would go so far as to suggest the cancellation of that portion of the overhead which falls within the Dominion of Canada account. If hon. members will take the annual statement of the Canadian National Railways and turn to the balance sheet they will find items under the heading "Dominion of Canada account" totalling some $1,142,000,000. I would wipe that out. Perhaps some hon. gentlemen who have not given this matter as careful study as they might would think we were reducing the capitalization too low, but I would point out that this would then leave a balance of liabilities in connection with the Canadian National railways of $1,271,000,000, after having reduced the total by nearly half. It would place the railways in this advantageous position, that their assets would then exceed their liabilities by $803,000,000, and the capital investment remaining therein, in the way of
2416	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Stewart (Humboldt)
a bonded debt to the public, would be $913,913,000, which would be interest-bearing. That would be the actual Capitalization on which the system would still have to pay interest. Let me compare that with the capitalization of the Canadian Pacific Railway. According to a statement recently issued by that company, including their capital stock as part of the capitalization,, together with their debentures, mortgages and bonds, all of which bear interest, the total capitalization on which they are paying interest amounts to a little more than $670,000,000.


Does that include dividends on the stock, and additional interest on bonds?
* Mr. STEWART (Humboldt):	It includes
the capital Stock; that is the capital on which they pay dividends. Now, the earnings last year of the Canadian Pacific Railway were over $47,000,000, while the earnings during the same period of the Canadian National Railways were a little over $21,000,000. If the element of competition were eliminated, and we got rid of all duplication of service, and if the capitalization of the Canadian National Railways were reduced by the amount I have suggested, it will 'be seen that, even leaving out of consideration any advantages that might accrue to the railways as a result of being under one management and co-operating instead of working in competition with each other, the joint concern would then be in a position, by reason of their earning capacity as reflected in the statement recently placed before us, to pay on the total capitalization interest at the rate of 4.3 per cent. That, it is true, would not be sufficient to cover the total interest indebtedness and overhead charges which the railways have to meet at the present time. It is a fact that both the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Canadian National Railways have bonds bearing interest as low as 3 per cent; but unfortunately the Canadian National Railways in particular have a very considerable amount of bonded indebtedness at 6 and 7 per cent. So that a larger earning than they have at present would be necessary. It will be seen however that I have not taken into consideration the important element of improvement which would accrue from the amalgamation of the two systems. I am in no position to know what could be saved by deleting duplication or by the lack of competition, and I am quite certain that that would enter very largely into these figures-I would not even venture to estimate to what extent but I am certain that it would very largely affect these figures-and that the railways would then be in a position to pay

interest on all the indebtedness that would remain, and perhaps they would also be able to make a return to the treasury, if such were desired.
But before I leave the point I want to give this reason why the capitalizatio'n of the Canadian National Railways should be reduced. A great deal of money has been sunk in the Canadian National Railways which at present is not reflected in their earning power. There are causes for that which I do not propose to discuss, but the facts are that that money, having been spent, is now lost so far as its earning power is concerned, and the only way in which we can say who should pay the interest upon it is to trace where the money has gone. It is very difficult to tell where this money went to, particularly that invested in some of the government railways and in some of the Canadian Northern lines built a number of years ago. But at any rate it found its way into channels of trade, the labouring people secured some benefit at the time, and no doubt business also secured some benefit through this money being put in circulation, and those parts of our people secured at least as .much, if not more, benefit from the money thus expended than did the primary producers on the land, in the forests and in the mines, who by supplying the bulk of the freight for our railways are conferring a greater benefit than they can ever in future hope to obtain from the expenditure of that money. Therefore I submit, Sir, it is only right that as a nation we Should now and for all time take over the capitalization that we cannot realize upon and place it with our national debt, making the interest charges upon it a national charge, not to be placed against those who are attempting to produce and are supplying freight to our National railways. That is my reason for saying that this is the first step that should be taken, regardless of what other steps we may take afterwards.
Now, I want to touch upon one other matter that I consider to be urgently in need of attention in this House by way of legislation. I refer to long-term credits. I do not propose to enter into a long argument on this, I simply want to call the attention of the government to the report of their commissioner, Dr. Tory, and to a certain plan outlined in his report. I am well aware of the fact that long-term credits are not in very good standing in this country. I do not seriously criticize the government for having hesitated before embarking on any scheme; I think they have been well advised! to secure all the information possible

The Budget-Mr. Stewart (Humboldt)
on this matter. Our provincial governments have for varying reasons found that the schemes they have tried have not been wholly successful. But according to the report of Dr. Tory, and other evidence which I propose to submit, certain schemes of longterm credits have been successful. Dr. Tory refers to the third plar, known as the American plan. He says:
A third and certainly feasible plan would be to adopt outright the principle of the American Farm Loan Board, and establish land banks distributed suitably over the country. The details of this plan will be found from page 40 onward in the report of last year.
Then he goes on to tell the advantages of that plan. Now I propose to read some evidence as to the effectiveness of this plan.
I have in my hand an editorial taken from the Buffalo Express of April 14, 1925. Similar comments appeared, to my own knowledge, in other American newspapers about .that time, made on the report of Mr. R. A. Cooper, Federal Farm Loans Commissioner, which I presume was submitted at about the date this editorial appeared:
The federal farm-loan system has been in operation eight years, and the losses sustained by the banks in loaning to farmers reflect the ability and willingness of the borrowers to fulfil their contracts and the judgment of the commissioners in making the loans.
Foreclosures of mortgages by the federal farm-loan system in eight years total three-tenths of one per cent, says Commissoner Cooper. These losses on real estate total only one day's net profits of the government loaning institutions. Yet the loans amounted to $1,535,198,933, divided among 403,906 farmers. The farm-loan land banks found it necessary to institute foreclosure proceedings in 4,701 instances, but the number of farms acquired is only 1,271. The joint-stock land banks have acquired only 125 farms. Thus over 400,000 mortgages continue in good standing or have been paid off.
I submit, Mr. Speaker, that with such evidence as this before them the government are not justified in further delaying a scheme which is so urgently needed to assist our farmers at the present time.
It has been already pointed out in this House that there is need for the enlargement of the application of the Bankruptcy Act. I am in agreement with that opinion. Some of our farmers-and I am not going to pause now to place the blame-are in such circumstances that no long-term credit system could help them; it would not be safe, it would not be good business to lend them .money. But I would suggest that those men having been once bitten will be twice shy, and that if they were released from the financial entanglements in which they find themselves they would be a greater asset to us than any new immigrants that we might bring in to
fill their places-that if they could be placed in a position where they could start afresh under such a scheme as has been suggested here then they would be an asset and not a liability to the country.
Another matter which I think is urgently in need of attention, Mr. Speaker, is the desirability of amendments to the Grain Act, and I simply want to call this to the notice of the government. The Minister of Trade and Commerce, as I recollect, a few days ago stated that he considered it would be wiser to leave these amendments over for a year's consideration. I submit, Sir, that for one reason it would not be wise to defer action until next session. I can understand the attitude of those who say that this is an important matter and should receive serious consideration, and if it were not for this one thing thait I am about to point out I think I would be inclined to agree with the minister. But in the last year we in western Canada have adopted a new system of marketing our grain, the pooling system, and because the present act does not protect our pools, was not in fact drawn to meet their requirements, I submit that we have before us the necessity of at least providing such amendments as would cover the case of these wheat pools in the conduct of their 'business for another year.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, there is one other matter that I want to touch upon, and it is worthy of much more intensive consideration than I propose to give to it this afternoon-I mean immigration. I do not intend to treat this as a hypothetical question or one that ban be considered apart from the everyday circumstances in whibh we find ourselves. If the policies of the government were different, I think we might regard this question in a different way, but we are trying to carry on, and until we can change the present policies we must cut our cloth accordingly. I am not one of those, although I admit conditions are not favourable to immigrants, who would say that we should wholly exclude them; but I would very largely limit the scope of immigration at the present time. I am wholly in accord with those who say that it is unwise to spend large sums of money in an attempt to entice immigrants to this country. I shall not go into the matter of our loss of population-that has a direct bearing upon it. But after all, I submit that very largely it hinges upon the policies that this government has adopted, and until those policies are changed, as I have said before, we must trim our sails to suit the passing breeze. There are certain
2418	COMMONS
The Budget-Mr. Stewart (Humboldt)
people who can come to this Icountry even under the present unfavourable conditions. Let me give an instance. The constituency that I represent here is very cosmopolitan in its population. In one part about eighty per cent are of Scandinavian extraction. Another quite extensive corner of the constituency is to a very Considerable extent Icelandic. Another section of it is peopled largely by those of German extraction; another French, another Ruthenian. So you can understand that I speak with first-hand knowledge of the peoples that are coming to ithis country. Referring particularly to the Scandinavian peoples, and including with them the Icelanders, I consider that those who come here from those countries should be welcomed and that we should put nothing in the way of their entry into Canada. I had occasion to discuss one of the sources of our Scandinavian immigration with the manager of certain newspapers that circulate among our Scandinavian population in western Canada and also have a certain circulation in Norway and Sweden; I refer to the two papers, Norrona, and Svenska Canada-Tidningen, or the Swedish Canadian News. I did not know just what was the nature of the advertising these papers were carrying, because I do not read or speak either the Norwegian or the Swedish language. I had seen so many advertisements scattered by this government, and solme by previous governments, that were misleading, that painted in far too bright colours the possibilities of this country, that I took occasion [DOT] to direct the attention of the manager and owner of these publications to the fact. 1 did	not directly accuse him of	doing	thesame thing, but I pointed out that I considered it most unwise that newspapers or any other form of advertising in this country	should	picture too brightly	the possibilities of Canada for intending immigrants. He told me that such was not the case with his	paper	and that he would	place	theevidence in my hands. I have here a letter from the editor of these papers and I wish to place on record a few of the statements made therein. He says he is enclosing some extracts to	prove his statement	about	the
attitude taken by these publications, and that he believes those extracts to be typical. This is from the editor and the writer of most of the articles that are of an advertising nature so far as immigration is concerned:
I, tor myself, and on behalf of the other writers for those two papers, absolutely protest against the accusation that we have been painting Canada in too rosy colors. We have only been telling facts, and besides, we have time and again warned the wrong [Mr. C. W. Stewart. 1
kind of people to come. We have told our readers that they must work hard in order to succeed, as is shown-
And he refers to certain extracts. He says further:
We want the man with the real pioneer spirit who is eager to tackle a hard job and who knows beforehand that he has to endure many hardships before he can succeed. That has been the spirit both of our special articles and of our editorials.
From the results that I have observed from this kind of advertising, Mr. Speaker, I am bound to say that these people are coming here knowing that they have a difficult task to assume, and they are assuming it in the spirit of our early pioneers. I would urge the government, then, to continue that feature of their immigration programme; no obstacle should be put in the way of the entry of such people into this country.
Before I take my seat I want to say to this government that I cannot support an immigration scheme much wider in its scope that that-that is, of simply allowing those to come here who can see possibilities greater than they are at present enjoying, knowing the full circumstances of the case. I am of the opinion, however, that it would be possible so to change the policies of our government, particularly in regard to taxation, that this country would be much more enticing to those in foreign lands. I would say further that the change in policy that I advocate is certainly not along the lines of that which has been advocated so unanimously and so strenuously by those to our immediate right in this House. I am in agreement with those who have stated that our native population is great; that the building up of our country depends upon the building up of our population. It is therefore because I cannot agree with the present fiscal policies or taxation proposals of this government, and because I think the sooner the people have an opportunity of voicing their opinions upon these matters the better it will be for all concerned, that I am opposing the present budget, knowing full well, as I do, what that opposition means.


Mr. Speaker, we have been listening, for the last few weeks, to so much talk about protection that, last night I dreamt of protection. I saw in a dark shaded spot, I might even say infernal, a crowd that I recognized as having seen sitting on your left, Sir. Somewhat astonished; I hastened to inquire what brought them to that place, and they answered, grinding their teeth: "The people found us out, and punished us.".

The Budget-Mr. Fajard


Did the hon. member also meet Progressives there?


My hon.
friend inquires whether I met any Progressives there: I can say that I did not see any in the flames, but I came across some on the road, who seemed to be very shaky, and told me that I was the only one, being a Liberal, that could save them.
Mr. Speaker, we often hear about economy. We like, on this side of the House, to hear about economy, because it is a virtue we practise. However, I can assure you that I do not like to take my cue, on economy, from our opponents who sit on the opposite side of the House. I wish to be fair towards my opponents and set aside the yearn of the war: the policy of unlimited participation which they had adopted, obliged them to spend enormous sums, and I quite understand that during the year that followed the war, they had to make great outlays owing to demobilization; however, if you look up the year 1920, two years after the war, you will perceive that these gentlemen had a deficit of $674,000,000. These figures are so exorbitant that the people, as a whole, and even the financiers cannot conceive its enormity. $674,000,000, Sir, this means $56,000,000 per month, more than $13,000,000 per week and nearly $2,000,000 per day! And the same gentlemen wish to teach us economy, when the budget shows a surplus of nearly $2,000,000!
Our debt, Sir, is enormous, this we cannot deny, and we realize it, 'when we find that the interest we have to meet each year on Canada's debt is equal to the total debt of pre-war days, and is even larger. It would be criminal, with our present population, to tax the people in order to make them pay this debt. Such a policy would bring ruin to our country. It would overburden the people with taxation, paralyze trade, ruin our industries and prevent the development of our natural resources. The most suitable policy is the one followed by the present government, which consists in fostering the development of our natural resources.
Notwithstanding the enormity of our debt, Sir, I am glad to note that we can compare advantageously with other nations of this world. Canada's debt per capita, is $268; New Zealand, $792; England, $791; France, $540 and Australia, $359. And our situation would still be better, if our political opponents, when in power, had followed the example of England and the United States, and had taxed during the conflict, the war profiteers, instead of exempting them by means of the Victory
bonds, from paying taxes during and after the war.
I think, Sir, that we have too many pessimists who make use of their brains and talents to try and show that business is bad and that we are on the verge of bankruptcy, people that are ready to sacrifice the country to satisfy their political ambition. If you compare our obligations with the extent of our wealth, you will perceive that, after all. they are not so enormous. Without taking into acount the wealth of our forests, mines, fisheries and water powers, we notice that the mortgage which burdens Canada to-day, amounts to only $1.00 per acre of land; and, if we include our natural resources which I have just mentioned, we note that the mortgage amounts to only two or three cents per acre. The ex-Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton), in the course of this debate, told us that the Americans had invested in this country a capital of $2,500,000,000, which means that, the American capital alone, invested in Canada is sufficient to redeem the whole debt of this country. We must neither forget that our forest wealth amounts to $3,000,000,000; that is the latter alone is greater than Canada's total obligations. This is certainly not an example of a country on the verge of bankruptcy.
If we wish to follow in the path of prosperity, we must face the future with confidence. When the explorer, in his travels, crosses the forest, he is guided by the Polar star, so should true Canadians be guided by the star of patriotism.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, free trade and high protection were threshed out. I shall never become a free trader as long as the United States keep up the present tariff wall against us. I can neither side with those high protectionists who wish to concentrate the country's wealth amongst a group of persons, instead of spreading it amongst the masses. I think there should be a readjustment of the tariff on articles of first necessity, so as to help the masses and thereby keep our people in this country.
Our opponents, faithful advocates of the large interests, proclaimed everywhere that lowering the tariff has brought on a great number of failures. Yet, if you look up the report regarding trade failures in Canada you will note that in 1914, when these gentlemen were in power, there were 2,898 failures. Moreover, in 1915, when the country enjoyed a fictitious prosperity, brought on by the war,
The Budget-Mr. Fajard

there were in Canada 2,661 failures. Let us now return to the Liberal administration, whose lowering of the tariff is supposed to have ruined the country; we find that in 1923, there were 448 failures less than in 1922. Even after the budget of 1924, which was expected to ruin the country, we remark 1,221 failures less than in 1922. These figures taken from the statistics of Canada, cannot be disputed. The right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Meighen), last summer, travelled through the country stating everywhere that 2,000 industries had become bankrupts. Nevertheless, in the city of Ottawa, last autumn, at the meeting of the Canadian Manufacturers Association, one of its most distinguished members stated, that not 2,000, but 1,331 industries had closed their doors. And one bit of news that the leader of the opposition took care to hide from the people, was that 934 new factories had opened their doors.


Hear, hear!


It was equally stated that the boot and shoe, industry was ruined. From 1921 to 1923, the number of factories increased from 177 to 186 and the value of their output also increased by 11,000,000. Everywhere it was said that this industry suffered greatly from the preferential tariff granted to Great Britain; and yet, the Canadian output amounted to 845,596,012 in 1923, and the imports from Great Britain amounted to only $604,472.
I think, Sir, that the leader of the opposition will find it difficult to convince the people that he is sincere, even when he speaks of high protective tariff. If he was in earnest, nothing could have prevented him in 1911, from raising the tariff. It was in the course of the year 1911, that reciprocity was defeated in Canada. If, Sir, the farmers, at present, find it hard to trade with their neighbours to the south, the culprits are those Who were responsible for the defeat of reciprocity. The Liberal party has always been the friend of the farmer. We may thank the Liberal party for having lowered the tariff on farm implements and on all instruments of production which are used in the development of our natural resources.
Tariff increase on potatoes was discussed among certain groups, and in particular, Sir, by the opposition. I am aware that the policy aimed at is not so much to increase the tariff on potatoes as to increase it on farm implements; it means simply that they want to allow a few cents more per 100 lbs. of potatoes and charge the farmer from thirty to forty dollars more, when selling him some farm

implement needed. I have the honour to represent a county which is almost exclusively devoted to farming, and I am willing to do my utmost to help the farmer, as I think he is most deserving. Money is scarce in the rural districts, the crops were not very good and the products give but a small return; the farmer is somewhat depressed, as he must do the work alone, owing to the impossibility of finding farmhands. I would even say that sometimes he does not receive fair play. When public works are undertaken in towns, prices are fixed beforehand and we pay practically twice what is paid for the same work when undertaken in a rural district. I have often wondered what could be the remedy for such a situation. Some have said:	Raise the
tariff to the level of that of the United States. Well, Sir, I have more confidence than that, in my country. The United States have a population of 115,000,000 people; they regulate their tariff according to the needs of their country, and, I think, that Canada, with her 9,000,000 inhabitants, has a right to put up a tariff which suits the Canadians. It is quite clear that, if you increase the tariff on potatoes, butter and other products, the American products will not reach our markets; however, would this be the right remedy? In my opinion, this would only tend to lower transportation rates.
I spent the Easter holidays in my county. Potatoes are sold 25 cents per bushel, that is in round figures 37 cents per 100 lbs. Is there any thinking person, in this House, who will maintain that the Americans can take 100 lbs. of potatoes to the borders, pay 35 cents of a duty on these 100 lbs. and sell them on our markets, especially if we reckon that their freight rates are 15 per cent higher than ours. Surely one cannot conceive the idea that the Americans who are so highly praised in this House, will come to our markets and sell potatoes which will bring them but 2 cents per 100 lbs.
Butter was mentioned. I happened to receive yesterday, the report of the Dairy branch for February, 1925. The question is, would it be wise to raise the tariff on butter? This would be absolutely absurd for, I see by the statistical report that the United States have exported to Canada 50 lbs of butter only. This is a proof that our tariff is high enough. However, I have been toild that a number of carloads of potatoes have been sold in the west. It may be that in this case a higher tariff should be sought. In my opinion, however, it is an absolutely wrong principle land11 would prefer, instead of raising the tariff, that we reduce the freight rates,

The Budget-Mr. Fafard
which amounts to the same thing and allows us to foe consistent with ourselves. There is something else whildh we .must bear in mind, it is our exportation off potatoes. We export eight times mofle-'that is 3,000,000 bushels more-than we import. Potatoes, reputed to come from the United States do not compete much with ours. Sweet potatoes, for instance, come from the United States, but offer no competition to ours, as we grow very few. At this time of the year we have new potatoes which come from Florida. One cannot contend tihat they compete with ours, because they are a luxury bought only by wealthy people.
There was also question of raising the tariff on eggs. I notice, Sir, that these requests always come from the Conservative side. We may say that since the present government has been returned to power, the importation of Chinese eggs has practically stopped; not on account of the tariff, but through classification, and our imports from the United States have decreased' by 6,727,000 dozens.
I think, Mr. Speaker, that the Liberal party's policy has been advantageous to the farmer. I equally believe that the people are not sufficiently enlightened as to the meaning of the word protection. One generally looks upon protection as a measure to protect us, when, as a rule it is a measure to exploit the people. There exists an easy way to do away with protection or at least to diminish it in a perceptible manner, it would be to Oblige industries or manufacturers who 'benefit by protection to indicate on their vouchers the Canadian price and also the amount they benefit by protection. We have been led to believe, in our provinlce, that a high protective tariff was necessary to develop our industries; that the latter would give work to farmers' sons and, moreover, create markets for every farmer. Well, Sir, when we consider our farm products, I do not think that in this present century, the industries can absorb all these products. Take, for instance, our wheat, I think we could feed a population of 80 to 90 million people.
We are also told that the United States had prospered under protection. I am not one of those who put a great deal of faith in the prosperity of the United States, and especially in the prosperity of the American farmer. Are you aware, Sir, that in Canada 98 per cent of the farmers own their land, while in the United States, a country, where prosperity seems to reign, 40 per cent of the farmers are but tenants. As to bankruptcies, they have been far more numerous in the United States than in Canada. Moreover,' to give you further proof of what protection has
been unable to accomplish, to help the fanner, will you allow me to quote a few lines from the speech delivered in this House, on April 6, 1925, by the hon. member for Brome (Mr. McM aster):
The figures which I have before me purport to show that the gross cost to the farmers of the protective principle is $426,000,000; that, in other words, what they have to buy has been artificially increased in price to the extent of $426,000,000; that the price of what they have to sell has been artificially increased to the extent of $125,000,000, and that, therefore, the net cost to agriculture is $301,000,000.
I think, Sir, that these figures prove clearly that the Americans do not enjoy the prosperity that we believe they do. And I find one of the best proofs of my assertion, in an article which was lately published in the Montreal Gazette, informing us that the Americans are purchasing lands in the west, and are doing so on a large scale.
Moreover, the United States are not such protectionists as some hon. members imagine, for 58 per cent of their imports enter the country free of duty.
What has really made the United States prosperous, is that during the first years of the war, in 1914, 1915 and 1916, when this government was spending hundreds and hundreds of millions, the Americans were amassing profits, derived from the war, amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars. What also contributed to the prosperity of that country is, that the Americans taxed the people during the war, and especially the war profiteers. For my part, I am in favour of moderate protection, because the results already obtained in this country point out that it is the best policy to be adopted. If we look back to the period between 1907 and 1911, we note that those years were the most prosperous ones in the history of our country. It is from 1907 to 1911 that the immigrants came into this country by hundreds of thousands, and it is during those years tha,t we witnessed our trade increase by over a billion dollars.
I stated, just now, that the farmer from the province of Quebec needs help, and I might suggest, with that aim in view, to lower the freight rates on farm products I must further add that loans are hard to obtain in the rural districts. The farmer who has money to loan out, prefers buying municipal bonds, and there are also certain industrial bonds which are sold in the country by swindlers who should be in gaol instead of being allowed to roam free. It has often been stated, I am willing to admit it, that the farming industry was the largest industry
The Budget-Mr. Fafard

in the country, however, what has always happened up to this day, is that this large agricultural industry sees, each year, its money flow towards the cities to develop the industries of our Canadian centres, and even, sometimes, American industries. I would therefore suggest that a bill be brought down by which banks, in our rural districts, would be obliged to place 80 per cent of their deposits within a given radius. Let us suppose, for instance, that the banks in the county of 1'Islet, were allowed to make loans in the county of Montmagny and Kamouraska, and only forward 20 per cent of their deposits to cities.
With such an understanding, the fanner could easily obtain a loan from the banks at 6 per cent, for banks never lose money with the farmer. Our banks could also help the local industries which are often more firmly established than are those in the cities. With such an arrangement we could develop the country in a normal wary throughout its various parts.
Moreover, the agricultural industry needs foreign markets. For this latter reason, I wikh to associate myself with the hon. members who represent the city of Quebec, in requesting the government to develop the Quebec harbour. Although I hail from a rural district and reside at some distance from Quebec, I think that the development of the Quebec harbour should not be left to local initiative only, but should become a national task. This is why I associate myself with the Quebec members in their request.
The present week, Sir, has been set aside as the week of forest protection. I must frankly admit that I was somewhat disappointed in not hearing it mentioned in this House. It strikes me that the protection which is given to our forests, is of the utmost importance, for