That the names of Messrs. Casgrain and Denis (Joliette) be substituted for those of Sir Lomer Gouin and Mr. Bureau on the select standing committee on Privileges and Elections.


Motion agreed to.
Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister of Railways and Canals):	I lay on the table
copy of the order in council passed on June 5, with reference to freight rates. I move:
That 750 copies in the English language and 250 copies in the French language of the order in council of June 5, 1925, respecting fredght rates, laid on the table of the House this day be printed forthwith,	that
rule 74 be suspended in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.
{Mr. Kellner.]
Mr. GRAHAM moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 181, to amend the Railway Act, 1919.
Explain.


The object of this bill is to give statutory authority to the carrying out of the policy, as announced by order in council of a recent date, with regard to freight rates. In brief, it retains in its enactment the features of the CrowsneSt pass agreement so far as the rates on grain and flour are concerned. Otherwise it removes -fill restrictions-either by law, by agreement, or by the judgment of the courts-to the Board of Railway Commissioners investigating fully the rate situation in Canada, and preparing a structure that will be just to all parts of the Dominion.


Would the minister say
whether any portion of the agreement remains in existence as an agreement, after this statute passes? That is to say:	Does the agreement live any more, or does the agreement die and the House enact certain rates, which formerly were in the agreement, to take its place?


This phase of the question was the cause of a good deal of discussion and a good deal of thought by the government. It was finally decided that the Crowsnest pass agreement should remain so far as grain and flour were concerned.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Bill No. 175, from the Senate, for the relief of Andrew Toulouse.-Mr. Church.
Bill No. 176, from the Senate, for the relief of Albert Plue Jessop.-Mr. Duff.
Bill No. 177, from the Senate, for the relief of Cecil Hunter.-Mr. Gordon.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Has the government completed the protection of the Fraser river bank along Nicomen island?
2.	If so, how much money has been spent to date?
3.	How much of the total expenditure has proved a total loss on account of the delay in finishing the work?
4.	What portions of the protection work still remain in place?

Questions
5.	Has the government of British Columbia fulfilled its part of the agreement with the federal government in reference to the protection of Nicomen island?
6.	If not, what reason has been assigned for the failure of the British Columbia government in this connection?


1.	In what year did the government acquire the Manuel residence on Vittoria street, Ottawa?
2.	What was the price paid?
3.	What was the yearly rental paid to the government for the rental of the residence up to 1918?
4.	How much money was spent by the government on said residence in the year 1918, and the first three months of 1919?
5.	To whom was the property leased in 1919?
6 When did he move into said property?
7.	From what date did he pay rental?
8.	What was the amount of the rental per year?
9.	By whom were the taxes paid?
10.	What was the amount of the taxes for the years 1919, 1920 and 1921?
11.	What amount was spent by the government in
upkeep and maintenance of the residence, during each of the years 1919, 1920 and 1921?	.
12.	How much per year was paid to the lessee during these years by the government of Canada as an allowance for a residence?


1.	What was the cost of dredging Kincardine harbour during the years 1922 and 1924, respectively?
2.	To what depth was the harbour dredged in each
of these years?	*


What is the total annual cost of carrying mail, (a) to and from the Vancouver post office to the Canadian. Pacific depot, and, (b) to and from the oriental andL Australian steamship service on the wharf?


(a)	This work forms part of a general contract covering the conveyance of mails between Vancouver post office and the different postal stations, railway stations and wharves.. The annual expenditure under this contract amounts to approximately $24,000, but it is-not possible to state what portion of this amount is attributable to the service to and from the Canadian Pacific depot.
(b)	The conveyance of mails to and from the wharves in connection with the oriental steamship lines forms part of the general contract at $24,000 per annum. As explained in (a), it is not possible to state what portion of this amount is attributable to the service to and from the wharves in connection with the oriental steamship lines.
The service in connection with the conveyance of mails to and from the Australian steamships is provided by the Union Steamship Company of New Zealand, Limited. They carry such mails free of charge in consideration of the subsidy payment of $100,000 per annum which they receive from the Department of Trade and Commerce for the service between Canada and New Zealand.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, options, agreements, and other documents, regarding the purchase of the Winch building, Vancouver, British Columbia. Also a copy of tenders or letters offering to purchase the old Post Office building and site on the corner of Pender and Granville streets, Vancouver.


For a copy of all correspondence passing between the government or any member thereof, and the Royal Bank of Canada or the Union Bank of Canada, or any of the directors of the said banks, or any other parties, in any way relating to the amalgamation of the Royal Bank of Canada and the Union Bank of Canada.


To oppose this motion might lead some person to believe there was something to hide. To consent to it would create a precedent that might in the future be embarras-

Unopposed Motions for Papers
sing to finance ministers and might not be in the public interests. The Bank Act provides-whether rightly or wrongly I am not arguing-that certain information given to the Minister of Finance is regarded as of a confidential nature. Under those circumstances perhaps my hon. friend would withdraw the resolution. If the resolution is passed I shall vote against it, and I shall reserve to myself as Acting Minister of Finance the right to determine what is confidential and what information it is best in the public interests should be withheld.
Motion negatived.


For a copy of all contracts entered into by the government for work now under construction on the Welland Ship canal, including harbour works at Port Colborne and Port Weller. Also a statement showing the amount paid to said contractors and the estimated amount which will be required to be paid for the completion of the said contracts.


If my hon. friend
insists on the motion going through in this form he probably will not get the information this year. For this reason: These contracts are voluminous documents; it will cost hundreds upon hundreds of dollars to have them copied. The new Welland canal has been under contract, except for a short interim during the war, since 1913, with all the original contracts and all the later contracts. Preparing this information would mean engaging a staff to copy page after page of closely printed matter. If the hon. member wants to use the information that will be embodied in this return this year, he may come over to the department and I will give him everything he ought to have, and he will have it for use in the estimates, if that is what he wants it for; but if we start in to obey the order of the House, the hon. member will not get it this year.


The department will give my hon. friend all the information.
Motion withdrawn.


For a return setting forth the total expenses incurred by the special committee in its investigation into Ocean Rates, showing, (a) full amount paid to Mr. Symington iti fees, (b) the amount in fees still due to Mr. Symington as counsel, (c) total amount paid and in-

curred for expenses to Mr. Symington, (d) the amount paid to each witness for fees and for expenses, (e) the amount paid or proposed to be paid to Sir William Petersen for fees, or, and, for expenses, (f) amount in full paid to W. T. R. Preston in fees or, and, for expenses since January, 1924; and all other expenses, including reporting and printing, incurred by the committee, or by the authority of the government, and that said return to this House be rpade concurrently with the presentation of the report of said committee, and shall set forth in full the total costs of said committee and the investigation.


I have no objection to bringing down the return, but it will be utterly impossible to comply with the request that the return be brought down concurrently with the report of the Ocean Rates committee. If the hon. member presses that portion of the motion the return will be very incomplete. As a matter of fact we have none of the accounts, they are not in yet; but if the hon. member will drop the last portion of his motion the return will be brought down before the session closes.


May I point out to the minister and to the House that in matters of expenses of this character with reference to the committee, they are all supposed to be cleaned up when the committee concludes its labours. It is not a case of expenses that are incurred after the committee has finished its sittings. Furthermore, a considerable portion of this has already been brought down, but I want it brought up to date, that is all. While I do not wish to embarrass the minister, I think if he will let the resolution pass as it is and give it a little further thought, he will find that the return can be fairly complete.


It is impossible to do that. If
the hon. member insists, the return will be very incomplete.


Rather than have an
emasculated return. I will gladly amend it by cutting out the last words, but the minister and, I am sure, the government will appreciate what is wanted.


The motion is amended
by striking out all the words after the word "government" in the third last line.
Motion as amended agreed to.


On the Orders of the Day:
I rise to a question of privilege. On May 25, Empire Day, the hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Ladner) intimated to the House that there had been a deplorable

Privilege-Hon. Mr. King
absence of flags on government buildings, suggesting in his remarks that the practice followed this year differed from that of previous years. I at that time promised that I would make inquiries in the department in order to see if anything had been omitted. My inquiries showed that there had been no change; that the practice followed this year was the practice that had been followed each and every preceding year. I had not intended [DOT]bringing the question up again, because it is a matter that should not be canvassed back and forth, in an endeavour to make political capital out of it. I find, however, in Saturday Night of June 6, this statement:
Mr. Ladner by his protest gained the attention of Hon. Doctor King, the Minister of Public Works, under whose charge all buildings come, and he promised to look into the omission at once.
I made no such promise. I said I would make inquiries. The inquiries have revea'ed the fact that there were no omissions; that the practice this year was the same as had been followed in previous years.


Mr. Speaker-


No debate is allowed on
a question of privilege.


The minister has been
allowed to speak.


I do not understand the
technique of procedure, but the minister in his statement now conveyed' the impression of a statement which I did not make. I made no such statement of comparison. I made the direct statement that on entering the parliament grounds, one would observe that the flags were not flying.


Will the minister assure the House that in future Observance will be given to that day?


Yes. We have
instructed the department that these flags which have never been flown before around the parliament buildings on occasions of that kind be raised and be on hand on that date.


On the Orders of the Day:
I should
like to ask the Acting Minister of Finance whether Mr. Ross has yet arrived in Australia and, if so, what progress is being made towards the ratification of the Australian treaty?


I have not yet heard of his arrival.


On the Orders of the Day:
I desire to ask the government a question arising out of a. despatch from Paris to tlhe Canadian Associated Press of this date:
The Havas News Agency correspondent at Geneva says he is authorised to announce that in the note which Foreign Secretary Austen Chamberlain of Great Britain to-day delivered to Foreign Minister Briand, Great Britain guarantees the security of the Rhine frontier as laid down in the Versailles Peace Treaty, and will consider as a cause for war any violation of the territorial clauses regarding the Rhineland.
Great Britain offers to place at the disposal of France and Belgium in order to guarantee the security of the Rhine frontier in case of attack, the entire British military, naval and air forces, according to this report. The guarantee does not extend to Germany's eastern frontiers between Poland and Czecho-Slovakia.
Has Canada been consulted in this matter at all, or is Canada committed in any way to this pact?


Before answering my hon. friend's question, I should like to see for myself the particular despatch to which reference is made. I do not mean the newspaper despatch; I mean the document that is supposed to have been sent by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to France. I will take steps to find out the nature of it and I will let my hon. friend have a reply later on.


On the Orders of the Day:
Will the Minister of the Interior explain why a pulpwood concession has recently been granted in Manitoba without any public auction being held?


No pulpwood concession has
been granted in Manitoba other than the one that was held by Mr. McArthur.


Has no recent action been taken with regard to any alteration in connection with the parties or the terms of this concession?


Yes,. and
when it is completed, I shall be glad to make an explanation. The matter is still under advisement.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. II. C. HOCKEN (West Toronto): Is it in order for members of the House to appear in deshabille?
Home Bank
Hon. members are required to maintain the decorum of the House according to the rules. I would be sorry that in Canada we should make our politics in shirt sleeves.


Hon. J. A, ROBB (Acting Minister of Finance) moved that the House go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution :
Resolved, that it is expedient to provide for the payment out of the consolidated revenue fund of the sum of five million four hundred and fifty thousand dollars for the purpose of paying to the several persons who were creditors of The Home Bank of Canada for money on deposit or in current account such proportionate part of the amounts for which they are determined to be creditors in the liquidation proceedings as the said sum will provide, and to authorize the Governor in Council to raise by way of loan such sum as may be required for the purpose of making the payment aforesaid.
He said: Mr. Speaker, the resolution upon, which will be founded a bill, provides for partial payment-about thirty-five per cent-to the depositors of the Home Bank of Canada. The Canadian banking system provides for the double liability of all shareholders of a bank, provides for the redemption at par of the bank notes authorized and issued by a Canadian bank, but does not provide guarantee of deposits. I emphasize this fact so that it may be clearly understood that under our system of banking, and indeed under most of the backing systems of the world, governments do not guarantee deposits. Canadian chartered banks are required to submit to the government sworn statements of their position. We have now government inspection of banks. Every care is exercised to protect the public. But the law makes it clear that deposits are not now, and never have been, guaranteed.
The resolution, and the bill to be introduced, is to implement what many people regard as a unanimous order from the members of this House, under date of the 17th of July, 1924. It is presented to parliament in this form, so that this House, which in July, 1924, unanimously approved the report of the Banking and Commerce committee, may now have an opportunity of sharing the responsibility of the measure proposed to discharge what the Banking and Commerce committee regard as a moral claim.
The Home Bank of Canada closed its doors on the 17th day of August, 1923. A petition was presented in the month of January, 1924,

to the government, praying for a grant for the relief of the depositors. An order in council was passed on the 27th February, 1924, appointing Hon. A. J. McKeown, Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench of New Brunswick, a commissioner under the Enquiries Act to make an investigation into the affairs of the bank at and prior to the date of the failure. The report of the commissioner was duly presented to the House of Commons and referred to the Banking and Commerce committee. The report of the Banking and Commerce committee thereon was presented to the House of Commons on the 1st day of July, 1924, the concluding paragraph being as follows:
Your committee consider that the facts brought out in the interim report submitted by Mr. Justice McKeown and the evidence therein referred to establish that the depositors of the Home Bank have a moral claim in equity for compensation by the country on account of any loss they may suffer by reason of the failure of the Home Bank.
On the 17th cf July the report of the Banking and Commerce committee in this behalf was unanimously concurred in by the House. Subsequently, on the 18 h July, the Prime Minister, in the House of Commons, after quoting the concluding paragraph of the report hereinbefore set out, stated that the government would give careful consideration to the report which had been accepted unanimously by the House and at the next session of parliament would make an announcement as to the extent to which, in their opinion, parliament should be asked to recognize the moral claim which in the report it is stated the depositors of the bank have.
The amount of the claims of depositors, owing to adjustments -which are being made from time to time by the liquidator, have not yet been settled in the liquidation proceedings. The net amount that will be due to persons in the position of depositors when the list of creditors is finally se'tled by the court will be approximately $15,500,000. The government proposes that, as outlined in the resolution, a payment of $5,450,000-equal to about 35 cents on the dollar,-be placed in the hands of the liquidator for distribution among the depositors. This will enable the liquidator to make a distribution of approximately thirty-five per cent of their claims to- the deposi: ors. The depositors have already received a payment of twenty-five per cent through the liquidator. While it is not yet possible to determine what the remaining asse's of the failed bank will yield, the liquidator anticipates that there will be a further payment of at least ten per cent from the

Home Bank
asets. That means that from the assets and this payment, if authorized by parliament, the depositors of the failed bank will receive approximately seventy per cent of their claims. [DOT]
Does that statement take into consideration the fact that more money will come into the liquidators' hands from those shareholders who-


Order. I hope hon.
members will reserve their questions until we have resolved ourselves into committee of the Whole.


I would like to ask the
Acting Minister of Finance why it is that the government has adopted this method, of
bringing in a bill to vote this money rather than by a supplementary estimate which was the method followed under the British precedent quoted by the acting minister.


If my hon. friend has been
following me, he would have observed that I gave the reasons in my introductory remarks.


I did not observe them.


Does my hon. friend wish
me to make that speech over again?


Just say it was more expedient. That would cover it.


Is it proposed to pay the
depositors who had small sums on deposit in the bank the full amount of their claims, or is this sum to be allocated among all the claimants?


The amount is to be paid to
the liquidators, and the intention is that all shall share and share alike.


I wonder if the government make any provision for the necessitous depositors? After all, the proper way to look upon the whole of this thing, as I see it, is as a relief measure, and only as a relief measure. If we look upon it as such, it ought to give relief where relief is required.
I am told that a number of necessitous depositors have had to assign their claims for nominal sums, and it ocicuns to me that special notice should be taken of those cases and consideration given to the fact that the great delay in taking action has made their necessities all the more acute; consequently there is all the more reason why we should try to protect them. I do not say that those who have bought claims should be made to suffer, but I do say that the speculator in the misfortunes of others, perhaps a speculator with a little inside information of what the government was likely to do, ought not to get more than the return of his money with a reasonable rate of interest. As this is a grant in relief of the depositors, the relief ought to go where it really is required. What does my hon. friend say to that suggestion?


It is a suggestion worth considering, and it will be something for the liquidators to determine. We did not wish to make any difference in treatment as be-ween the large and the small depositors. It [DOT] is news to me that there has been speculation of the character my hon. friend describes.


I have been
told so. My hon. friend is in a position to find out from the liquidator.
Home Bank


If such is the case we will
try to see that the speculator does not profit.


I would point
out that under the resolution all the liquidator can do is to pay every depositor ratably. I wonder if it would not also be a good thing for my hon. friend to consider this?-suppose you have the wealthy man, the man of affairs, who should be 'able to look after himself just as well as anybody else, and you also have, for instance, the miner at Fernie. To the latter the Home Bank was his only possible opportunity of making deposits. He knew nothing about business or banking, but he and his fellow-miners contributed three-quarters of a million dollars of the deposits of this institution. We are here frankly discussing a relief measure. Now, as between the miner and the man of affairs, does not my hon. friend think it would be a good deal better to pay the miner in full and nothing to the other man?
Mr. ROfBB: Does my hon. friend recommend that we should pay only the small depositors, say up to $8,000? I should be glad to talk that over with him.


I would certainly look upon the relief of the necessitous as being the prime motive behind the House in making this grant.


That is the real motive.


If we made a distinction
between the amounts of the deposits, might not a very wealthy man with only a few thousand dollars in the bank profit at the expense of a man in ordinary life who might have deposited his all? In such a case the man of wealth would get his money, while the other would get nothing.


That is not my suggestion at all.


You see the diificulty of applying the principle?


My hon. friend has not caught my suggestion. I am not saying anything about the amounts of the deposits. I am directing attention to the need of the depositor for relief. While it well may be that a man worth a great deal of money has only a couple of hundred dollars on deposit, some of the Fernie miners, for instance, might have placed the savings of their lifetime in the institution. Therefore my hon. friend is quite right, it would be absolutely wrong to approach the subject from the standpoint of the amount of the deposit
ESir Henry Drayton.]
That is not what I was thinking of at all, I was thinking of the necessitous ease.


Who is to be the judge?


The liquidator
should be in a position to report to the government without very much trouble. The government has opportunities of getting the necessary information; through its taxing machinery it can tell pretty well who does and who does not need relief. And the liquidator, too, could easily adopt a form which w'ould cover the question of other assets.


What would you do in
the case of a municipality?


I quite admit,
at once, that there are some cases to which you could not apply the rule. I would not apply it to a municipality, for its deposit represents the money of a whole lot of people who are more or less necessitous. I would certainly look upon a municipality or la charitable institution as a preferred creditor. I throw out the suggestion to my hon. friend. It does seem to me there is something in it if I correctly understand the basis of this grant. Personally, I should like to see this money so applied that there would be just as little suffering as possible in Canada as a result of the failure of this bank.


Will the adoption of this principle establish a precedent which would justify the depositors of the Farmers'Bank coming to parliament and asking for similar treatment?


The depositors of the Farmers' Bank have already been before both Houses of parliament for relief. In my introductory remarks I tried to make it clear that under our banking law there is no government responsibility for deposits. In this case we admit a moral claim, on the report of the Banking and Commerce committee.


Is there not the same responsibility towards the depositors in the Fanners' Bank as there is towards the depositors in the Home Bank? Evidently it was through some mistake on the part of the Finance department, coupled with remissness of the directors of the bank, that this failure took place. The conditions were somewhat similar in the failure of the Farmers' Bank. I believe the Liberals at that time made a strenuous effort to get the government of the day to pass a resolution somewhat similar to that now before the House.


Mr. Chairman, knowing a
good deal about the distress caused by the

Home Bank
failure of the Home Bank, I am strongly in favour of some relief being given to the depositors, and will support it. The minister tells us that the government is not responsible to depositors. In my judgment the sooner the Bank Act is amended so that savings bank depositors will have a guarantee from the government, the better it will be for our banking system generally. No doubt a good deal of distress was caused to business men, but I think we should differentiate 'between savings bank depositors and business depositors. I am not arguing for that to be done in the present instance, but I would suggest to the minister that when the Bank Act is next revised savings bank depositors in our chartered banks should be guaranteed their deposits just the same as tihe note circulation is guaranteed at the present time. There are many cases where people put their little savings away in this bank in ten dollar bills from time to time, relying upon the government to protect them. I submit that if the savings bank depositors had been guaranteed, in all probability the charter for the Home Bank never would have been granted. I think it is notorious that it never should have been issued. And if under the Bank Act the government would have had to reimburse all savings bank depositors in case of failure, perhaps the Home Bank would never have been brought into existence. We cannot make any mistake, Mr. Chairman, in placing the most direct responsibility upon the government of this country for the safety of the funds of the poor people. They deserve that protection from the country because of their thrift; they are the kind of people who above all others should have consideration from this or any other government. They are among the best people we have, men and women who put away their little sums week by week as a nest egg for a rainy day or for old age, but who, on account of the sudden collapse of the bank, find that they have lost the savings of ten or fifteen years. With what the hon. member (Sir Henry Drayton) says about this being a measure of relief I am in entire agreement. I am at a loss to see just how it can be worked out in the present instance. We are right up to the point of making the grant, and if it could be done as he suggests I would be strongly in favour of it. But I would ask that the Bank Act be amended so as to afford complete protection of savings bank depositors. In the present instance I am going to vote for the motion of the government.


If my hon. friend and I are
both in the House when the next revision
of the Bank Act takes place, I shall be prepared to discuss the question of guaranteeing savings bank deposits. I understand that that was discussed on the last re-
4 p.m. vision that took place, and different opinions were expressed with regard to it. However, that is not before us to-day. Now, with respect to the point raised by hon. gentlemen opposite as to the difference between the large depositor and the small depositor-


No, the wealthy man and the poor man.


The wealthy man and the
poor man-if it is a moral claim, how are we going to differentiate between those two?


Does the minister himself think there is a moral claim against the country?


I am dealing now with the
report of the Banking and Commerce committee, which was unanimously concurred in by this House.


We will discuss that later. But will the minister answer me directly: does he himself consider there is a moral claim against this country?


I am not debating that
question. I was a member of the Banking and Commerce committee. In this country majorities are supposed1 to rule. We are carrying out in this respect the views of parliament.


It is very plain that the
minister does not believe anything of this kind; unless he answered very directly he could not more clearly intimate to the House that he does not believe it. Now, does he think there was unanimous concurrence on the part of the House in this report? He knows that protests were repeatedly entered in this House against the loose manner in which reports of committees were received-the House acting upon a report submitted by the chairman or a private member of the committee, who gets up to move the adoption of it and no one understands what is in it, and it is carried. I rose and protested repeatedly, and not only did I rise; the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) supported me. I do not know what the Acting Minister of Finance did, but if he did not by word-


No, I was on the deep blue
sea that day.


Yes, where the Petersen
contract is now.


I was acting minister, and I do not think I said a word.
Home Bank


The minister in introducing his resolution has been very careful to disclaim the establishing of any precedent in this legislation. He likewise stated that the measure would reimburse the depositors to the extent of seventy per cent of their losses, taken in conjunction with the assets of the bank. If legislation of this kind goes through and the money is voted to the liquidator and distributed among the depositors, would the government consider a measure to reimburse them to the extent of the remaining twenty or thirty per cent that may still be coming to them?


Is my hon. friend advocating
that?


I am just asking the minister if
the country would not consider itself legally and morally liable to that extent.


My answer is that our
measure is now before parliament.


In the form of a resolution. I would point out that legislation of this kind is likely to be followed up by a request from the depositors of the Home Bank to be reimbursed for the full amount of their losses.


Is my hon. friend speaking
with authority?


I am not speaking with authority; I am just telling the minister what I think is likely to happen. Legislation of this kind was passed in the House about ten or eleven years ago in connection with the Farmers' Bank, I suppose for the same reason, namely, that the government of the day thought that the depositors of the Farmers' Bank had a moral claim on the country on account of the possibility of there having been some carelessness in the issuing of the treasury certificate at that time. Now, there was a great deal of hardship among the depositors of the Farmers' Bank, and the government of the day recognized that and recognized the state's responsibility. AVould the minister consider including in his resolution the depositors of the Farmers' Bank as well as of the Home Bank?


I will answer that at once-no.


Perhaps the government is establishing a dangerous precedent; I rather think it is. I do not think the country is morally liable for the errors of any government or any finance minister. I do not think the country should be held responsible if any Treasury board or any Minister of Finance commits an error of judgment. At least I do not think the people of Canada should in every such case be held responsible; I am afraid we would have a lot of responsibility on our shoulders if we did. In view of the answer the minister has given, I am going to move an amendment to this resolution, as follows:
That the resolution be amended by inserting after the word "Canada" in the forth line thereof, the following words, "and the Farmers' Bank of Canada".


I am in doubt as to this motion being in order. The question that arises in my mind is whether a resolution providing $5,450,000 for the purpose of paying creditors of the Home Bank for money on deposit such proportionate part of the amounts due them as that sum will provide, can be amended so as to include the creditors of the Farmers' Bank and thus divert a portion of the sum provided for the Home Bank to another purpose. I should like to hear the views of members of the committee on this point.


Is there such a thing as the Farmers' bank to begin with?


Is there a Home bank?

Home Bank


It has not been quite
wound up yet.


The amendment neither increases nor decreases the amount mentioned in the resolution.


It makes a change in it.


It makes a change in the destination of the money grant.


In a portion of it only.


I think it must mean an additional charge to the treasury.


Under	the rules, a
change in the destination of a grant or public charge seems to have relation only to Supply. I question whether it applies to a resolution of this kind.


Perhaps before you decide the point, Mr. Chairman, hon. gentlemen who have another bank that failed should get their application in.


Get them all in.


Do any hon. members desire to speak to this point?


I do not wish to appear as opposing this bill-


A point of order is
under consideration, I should like to dispose of it first. I rule that this amendment, as it does not increase the public charge, is in order. The question is on the amendment.


Before any other hon. gentleman speaks I wish to place on record an answer to a certain part of the remarks of my hon. friend from Glengarry and Stormont (Mr. Kennedy). If I understood him aright he intimated that if this measure passed we would have a demand on behalf of the depositors of the Home Bank for an additional amount to bring the grant up to one hundred per cent. Now, upon the failure of the Home Bank a liquidator was appointed by the Court, I think .on the recommendation of the depositors of the bank. Those depositors themselves appointed a committee to manage their affairs. We have had consultations with that commiitee and with the liquidator. We have not arrived hastily at the figures we presented to parliament to-day, and I wish now to place on record, so that hon. gentlemen may understand the facts, a letter received by the right hon. the Prime Minister and signed by the
members of the committee. This letter is as follows:
Ottawa, May 29, 1925.
Right Honourable
W. L. Mackenzie King, C.M.G., M.P.,
Prime Minister of Canada,
Ottawa.
Dear Mr. Premier:
After our interview with you and the Acting Minister of Finance, the Hon. Mr. Robb, this day, and the proposals made in reference to the settlement of the claims of the Home Bank depositors, and having regard to the many financial demands being made upon the government, we beg, on behalf of the National Depositors Relief Association, to assure you that the sum of five million four hundred and fifty thousand dollars, mentioned by you in our interview this day, is satisfactory to our association and we feel will be satisfactory to the depositors generally in Canada.
We deeply appreciate the broad spirit with which you have met our representations and that the measure of relief you propose is fair and reasonable, having regard to existing conditions.
We beg to again thank you and the Acting Minister of Finance, and the other members of the government, for the kind interest which you have always shown us since the matter came before you, and for the assurance that the necessary legislation will be put through immediately.
Signed on behalf of the National Committee of the Home Bank Depositors Association.
W. T. Lee,
Chairman.
W. F. Kernahan,
Treasurer.
Arthur English.
G. G. Henderson.
J. P. Treacy.
V. A. Sinclair.


Are the names all signed on the dotted line?


The letter is signed by the individuals whose names appear there.


There does not seem to
be anybody in the House who is very anxious to speak on behalf of the general taxpayers of Canada in regard to this measure. I want to say very briefly that I am opposed to this resolution. I was opposed to the principle of it in the banking committee, and I was opposed to it in the special committee of the banking committee which brought in the resolution alluded to by the Acting Minister of Finance in which the contention was advanced that there was a moral claim in equity on the part of this country to pay these depositors. Let me say that as a lawyer I do not know what a "moral claim in equity" is, and I do not know that any other man versed in jurisprudence knows either; and I would ask the Acting Minister of Finance if he knows what a "moral claim in equity" is. I know about legal claims, and I know about equitable claims, but this is something different. If it is meant by the expression that
Home Bank

there should be a compassionate allowance to these depositors the question ought to be treated upon its merits but treated as a "compassionate allowance," It is quite apparent, from reading the evidence taken in connection with the failure of this bank and from reading the report of Mr. Commissioner McKeown, that there is no legal or equitable responsibility upon the taxpayer of this country to pay this or any other amount; and speaking for myself, and for myself alone, I am not prepared that my constituents should be taxed, at a time when they are already over-taxed and tax-burdened, to pay such an amount to any particular class in a community no matter how deserving they may be. If this measure passes and becomes law, and this amount is paid to these depositors, the people of this country may just as well make up their minds that now and forever hereafter all bank deposits in this country are going to be guaranteed. I do not agree with my hon. friend from West Toronto (Mr. Hocken) that the government of this country should guarantee bank deposits.


Savings bank deposits?


Any kind of bank deposits in a corporation carried on for private gain or with private individuals.


You are wrong.


I may be wrong. However, I do not think the people of this country have been converted to that principle, and I hope it will be a long time before they are. If the government of this country is to go into the business of banking and guaranteeing deposits, then let us take our share of the responsibility of the organization and let us get some of the profits in order that a fund may be built up out of which such guarantees as I have suggested can be paid. If, however, this is being treated on the basis of a compassionate allowance I think it would receive a very fair measure of consideration at the hands of this House; but it ought to be put fairly and squarely on that basis and not on the basis of a "moral claim in equity" to use the phraseology employed by the Acting Minister of Finance. Furthermore, I object, on behalf of the ordinary taxpayer of this country, to the method1 adopted in this case, and I question very much the sincerity of the administration-I do this in all honesty-in bringing in a measure in this form. If the government of this country is sincerely desirous that these depositors should receive this sum of money then I say to it:	Bring it as a
supplementary estimate where it cannot be 
interfered with by any other chamber in this parliament. Is it-as has been rumoured-that the government will pass this measure, and get whatever credit before the country there may be for doing so, in the hope that the other chamber will do as it did1 in the case of the Farmers' Bank? I think there is more than a rumour in that suggestion. There is probably a hope behind it. Speaking for myself, if there is nobody else in this House who will oppose this resolution, I intend to do so, for the reasons I have tried to give very briefly and in a summarized form.


Being a member of the Banking and Commerce committee where this matter was fully discussed and a report prepared which was presented to this House, I was strongly in favour of the report which the commit; ee presented. My grounds for supporting the proposal to reimburse the Home Bank depositors to at least a great extent is this: Perusing the report of Chief Justice McKeown and the evidence which was given, it seemed clear to me, as a man with a simple mind, not a legal gentleman, that when the attention of the Minister of Finance was drawn to the fact that this 'bank was in a precarious condition some years ago, the Minister of Finance did not take action, either to have the bank taken over by some other banking institution, or to force it into liquidation, and that this course was taken in the interest of the country in time of war. I am in sympathy with the action of the finance minister at that particular time. The country was up against it hard, and the object of the people of the Dominion of Canada was to win the war. The then Minister of Finance stated that he would not have allowed any bank to go into liquidation at that particular time, because it would not be in the interest of the country. Most of the men and women who deposited their money in that bank believed that they were putting it into an institution that was safe, and that they had the government behind them; that was the general impression of depositors at that time. Now if these people believed they were safe in depositing their money in that bank, and the Minister of Finance took action to protect the bank from liquidation, in my opinion it is only justice to those depositors that the country should reimburse them, because their losses were entirely brought about in the interests of the Dominion of Canada, at a time when Canada was faced with that terrible war through which we passed. That is the sole reason why I heartily support the proposition to reimburse the Home Bank depositors

Home Bank
to the extent provided in the resolution now before the House. I am opposed to the amendment because I believe it is an interference with the resolution before us. Therefore I shall support the resolution and oppose the amendment.


Is my hon. friend supporting this measure on the ground that the loss to these depositors arose as a consequence of the war and for no other reason?


Yes.


That is the ground on
which I support it.


And I support it on no other ground.


Not on the ground that
any other bank would have the right to be reimbursed; otherwise that would be giving a government guarantee to every bank. The hon. member is supporting solely on the ground that the trouble arose as a consequence of the war?


Yes.


That is my reason, toe.


The Home Bank depositors suffered in the interests of the country when we were at war, and on that account they should be reimbursed by this parliament in time of peace.


I am not very particular
as to whether this legislation is presented on moral grounds, compassionate grounds, or on some other grounds. I am very glad that the bill has been introduced, and even although it does not fully compensate all the depositors, still I am sure they will be very glad to be reimbursed to the extent to . which legislation provides.
I wish to make a suggestion: I do not know why the government decided to give a certain percentage and not all of the loss, but in view of the fact that the government i3 not giving sufficient to pay all depositors in full it would appear to me to be practical to decide, say upon a basis of $1,000 or $2,000, that all depositors having that amount should be paid in full, the balance to be paid to the larger depositors pro rata. I think that would be fairer and would perhaps go further in giving the relief which the government no doubt have in mind.
As to the amendment, I shall surely vote against it, not that I am opposed to the Farmers' Bank depositors being reimbursed,
but because that does not, in my opinion, properly come under this resolution. I hope the gentlemen who are interested in the Farmers' Bank will bring in another resolution dealing only with the Fanners' Bank, and we will consider it on its merits.


The Home Bank
failure is one of the greatest "black marks" which banking in Canada has ever experienced. In looking at its early history, my judgment is that this bank should never have received a charter. The charter was granted to a concern that was at the time practically bankrupt. Having received the charter, the management seem to have proceeded to wreck the institution and was not unsuccessful. The principles of good banking were ignored; deception and fraud were practised; so that in the end shareholders, depositors and others suffered severe loss. There was a period when this government could have saved heavy loss to those interested parties, the depositors and shareholders, without costing the country a dollar. But they did not do so; they allowed the bank to go to the wall. Now the country is called upon to provide some five and a half millions to reimburse the depositors who unfortunately made a bad investment by placing their savings in that bank. This is a dangerous policy, forming a precedent and opening the door for further claims, past or future, of similar character. The government is not legally liable; it is not the duty of the government to pay the losses of people who have made mistaken investments. No government should be expected to guarantee any investments, and governments and parliaments have in the past repeatedly set their faces against any such guarantees. It is fundamentally unfair to take the moneys of all the people, in this case by way of taxation, for the benefit of some few people who happen to be Home Bank! depositors. Speaking as a member representing a constituency in Nova Scotia, the people of which province have not a single interest at! stakey T consider it is palpably unfair to call upon them for money for the benefit of people in Ontario and further west. They should not be asked to reimburse those who have unfortunately lost their money. Nova Scotia has experienced more than one bank failure; the Maritime provinces have experienced bank failures; but did the depositors or shareholders appeal with hat in hand for charity to ibe reimbursed for those losses? Never. Therefore, it is palpably unfair to ask that part of the country to contribute towards reimbursing those who
Home Bank

have unfortunately lost money in the Home Bank. I sympathize very sincerely with those who have made losses, with anybody who has made losses. Especially do I sympathize with the poorer people, wage earners, whose money was deposited in that bank. Yet I cannot see that the principle of reimbursing those people by this government is fair and just or a principle that should be followed. As a Nova Scotian, I protest against any such vote as is proposed which necessitates calling upon the people of my province to put their hands into their aJmost empty pockets in order to pay losses made by a few people of this country through what has turned out to be an unfortunate investment.


I propose to vote against
the amendment for two or three reasons. Generally speaking, we find that the introduction of amendments leads to confusion rather than otherwise, and) they are the means of turning our thoughts away from the main issue. I would oppose the amendment for the further reason that it is not a matter that has been before this parliament. While many members of this parliament may be familiar with the circumstances surrounding the failure of the Farmens' Bank, it must be remembered that this is a new parliament and while we have given some Consideration to the question of the Home Bank, we are naturally not in a position at the present moment to consider the question of the Farmers' Bank. I would oppose the amendment also, because this difference lies upon the surface, that the reason that is advanced for the introduction of the present bill-that this is the outcome of certain conditions that prevailed during the war-does not apply as regards the Farmers' Bank. That reason on the surface is sufficient to make a distinction between the two c