I have the honour to lay on the table of the House the report of the committee appointed to consider jointly with me the advisability of revising the rules of the House. This report will appear in the journals of the House, and as it is very voluminous, its reading by the clerk assistant might perhaps be dispensed with.


Dispense.


Mr. W. G. RAYMOND (Brantford) presented the third report of the special committee appointed to consider Copyright Bill No. 2.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for North Toronto (Mr. Church) inquired as to what representations had been made to my department regarding the renting of certain premises in Toronto. In reply, I may say that the government has been approached by those interested in the construction of a new and modern office building in that city, it being suggested that accommodation could be supplied for the Department of Customs and Excise and also for the Taxation branch. The two departments of the government, that is, the Department of Public Works and the Customs department, have been in conference on this subject with the view, if possible, of providing better accommodation for these departments in the city of Toronto.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


Will the minister kindly tell us who have approached the government in this matter?


I do not think that would be fair.


Why not?


I do not think their plans are yet matured.


Has the government
given any undertaking or option of any kind?


No.


Has the Canadian National Railways?


I have no knowledge as to that.


Bill No. 152, from the Senate, for the relief of Kathleen Mary Ricketts.-Mr. Stansell.
Bill No. 153, from the Senate, for the relief of Mary Alina Marguerite Peat.-Mr. Duff.
Bill No. 154, from the Senate, for the relief of Sadie Dennis.-Mr. Sheard.
Bill No. 155, from the Senate, for the relief of Isabel Davidson.-Mr. Bowen.
Bill No. 156, from the Senate, for the relief of Jacob Ross.-Mr. McMaster.
Bill No. 157, from the Senate, for the relief of John Delbert Boddy.-Mr. Stewart (Leeds).
Bill No. 158, from the Senate, for the relief of Edward Hugh Reid.-Mr. Ladner.
Bill No. 159, from the Senate, for the relief of Sidney Charles Simmons.-Mr. Clifford.
On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker. I rise to a question of privilege. Last night, or rather early this morning, we were discussing a certain resolution regarding the appropriation to the harbour commissioners of the port of Quebec. After the hon. member for Quebec County (Mr. Lavigueur) had spoken I rose in my place and put a question to the minister, and the chairman ruled that I could not put the question as he had called for yeas and nays before I rose. I wish to repeat what I said last night, Mr. Speaker, that I was on my feet when the question was put. If the chairman did not see me I do not see how that could be ruled as being my fault. I appeal to you, Sir, as I understand that you are responsible for the proper procedure being carried on in this House.
235*


Order. Any such question should have been brought before the committee when the committee was sitting and an appeal from the decision of the chairman taken there and then, not later.


Hon. H. S. BELAND (Minister of Health) moved the third reading of Bill No. 46, to amend The Opium and Narcotic Drug Act, 1923.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.
The House in committee of Supply, Mr. Gordon in the chair.
Public works-chargeable to income-harbours and rivers, Prince Edward Island-Georgetown-repairs to freight shed on C.N.R. wharf, $1,200.
This is a
new item; perhaps we should have an explanation.


The Canadian National have a large shed on the wharf at Georgetown which is not being used by the railway authorities. It has been represented to the department that it could be made more useful for the storage of potatoes, and the Department of Public Works are taking it over and putting it in repair.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers generally-repairs and improvements, $10,000.
How much
was spent last year?





Where is this money
intended to be spent, and how much at each place?


I am afraid I
cannot give that information, because this is a contingent fund to take care of unforeseen conditions that may arise during the year. This year only two notations are made for expenditure, one at Sturgeon, $600, and the other at Skinner's Pond, $400. This item is, of course, entirely for Prince Edward Island.


Where was the money
spent last year?	.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


The following are
the places and amounts:
Charlottetown-repairs to scow	
$238	07McEachern-wharf repairs	
288	02Clifton-wharf	
59	17Grand River North-wharf repairs	
378	86Port Hill-wharf	
315	30Wood Island-south breakwater	
61	75* Annandale-wharf	
100	00Franklin Point-wharf	
391	88Gordon's Point-wharf repairs	
556	53St. Mary's Bay-wharf	
100	00Panmure Island-wharf	
124	83
West Point

wharf	
146	21Brudenelle-wharf	
40	95


Item agreed to.
Higgin's Shore-wharf repairs, $2,300.
Where is Higgin's Shore?


In Prince county. The expenditure is for repairs. It is recommended by the district engineer. The wharf has been very useful as a shelter for a large number of boats engaged in lobster fishing on the eastern coast of Egmont bay, there being no other landing in that vicinity for this traffic. The wharf is in bad condition, no extensive repairs having been made on it for some years, and unless repairs are soon undertaken it will very soon be impassable.


Item agreed to.
Kier's Shore-wharf repairs, $2,000.
Was any money spent on this work last year?


Yes, $5,567.


What is the size of the
pier?


It is about 1,030
feet long. The wharf is an old structure whidh was badly damaged in the hurricane of 1923. It serves a rich agricultural district of several thousand people who have no near railway accommodation. It is the only wharf in the vicinity and it is important that it should be kept in good condition for shipping purposes, it is used by the local schooner trade.


In what county is it?


Prince county.


Item agreed to.
New London-harbour improvements, $20,000.
The minister ought to give some explanation of this item; this is too large an amount for an ordinary wharf.
TMr. Meighcn.]


I have a memorandum which I shall read:
The entrance to the harbour from the gulf of St. Lawrence lies between a rocky headline on the west known as Sims Head and the low sand spit to the east, which is from 500 to 1,500 feet in width,
Works for the improvement of the entrance, which is obstructed by a shifting sand bar, were commenced by the department in 1878 and consisted first of constructing a breakwater 1,050 feet in length on the sand beach on the eastern side; this work being chiefly a round timber open face crib filled with brush and stone, which some years later was extended by a square timber head block 150 feet in length. A breakwater 460 feet in length was also built on the western side of the entrance, the inner 400 feet of which consisted of piles, brush and stone, while the outer portion 60 feet in length was a square timber block 40 feet wide and close piles.
These breakwaters were constructed with a view of confining the ebb current and directing it on to the bar outside, as well as to prevent the sea from washing the sand into the channel inside and running parallel with the eastern breakwater.
This structure is at the entrance of the harbour and the purpose is to prevent the silting of sand from the sea into the channel.


Is this the total amount required for the contract?


No, it will take
$32,000 to complete the contract, but $20,000 is as much as we can spend this year.


What protected the
channel previously?


An old cribwork
which this is to replace.


Will this work be done by contract?


Yes, by tender.


Does the minister in every case advertise for public tenders, or does he send out a select list?


We advertise
publicly.


Is that rule followed in
every case? I have information that in the province of Nova Scotia tenders are not always called for but that a few selected persons are asked to tender.


I do not know of anything of that kind; perhaps the hon. member will igive me the information.


The hon. member for
Halifax (Mr. Black) has information to that effect but he is not here at present. However, I will adc him, when he comes, to give it to the minister.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


If that is the
case I shall be glad to make an explanation, which I am sure will be satisfactory to my hon. friend.


Whom is this vote intended to elect?	[DOT]


It is primarily
for the good of the people of Prince Edward Island.


Which of these people
in particular?


If the hon. member would like to know, the district is in Queens county.


I think the money will
be spent in vain.


What is the real justification for this vote? The minister says that the work is intended to prevent the sand from silting into the channel. But how did the people get along before this wharf was promised them?


This is not a
new work; there was a structure there many years ago, indeed previous to confederation, but it needs to be replaced.


That is all right.


How many boats were
there last year?


There were two
sea-going vessels and seven inland and coasting vessels.


What does the minister
mean by sea-going vessels?


I suppose they
would be vessels going to Cape Breton.


I would call those
coasters.


So that there were nine
vessels in all. About how many will this $20,000 bring-two more?


The work will
make 'it possible for them to continue to use the haribour.


The same nine?


The same nine
[DOT]or other vessels, I do not know; the vessels do not travel on any schedule but simply come and !go as the demands of the district require.


Are there any fishermen
there?


There are fishing vessels, ibut we have no record of any of the smaller boats. What I have given is taken from the returns of the Customs department.


There were only nine
arrivals throughout the year?


That is, arrivals
entered in the customs return, but we have no record of the 'smaller boats.


But those are the only
vessels of any account that call?


Oh no; there are
fishing vessels as well. The harbour is used by the local trade.


There would be no record unless the vessels carried goods that entered the customs?


Those are the
vessels of which we have any record.


But there would be no
record of vessels going to Cape Breton?


I said Cape
Breton, but they might go anywhere else. I want to be clear on that point. The customs returns show so many vessels having entered and cleared; but as I have said so often, there are local vessels coming and going of which no account is taken.


What is
the total amount that has been spent on this wharf up to the present time?


Up to March 31 of this year, $62,093.20.


Item agreed to.
Nine Mile Creek-wharf repairs, $2,450.
This is to repair
a wharf twenty feet by eighteen feet, the damage having been caused by ice pressure, and to reconstruct entirely the outer portion of the wharf. The surrounding country is rich in agricultural products, and contains several hundred persons, a number of whom are employed in fishing, there being two lobster factories located in the district.


Item agreed to.
Souris-breakwater repairs, $36,500.
This is a considerable sum. It is to keep in repair an important pier or breakwater which forms the harbour at Souris, which is an important harbour of refuge. It is used largely by the fish-

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
ing fleets of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, as well as other fishing vessels that go to the banks off there. The engineer reports;
Since the face of the outer block was damaged in the fall of 1915 nothing has been done to make it secure, and although it has withstood all heavy seas and storms up to the present time much better than anticipated, it is now beginning to show signs of weakness and very serious damage is liable to take place at any time unless the stone face is extended along the seaward face and front of this block. The breakwater is a commercial necessity beyond question, for without the protection it affords Souris as a shipping and fishing centre could not survive.
The work is one of some magnitude, the sum of $498,685.33 having been expended on it up to March 31, 1925.


What is the population of Souris?


The town of
Souris has a population of 1,100. The industries consist of fishing, cold! storage plant, lobster factory, saw mill, and planing mill. I should like to emphasize the fact that this harbour is more than a local harbour for Souris. It is the eastern terminus of the Prince Edward Island railway, now operated by the Canadian National, and is largely used by the fishing fleets that ply off the coast of Nova Scotia. . -
Mr. CALDW'ELL: Is the railway to Souris a narrow gauge railway?


Yes.


Has the government
ever considered widening the gauge so that this portion of the Prince Edward Island railway may be afforded more traffic?


I have no personal knowledge of the matter, but I understand it is under consideration.


This is in the constituency of the hon. member for Kings (Mr. Hughes) ?


Yes.


I understood he was to be taken care of otherwise.


We are taking
care of breakwaters now.


That remark is worthy of my right hon. friend (Mr. Meighen).


Is it not true?


I know the local conditions here, and I wish to give some information to the committee. This is essentially a harbour of refuge, and is largely used for that purpose. I myself have counted between
IMr. J. H. King.]
sixty and seventy sail of vessels taking refuge there from a storm. That was before the war when the American fishing fleet operated in the gulf of St. Lawrence. Since the war the Americans do not come into the gulf of St. Lawrence to fish. But Souris is a very important fishing place for the Nova Scotia fleet, and I have frequently counted over thirty sail of vessels in Souris harbour during a storm. These vessels, with their equipment, are worth about $20,000 each, representing a probable total value of $900,000 at least. The average crew would number from eighteen to twenty men, so that the total number of all the fishing crews would be about 600 men. There is no harbour that will take care of that fleet on the north side of Prince Edward Island; this is on the south side near East Point. The fishing business could not be successfully operated in the gulf of St. Lawrence without harbours of refuge. Souris is the first harbour that the vessels could make after rounding East Point, and it is essential for the fishing business. As the minister has stated, Souris is the eastern terminus of the Prince Edward Island railway. The steamer plying between Pictou and the Magdalen islands calls there four times a week. There is also communication by auxiliary schooners propelled by steam power. In addition to that there is the ordinary local traffic. We have a fairly large schooner trade with the west and south coast of Newfoundland, and a reasonable traffic of the same kind with Nova Scotia. This breakwater was commenced before confederation. It was taken over at the time of confederation and has been extended until now it is sufficiently large to accommodate the immense fishing fleet that I have described. It is to be maintained for that purpose, and I say again it is hardly in keeping with the dignity of the leader of the opposition to insinuate that the member representing that part of the county had any unworthy object in recommending this work to the department. The district engineer has strongly recommended it. It is a work on Prince Edward Island that is of interprovincial importance; it is just as advantageous to the fishing fleet of Nova Scotia, and perhaps more, than to the fishermen of Prince Edward Island, although I suppose there would be thirty or forty local crews fishing out of that harbour. These are the facts in connection with this work, and I thought it advisable to give them to the committee.


Then why .the insinuation?


There was no insinuation; it was just the opposite. If the hon. member does not intend' to seek re-election of course he could not possibly have an unworthy object. The hon. member's reasoning has just lapsed for the moment, that is all. My purpose was two-fold. First, I was anxious to get the hon. member to his feet because I thought he would know something of the local circumstances, and as he has shown that he does we now understand the situation much better than if he had not risen.


Thank you.


The minister, however,
is sadly lacking, and one never knows just how sadly lacking he is until just a few days afterwards when he begins to hear the facts from the various localities. I get some startling information from time to time after the words of the minister reach the country. My other object was to find out^perhaps it was an unworthy curiosity-if the hon. member (Mr. Hughes) would deny the aspiration, but I notice he was discreetly silent on that point. Therefore I will have to take it for granted that the suggestion was correct. While we on this side of the House regret to lose' him we certainly agree that in party service he has earned the promotion.


My right hon. friend's
imagination is very strong.


I understood the minister
to say that there had been no damage to this breakwater since 1915. Well, I happen to have visited Souris within the last two years, and walked over that breakwater. My observation then was that it was in a very good state of repair, and I am rather surprised io find now an item of this size in the estimates having regard to the appearance of the pier when I saw it. Of course appearances are deceptive; the structure might be undermined. I quite agree with what the hon. member for Kings has said. Souris is a very important harbour on the southeast coast of Prince Edward Island, and it is quite proper to keep the structure up. But I question very much if at this time this very large expenditure is required; it does not so appear to the casual observer.


My hon. friend,
no doubt, would acquire a great deal of information from visiting Souris and walking over the breakwater, but he failed to observe
the damage that has taken place. The district engineer reports that serious damage was done to the breakwater in 1915, and he recommends very strongly that its face be protected from further action by the sea.


I have not very much faith in the report of the district engineers. They will report almost anything ycu want them to report.


If my hon. friend has that opinion of any district engineer, will he give me his name?


I do not know who he is, but I happen to knew that in years gone by a district engineer could be induced to make almost any report.


Belle River for instance.


Yes, that is a case in point -a most outrageous case.


My hon. friend is discussing something he has no right to discuss. That matter is before the Public Accounts committee and there will be an opportunity to discuss it. And Belle River will be ail right when it comes up. I think it is most unfair of my hon. friend to attack the engineering staff in that way. It will not add to the confidence of the people who have faith in these men. If my hon. friend has in mind any particular engineer he should report him to the department and we will investigate.
' Mr. HANSON: I am much obliged for the castigation of the minister but I did give an instance, namely Belle River, where the facts disclosed show that the engineer's report was most exaggerated. He has doubled the population over and above the official statistics.


We will wait for the evidence.


We have had the evidence.


My hon. friend
has had some evidence, and is interpreting it for his own advantage.


The proceedings before the Public
Accounts committee cannot be discussed.


That may be true and. I
bow to the chairman's decision, but the minister asked a question, I answered it. I think that this is surely an important point, and if the minister is bona fide of The belief that this breakwater requires further expenditure, I

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
am satisfied that it should be made, but I am net just satisfied with the bona tides of the demand. This pier is in the same condition as it was after the storm ten years ago, and the matter can very well stand.


That is contrary
to the report of the engineer.


Item agreed to.
St. Peter's Bay-breakwater and beach protection repairs and reconstruction, $2,000.
What is the traffic
through this port?


This appropriation is urgently required to reconstruct and strengthen portions of a very old work which was damaged and partly carried away by a hurricane which swept over the province, October 1, 1923. The work is wholly of a public nature, affording the necessary landing and protection to several lobster factories and a large fleet of fishing boats.


How much was spent of last year's vote?


The expenditure
in 1924-25 was $3,038.65.


What was done for
that? Was it dredging or wharf repairs?


Last year the vote was late, and the work was commenced at a late date and it was impossible to complete all the necessary repairs during 1924-25. Practically all the material required has now been delivered at site, and the beach protection work, 230 feet long, about completed, while sufficient repairs have been made on the balance of work to secure it until next year.


My hon. friend speaks
of beach protection. What form does it take? Is it in the form of rip-rapping with stone.


It is cribwork with stone.	*


How long?


It is 1,450 feet in length.


Speaking of beach
protection, does that mean to keep it from washing away the shore, or what is the object?


It is the entrance, and this vote is to maintain the harbour.


Is it tc' keep the silt
from washing in? Or to keep it from wearing away the shore-line?
fMr. Hanson.]


It is to keep the bank from going into the channel and blocking.


Will the
amount provided this year complete the job?


Yes, that is the
intention.


The minister said there
were a large number of lobster factories there. Will he tell us how many lobster factories there are, the amount of capital invested and the turnover? On visiting in the locality I was not very much impressed with it as a commercial centre.


I have this
report:
There are three lobster factories nearby employing 75 hands during the fishing seasons, while some 50 fishermen depend wholly on the fishing industry as a means of livelihood.
St. Peter's harbour is the only one on an exposed coast for a distance of 30 miles available for vessels with any considerable draft after rounding East point, and is used quite extensively by vessels of this class during the fishing season besides supplying the necessary shelter for many large motor boats freighting and fishing between the different small harbours along the north coast of the island.


Item agreed to.
Summerside-breakwater repairs, $2,000.
The work proposed is the sheathing of the entire sloping face of the outer block, 130 feet long and 20 feet wide on top, with ten-inch hardwood timber. The district engineer states:
The repairs proposed are entirely of a public nature and considered absolutely necessary in order to maintain a valuable work that gives the necessary protection to the shipping trade of the port of Summerside. As the present plank sheathing has been badly damaged, there is great danger of the entire face of the outer block being carried away by running ice, unless the repairs and strengthening proposed are undertaken at a very early date.


Is the pier faced with
hardwood lumber or boiler plate?


Hardwood.


Item agreed to. .
Tignish harbour-repairs to breakwater, $4,500.
How much was spent on
this?


The amount spent was $133,073.


What is the nature of the
repairs this year?

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


My memorandum reads:
To complete work commenced during 1924-25 consisting of repairs to top portion of seaward wall of north breakwater for an average depth of eight feet and length of 250 feet, also to reconstruct top portion of south breakwater 100 feet long to average depth of six feet. Both of these works are twenty feet wide.


Will the minister
explain to us-and possibly I am revealing my ignorance by asking the question-just what these last words mean?"-"Appropriations not required for 1925-26." In view of the fact that the whole vote for Prince Edward Island last year was $29,000, how does it come that the $73,000 was not required? I see such items appearing in many estimates.


It is a statement
put in by the Finance department in making up their yearly estimates. These moneys have been expended and therefore they are not required.


Having been expended?


Yes.


Expended last year.


Where the items are not
mentioned in this year's estimates?


Yes; they are off the slate.


How much was spent in
Tignish the last year and the year before? It seems to me this has become a hardy annual.


The amount
spent last year-$6,036.


And the year before?


I have not that
information, but I notice in the discussion last year $2,700 was mentioned as the expenditure the year before.


I suppose the minister
could ascertain from the deputy that the year before that there were several thousand more.


No, I think not.


What is the principal
reason why there is so much damage to the breakwater every year?


These breakwaters are subject to the elements, and on an exposed coast there is bound to be damage.
If the breakwater is decaying or out of repair, the damage is greater. Work of this kind requires constant care if it is to be kept in a proper state of repair.


I can understand that
along the Northumberland strait where there is so much ice, but on the east side of the island, is the water frozen up every year?


, It is right on the gulf of St. Lawrence. It is exposed.


Is there ice damage on that side?


I would think
so.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers-New Brunswick-Beaver harbour -wharf repairs, $3,000.
Does the department own this wharf? When was it built and what is the condition of the wharf now?


The wharf was
built in 1909 by the Department of Public Works; it is owned by the government.


Is any revenue derived
from these public wharves?


There would not be from this wharf.


What is the condition of
the structure now?


The engineer
reports that sea worms have destroyed the lower portion of the piles in the section of the work near low water level. Close piling will strengthen the work and, in addition, from a sheltered area back of the pier heads where boats can lie in safety during easterly and southerly storms. The wharf is used by Connors Brothers in landing freight and passengers twice a week and it is used extensively by the fishermen.


Item agreed to.
Black's harbour-reconstruction of wharf approach,
This is a good deal of
money for a wharf approach at Black's harbour. Has a survey been made, and what is the nature of the approach?


The engineer reports that the work has been damaged by ice and it is necessary to construct a block and span approach to the pier head of the wharf, 128 feet long and sixteen feet wide, made up of one shore block forty feet long, two blocks each twenty feet long and three spans each sixteen feet in length.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


Will $2,000 complete
that structure? It seems quite an extensive structure for that amount. Wihat is the height of the pier?


I have not the
height of the pier.


Will the substructure
of the pier be eribwork and stone?


Yes.


What is the traffic at
Black's harbour?.


All export and
import at Black's harbour are made by water, the nearest rail point being nine miles distant. The steamer Connors Bros, carries freight and passengers to this place for St. John and St. Andrews, and the public wharf is used extensively by other power boats. Black's harbour is the location of the extensive packing plant of Connors Brothers, Ltd. and has a population during the greater part of the year of 500. The annual pack is estimated at $500,000.


Connors Brothers have
their own pier?


Yes.


This wharf is for the
convenience of the fishermen and the public?


Yes.


The steamboat is owned
by the same concern. I understand she uses their own private pier.


They would land at our pier.


Is the minister sure about that? I think he is wrong.


The engineer
states that.


I presume they use this pier -for the general traffic and their own pier for their own private work.


Yes.


Item agreed to.
Burn's (Belle Isle bay)-wharf improvements, $4,500.
Where is this point?


In the county of Royal. At the head of Long reach on the St. John river, I think.


Would it be in Kings or in Queens county-because there is no . "county" of Royal?


Kings.


Item agreed to.

Burnt Church-wharf repairs, $2,500.
This is to put creosoted sheeting on the pierhead, replacing the present wornout covering and cap with concrete.


Will this vote complete the work?


Yes.


Item agreed to.
Campbellton-repairs to market wharf and to deep water wharf, $1,800.
What is the nature of this?


The work will consist of replacing the stringers which support the rails across the outer span, continuing filling of the western extension, making minor repairs to deep water wharf and resurfacing the entire surface of the market wharf with broken rock and gravel. This will provide a serviceable covering for several years.


Is this used for shipments of lumber as well as fish?


Largely lumber and fish.


I think there must be something wrong with that information, because lumber from Campbellton is either lightered out from wharves owned by the lumbermen or loaded over private wharves. I do not think they ship the lumber over this wharf. I think it is used for the steamboat service.
: Mr. KING (Kootenay): There are many shipments over this deep water wharf, which is in continual use by steamers and sailing vessels. It is a divisional point on the Canadian National Railways. It is an important point, as I think my hon. friend will agree.


Campbellton and Bathurst are to-day the largest shipping ports of lumber in New Brunswick. There is no doubt that Campbellton as regards shipments of lumber is away ahead even of the port of St. John. This small item is neces-
4 p.m. sary to improve the accommodation.
In addition to lumber we are shipping fish to a certain extent, but not a large quantity, by rail and water. We certainly need this accommodation because we have in the harbour at the present time steamers from across the ocean trying to load up a large quantity of lumber which has been in the yards of the lumbermen throughout the winter. This wharf, I am informed, is necessary for the approach of cars and other means

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
of transportation such as smalLbottom boats that come in between the two wharves, the market wharf and the deep water wharf. The engineer was sent there at the request of the citizens of Campbellton for the purpose of having the facilities improved for the transportation of our products.
Mr. HANSCffc: Do tramp steamers loading lumber at Campbellton use this wharf, or do they anchor in the stream and have the lumber lightered out to them?


I know steamers load their cargoes 'at the wharf. I have seen them do so in previous years.


Item agreed to.
Cape Bald-breakwater repairs, $5,000.
Mr. Chairman, I imagine the name ought to be changed. I do not think the place can be regarded as any longer "bald" after the votes of the last three years. I find that a total of 114,700 has been voted, if not expended. How much has been spent in the last three years on this particular breakwater, and what is the total amount voted to date?


If my bon. friend had an opportunity of visiting the locality he would understand that it is well named cape Bald; it is a bleak, open spot on the coast. In all there has been spent 873,979. Last year we spent $2,544 of the appropriation voted.


How much will be needed to finish this work?


This will complete the repairs we have in hand at the present time.


What has the minister in mind to then occupy the attention of the people down there?


There may be
another storm-they come up pretty regularly.


Has the department any further plans for cape Bald?


Nothing more
than maintenance work.


I hope the minister will be fortified against any further demands.


This is for maintenance work.


Item agreed to.
Cole's point-wharf repairs, $2,700.
This amount is increased over last year. What is the explanation?


We spent only
$870 last year. This is to renew the upper tier of cross-ties, stringers, covering and cap timber on a section of the approach, 166 feet long by 30 feet wide, and on the pierhead, 60 feet by 30 feet. It is reported upon by the engineer as necessary to maintain the work.


Where is Cole's point?


In Westmorland
county.


Is there any traffic there? This is quite a large sum for a little wharf.


It is practically for the ferry service across the bay.


Years ago there used to be some lumber shipments also.


There are some yet.


Very few. Will this be
done by the department?


Yes.


Who will appoint the foreman?


The district engineer.


A little bit of patronage?


I would not say
that.


Item agreed to.
Dipper harbour-^breakwater repairs, $5,000.
This is quite an important breakwater, and the minister might tell us something about it.


This is in the constituency of St. John and Albert. The work will consist of removing the old face of the piles along the outer edge of the breakwater for a distance of 65 feet and close-piling this area with squared timber ten inches thick, renewing the stringers, covering the cap on two sections of the inshore portion of the work, and re-topping 46 fenders. The district engineer states that the outer face of the breakwater is loose and gradually breaking away at the point where these repairs are required, and if the damage goes further, as it might at any time a storm blows up, the whole end of the breakwater is liable to be destroyed.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


I notice there is no
item for St. John.


My hon. friend
will find an item for St. John under capital appropriations.


Does the minister propose to build the Negro point breakwater this year? It is one of the very important works required in New Brunswick.


No provision has
been made in the main estimates.


Enough money has been spent in St. John to have all the facilities necessary and a good many million dollars left over. The money has 'been spent on a part of the harbour that has never been used except for the dry dock. It may be that when we have a hundred million people we will need the Courtenay bay works, but in the meantime I think the government should consider the development of facilities where they are actually needed.


Will this Dipper harbour
work be done 'by contract or by day labour?


By day labour.


The minister should give
us some declaration of principle. My impression is that most of the money is wasted when the work is done by day labour, and that a very much better return would be made to the country if the contract system was adopted. The fact of the matter is that a good many of these works are undertaken in small localities just before an election with the view of enticing innocent voters to support certain candidates.


No.


That never was thought
of 'by this government in 1923 in Nova Scotia just before a by-election! But, seriously, I believe it would 'be more economical to adopt the contract system. I am not questioning the necessity of work at Dipper harbour breakwater. It is an important harbour along the bay of Fundy, and anyone who knows the bay is aware that these structures deteriorate very rapidly, one big storm undoing the work of years. The minister, I assume, is following the practice of the department? I think it is all wrong and that one hundred cents' value is not received for every dollar expended; that is my observation.


It is very difficult to estimate the expenditure on repair work, and men do not like to contract for it. If they do contract, they add a sufficient margin to their price to safeguard them against what may occur as they strip and expose the work. We have a well arranged engineering staff with a resident engineer in each district, and there is no reason why this repair work, under the proper supervision of the staff, cannot be done cheaper than by contract.


If the repairs were done
by men working for a private individual it no doubt would be done economically, but when done for a government it never is.


I think so.


Has the minister ever
tried out the contract system? If so, where and with what success?


It has been tried
and found unsatisfactory.


Having had some
experience in matters of this kind I realize that it is difficult to give a contract for repair work, especially on a wharf, 'because until you dismantle the old wharf it is hard to tell just what work is needed. I would like, however, to back up the hon. member (Mr. Hanson) in the view that for new construction it should be the policy to call for tenders in every case.


That is the
practice.


Of course where the
repairs are carried out by day's work it should be properly supervised. Possibly the hon. member for York-Sunbury has been keeping bad company and that makes him a little more suspicious than I am in regard to these matters; at the same time I hope his remarks will be taken seriously so far as they relate to the letting of contracts for new work.


Is there ever to be any
permanent work on these docks, wharves and breakwaters? Last year we spent $4,000 on this work, the year before $3,000, and this year we are voting $5,000. I will guarantee the whole job could be done for much less than that.


Did the
hon. member not hear the minister say that, he was hoping for another storm?

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


For years this has been
going on-breakwater after breakwater on the Nova Scotia and New Brunswick coast, money being simply handed out to people who are doing nothing for it.	[DOT]


How do you know?


In Nova Scotia and New Brunswick we have a tremendous coast line, while in Ontario there is no coast line at all, but more money has been spent in Ontario this year than in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick put together.


As a matter of fact I
think we have more coast line in Ontario than there is in Nova Scotia. There is a very considerable coast line around the lakes, and we do more business from some of those ports than is done from any port in Nova Scotia.


It is to be noted that
on the lake shores such works are not subject to the attacks of the teredo worm as they are on the Atlantic coast. These old works that were put down some years ago and have been kept in repair were constructed of non-creosoted timber. I understand that at present creosoted timber is being used in any new work that is done. In repairing an. old work it would not pay to tear it all up and start with creosoted timber at the bottom and work up again. As to the remarks of the hon. member for York^Sunbury (Mr. Hanson) with regard to the way this work is done, I feel that he has not been on some of these wharves and seen the difficulties that those who are carrying out repairs have had to contend with. Upon tearing up what they were ordered to work on by the engineer they may find further deterioration, so that the contractor would certainly have to make some provision for the unforeseen in that connection. In any work I have seen carried on- and I have had considerable to do with day's work and contract work-I have found that the work done by the government engineers and by the foremen in charge has been carried out in the same manner as if it had been done by a private concern or contractor. I have in mind at the moment some wharf repair work that was done a couple of years ago. It had been thought necessary to take off three or four feet, but when the engineer removed this he discovered that deterioration had taken place below and it cost a good deal more than originally estimated to carry out the job properly. It would be useless to
put the top in good condition and leave the rest as it was. So that the only way this work can be carried on is by day's- work. I am fully in accord with what was said by the hon. member for Victoria and Carleton (Mr. Caldwell), that all new work should be done by contract.


Item agreed to.
Escuminac-harbour improvements, $50,000.
I think the minister ought to tell us something about Escuminac. This is the price paid for the election of the hon. member for Northumberland, N.B. (Mr. Snowball).


He is worth it.


Time only will tell. I
am not making any disparaging remarks about the hon. member, but in any event he came pretty high.


This is a large
and important work in the county of Northumberland. It is proposed to construct a crib-work breakwater 1,420 feet long which will give shelter to the boats of the fishing industry, which is an important industry at that point. The work is not a new one that is, its consideration is not new in the department. Parliament has at different times voted money for it, but up to the present the work has not been undertaken. There was a vote in 1910-11 and again in 1913. The district engineer reports as follows:
The work is required for protection of the many fishing boats in the locality, and as a landing place for the Miramichi Steam Navigation Company's boat, which makes three trips per week. During, the season of 1924 the salmon fisheries amounted to $90,000, employing forty to fifty boats having a draft of three and a half feet. There are employed in the other fisheries, -lobsters, herring, and so forth some seventy boats drawing three and a half feet, and fifty dories. Six lobster factories are located in this district, four of which are at Escuminac point, and two at bay St. Anne. Boats from both places would take shelter during storms, and it is certain factories would be established at the breakwater, were sheltered harbour provided. The approximate annual value of the lobster industry amounts to $100,000; annual value of the herring fisheries approximately $10,000. Cod and mackerel are in abundance, but lack of shelter prevents any extensive prosecution of this part of the fishing industry. Two hundred and forty men are actually employed in fishing, and three hundred hands are employed in the factories. The capital invested in boats, nets, rope, traps, and so forth, is estimated at $160,000 and the capital invested in factories, plants, etc., $75,000.


Are there any boats
using this harbour which have a draft of more than three and a half feet of water?


No, they are
mostly fishing boats.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


It is quite a large sum for the development of a harbour for the use of boats of that draft.


It is a shelter for the fishing industry on the coast. It is a large industry, capable of great development.


What have they done
heretofore for shelter?


They have been
getting it at some other point, miles away from this locality.


How far away is the nearest point where they can get shelter?


The hon. member for Northumberland, N.B., would have the local knowledge that I do not have.


Let him tell all about it.


I live where we do not
have any harbours, and we do not know very much about them. Does the minister's department ever make harbours where there is not one near enough, in order to use some money for harbours?


Not for that purpose.


That is what the minister is trying to do now-to make a harbour where there is no harbour.


That is quite true.


I am not questioning the necessity for it, but I think we have not had enough information to justify an expenditure of $50,000, with more to come next year. How much is it going to cost to get the whole job done?


To complete the whole scheme would cost $200,000.


That expenditure would
not be justified at Eseuminac.


We do not propose to spend that much at this time.


Is creosoted timber to be used in this new work?


It should be creosoted timber.


But is it?


My notes do not say that it will be used, but I imagine it is the practice down there to use creosoted timber.


I suggest also that if you build a harbour at this point and take the trade away from another harbour which previously had it, the result may be to ruin that other harbour.


Oh, no.


That is altogether
different from the argument that was advanced last night in connection with another matter.
I would suggest that the department be inspired to devise some means of building permanent 'harbours, at least sometimes. Here we have page after page of estimates for the repairs of harbours, and I think the time 'has about arrived when we should construct permanent works in our harbours. It would relieve the drain on the country materially. Surely the intelligence of the department in that line is not entirely exhausted. If the process of creosoting the timber will tend to preserve these works it must be a simple matter to have this done. The department might have been following that idea for some time now.


Possibly there is one
point that escapes our friends from the interior; and we are not blaming them for it. The hon. member speaks of building "permanent harbours." Did he ever hear of building a "permanent" railway? Fortunately we do not have to put through votes in this House to keep up the repairs of railways; if we did, one would! soon wonder whether there was any method of building permanent railways. With regard to this particular vote, it strikes me that the expenditure of $200,000 on this harbour is rather an elaborate under- , taking at the present time especially in view of the fact that the people concerned have got along without it until now. This is a critical time in our history and we should be very careful of every dollar we spend. I would urge the minister to make sure that this expenditure is absolutely necessary before he asks us to vote the money. Only recently have the people of this country become really seized of the necessity for economy in public and private matters alike, and until we in parliament begin to practise to some extent what we have been advocating in this regard we are only more or less like tinkling cymbals to the people. I have said repeatedly that in my opinion any government was to blame for spending a dollar which was not imperatively needed. I think that our estimates should all be pared to the bone and that no work should be carried on which could be got along without. This expenditure happens

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
to be in New Brunswick, and I am interested in the development of the harbours of that province, although I do not live on the coast, my home being in the interior. At the same time, I do think that the minister should , be pretty careful how he authorizes the expenditure of the public money. A public work was asked for by the people in my own riding during this very session, and after the report had been submitted upon the matter the minister decided not to go ahead with the work. I told him I had no fault to find with that decision if he carried out the same policy throughout his whole programme. Of course, when economy touches your own riding you are apt to be sensitive.
I feel much as the hon. member for Moose Jaw (Mr. Hopkins) recently expressed himself-it is not necessary for any one of us to get votes, but it is necessary that economy should be practised in the country. Speaking in this way may not get a man any votes, but it is my opinion that all these expenditures should be carefully scrutinized and criticized.
I should like the hon. member representing the riding to give us some more facts than have so far been placed before us. I should be reluctant to out out a vote if it were absolutely needed, but I certainly do think that we should have some information that would really justify us in voting such an expenditure as this.


I have only just come
in, but I assume from_ the size of the vote that there was a by-election in this riding. Am I correct?


There is no byelection there.


But there was one lately, and this is part of the harvest?


That by-election
is over.	*


But it is not all paid for yet.


This vote has no relation to it.


The minister told us the other day that the vote for Trenton had no relation to a by-election in that part of the country; but some citizen of that town noticed the report in Hansard and wrote me a letter stating that on every platform that vote was promised if the government candidate was elected.


I had no knowledge of it.


And he said it had
been personally promised him several times. He reviewed all the promises the minister had made, sending a most complete disproof of every one of them; he established beyond question that it was nothing more nor less than a payment out of the public treasury for votes in the by-election. If the minister would like to have some of the contents of that letter read I shall be glad to oblige him. But I do not think he would like it.


The vote for
Trenton was passed some days ago, but I have no objection to the right hon. gentleman reading all the correspondence he has from his friends in Trenton. I know that he and they feel somewhat peeved about Trenton and the district of Hastings, but so far as the department is concerned there were no promises made to anyone.


I know that the deputy minister did not go there and make any promises. But I invite the minister's request now that I read the correspondence which I have referring to his statements in this House. I know the vote was passed, but it was passed on statements of the minister that were not true.


I take exception to that.


I will support it.


The hon. member has no right to make any statements of that kind.


What has the minister to say about this vote and about the whole scheme? How much is it proposed to spend?


I have already informed the committee that it is not proposed to complete the whole und