Annual report of the Department of Immigration and Colonization for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1925.-Hon. Mr. Stewart (West Edmonton).
On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I desire to direct the attention of my hon. and learned friend the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) to a telegram which I received late last evening, the contents of which I communicated this morning to the minister. The telegram is from Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, and reads as follows:
I have wired Chief Electoral Officer to-day as follows: As official agent for D. L. Burgess, M.C., in this Prince Albert by-election I make protest on the manner in which this election is being conducted. The men nominated on February first were together with their additions as shown on their respective nomination papers, William Lyon Mackenzie King, P.C., and David Luther Burgess, M.C., of MacDowell, Saskatchewan. The proclamation show's as follows: David Luther Burgess of MacDowell, Saskatchewan. The M.C. is missing. The other candidate is shown as follows: Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King of Ottawa, Prime Minister of Canada. The ballot deprives Burgess of M.C. addition and Saskatchewan, while the name Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King is shown on ballot as on proclamation. Note removal of P.C. as addition

Prince Albert By-election
changed to prefix Right Hon., and the name William Lyon contracted to W.L. These changes from the nomination papers as on the day nominated have been persisted in in spite of the warning given by myself to the returning officer. The ballots have been very loosely handled in the printing office and were readily accessible to the public who might enter that office 3t any time. In the interests of the proper administration of this election and of British fair play I would ask that you take steps, Sir, for a check-up, not alone on the ballot situation but for the safeguard of the electorate and the candidates in this contest. If necessary to lay charge based upon information I have given you, advise me section and procedure.
T. D. Agnew,
Official agent for D. L. Burgess, M.C.
The provisions of the Elections Act, Sir, and of the instructions issued by the Chief Electoral Officer are very clear upon this point. Paragraph 43 of the instructions read, in part, as follows:
Finally the printing of the ballots should be put in hand not later than the afternoon of nomination day. The names of the candidates will be arranged alphabetically according to the initial letter of their surnames, unless they otherwise specially agree before three o'clock on nomination day, and the names, addresses and occupations will appear on the ballots in exactly the same form as on the nomination papers.
Those are merely the instructions of the Chief Electoral Officer. But section 50 of the Dominion Elections Act is equally specific:
The ballots of each voter shall be a printed paper, in this act called a ballot paper, on which the names of the candidates, alphabetically arranged in the order of their surnames, shall be printed exactly-
The word "exactly" appears in the statute.
-as they are set out in the nomination papers.
It is clear from the telegram that I have read-which was sent to the Chief Electoral Officer-and from the instructions that there has been a departure from the provisions of the statute, knowingly and wilfully made by the returning officer, whose attention was directed to it.


Question.


I am coming to the
question. I will move the adjournment of this House, if that is what is wanted1. Mr. Speaker, no matter can be more vital to the dignity and welfare of this House than that the ballot papers should not be manipulated. There should be no possibility of ballots falling into unauthorized hands through loose methods of printing being followed. That i3 a trifling, commonplace observation to make.


I would ask the hon.
gentleman to confine himself to the question,-


lam.


-because before the orders of the day are called no speeches are allowed.


When is the question coming?


Did the hon. gentleman ask a question? He will get an answer if he does.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I imust say first that my learned and hon. friend kindly communicated to me a copy of this telegram that has been sent by the agent of one of the candidates at the present 'by-election in the county of Prince Albert. Let me say at once that under the law the elections are not carried on by the government or under the government. They are carried on under an officer of this parliament called the Chief Electoral Officer, who is appointed by this parliament, is responsible to this parliament, and reports only to' you, Mr. Speaker, and not to any member of the government. I have no doubt that the Chief Electoral Officer of Canada is looking after all that is necessary for the proper carrying on of the election in Prince Albert.
If my hon. friend desires to learn what the Chief Electoral Officer has done or the answer he has made to this telegram, there is a section of the electoral law which gives my hon. friend or myself or anybody else the right to go and inspect all the returns, communications and correspondence, to-dlay, to-
Unemployment Relief

morrow or at any other time. Moreover, as the Chief Electoral Officer is reporting to you, Mr. Speaker, I might suggest just in order that it may not be necessarj' for myself or mv hon. friend to go and inspect these documents, that you, immediately ask the Chief Electoral Officer to report to you and send you a copy of all that he has done in this matter.


If it be the pleasure of the House, I shall communicate immediately to the Chief Electoral1 Officer the remarks made bjr the hon. member for West Calgary (Mr. Bennett), and by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), and await, not his pleasure, but his answer.


Miay I suggest, Mr. Speaker, in that connection that you direct his special attention to the evidently loose manner in which the ballots are being printed, which seems to me to be more prolific of possible danger later than any other feature of the message.


On the Orders of the Day:
Before the orders of the day are called I would like to direct the attention of the government to a matter of urgent public importance, as set out in a resolution passed by the city council of the city of Winnipeg reading as follows:
Whereas it has been necessary for the city of Winnipeg to assist a large number of its residents, destitute due to unemployment during the last three winters, and to give similar relief during the present winter, in which action it has been and is being assisted by the government of the province of Manitoba;
And whereas such destitute persons have found themselves in this condition due to unemployment through national problems beyond power of local control or correction, some of which causes are summarized as follows :
1.	Winnipeg, due to its geographical situation, is the focal point to which the unemployed of western Canada are attracted.
2.	Coming to Wmn'peg of ex-service men who have been settled on farms by the Soldiers' Settlement Board which they have found necessary to abandon.
3.	Persons settling in Winnipeg who w'ere brought to Canada through the activities of the federal, government for agricultural purposes, but who proved unfit for farm life.
4.	Ex-service men, engaged in farming before the war, who became so unsettled by army life that they did not return to agricultural pursuits after demobilization ;
For the foregoing and other reasons these persons should be considered as "Dominion citizens at large" and the re-establishing of them should be considered as a federal problem and the cost of their maintenance a federal government charge.

And whereas conventions have been held at Ottawa in 1922 and again in 1924, at the invitation of the federal government, which conventions unanimously adopted resolutions agreeing that unemployment relief expenditure should be met in part by the federal government;
Be it therefore resolved:
That the city council of the city of Winnipeg, hereby requests the federal government to assist the city of Winnipeg in dealing with unemployment relief during the present winter by agreeing to bear a percentage of the cost, and further to appoint a federal government representative or, representatives to review the expenditure incurred by the city of Winnipeg during the three winters just passed, with a view to arriving, on an equitable basis, at the amount of the expenditures the federal government will reimburse the city for.
And that a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the federal government, members of parliament for the city of Winnipeg, the leader of the opposition of the House of Commons, and the leader of the Pro-giessive party of the House of Commons, respectfully urging compliance with this request.
And that a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the legislative assembly of the province of Manitoba.


A copy of this resolution has been
sent to the government, and I received it this morning. The matter will engage the attention of the government and probably it will be necessary to communicate with the legislature of Manitoba; but whatever decision is reached will be communicated to the House.
INQUIRY FOR RETURN WALKERVILLE-ENSENADA WHISKY SHIPMENT On the Orders of the Day:


In the early part of the session of
1924, on May 5 of that year, I put a question on the order paper, which was passed as an order for a return, requesting the correspondence and other documents relating to a shipment of whiskey from Walkerville, Ontario, to a man named Watson, Ensenada, Mexico. I asked for those papers and also for the reasons for the cancellation of the bond. I would now ask the government whether they think any more time is necessary in order to prepare this return, and if it is possible for me to get it this year.
Hon. GEORGE H. BOIVIN (Minister of Customs and Excise): Mr. Speaker, if I understand the rules correctly, orders for return are carried over from session to session during the life of the same parliament, and an order for a return, if it is not laid on the table of the House in one session, should be laid on the table during the next session. This is a new parliament, and therefore since I entered the Department of Customs I have not looked up the orders for returns that were passed by the House and were not brought down; but as this matter has been particularly

Cayuga Indians
brought to my attention by my hon. friend I shall see that the papers are secured. If he will place a notice of motion upon the order paper, I think I can assure him now that the papers will be ready for production and ibe laid on the table of the House the moment the order is reached.


On the Orders of the Day:
In the absence of the hon. member for Yancouver South (Mr. Ladner), I desire to renew the inquiry he made on the 1st day of February, and to which the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) replied. He asked the government as to its intention regarding the suspension of salaries of the members of the staff of the House during the recess which has now been decided upon, and the reply was made at that time that the Internal Economy Commission of the House had the matter in hand. They have now had a. good many days to consider the matter, and I would like to know whether or not a decision has been reached.


I am glad to see that my hon.
friend the chief whip of the opposition (Mr. Boys) is willing to accede to the wish of the House and see to it that there is a recess. In reply to his question, this matter has been considered by the Internal Economy Commission, and I understand that they have reached the decision that the same conditions and terms shall apply as in former adjournments of the House, that is, that those who do not work will receive half pay.


As chairman of the Internal Economy Commission I may be allowed to supplement what has already been said:	If there should be a recess a certain
number of the employees will remain for the convenience of members who may be staying in the city. As to the remainder, the larger number, we decided to follow the precedent set in 1917 and to cut their salaries in two.


Could the government,
in that connection, have an estimate made and advise us, say by the first of the week, what the saving would be per week by the cutting in two of the salaries of the balance of the officers of the House?


We will ask the commission to do that.


On the Orders of the Day:
I should like to ask a question of the minister representing the Department of Railways and Canals. I have a communication to the effect that the Dominion government are bringing in 150,000 cedar ties from the state of Minnesota for use on the Hudson Bay railway. I wish to inquire whether that is correct?


I do not think it is
correct because I do not believe the work has yet started on the Hudson Bay railway.


Prince Albert election.


On the Orders of the Day:
May I ask
the government a question in regard to the following:	On February 10, a deputation
representing Canada, and other parties, made a protest to the President at Washington against the diversion of water from the Great Lakes. Was this government represented on that deputation, and if so by whom?


No, the government was not
represented on that deputation. I understand the deputation went from the convention of the Great Lakes shippers and bodies representative of the shipping interests, not of government interests.


On the Orders of the Day:
May I give a reply to the
question asked by the hon. member for Haldi-mand (Mr. Senn) with reference to the claim of the Cayuga Indians?
The claim before the British and American arbitration tribunal on behalf of the Cayuga Indians resident in Canada was for arrears of annuity under treaties made with the state of New York in 1795. The full text of the award with reasons for judgment has not been received, but the decision was in favour of the [DOT] Indians, and they were awarded $100,000 representing "just share in payments of annuity from eighteen hundred and forty-nine" and "capital sum which at five per cent interest would yield half of amount of annuity for future." As the total annuity was $2,300, half the amount of the annuity is $1,150, which will require a capitalization of $23,000.



The Address-Mr. Black (Halifax)
The award pertains solely to the Cayuga nation in Canada, and is not divisible with the Six Nations Indians as a whole or with any American Cayugas. The case has been conducted by the Department of Justice and the Department of Indian Affairs, and therefore the government has all along considered the interests of the Cayuga Indians and will continue to do so.


Is it the intention of the department to assume control of the funds?


Oh, yes.


Mr. Speaker, the members at this end of the chamber cannot hear the questions or the replies.


The House resumed from Thursday, February 11, consideration of the motion of Mr. J. C. Elliott for an Address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his Speech at the opening of the session, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Sutherland (South Oxford).
In reference to the last few words of the hon. member who has just sat down (Mr. Black, Halifax), I saw the article in question, the writer of which I know to be a gentleman who is seen around these corridors by the name of Bishop, and the subject of that article is merely propaganda. We came here at a good deal of inconvenience at this time of year, many members on this side of the House as well as others opposite, prepared to do business. We are here now ready to proceed with the business of the country and there need be no delay whatever. The cost of staying here will not be one cent more than the cost of going on holiday. What is the government going to do about it? Members of the government want a holiday to enable them to repair their bridges and their fences. Well, their business is to repair those bridges and1 those fences right here; let them hold
their by-elections in the ordinary course just as any other government would do. This government came here prepared ostensibly to function and it received the votes of members on the strength of its profession to be a government, and now we find that it is not. It is no government at all, for admittedly it cannot carry on. The government cannot function and hon. gentlemen opposite know it. Never will it function, so why do hon. gentlemen not get out? I see my hon. friend from Pontiac (Mr. Cahill) opposite. Oh! if only I could command the language which he used a few years ago; I think this government would run out of the door.


The other one did.


This one has
not its running shoes with it, but it will have them before long. And it will not run; it will be pushed out.
I intended, Mr. Speaker to offer a few observations on the speech of the Mim=cer of Finance (Mr. Robb) but I regret that he is not in his place. Probably before I get through he will be here. The minister in his address gave us an interesting account of the negotiations that led up to the Australian treaty, but he left out a few things, and I propose, for the benefit of some of the new members of this House, to fill up the vacancies, the voids and the spaces. I would point out, what has already been called attention to, the fact that the treaty with Australia was arrived at in the fall of the year and it reached the Australian parliament during that fall. Naturally therefore the members of this House expected that when parliament met we should have the treaty presented to us. Indeed, we frequently and repeatedly asked for the treaty but never got it. In October we saw certain telegrams and 4 p.m. cablegrams coming through to the New York papers giving a description of the treaty and some inkling as to what it involved. This government, I must say, did vouchsafe to give some information to us in a journal published by the authority of the Department of Trade and Commerce. What was that information which we received on the 6th day of October, 1924? All that was presented to this House and to the people of Canada at that time was one side of the treaty, showing just exactly what Australia was conceding to Canada; but there rvas not one solitary word as to what Canada was giving to Australia. I must qualify that statement; there was one word: they did tell us that we were giving the Australians free raisins. The government
950	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
did not omit to give that particular piece of information, but there was not a single word in this intimation, published on October 6, 1924, by the Department of Trade and Commerce as to what concessions generally Canada was making. We had to learn what the other side of the treaty was from New York papers, so that we never knew until we came to this House the inside of that arrangement.
The truth of the matter is that when the minister went to Australia there was agreed upon a treaty which was not the same arrangement that had been submitted to this House. They made there a treaty which was based upon the proposition that we [DOT] in Canada intended to raise the general rate on all agricultural items which had been contemplated originally in the treaty. But when the gentlemen wrho had the treaty in hand came to this House and presented the document to their own followers and their allies, that part of the treaty was rejected. It was not supported, and I tell my hon. friends to the left now that if their ranks are decimated, if their appearance at the present time is diminutive as compared with what it was a year ago, that action of theirs in respect of that treaty is responsible for their present reduced position. And what is more, that very same treaty will cause decimation in the ranks of members on the other side of the House. The treaty will never stand so far :as Canada is concerned, for it will beat any government that attempts to put it into effect. I think I hear' some minister opposite asking, "Would you abrogate the treaty? What would you do with it?" Well, I would not abrogate it at all, but I would go back and re-make it upon precisely the same principles as we advocated from this side of the House and which the minister practically agreed to. I say that anyone who supports that treaty and continues to support it is bound to meet with the disapproval of the people of this country; it cannot be otherwise.
In regard to this treaty I ba/ve always admitted frankly and freely that there were some parts of the arrangements which I considered satisfactory; there is no doubt whatever about that. But I did not expect that the government, in order to make some business for a few manufacturers in Canada, would think for a moment of disrupting the whole fabric of oiur dairy industry. And not only the dairy industry, but the fruit and other industries in Canada are affected as well. While I am on this phase of the treaty I want to show to the House a sample of the cynicism of some members of the government and of some of their campaign supporters in this

. matter. I have in my hand here a Liberal handbook; there is no mistaking its source, for a picture of the Right Hon. Mlackenzie King appears on its cover. Let me read in respect of the Australian treaty just a sentence from this handbook which bears the date September, 1925. Under the heading "dairy fanning" there appears the following:
The Canadian dairy farmer is told that he needs a higher tariff to keep out Australian butter. No ill effects as yet Ibave flowed from the Australian treaty.
Who wrote that, I should like to know? No ill effects from the Australian treaty! And that book was written in September whereas the treaty never came into effect until October 1. If ever there was a ranker piece of cynicism and .hypocrisy put over on the people of any country it would be interesting to know about it. I am sure that this example cannot be beaten, and if you cannot beat it I should like you to match it.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I intend to spend a few minutes! discussing a speech made in this House a few days ago by the Minister of Finance. I am glad, indeed that he is now in his seat. At page 822 of Hansard I notice these words:
Mr. Kobb:	He has consistently oppcsed all treaties
*tha-t this government has brought before parliament, notwithstanding the fact that most of the treaties we have brought in have given greater preference to the dairying industry and the agricultural industry than they have to any of the other industries of Canada.
He was looking at my leader (Mr. Meighen) when he thus expressed himself. Let us examine his statement. As far as I know the only treaties that the right hon. leader of the opposition, and his followers have opposed are the French and Australian treaties. We opposed the French treaty on a certain principle. When the Netherlands treaty andl the Belgian treaty were brought down we said: Well, we might as well give those people the same advantages as we have given France; we cannot be in any worse position. Belgium is even a better customer of ours than France; so are the Netherlands. If we give something to France, we should give it also to those other countries. Consequently we did not oppose those treaties.
In reference to the minister's claim as to these treaties having been in the interests! of agriculture, let me briefly show what has happened in the case of the French treaty, for instance. The other day the Minister of Finance told us that during the last fiscal year we had 'shipped over 750,OOp pounds of butter to Belgium, and that that was a considerable increase over our 'butter exports to that country for the previous fiscal year. That is true, and I am glad to know it. But what

The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
has the minister to say about the eight months of the present fiscal year? Has he examined the returns? He has gone back to a year ago; let us bring him up to date. Here is his own book, published by the Department of Trade and Commerce, under the authority of the Hon. James A. Robb, Acting Mlinister-acting for a gentleman who cannot be here, another of the defeated ministers! During the eight months do you know, Sir, how much butter we have shipped to Belgium? Only 5,000 pounds! The minister was bragging about that the other day. That shows how much the treaty does for agriculture! He said that last year we shipped them some hundred thousand pounds of bptter. Well, this year during the eight months from the beginning of our fiscal year to November last, we shipped Belgium 5,000 pounds.
What did we do with France? There is a treaty that, as he says, was negotiated especially for the benefit of our agriculturists. The trade with France stands about this way: three years ago we sold her $17,000,000 worth; to-day we are selling her 111,000,000 worth. Three years ago we bought from France $12,000,000 worth; to-day we are buying $18,000,000 worth. That is what I predicted would happen when the treaty was brought before this House. That is what has happened. If there is any doubt about the returns, I wish to present the figures to the House for the twelve months ending December, 1925, with comparative figures for the twelve months ending December, 1924 and 1923 respectively. This statement also is prepared under the authority of the Hon. James A. Robb; they are hi3 own figures. We bought from France $18,573,000 worth this year; we sold her $11,-
707.000	worth.	In other words, the balance of
trade was pretty nearly even when this treaty became operative, and to-day we have lost our business-just as I predicted, for the reason that the minimum duty that France puts on our goods will not allow us to ship any. That is all there is to it. Any schoolboy could have told him so, let alone a businessman. What do we sell them? Nothing but wheat and a few raw materials. Where is the boasted business in butter? Gone, not a pound to France, during the whole year. How much condensed1 milk have we sold them? Not one dollar in the whole year. How much in the way of cattle, meats, bacon, or any other agricultural product you like to mention? Not a dollar's worth-except $2,000 worth of lard. That covers the whole of the business. And yet the minister says that this treaty was made in favour of our agriculturists. By the way, Belgium did not give us any advantage in butter. Under the treaty we are just
where we stood before, wo do not get any advantage at all. We simply get the minimum tariff. But when my leader discussed the matter with me, I took the position that we might as well give to Belgium what we had already given to France, because we had given the whole ship to her anyway.
Now, in the course of his remarks the Minister of Finance, dealing with the butter business, said:
Mr. Robb: I have not the figures before me.
Mr. Meighen: Did it make any change?
He was speaking of the treaty.
The Minister of Finance evaded the question. He said:
Under the Belgian treaty we obtained the most favoured nation treatment.
Mr. Meighen: It made no change.
Still the minister made no reply. But the truth is we get no advantage whatever that we did not have before. He then changed the subject. He did not want to discuss this commodity any longer. He continued:
Hon. members have been loud in their statements that by our adoption of the Belgian treaty we ruined the glass industry in Canada, notwithstanding the fact that there was not a farthing's change in the tariff as it affected glass.
Now the minister is in his seat I ask him this question:	Does he persist in that statement to-day, does he say there was no change in the duty on glass?


Yes.


He does? Well, let me refer to Hansard, page-


If my -hon. friend wishes to
be correct, let him quote the customs tariff.


He is quoting the minister's speech.


I am taking
the minister's own statement when the Belgian treaty was being discussed in this House. The minister told the House then that the Belgian treaty in respect to glass took a certain class the same as the French treaty by which there was a reduction of 10 per cent of the duty; he so stated in the House, as will be found on page 4209 of Hansard of July 9, 1924:
Sir Henry Drayton:	Will my hon. friend give our
own duty on glass?
Mr. Robb: The duty on common window, and colourless window glass is, intermediate, 12.}. general, 12}; so the duty is exactly the same, but there will be 10 per cent discount under the treaty.


If my hon. friend will allow
me. what I wished to make clear to the House at that time, and what I wish to make clear to-day, is that the intermediate column, which
952	.	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
we then gave to Belgium under that treaty, and the general column were exactly the same.


My hon. friend has asked me a fair question, and deserves an answer. He asks what beat us? It was the man who wrote Rule Britannia, and the gentlemen who were then singing Rule Britannia are to-day opposing inter-imperial trade.


Now I want to make some comment on the minister's propaganda in the last clause of his remarks which I have just quoted. He said:
But when Canada rejected a proposal which would have allowed her to send butter into the markets of the United States without one cent of duty, the United States revised their tariff, .put up the duty on butter, and put milk and cream on a basis where they could buy it.
That statement I have heard before, but that statement is not correct, and the minister knows it is absolutely without any foundation whatever; he knows better than that. He was asked the question by the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Meighen) from his seat, "When was the duty changed?" But he passed that by in silence, as he knows so well how to do. Now let us look at the facts; let us get down to brass tacks. At the time of the reciprocity treaty in 1911 the United 'States was under the Payne tariff. What happened after the reciprocity treaty was rejected? Was there a revision upwards of the United States tariff, as the minister says? I ask him now to reconsider and say whether there was a revision or not. I declare now there never was. What happened was this: As everyone knows, the Under-

The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
wood tariff came in in 1913. Was that a raising of the United States tariff? I guess not, because I have a speech of Mr. Fordney's on my desk which I could quote if it would not detain the House, wherein he said that, the Underwood tariff was the lowest tariff the United States ever had, and yet the Minister of Finance tried to make the House and the country believe that because the reciprocity treaty had been rejected by Canada, the United States had immediately raised their tariff. They did not do anything of the kind. They lowered their tariff right along the line. More than that, milk and cream, which the minister talks about, were made free under that very tariff, the Underwood tariff, whereas formerly they bora a duty.


What about the duty on
butter? r


I will give it
to the minister, I have it here. Under the Underwood tariff the duty on butter was 2i cents a pound, and it had been 6 cents. Under the Payne tariff it was 6 cents a pound, and under the Underwood tariff it was 2i cents a pound. That was two years after reciprocity was beaten. Now what else happened? The minister said there were upward revisions of the tariff. That is not true either. What happened was this: After the Underwood tariff came the war tariff, what was known as the emergency tariff, adopted after the war started. Then came the Fordney tariff and hon. gentleman opposite, speaking throughout the country, said, "Oh, put us into power. We are better able to make a treaty with the United States than anyone else. They are more in sympathy with us, and we are more in sympathy with the policy that will allow their products to come into Canada. We will make a treaty with them if you will give us the chance." Yet in the face of those gentlemen the Fordney tariff was put into operation. A year after they came into power the Fordney tariff was brought into, effect. Yet the minister has the hardihood1 to come here and say that because of the rejection of the reciprocity treaty the United States put up their tariff. Well, he knew better. I give the minister credit for knowing a great deal better than that, but it was good stuff to put forward.


I do not want to interrupt
the trend of my hon. friend's argument, but since he has given these changes in the duty and apparently has them before him-I admit that cream in that period was put on the free list-will he tell us of the gradual jacking up that took place on milk and cream?


I will give the minister any information he wants, I have it all here. What year would my hon. friend like to have?


The changes.


Well under the Payne tariff-that was before the reciprocity proposition-milk wTas 2 cents a gallon and fresh cream 5 cents a gallon. Under the reciprocity proposition it would have been free, and under the Underwood tariff it was free without any reciprocity. As I said before in the emergency tariff it was put up 2 cents a gallon, and in the Fordney tariff cream was put up from 5 to 10 cents according to its strength. The Fordney tariff was enforced after hon. gentlemen came into office. I have a copy of that tariff here; it is dated 1922. Why did hon. gentlemen opposite not get busy and obtain for Canada what they said they would? The truth of the matter is that nobody can convince the United .States what they shall do as far as protection is concerned. The words of Calvin E. Coolidge expresses pretty well what is in the minds of the people of the United States:
We 'have built agriculture squarely into the structure of our protective system, and the American farmer must not be undersold at home by New Zealand mutton, Argentine beef, Canadian wheat, Danish butter, Bulgarian tobacco, Chinese eggs, or Cuban sugar.
I should like to see any of my hon. friends opposite making any headway with that bunch over there. They are looking after their own .people, and that is all we are asking this government to do-look after our own people too.
Now, I have a couple more references to make to the Minister of Finance. I notice that in his speech, as reported, at page 823 of unrevised Hansard he asked the right hon. leader of the opposition three times in as many sentences as to the importation of fresh eggs from Australia. The minister ridiculed the idea of fresh eggs coming in from Australia, and I will take the trouble to quote to the House what he said1:
My right hon. friend may not have been correctly reported, but I recall having read some of his speeches during (the election campaign when he asserted that by the Australian treaty this government had ruined the fresh egg and butter industry of Canada. If my right hon. friend was correctly reported that was not a very great credit to his intelligence. I would give him credit for greater intelligence than to believe that Canada will ever buy fresh eggs from Australia.
Five times in as many sentences he used the words "fresh eggs." I should like to ask the minister now if the words "fresh eggs" appear in the treaty? No, the word
954	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
employed is "eggs" not "fresh eggs." Whoever said anything about "fresh" eggs? I have the tariff here and is there anything in it about "fresh" eggs? Not a word.


Break them gently.


Yes, break them gently. I do not care whether these eggs are fresh or not. If they come into this country and are consumed here they displace Canadian eggs. The minister says "Oh, what is the use of talking about Chinese eggs. They never come into this country. They will not come in because people will not use them."


No.


I beg the minister's pardon.


My hon. friend wants to be
fair, I did not say "Chinese eggs."


No, you did
not, you said Australian eggs. You said that Australian eggs could not come into this market because of the long voyage. Is not the same remark true of Chinese eggs? Whether it is Chinese eggs or Australian eggs it is only a matter of the duration of the voyage. But the minister said "You cannot sell Australian eggs here, they will be stale before they get to Canada." But the facts are that some Chinese eggs did come to this country and not in small quantities either. Hon. gentlemen will be surprised to know that during the last eight months 755,000 pounds of Chinese eggs that were broken and frozen were brought in and consumed by the people who use eggs of that kind for baking. I say that every one of those eggs displaced one of our own eggs. That is one reason why a duty should be imposed upon these products that will protect the home market for our own people.
I have one or two more comments to make on the speech of the minister. As reported at page 823 of Hansard he tells us "The number of eggs and the amount of butter coming in from Australia will not hurt us; it will not do us any harm; only a million pounds came in in one month." It took us a whole year to ship 700,000 pounds to Belgium and we boasted a lot about it. On the other hand we imported a million pounds from Australia in one. month and the government do not say very much about that. "It is not going to hurt us very much; it is only coming in in the winter time," they say. Let me tell the minister that the importations of butter are coming in when we should have the highest price possible for the Canadian article.


Will
the hon. gentleman permit a question. Has he looked at to-day's quotations for Canadian butter in Canada?


No, I have not seen to-day's quotations.


In
spite of all the complaints hon. gentlemen opposite have been making, the price of butter is higher to-day in Canada than in any of the competing countries.


Will the hon.
gentleman tell me what the price is?


I will quote from the Montreal Gazette of February 12; it is my authority for the statement. It quoted No. 1 pasteurized butter at 44| cents a pound, and it gave the price in New York for the same quality of butter at 44 cents; so that it was half a cent higher in Montreal than in New Yrork.


I am very glad to hear that because I was going to say that 1 heard the minister say something about that, and he gave the date as January 13.


I will pass this over to my hon. friend.


I have more than I want now.


Just wait.


On January 13, the minister told this House the same thing. I took the trouble to look up the Montreal Trade Bulletin, which paper, I am led to believe, amongst the trade, is an authority on prices. I examined the issues of that paper covering a period of seven weeks in the library here. The minister said that the price of Canadian butter was approximately as low in New York as it was in Montreal. Let me quote the figures which I found in this journal which anybody can read. On December 24 the price in New York for their second grade of butter, not their extra grade creamery, ibut the grade of butter that scores 92 under their method, was 48 to 48J cents a pound. In Montreal No. 1 pasteurized creamery butter, which I am told by the head of the Dairy and Cold Storage branch of the Department of Agriculture grades higher than the butter which I am quoting in New York, is 41^ to 42 cents. On December 31, the next week-this is a weekly paper-the same class of New York butter is quoted at 49 and 50 cents, and in Montreal it is quoted at 41| to 42. On January 8, the price in New York for that

The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
same butter that I have described was 47} to 48, and in Montreal 42} to 42}. On January 15, only two days from the date the minister refers to, the price in New York was 441 to 45, and in Montreal 42} to 421. On January 22 the price was 44 to 44} in New York, and 42} to 42} in Montreal. On January 29 the price in New York was 46} to 47 and in Montreal 43} to 43}. On February 5 the price in New Yrork was 47} to 48 and in Montreal 45 to 45}. More than that I took the trouble to go through the Montreal Gazette, which I understand is also an authority, to get its prices. I went through it each day for the whole month of January and I could not find one day in which the same quality of butter sold as cheaply in New York as it did in Montreal. The minister says he has given me one instance today. I am very glad to get it, because it will certainly be a treat to see it.


I accept that invitation and I pass it over, and in doing so may I remark that, according to my hon. friend's own argument, the importation of Australian and New Zealand 'butter has increased the price of butter in Canada.


No. I did not say anything of the kind. In reply to his assertion I will read him a statement which appears in the same Trade Bulletin, and this will show whether there is a fluctuation in price. This is taken from the Alontreal Trade Bulletin of February 5, and reads:
Sales of odd small lots of western No. 1 pasteurized were made yesterday at 44 cents, to arrive, while New Zealand No. 1 [pasteurized near at hand sold at 44$ and a lot for shipment-
That is for future delivery.
-of New Zealand pasteurized butter was placed at 41$ cents.
Does that look as if it were increasing the price of Canadian butter? It just depends upon whether or not there is a shipment close. There was a good sized shipment on the way. It was reducing the price because it was near at hand and ready to be delivered, and anybody who says that with a consignment of a million pounds of butter a month coming into the common market the price is going to be forced up wants to have his head read.


Your argument is that it was forced down.


My argument is that it takes away a good1 profit that the people of this country should have for the manufacture of butter in an off-time of the year when it costs them more money to produce it.
Now, Mir. Speaker, in reference to the working out of the French treaty I want to miake a little further comparison. We had no treaty with Germany. I hope otir government will not try its hand at that. Every time they have tried to make a treaty we have been a little worse off.


Hear,.hear.


Always for the Same reason-the blighting hands of the government are laid upon the business of the country with disastrous results. These hon. gentlemen made a treaty with France and children really could make a better treaty. We got the worst of it in the treaty with Belgium. That was natural, because having given it to one we must give it to the other. In making the French treaty we opened the door to ten other countries and' gave them the same; terms. This government reduced the duty upon a long line of luxuries which cculd well afford to pay. They reduced the duties on those luxuries and allowed them to enter into this country, with a loss of millions of dollars of revenue, and that was all done in the interests of the poor agriculturists; the treaty was made for the farmers particularly.
I want to draw the attention of the House to the difference between our trade with Germany and our trade with France. We have no treaty with Germany. Three years ago we sold to Germany for the twelve months ending December 23, in round figures thirteen million dollars worth of commodities. We are selling them to-day without a treaty thirty-one million dollars' worth. We bought from them four million dollars' worth in 1923 and we are now purchasing nine millions, so that we have a balance of trade of over twenty-two million in our favour, whereas owing to our treaty with France to-day this is the result. We started out in 1923 with a trade balance in our favour, and now we have a trade balance against us of seven million dollars. That justifies me in saying that when this government makes a treaty the effect is like a blight on a tree.
Now we come to the Netherlands. I hope the minister will not claim anything for his treaty with that country. We made a treaty with the Netherlands, but I am afraid the blight will get there too, because they are mighty good customers. Here is the position of the Netherlands' business to-day. Three years ago we sold them eight million dollars worth, and1 now we are selling them twenty-two million dollars worth and this business is goit practically without a treaty. We buy from them about five or six million dollars worth and we have a fine balance of
956	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Chaplin (Lincoln)
trade. We have made a treaty with them, and heaven forbid that it should tjurn out anything like the other treaties. The returns I am reading from, as I said before, are published by the Department of Trade andi Commerce.
The minister further read us a few testimonials from different papers and he read something to show us that everything was all right in Denmark and going fine. The minister has in his possession some petitions from the west. Unfortunately, I do not have copies of these, but I see from the Regina Leader of the 6th February that the Saskatchewan Co-operative Creameries, Limited, have sent a very strongly worded resolution, passed by their board of directors, expressing the wish that the government would rescind this treaty. The government also have in their hands a resolution and notes of minutes from another corporation out there, the Saskatchewan Dairy Association, endorsing the action of this other corporation and asking for the same thing. It would be a good idea if the minister would table those in the House so that we might see what value is placed upon this treaty by these people in the west. Of course, the minister says that the United States have a duty of eight cents per pound on butter and that it does not get them anywhere; that it does not raise the price of butter. Is that the usual free trade argument that a duty of eight cents per pound in the United States does not raise the price of butter there? I think not. My friends to my left will agree with me that any time you put a duty on an article, you are going to hit the consumer by the amount of the duty, and then some, because the fellow that produces gets something too. I think I can prove all that from the Farmers' book which I took the trouble to bring here. I think I can prove it to them right out of their own book, and yet we find the minister saying that if you put a duty on butter, you will not raise the price. My idea is to put a duty on butter and raise the price by keeping out the other stuff.


What book is the hon. gentleman quoting from?


It is a favourite book of mine-the Farmers' platform. This [DOT]was drafted by the Canadian Council of Agriculture and it was adopted by the United Farmers of Alberta, so my hon. friends are all in it-the Saskatchewan Grain Growers' Association, the Manitoba Grain Growers' Association and the United Farmers of Ontario. It is published by the Canadian Council of Agriculture That is a pretty safe book.


May I suggest that the hon.
gentleman turn to the page on the plunder of boots and shoes? He will find the principle very well set forth there.


Will the hon. gentleman allow me a question?


One at a time.
I was going to answer the other one. Why did the hon. member not ask that question of the government? Why ask it of me?


The government never challenged the statement.


Neither did I,
so far as that is concerned. I said that I could prove certain things from this book. The hon. gentleman asked about boots and shoes. I w'ould like him to ask that question of someone on the other side of the House. I am in favour of protection on boots and shoes. How many hon. members who live by the boot and shoe industry are ready to say the same thing? How many of them have made appeals on that ground and are now afraid to admit the fact? I will now answer the question of my hon. friend.


Was my hon. friend so keen about the interests of the dairy farmers in 1923 when he voted for oleomargarine, although there was a strong recommendation from the National Dairy Council against oleomargarine ?


If I voted for
oleomargarine, I did so because I believed a I, that time it was in the interest of my people to have it brought into this country. It was war time. We had that measure on the statute book as a war measure. Why did this government, I will ask the hon. gentleman, keep it on the statute book for two years after they came into power? I voted on that proposition in the same wTay as my hon. friend's late leader, Mr. Fielding.


I mentioned just 1923. The war was over then.


The war was
over in 1923; but who kept this measure on the statute book during 1921, 1922, 1923? It was a war measure; but the Liberal government kept it going and they could not get rid of it. It was not got rid of in a frank-open manner; it was got rid of only by a subterfuge in the House, by the government chucking it over to a private member to do the work. The government were scared to take hold of the thing and do it themselves.

The Address-Mr. Foster
Mr. A. de WITT FOSTER (Hants-Kings): Mr. Speaker, in rising to address the House,
I feel very much in the position of the hon. member for LabeJle (Mr. Bourassa), who after an absence of eighteen years, told us the other day that his reappearance here was more ghost-like than real. I am glad that you have allowed some latitude in debate, because I want to avail myself of that privilege and the courtesy of the House. While I may not cover as many subjects as did the hon. member for La'belle, I can assure the House that I have one regret, namely, that whereas hon. members were repaid on that occasion with an eloquence as brilliant as any ever heard in this chamber, they will have to forego that pleasure in any remarks which I may make.
During the last ten years I have had the privilege of viewing such progress as Canada has made from a vantage point outside of the Dominion itself, working all that time, I may say, in the upbuilding of a greater Canada and devoting myself to those things which would make for the