' Mr. M. N. CAMPBELL (Mackenzie) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 8 to amend The Canada Grain Act (Warehouse receipts).
Explain.


The purpose of the bill is to restore to the farmer the right which he enjoyed under the old Canada Grain Act of determining the destination of his grain when it was shipped through a local elevator. The bill which was put through this House at the last session and which was given its first reading on May 11, 1925, retained, in its original form, that right to the farmer, but an amendment was afterwards carried abrogating it. Under the law as it stands therefore the farmer has no say in the destination of his grain when it passes through any local elevator and, as I say, the object of this bill is to restore that right to him.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Mr. D. M. KENNEDY (Peace River) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 9 to amend the Criminal Code.
He said:	This is a bill to strike out subparagraph 4 of paragraph (a) of section 1140 of the Criminal Code. The sub-paragraph which it is desired to strike out limits to three years the time within which action may be commenced forany offence relating to or arising out of the location of land which was paid for in whole or in part by scrip or was granted upon certificates issued to half-breeds in connection with the extinguishment of Indian title.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
On the Orders of the Day:
Can the Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) tell us how soon we may expect the Auditor General's report? We have now been sitting three weeks and the report is overdue. I would also ask him whether what one hears is correct, namely, that the report is completed with the exception of the introductory chapter. I may tell the minister that so far as the House is concerned the report would be quite acceptable at the present time without that introductory chapter, which the Auditor General could submit subsequently.


Replying to the last part of my hon. friend's question, I have no knowledge that the report is ready, except volume I, but I shall inquire.
I have from the Auditor General a memorandum under date January 28 pointing out that the delay has been due largely to work necessitated by the general election. The Auditor General says:
There are engaged on 'these accounts, in addition to temporary clerks, some forty of the permanent staff. These permanent clerks have been obliged to give a considerable portion of the day's work to the audit and payment of election accounts, resulting in a diversion from their regular work and in a delay in the preparation of the report.
I fancy there is something in that. I know that I have had complaints, as I suppose every hon. member has had, in regard to delays in making of payment to officers employed in the election. The Auditor General concludes his memorandum thus:
I am making every effort to complete the report this week. The greater portion of it is now in print ready for binding.
I was a bit curious to find out how far the Auditor General was in default and I had a record made of the dates on which the Auditor General's report has been submitted to parliament from the year 1907 on. I notice that in 1907 Mr. Fielding, in presenting volume III, said that there were two other volumes which he hoped to bring down very soon but as that volume was ready he would present it at the earliest possible moment. The House met in that year on November 28 and the first volume was presented on December 2. In 1911 the House met on November 16 and the report was tabled on January 10, 1912. In 1912 the House met on November 21 and the report was tabled on January 14, 1913. In the next year the House met on January 15, 1914, and the report was tabled on January 19 and January 28. In 1916 the House met on January 13 and the report was tabled1 on February 7, February 10 and February 14. In 1917 the House met on January 19 and the report was tabled on April 19. In 1919 the House met on February 20 and the last volume of the report was tabled on April 22. The different volumes were tabled respectively in that year on March 10, March 26, March 28 and April 22. In 1920 the House met on February 26 and the last volume of the report was tabled on May 14. In 1921 the House met on February 14 and the last volume was tabled on April 4. My hon. friend! was then in office and I appreciate why he is crowding me. In 1922 the House met on March 9 and the report was tabled on March 13. In 1923 the House met on January 31
Locarno Treaty

and the report was tabled on February 1. In 1924 the House met on February 28 and the report was tabled on March 3, and in 1925 the House met on February 5 and the report was tabled on February 16.


My hon. friend will no doubt recognize, Mr. Speaker, that during some of the years he refers to returns had to come in from overseas.


I appreciate that.


That ran along for some time after the war. I should be sorry indeed to see the last reform set by his illustrious predecessor disregarded. The right Hon. Mr. Fielding was very, very strong upon the point that the report ought to be tabled immediately the House assembled.


Mr. Speaker, I shall telephone the Auditor General and find out the reason for the delay.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the hon. Minister of Customs and Excise (Mr. Boivin) if he will have laid on the table all orders in council issued during the past two years for the release of alcohol from distilleries within a shorter period of time than that set forth in the Inland Revenue Act. I understand that such orders in council are not laid on the table under the rules of the House, but if the minister will be good enough to accede to my request I shall appreciate his courtesy.
Hon. GEORGE H. BOIVIN (Minister of Customs and Excise): I shall have copies of the orders in council referred to prepared and laid on the table just as soon as it is possible to do so, Mr. Speaker.
LOCARNO TREATY On the Orders of the Day:


Mr. Speaker, is the leader of the government-I mean the acting leader -prepared yet to divulge to the House whether the government intends to recommend to parliament our adhesion to the Locarno treaty?


My hon. friend from Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) the other day asked that the correspondence relating to the Locarno treaty should be laid on the table of the House. As I promised at the time, we communicated with 	.	'	. >
,
the British government for the purpose of obtaining leave to do so. We have had a telegram from the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs saying that as soon as he has ascertained the views of the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs he will communicate further with us. I suppose it is better for us to wait until this little formality is completed before I give my right hon. friend our views on the treaty.


I cannot see what relation that has to the decision of the government whether ihey will recommend adhesion or not. The minister stated when the matter was up before that the government had decided. Why should not parliament know what the decision i-S?


We will give the views of the government when the time comes.


When will the time come? It has come now.


After that formality is
attended to.


Parliament is entitled
to know what the government's decisions are when they are made.


Theie is no urgency in the matter. My right hon. friend knows, no one better than he, that we are not bound by the treaty; we are just as well off as we were six months or a year ago.


That is not the question.


That is the question.
Nothing suffers by reason of the fact that we are not giving to my right hon. friend our views concerning the treaty. Canada will not be bound by the treaty until parliament ratifies it.


Will the minister explain why the information should be withheld from parliament, seeing that the government has come to a decision?


I do not think I have
anything to add to what I have told my right hon. friend.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. A. deWITT FOSTER (Hants-Kings): Mr. Speaker, may I ask if the hon. Minister of Agricultural (Mr. Motherwell) has been advised of a very serious state of affairs in London and in the various other centres in Europe respecting arsenic poisoning -from the consumption of certain fruits? I understand that apples from the northwestern states of
<X50

The Address-Mr. McPhee
the United States 'have been more or less banned, and this has very seriously affected the overseas sale of apples from Nova Scotia. Has the minister anything to report on the matter?
The question raised by the hon. member for Hants-King (Mr. Foster) has already occasioned a good deal of discussion on both sides of the Atlantic. Because of its importance, Mr. Speaker, I have had prepared a short memorandum, which I will read with the permission of the House:
Advice was recently received from the High Commissioner's office to the effect that prominence was being given in the British press to prosecutions of certain dealers for selling American apples containing arsenic, due to spraying in order to counteract the codling moth. The High Commissioner was advised that although Canada was compelled to use arsenical sprays in orchards, practical experience and chemical analyses amply demonstrated the harmlessness of this practice. While no particular experiments in this regard had at that time been carried on by the Canadian department, with the exception of a small experiment in 1891, results obtained at American institutions where tests had been made showed that spraying did not have any injurious effects, while in reporting on the 1891 experiment, the Dominion Chemist said:
The insoluble character of this poison, precluding its assimilation by the apple if such were possible, the infinitesimal part of paris green that can remain on the apple, the frequent rains subsequent to the spraying, and the fact that apples are pared before using, all go to substantiate the argument that there is not the slightest danger of poisoning in using sprayed apples."
It was decided, however, to conduct another experiment in order to further clear up this point, and as a result the Dominion Entomologist has procured, for analysis by the Division of Chemistry, samples of apples from sprayed orchards in the several provinces. These apples are to be analyzed by the Dominion Chemist and a statement made as to any possible traces of arsenic found thereon. This work has not as yet been completed.
I have to thank my hon. friend for notifying me of his intention to ask this question because it is somewhat technical and the information in relation to it should be exact.


May I ask that in view
of the seriousness of the situation the minister wild take some steps, through the High Commissioner in London, to acquaint the English public that these examinations and analyses have been made in Canada, with the results just stated; and that he will, if necessary, place an advertisement in some of the English papers circulating in centres where our apples are being distributed so that our growers may get the benefit of this publicity?


I am afraid that
analyses made thirty-five years ago, while good for that day, would not throw very much light on conditions at the present time. Our western orchards were not very much developed then.


Mr. Speaker, will the government announce whether or not it intends to suspend the salaries of the staff of this House during the period of adjournment? Many of the staff come from a considerable distance and are under somewhat heavy financial obligations during their presence here. They are needed by many hon. gentlemen for parliamentary work, and it is only just that they should receive their full salary during the adjournment.


The question is 'being considered
by the Internal Economy Commission of the House. I understand they met this morning, but we have not yet had their report.


The House resumed from Friday, January 2P. consideration of the motion of Mr. J. C. Elliott for an Address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his Speech at the opening of the session, and the proposed amendment thereto of Right Hon. Arthur Meighen.
Mr. GEORGE W. McPHEE (Yorkton): Mr. Speaker, at adjournment Friday evening I was starting to discuss some of the statements made by our stalwart Conservative friends in this House. I wish now to refer briefly to the statement made with reference to my own province by the hon. member for South Winnipeg (Mr. Rogers). Speaking on January 21 last, he said:
As far as I know, there is a desire and a willingness on the part of hon. members on this side of the House to do anything they possibly can to assist the western provinces by way of rural credits. But in all fairness the members of this House should know at all events some of the reasoms why it is necessary that we should be called upon at this time to assist in the matter of rural credits for the prairie provinces. The difficulty in our western provinces, as I understand it, Mr. Speaker, is largely due to the fact that we have the misfortune in Saskatchewan and in Alberta of having had Liberal governments for many long years. In fact the provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan have never yet had an opportunity to know and to understand thl real value of Conservative government.
To what kind of Conservative government, may I ask, does the hon. member for South Winnipeg refer? To the kind of government that existed in Manitoba previous to 1914? If so, let me recall to the hon. member's mind the 'inquiry regarding the erection of public buildings in Manitoba known as the Agricultural College and parliament buildings investigation. The evidence therein disclosed
The Address-Mr. McPhee
stands as a monument to record to this and to succeeding generations the colossal extravagance and incompeteney of a Conservative . government in the province of Manitoba, with the political history of which my hon. friend is quite familiar. It was a political reign of terror, during which men were thrown into gaol whose only offence was that during election time they had worked on behalf of the Liberal party. I want to say, Mr. Speaker, that Saskatchewan has added to its political litany a supplication that it may never witness within its borders an era of public life such as cursed the province of Manitoba in that period of its history known as the Rob-lin regime. That supplication has had the result that in this House there is not a Conservative member from Saskatchewan and in the legislature of that province, composed of sixty-three members, there are only three Conservatives, notwithstanding the fact that the leader of the present Conservative party there was taken from a school inspectorate to organize and resurrect a party whose political future in that province is as dark as the "hush'd silence of the grave."
Would my hon. friend permit a question? Reference has been made to the province of Manitoba; would my hon. friend put on the records now the representation from that province in the present parliament, along with that from Saskatchewan and Alberta?


I will let my hon. friend
do that if he so desires. The hon. member for South Toronto (Mr. Geary), though not so old in political faith as those to whom I have previously referred, but equally old in conviction, said that fifty years ago the torch of protection was lighted in Canada. If that is the beginning of traditional Conservatism in Canada, traditional Liberalism antedates it by half a century. Traditional Liberalism in Canada had its inception in the long struggle for responsible government against :he old Tory family compact, a struggle simi-.ar to the one the Liberals are now waging for economic freedom in this country. That was a period when, in order to prevent free speech, printing presses were dumped into lake Ontario and Halifax harbour. The culmination of that struggle was the rebellion of 1837, and Canada will never forget the part then played by William Lyon Mackenzie and Louis Papineau. I stand here this afternoon. Mr. Speaker, a disciple of that traditional Liberalism, and pay my eomplimehts to the grandson of Louis Papineau in the person of the talented member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) and I express my gratification and

that of every Liberal in this House and in Canada that the mantle of the late revered leader of the Liberal party, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, fell upon the shoulders of the member-elect for Prince Albert, the grandson of the old rebel patriot William Lyon Mackenzie-
Now, Mr. Speaker, what has been the attitude of hon. gentlemen opposite to agriculturists in this country, and particularly those of western Canada? Let me go back to the period previous to the election of 1911, to which I have already referred. In volume IV of the Debates of the Session of 1910-11, at page 7134, I find these words uttered by a gentleman afterwards a member of the Conservative government:
Why, Sir, you would actually think it was this gang of leaders; -
By the way he was referring to the delegation of one thousand farmers who came down from western Canada to interview the government in regard to legislation which the reciprocity treaty would have given them.
-this grain growers association from the northwest that came down here, the same sort of fellow we find popping up in blacksmith-shop statesmanship. Everyone of them a Grit organizer and heeler; not the rank and file of the farmers of Canada, but the men who try to push themselves to the front and whose wives are at home wearing long boots and cleaning out the cow stables and the horse stables, while these fellows are hanging around the blacksmith shops spouting statesmanship for the world over.
That is Toryism with a vengeance. I was going to say it was almost on a par with those statements made in this House a few days ago by the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), quoting from an address delivered by the hon. member for Vancouver Centre (Mr. Stevens) in which he referred to the good ladies of the province of Quebec. Poor, common, ordinary individuals must not even approach these barons of special privilege without being slandered in the manner which I have just indicated.
Now, Mr. Speaker, the doleful remarks of our Conservative friends are in keeping with the statements appearing in the Conservative press previous to the election on October 29 last. Let me quote just one or two. First I will read from that stalwart journal of Conservatism, the Montreal Star.


Hear. hear.


Let my hon. friends say "hear, hear" after they hear the editorials. From the editorial pages of the Montreal Star of October 6, 1925, I read the following:
It may perhaps be as well to say a word about Quebec's alleged narrow-mindedness in thinking of what may be the effect upon its most essential industries and its most cherished institutions if Mr. FEBRUARY 1, 1926	587
The Address-Mr. McPhee
King is given enough supporters in parliament to enable him to sell out to the Progressives.
All we are doing is trying to shake this province awake to the fact that its very life is in danger and that it must come out of the past and vote with reference to pending political issues. That is why we ask Quebec to put only loyal Quebecers on guard, men who will stand with Patenaude in preventing the government- of this Dominion from being handed over holus bolus to the dangerously sincere spokesmen of the west, whose political vision never penetrates east of the fogs of lake Superior.
Again on October 26, from the editorial pages of the same paper, I gather the following:
What, then, will a Progressive triumph cost Quebec? The Progressives will demand the death of protection; they will either get their pound of flesh at once or they will get a big installment with promises of more to come immediately. This will mean either that the industries of Quebec will be decapitated forthwith or will be frightened into a swift decline. We have seen during the last four years what the constant tariff reduction can do. Practically every industry in the province, except that of the American consuls forwarding Canadian emigrants into the United States, has shrivelled, laid off men, reduced hours of work, kept down its pay-roll and spread hard times through the area it once fed. No Quebec manufacturer dared to think of investing new capital or enlarging his plant while a government sat in Ottawa which was always expected to take another slash at the tariff. A govern-mmt dependent upon Progressive votes must carve away at the tariff yearly or the Progressive voters on the prairies would compel their henchmen to turn it out of office. It would no longer be a mere threat, it would be a succession of definite decapitations. Our Quebec industries would stand shivering like the unhappy prisoners of the French revolution, wondering which would be the next to climb the steps of the guillotine. This would turn the flow of the exodus into a torrential rapid. Our boys are now holding on hoping that the tide will turn and that there will be more work next year. A Progressive victory would put an end to that hope. Everyone well knows that capital, always timid, will be far more badly frightened during the reign of the downright Forke than it was during the reign of the trimmer King.
This editorial, Mr. Speaker, must be amusing to my hon. friends th~ Progressives and especially the leader of their party, after having listened to the seductive words of our Conservative friends during the debate which featured the first week of this parliament. What a different picture is painted by the same newspaper in its news items after the election! I have taken a few items from the news pages of the same journal, to show something of the political hypocrisy of hon. gentlemen opposite. I have culled these news items from the Montreal Star, and they relate to business conditions from one end of Canada to the other:
1.	November 26, 1925. Bank report shows trade is getting better.
2.	November 16, 1925. Sherwin earned 8.79 per cent, outlook bright.
3.	November 17, 1925. Declares Canada land of promise.
4. November 10, 1925. Granby Smelting Company reports better year.	_
5.	November 26, 1925. Upward trend in business is shown. Signs of improved business continue to appear in the reports published by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics. Out of six indicators of basic conditions recently published, five show upward trend.
6. November 26, 1925. October coke output established record.
7.	November 26, 1925. Dividends from Canadian mines show big gain.
8.	November 26, 1925. Boat loadings break record.
9.	November 23, 1925. Pulp and paper export figures up in October.
10.	November 14, 1925. Improvement shown in hardware trade.
11.	November 13, 1925. Will make plans for Quebec mill. New construction near Beaupre will cost $5,000,000.
12.	November 25, 1925. Salt bonds all sold. It was announced by Royal Securities Corporation at noon that the entire issue of $1,200,000 Canadian Salt Company 1st mortgage six per cents, public offering of which vras made this morning, has been subscribed for. Distribution has been made from coast to coast.
13.	November 24, 1925. Cheese exports show substantial gain.
14.	November 13, 1925. Six hundred employed on Quebec mill. International paper plant, Chelsea, to employ 4,000 by spring.
15.	November 26, 1925. Wheat prices soar.
16.	November 24, 1925. Many nations send immigrants.
17.	November 23, 1925. Increase is shown in border trade.
18.	November 13, 1925. Heavy Manitoba butter exports. Shipped to Britain so far more than entire season of 1916.
Mr. Speaker, what do these news items convey to us? They convey the fact that Canada is prosperous, our Conservative peddlers of gloom to the contrary notwithstanding. Let me call a few more witnesses, and these are all in addition to the quotations that have already been made by hon. gentlemen on this side of the House; I am not repeating any of their citations. Let me quote first from the address of Sir Vincent Meredith, president of the Bank of Montreal:
There is no question but that the trend of business is slowly but surely upward. As an evidence of this, car loadings are the largest on record, while wholesale and retail business show's a fair degree of increased activity. Textile industries are well employed, and there is more demand in the leather and allied trades. Improvement is also shown in other lines of business, although profits are curtailed in the grocery trade. There is little improvement in the lumber market in eastern Canada, but western shipments by w'ay of the Panama canal have substantially increased.
The prosperity of the country largely depends on the outcome of agriculture, and this year the crop has been a very large one, and at present prices w'ould prove profitable to the farmer. The marketing of the crop would bring at least $500,000,000 of new money into Canada and would undoubtedly effect a liquidation in fanners' liabilities. This new money would flow onto all channels of trade, and be reflected in improved conditions generally throughout the country.
I will now quote the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Meighen) himself, as re-
5SS

The Address-Mr. McPhee
ported in a press despatch appearing in the Mail and Empire shortly after the new year:
Although a quarter of a century has passed without 'too great (progress, there is still ample time for the fulfilment of Sir Wilfrid Laurier's prophesy that the twentieth century belongs to Canada. In two decades we should double our present population.
The next quotation is from Hon. Mr. Crerar, a former cabinet minister, and the president of the United Grain Growers:
Western Canada has had the most successful year in its history. This, following two previous years of satisfactory progress, is putting western Canada on a sound financial basis.
Next I quote from Sir Henry Thornton:
The Dominion with its present population of 9,000,000 has a greater export trade than the United States had with 76,000,000, its population in 1899. For the twelve months ending last August the per capita export trade of Canada was $125, as compared with $37 for the United States.
The last quotation is from Mr. Beatty, president of the Canadian Pacific Railway:
For the past .two or three years we have been erecting a new and sounder foundation for our future economic growth. We have learned some of those economic lessons that adverse conditions have forced on our attention, and, finally, aided by a bountiful crop and the slow but sure betterment of the overseas markets for our products, have come to a position where we await an impetus to revivify our domestic trade.
These quotations, Mr. Speaker, substantiate the statement made by Sir Wilfrid Laurier in 1895, when, after listening to Sir George Foster read from a long list of statistics to prove that Canada was prosperous said:
If the party which I lead comes into power in this country it vyudd not be necessary for any man to read from statistics to prove the country is prosperous. I will simply ask every farmer and every artisan in the country to put his hands in his pockets, and there he will find the evidence of bis prosperity.
Prosperity and Liberalism, Mi. Speaker, are synonymous terms. They tell a story of Sir Robert Borden and the late Sir Wilfrid Laurier. When the great Quebec bridge fell a few years ago, Sir Robert Burden was in the vicinity and delivered an address near one of the terminals. His presence, of course, had nothing whatever to do with the bridge falling, it was just his luck to be present on that occasion a id to have made a speech at that particular time. Sir Wilfrid Laurier went out west on a tour shortly afterwards, and visited the city of Moose Jaw They had had no rain there for several weeks, and the people were praying for rain. The morning after Sir Wilfrid Laurier landed there, the rain came down in torrents. Sir Wilfrid Laurier had nothing to do with the coming of the rain, but it was his good fortune to be present at Moose Jaw when it happened. He went on

to the city cf Prince Rupert, where conditions were just the reverse. It had been raining there for weeks, and the people were beginning to despair of ever seeing the sun again.
But the morning after Sir Wilfrid landed, the sun came out in all its glory. Sir Wilfrid had nothing to do with the sun shining on that day, but it iwas just his good fortune to be present when the sun did come out on that occasion. Our friends opposite say that we do noc give any credit to Providence for what happens in this country, but let me tell them, whether it is a matter of luck or a matter of judgment, the people of this country want a government upon whose work the rains from heaven fall, and upon whose administration a wise and beneficent Providence causes the sun of prosperity to shine.
Our Conservative friends opposite, who keep on telling us that Canada is not prosperous, continually harp on protection as the only salvation for the country. Let me quote from the speech of the hon. member for East Edmonton (Mr. Bury) as reported at page 361 of Hansard:
Protection is very far from being dead. Coming from the west, I venture to say that protection is more alive than it has been for a long time. There is general recognition throughout the country, even throughout the west, that protection is necessary for the welfare of the Dominion as a whole.
And the hon. member for Argenteuil (Sir Geo. Perley) said, as reported at page 289 of Hansard:
We should protect our growers of agricultural produce by using as much as possible of it in our own country, thus preserving our market for them and keeping our money at home. The only way in which this object can be accomplished is to raise the tariff on our agriculture .produots to the same levels it is in the United States.


Hear, hear.
Mr. MePHEE:	I am glad to hear that
"hear, hear" from hon. gentlemen opposite. Again the hon. member for South Toronto (Mr. Geary), as reported at page 465 of Hansard, stated that:
Fifty years ago the torch of protection was lighted by the Conservative party, and faithfully and loyally it has been handed down from one to another until to-day it shines as a beacon light, a guide, to the people of Canada, burning as strongly as ever.
If the hon. gentlemen are correct in their panacea for our political ills-the ills which they have built up in their own imagination as far as Canada is concerned-why are the Maritime provinces not prosperous? By the defeat of reciprocity in 1911, the agricultural products there were practically confined to the home markets of Sydney, Halifax and St. John. Now, according to hon. gentlemen

The Address-Mr. McPhee
opposite, they should be prosperous. But if the contention of the hon. member for Cumberland (Mr. Smith) is correct, then the hon. gentleman whom I have quoted, and the Tory party are wrong in their policy.
If protection is necessary to this country, as these hon. gentlemen state, would it not necessarily follow that industries which exist without any protection should automatically go out of business? What are the facts? Under the Fielding tariff during the Laurier regime, binder twine, barbed wire and cream separators Were in 1906 placed on the free list. If there is anything in the contention of hon. gentlemen opposite, then the firms which manufacture these articles should long ago have gone out of business. But here are the facts as given by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics. In 1924 five concerns in Canada reported the manufacture of binder twine. It is understood that another concern is being opened in Brantford. In 1924 five firms in Canada manufactured cream separators to the number of 11,155, and in the same year eight firms in Canada manufactured barbed wire to the amount of 19,707,000 pounds.
The point I wish to make is that if these manufacturers can thrive without protection, why is it necessary to increase the duty on agricultural implements as suggested by the right hon. leader of the opposition. Now, let me quote from the Grain Growers' Guide.


Hear, hear.


I am glad to hear that expression of approval, I hope it means that I have converted one hon. gentleman opposite by my argument. The Grain Growers' Guide in its issue of October 7th, 1925,. published an article under the caption of "Ramparts of Gold". This article contained the following statement:
We want particularly to call the attention of the readers of the Guide to the very positive statement of Mr. Meighen as to what he would do to the duties on agricultural implements if by some unfortunate turn of events he should be returned to power in this election. He would raise the duties; he would put them back to what they were, when he, to paraphrase a remark of ex-President W. H. Taft, retired from the premiership with the full consent of the Canadian people. That means that he would make the following increases: Mowers, reapers and binders, from 0 to 12J per cent; cultivators, harrows, horse-rakes, seed drills and manure spreaders, from 7i to 15 per cent; plows and threshing machines, from 10 to 17J per cent; wagons, from 10 to 20 per cent; shovels and spades, from 20 to 32J per cent; hay loaders, grain crushers, potato diggers and other implements, from 10 to 20 per cent. Put in another way, Mr. Meighen, if returned to power, will double the duties on farm implements.
Mr. Meighen knows the implement manufacturers do not stand in need of this tender solicitude for their
welfare. He knew it as far back as 1911. He told the House of Commons all about it on January 18th, 1911. He told the government of that day that the duties on agricultural implements was "protection run rampant," and they were continued because the government had "become the slaves of those who helped them into power," and who maintained them there "behind ramparts of gold".
The facts are, Mr. Speaker, that any increase in the tariff means a corresponding increase in price to the purchaser of the commodity without any advantage to anyone save the selfish protected industries. In support of that let me quote from the speech of the right hon. leader of the opposition as reported in volume 1 of Hansard of 1910-11, page 1931:
Now, Sir, what are the manufacturers of agricultural implements enabled to do? They are able under this tariff to exact a higher price than they could exact if the tariff were lower. I do not say that a reduction will to any very enormous extent affect the price; I believe it will materially, and I think it will render some relief to particularly the farmers of the west, many of whom notwithstanding any statements that have been made here, are struggling between success and failure avery hour.
To show you how the tariff affects prices, let me quote from an editorial which appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press of December 3, 1925:
A Theory Bowled Over by the Facts
Persons who listened during the late election campaign to the argument that a higher tariff would not mean an increase in the cost of living in Canada will be interested in what took place at the meeting of the Winnipeg city council held last Monday night. If they came out of the federal election campaign with an idea that the argument advanced by Mr. Meighen and his friends was well founded they might put the theory up against the facts as they came out in an actual business transaction. The Swedish company which tendered on three generators for the city of Winnipeg's hydro plant offered to supply them at a price that was $15,000 lower than the tender of a Canadian firm. Sweden, of course, is a long way from Canada. Before it can get its generators into Canada the Swedish firm will have to pay duty to the Canadian government at the rate of 27 per cent, or a total in this case of about $30,000. The Swedish firm will also have to pay transportation on the ocean from Sweden to Canada and on a Canadian railway from the port of entry to Winnipeg. The firm is to do all these and yet is able to effect a saving of $15,000 to the people of Winnipeg.
Was there any doubt in this case about the benefit of outside competition? By buying this particular machinery outside of Canada at the price quoted the people of Winnipeg are saved $15,000, the Canadian government gets $30,000 duty to help in tax reduction and the railways get the benefit of the long haul from the port to Winnipeg. Faced with these facts, one of the aldermen, a supporter of Mr. Meighen, too, said that he could not vote to keep the contract in Canada under the circumstances. To bar foreign competition, he said, would be to leave the city in the hands of the Canadian manufacturer.
A tariff that would bar foreign competition would cost every Canadian citizen more money to live just as in this case the barring of foreign competition would have cost the city of Winnipeg an extra $15,000.


The Address-Mr. McPhee
Does the hon. gentleman know that the hydraulic machinery to which he refers was manufactured in Canada and not in Sweden?


I am only quoting from the editorial in the Winnipeg Free Press which has not been contradicted.


That machinery was manufactured in the town of Lindsay, by the Boving Hydraulic & Engineering Company Limited, not by any firm in Sweden.


Does my hon. friend undertake to contradict the editorial?


Free Press wrong again.


Now, Mr. Speaker, what is the objection to the appointment of a tariff advisory board as suggested in the Speech from the Throne? I find that on February 8th, 1912, the right hon. leader of the opposition said, as reported at page 2692, volume II, of Hansard:
What is the next objection to the tariff commission. It is that we could get the same information from officials in the department and that if rnstead of taking officers immediately under ithe wing of the minister we choose to appoint a commission we are thereby raising a barrier between the people and the government. Well I can see no difference in principle between the gathering of information by a commission specially appointed for that purpose and obtaining it from officers directly under the control of the minister. But I can see a great difference in .the practicability and the thoroughness of the one method as compared with the other. In the one case we have a body of men specially appointed for the purpose of investigation and specially qualified and divorced in proper measure from the control of the minister in charge. These men are appointed to the specific work and are responsible for the quality of the work they do. I should think, therefore, that we could obtain much better results from the work of a commission of that kind than from officials in the Customs department who could neither be specially trained for that .purpose nor have the same facilities for doing the work.
Now, Mr. Speaker, the Speech from the Throne contains many planks of vital interest to those of us in western Canada. In fact it may be termed western Canada's Bill of Rights-rural credits, widening of markets, immigration, tariff reduction and last but not least by any means the completion of the Hudson Bay railway.


What clause refers to tariff reduction?


I should have said tariff
readjustment. I should like to read a telegram I received from the Yorkton board of trade, Saskatchewan. It is as follows:
Yorkton, Sask., January 9, 1928.
T. George McPhee, M.P.,
Ottawa.
The Yorkton board of trade much appreciate statement in Speech from Throne that Hudson Bay railway

will be completed in 1926. This will give a new lease of life to western Canada.
I wish to answer a question asked, I think, by the hon. member for Muskoka-Ontario (Mr. McGibbon) a few days ago, when the hon. member for Peace River (Mr. Kennedy) was speaking, as to how the Hudson Bay railway was going to pay the interest on the money invested in it. The investment on the completion of the Hudson Bay railway, Mr. Speaker, will be the carrying out of the solemn obligation made by both political parties to that great body of people living in the three western provinces. In answering my hon. friend's question, let me ask him another: What interest will the investment of the millions of dollars spent by the Conservative government from 1912 to 1918 pay, if the road is not finished and is left in its 4 pun. present shape? In closing may I express the hope that the people of the east and the people of the west will all work together for the common good of our common country. I shall never forget the closing remarks or the parting words of the revered leader of the Liberal party to the people of the west in 1917. He said':
If I am elected I will not be elated; if I am defeated I will not be cast down, I am prepared whether in victory or in defeat, to serve either as a lieutenant or as a private in the grand army of freedom.
Let those of us in this House of Liberal1, Progressive, and Independent thought, adopt the sentiment so eloquently expressed by Sir Wilfrid Laurier; let us stand shoulder to shoulder, pushing on from victory to victory, serving or willing to serve, either as lieutenants or privates, in the grand army for Canadian fiscal and . economic freedom.


In
rising to make a few remarks on the programme of the government, I intend to follow my usual practice of being very brief. Some few years ago I said that I would always limit my remarks to a half hour, and I intend to do so to-day.
Firdt, may I offer my congratulations to you, Sir, on being selected as the first commoner in this parliament. I offer those congratulations sincerely, but I also offer my congratulations on the good judgment of every member of this House in having elected you to that position. Although circumstances over which I have no control have increased! the distance from rny chair to the Speaker's chair, still my esteemed regard for your dignity and fairness in your position is as strong as it was when I was sitting closer to you.

The Address-Mr. Beaubien
I intend to take up certain clauses of the Speech from the Throne and make a few observations. One of the first which I intend to discuss is the clause which says:
In the o-pdiniion of my ministers the imiproved conditions warrant further substantial reductions in (taxation.
That is a very good clause, and I agree with a good deal that the hon. member for Labe'lle (Mr. Bourassa) said the other day. He said: If taxes are going to be reduced, let the reduction be in favour of those who are the least able to pay; let it relieve the burden from the masses of the people.
Another paragraph which I intend to offer some observations upon is that which says:
With the improvement of conditions throughout the country the government have formulated and ipuit i&to operation a comprehensive immigraition plan.
I would like to strike out that word immigration and insert "colonization" instead. One ,of the great faults of our immigration policy has been that we have brought ,people here and let them shift for themselves, and a great many of them have drifted to the south. I come from one of the finest portions of the Dominion of Canada, a riding with a history, and it came very nearly creating new history by leaving me at home. I have in my district a lot of people who came from central Europe-in fact from all over Europe. They are good, thrifty settlers and will make a success where many of Canadian born would fail. But there are certain improvements required in my district, and right here I would like to get the ear of the hon. Minister of Public Works (Mr. King, Kootenay) because I wish to make a plea to him, and I am sure he will appreciate my position. In the district where these people who came from Europe live there is a river called the Roseau and a creek called Pine creek. Some people may say that I am trying to be sectional and speaking for my riding only, but I think when I am through they will appreciate that this creek and river have a wide significance. The state of Minnesota, which borders my riding, has spent a great deal of money and drained water from the swamp lands into this creek and river with the result that in the spring, when the flow of water comes, the river which runs through to the Canadian side is unable to carry it away. Last year thousands of acres were flooded, and in a good many parts settlers had to leave their farms because there was no dry place for an animal to lie down. This condition will prevail every year until the Canadian government remedies the situation. I have taken the matter up with the provincial and the federal governments but so far I have had very little satisfaction. I
say to the government that instead of spending millions of dollars in an effort to bring new settlers into the country they should devote some of that money to the urgent task of keeping at home those whom we already have with us. These people were brought here some twenty years ago and they have worked hard and tried to make homes for themselves in Canada, but owing to the drainage in the state of Minnesota to which I have referred, causing an extra flow uf water, it is impossible for them to exist. What are they going to do? They have established their homes, and everything they value is rooted to that spot. There is only one thing that I can see for us to do, and I am sure that the Minister of Public Works will favourably consider the request I have made and give the necessary relief to these people. It is absolutely essential that steps be taken immediately to improve matters. I contend that the question is not purely a local one; it seems to me that it is one that should form the subject of negotiations between the state of Minnesota and the Canadian government, and the two working in conjunction should certainly formulate some plan to relieve the situation Now I mention this matter not for the purpose of trying to catch votes, because I do not expect that we shall have an election for some time to come. I refer to it merely because it is my practice always to keep in touch with my electors. That is why I am here. I know the conditions as they exist and I tell the government that a thorough investigation is absolutely necessary.
Another clause in the Speech assures us that a measure will be introduced to afford facilities for rural credits. Some people in eastern Canada, especially in my native province, try to convey the impression that rural credits are intended to benefit western Canada alone; but I believe, from a personal contact with a good many of them, that the people of Quebec are just as much in need of this form of assistance as are the people of the west. The agricultural industry will not survive unless the Canadian farmer is able to obtain cheaper money on longer terms. 1 hope that the government, in framing this legislation, will give careful consideration to all the necessities of the case. This is an important measure and I have no doubt that the bankers and frenzied financiers in Canada will try their best to put as many spokes in the wheel as they can in order to prevent the legislation going through. I suggest to the government however that they make a thorough study of the subject before bringing in the bill in its final form; I am sure that

The Address-Mr. Beaubien
in doing so, they will be able to give effective relief where it is most needed. They need have no fear, from the standpoint of support, so far as the members in this corner are concerned or indeed, for that matter, from any member of this House who has the welfare of the country at heart.
I want now to say a few words in regard to the proposed tariff advisory board. I do not know how this will work out, but if I had anything to say to the board I would advise them to look very carefully into the financing of our industries in Canada and to find out how much water they have in their stock. I would also thoroughly investigate the financing of what I might call our artificial industries. If we are to pay off our national debt or to reduce it to any substantial extent we must rely on the development of our natural resources. When we favour, with a duty of 25 or 30 or even 35 per cent, an industry whose existence depends upon imported raw materials, an industry that uses none of our natural products, then indeed we are putting a very heavy tax upon the mass of the people to support something that is altogether artificial so far as Canada is concerned. These industries import their raw material, whereas we should endeavour to stimulate the development of the resources that are indigenous to our own country.
The Speech goes on to say that the government proposes to submit provisions for the immediate completion of the Hudson Bay railway. This is long overdue and I am glad to see that action is going to be taken in the matter. We hear a great deal of talk in Canada about the desirability of having a united country; all our public men are earnestly pleading for a united Canada. Well, there is only one way in which we can unite Canada: we must keep our pledged word. Let me assure the House that the construction of the Hudson Bay railway has so far cost nobody one penny outside of the three western provinces; and when we hear people talking about the attempt to bankrupt the country and to get the east to pay for the completion of this railway we know that they are simply ignorant of the facts. On May 25, 1925, a question was asked by Mr. Hudson, at that time the member for South Winnipeg: What was the total area of land disposed of as preemptions under the provisions of the Dominion Lands Act, passed in the year 1908?
The answer to this was:
12.763,040 acres, approximately, including entries since cancelled.
Some people might say that Hon. Frank Oliver when Minister of the Interior did not

specify in the act that these preemptions were to be utilized in constructing the Hudson Bay railway. But there is n