I have the honour to lay on the table of the House some correspondence exchanged between the Chief Electoral Officer and the Speaker of the House.


That Messrs. King (Kootenay), Casgrain, Charters, Tolmie and Spencer be appointed a committee to prepare and report with all convenient speed lists of members to compose the select standing committees of the House.


I do not think the
motion is in order. It appears under Government Notices of Motions on page 53 of the order paper, and, of course, could only come in its regular turn. Had I had any information about it I would not object, but I ask that it stand until it can come up in the regular course.


I have no objection to the
resolution standing. It was given to me just as I came in, and I thought perhaps my right hon. friend had been consulted.
Motion stands.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. A. de WITT FOSTER (Hants-Kings): Mr. Speaker, I desire to rise to a question of
9S2
Alberta Coal
privilege. The Ottawa Citizen in its issue of February 13, referring to myself, has thi3 heading on an article:	"Asks Freight Rates
out of Board's Hands." May I state that a careful reading of my remarks will indicate that I stated the Intercolonial rates should be taken out of the board's hands, rather than the whole question of rates over the railways in Canada.
On the Orders of the Day:
I would like to call the attention of the Minister of the Interior (Mr. Stewart) to a telegram that has just been received from the Milnes Coal Company, Limited, Toronto, as follows:
Wire what the prospects are for obtaining further supply Alberta coal on seven dollars freight rate. Citizens of Toronto in large numbers inquiring for this coal. Immediate action necessary if situation is to be relieved.
I would ask the minister if he is prepared to try and make similar arrangements with Sir Henry Thornton for a further shipment of Alberta coal at the $7 freight rate to relieve the apparent necessities of the citizens of Toronto.


I thought I had made it perfectly clear to the House on a previous occasion that I did not have anything to do with the $7 freight rate. If my hon. friend will look up the Journal of Saturday, he will note that the arrangements were made by the Ontario government with Sir Henry Thornton. So far as I know, the rate is still in existence; I have not heard of it being discontinued. I wish to make it perfectly clear, however, that this government had nothing to do with the inception of that rate. That rate was put on by Sir Henry Thornton to meet an emergency, and I understood, in conversation with him, that it would remain on so long as the emergency existed. I note from what the Journal had to say the other day that there had been . conferences between Premier Ferguson and Sir Henry Thornton with reference to this matter; but the fuel controller of the province of Ontario, Mr. Ellis, is the man who ascertains the necessities of the case, and who makes the arrangements with the railway company for the shipping of the coal.


On the Orders of the Day:
I should like to draw the attention of the government to an article which appears in the Montreal Daily Star of February 12. It is headed " Ottawa government to investigate the actual transportation rate " and reads as follows:
The government has under its immediate consideration a programme of instruction to the railway commission to examine into and report on the actual cost of moving coal from the Maritimes and from Alberta to central Canada it was learned to-day. Hon. E. M. Macdonald, Minister of Defence, intimated this this morning to a group of Alberta and Maritime members who had met to discuss the fuel problem.
Has the government instructed the railway commission to take action along the lines suggested; and if so what is the nature of the instructions given to the commission?


Perhaps I can best answer that by laying on the table of the House to-morrow the order in council dealing with this matter. Yes, we have passed an order in council asking the board to investigate.


On the Orders of the Day:
May I ask the Minister of Immigration (Mr. Stewart) if his attention has been called to the fact, apparently thoroughly authenticated in our western press, that four young Japanese ladies, graduates of the Tokio Normal College, have arrived in this country and are going to Mission City, and to Ocean Fails, B.'C., to give instruction to Japanese public school students after their regular daily classes? And if that is so, I would also ask under what section of the gentleman's agreement these ladies came in, either as agricultural labourers or as married women, the only two classes for which they are apparently eligible?


This is the first I have heard of the matter, but I will inquire and find out the facts.


On the Orders of the Day:
I draw the attention of the government to a despatch from St. John, N.B., dated February 14, as follows:

Immigration
The Canadian Pacific steamship Montclair arrived in port this morning and docked shortly after twelve o'clock. In addition to the passengers originally booked for the Montclair, those who had been coming to Canada on the Canadian Pacific steamship Marloch, which was in collision recently with a British steamer after leaving Antwerp, were also on board. These were nearly all foreigners, comprising Russians, Italians and Poles.
Passengers arriving on the steamer commented on the fact that there were no less than nineteen languages spoken by people of different nationalities on board.
I should Like to ask the Minister of Immigration whether this is the class of immigrants that is 'being brought in under the comprehensive immigration plan mentioned in the Speech from the Throne, for what purpose these immigrants are being brought into Canada, and whether the minister will give the House an outline of this immigration policy referred to in the Speech?


Mr. Speaker, I could hardly answer offhand so comprehensive a question as that, but may I say briefly-


Then may I make a suggestion. Will the minister make a statement during the present debate? I think the House is entitled to the information.


Yes, I will make the statement on the first convenient occasion. I may say for the information of my hon. friend that we have preferred countries, as well as non-preferred countries, from which immigrants are being selected and brought forward. My hon. friend has made a quotation with respect to the very class which are non-preferred and are coming through the instrumentality of relatives provided they have agricultural experience, and the other qualifications necessary.


May I ask the minister if the class of immigrants referred to in the despatch read by the hon. member are being guaranteed live-years' employment by this government?


The immigrants to which that applies will be immigrants coming forward after the inception of the regulation. Those referred to may have been picked prior to that agreement. I should not like to answer definitely but I can say for the information of my hon. friend that all who come forward under that agreement will be guaranteed employment.


What is the date of the agreement?


Orders of the day.


On the Orders of the Day:
May I call the attention of the government to the fact that there are certain officials in England who still regard Canada as a sort of penal colony. In a despatch from London which appears in this morning's paper I read the following:
S. E. Short, chairman oif (the Birmingham justices of the peace, gave an accused man the choice on Saturday of Canada or trial 6n charges of threatening to shoot a woman and with having been drunk and disorderly.
The prison doctor said that file man was sane, but addicted to. alcohol. His solicitor af once Baid that the man would sign the pledge and leave Birmingham for the Channel Islands. Mr. Shodt, objected. "They are freer with alcohol in the Channel Islands than we are here," he said, "He had batter go to Canada instead."
The accused man agreed, and the charge of threatening (to shoot was withdrawn, and the other charge adjourned for a couple of months for the magistrate to be assured that the man has gone (to Canada.
I should like to ask into which province this man is to be sent?


And will the government guarantee him five years' work.


I fear the Minister of Immigration could hardly answer so comprehensive a question as that. I think, however, I can safely say that man will not come to Canada.


On the Orders of the Day.
I wonder if my hon. friend the Minister of Finance will gratify us with volume 1 of the Auditor General's report.


I have not yet received that volume.


When is it coming?


It is promised to-day. Perhaps it may come before to-day's sitting is over.


On the Orders of the Day:
On Thursday last the hon. member for London (Mr. White) inquired as to whether the government proposed sitting on Ash Wednesday. I replied that we hoped the Address would be disposed of-and we are still hoping -in which case we would follow the usual custom and, I added, adjourn. I find the usual
984	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
custom is to sit, and it is the intention of the government if the Address is not disposed of to continue the session on Wednesday.


Will the minister say when that became the usual custom?


Last year we sat on Ash Wednesday.


The first time, was it not?


I do not recall whether it was the first time or not, but I do recall that a list of holidays was prepared for governing the civil service, and Ash Wednesday was not one of those holidays.


The House resumed from Friday, February 12, consideration of the motion of Mr. J. C. Elliott for an Address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his Speech at the opening of the session, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Sutherland (South Oxford).
Mr. Speaker, before addressing myself to the motion under discussion, and to the amendment thereto. I wirfi to make a few remarks concerning a statement made by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell) during his speech on the present debate last week. The minister delivered a very amusing address, although I cannot say it was instructive, during which he said:
One question upon w'hich the opposition and myself are agreed is that we get down to business.
Now, Mr. Speaker, we on this side fully agree with that statement. We have been expecting that the government would show some sign of bringing down their legislation, and we are prepared to deal with it the moment it is brought in. The Minister of Agriculture proceeded as follows:
Let us see what kind of business we have been engaged in so far as the result of the obstructionist tactics of the opposition.
Mr. Speaker, I do not agree with the statement that the opposition are practising obstructionist tactics. Obstruction, in parliamentary language means, to prevent or hinder the passage of legislation introduced by the goverment. What legislation have hon. members prevented from passing up-to-date? What business has been presented by the government for hon. members to consider? I have before me the orders of the day, the routine of proceedings for to-day, Monday, February

15, 1926, and it does not in any way differ from similar orders placed in our hands from day to day since the beginning of the session. I notice under the order "Introduction of bills" that there are no bills for the consideration of the House; and up to the present moment the government has not presented any measures for us to deal with. The next order is the special order "Consideration of the Address in reply to the Speech from the Throne." Now, Mr. Speaker, the government cannot say that we have not applied ourselves to the discussion of that Speech. The members of the House have discussed it so ably and so vigorously that the government has been practically paralysed and rendered dumb. Hon. members of the three minor groups have apparently entered into a conspiracy of silence and the debate has been carried on by members of the opposition. The next order is in connection with private bills, and there are only two of those bills on the order paper, moved by members of the House. The next order "Questions" contains 140 questions asked by private members, none of which has been answered by the government. The next order is "Notices of motion for production of papers." I see that forty-nine of these motions have been presented to the House by members of the three opposition parties in the House. None of them has been presented by followers of the government. The next order is "Notices of motion." These notices of motion bring forward certain resolutions inviting expressions of opinion by the House, generally relating to public business of importance to the country. These are all brought in by private members, largely on this side of the House, and two or three by the minor groups in the House, but none by the followers of the government. This circumstance makes it evident that the followers of the government have not up to the present period of the session taken any interest in the business of the country. The next order is "Public bills and orders," and all of these have been presented by private members of the House, largely on this side. None of them has been presented by followers of the government and none by the government itself. The next order of business is "Government notices of motion." This order of business contains only one notice, and that is a notice of motion for the adjournment of the House. To-day we have another motion which appears for the first time, namely the motion presented by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) a few moments ago, asking that a special committee be appointed! to select the standing committees for the session. This notice appears after the House has been in session for
FEBRUARY 15, 1926	F
The Address-Mr. Anderson (Holton)
five weeks whereas the usual custom is for it to appear on the first day of the session. The government then had not been preparing for business up to the beginning of the sixth week. The next order of business is "Government orders," and here we have the following order:
Resuming the adjourned debate on (t!he motion of Mr. Lapointe that in the opinion of this House, in view of the recent general elections, the government was justified in retaining office and (in summoning parliament.
This was the ill-fated motion introduced on the first day, which was so adroitly thrust aside by the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Meighen). This motion was introduced by the leader of the government following the time honoured precedent by which parliament asserted its rights and powers to discuss and to attend to any public business before proceeding with the Address from the Throne. In presenting that motion the leader of the government announced to the country and to the world that under our constitution the people rule, and that the representatives of the people in parliament assembled are supreme. It was then the right and the power of the government to present any question of public importance for the consideration of this House without proceeding with the Speech from the Throne, and giving it precedence over the Speech from the Throne. The leader of the government followed that up by another motion which was presented to this House on the 8th January, which will be found on page 11 of Hansard, which reads as follows:
Hon. Erneat Lapointe (Leader of the House):	I
move, seconded by Mr. Macdonald (Antigonish-Guysborough) that the Speech of His Excellency the Governor General to both houses of parliament be taken into consideration on Monday next, and that this order have precedence over all other business of the House excejpt government notices of motion and introduction otf bills, until disposed of.
Hon. members will notice that the government especially excepted two orders of business which they could have proceeded with, even if the Speech from the Throne had not been disposed of. They could have brought in during that time notices of motion on which bills could be presented to this House and discussed by the hon. members. These bills could have had a first reading and could have been laid upon the table, and put into the hands of hon. members in order that they might study them and be prepared to discuss them when they came up for second reading. But no bill has been introduced and no business has been presented to the House; consequently I claim that the Minister of Agriculture is not justified in saying that members of the opposition are holding up business when there is no public business to transact.
In connection with this motion there is one significant fact to which I would direct the attention of the House. I took the trouble to look up Hansard for the first days of each session since this government came into office in 1922, and I found certain facts which are rather illuminating and which give us a clear indication of the intention of the government. I noticed that on March 8, 1922, the first session of the fourteenth parliament was convened. On the opening of the session, on the first day, the motion giving precedence to the consideration of the Speech from the Throne was moved by the Prime Minister, and in that motion he excepted the introduction of bills as the only order of procedure given precedence over the Speech from the Throne. On the first day of the session a special committee to select the standing committees was named. On January 31, 1923, the second session of the fourteenth parliament, the same procedure was adopted, and the only order of business given precedence over the Speech from the Throne was the introduction of bills, and again the special committee to select the standing committees was named. On February 28, 1924, the third session of the fourteenth parliament was convened, and the same procedure was adopted. I he introduction of bills was the only matter before the House that was excepted, and a special committee to select the standing committees was announced. On February 5, 1925, the fourth session of the fourteenth parliament, the same procedure was adopted. Ihe only order given precedence over the Speech from the Throne was the introduction of bills, and a special committee to select the standing committees for the session was named.
Now, Mr. Speaker, the government of the day had the right, if they so wished, to except other matters of business, but in those-four sessions of the fourteenth parliament it was clearly indicated on the first day that the government intended to proceed at once with the public business. They took the proper steps to do so. They made provision for their standing committees to function during the- sittings of parliament. But what do we find on January 7, 1926, at the opening of the first session of the fifteenth parliament? The same procedure was adopted with regard to the Speech from the Throne. The motion was introduced and the government especially excepted introduction of bills and also government notices of motion. The first time that government notices of motion had been excepted, and another exception, a very vital one, was that the government did not name a special committee to select the standing

The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
committees for the session, clearly indicating that the government did not intend to proceed with public business when they met parliament on January 7. This is a clear indication that the government deliberately deceived parliament and the country. They met parliament with not a single seat vacant in the House but failed to go on with their business. By that very fact they admitted their impotency, but still they cling to office. That shows very , clearly that this side of the House is not obstructing business.
The Speech from the Throne which we have been considering since the first day of the session, has been so linked up with the motion for adjournment that we cannot pass it without agreeing that this parliament shall cease to function for five weeks. I am not opposed nor objecting to the Speech from the Throne. It means nothing; it is simply a tentative programme presented to parliament in order, if possible, to induce members of the three minor groups to vote with the government. This adjournment will lengthen the session of the House by five weeks, and I oppose that adjournment because of the added expense that it would incur, as the adjournment is part of the session. Whether parliament sits or not, the expenses of the session will go on. I have before me a clipping which I took from the Ottawa Citizen of February 10. This is an article by their special correspondent who, I think, should know what he is speaking about when he sends this broadcast to the country. He says it will and does cost $30,000 a day to run a session of parliament. I think those figures are too high; I think the gentleman is taking into consideration, in connection with this session of parliament, expenses that are on a yearly basis, such as indemnities of members of the Senate and House of Commons, salaries of ministers and probably salaries of officials in some of the departments. But supposing we cut that in three and say that it costs $10,000 a day-and I think even that is a high estimate-an adjournment of five weeks will cost the country $250,000 for the mere purpose of adjourning in order that the government may be able to repair their trenches and prepare for the work which they should have had in readiness for the meeting of the House.
An adjournment in the midst of a session is the most effective measure that could be adopted to obstruct public business. It means that the House shall cease functioning, shall do no business for five weeks. Therefore I say that the government are obstructing business. They are the real obstructionists; in fact, they are the obstruction. We want that obstruction removed. We are quite

frank about it. What the country wants, the only thing that it will accept, is that this government should cease functioning and give way to another one. Business will never become normal in Canada until that is brought about. What has become of our Progressive friends to my left? Those who were in the last House spoke very frequently and loudly about wanting sessions of parliament to be convened earlier in the year. They went even so far as to say that they would like to have a session before Christmas with an adjournment until after the New Year, and then start the business of parliament early in January so that they could get away in time for their spring seeding. What has become of their farms now? Have they no spring seeding to do this year that they should become such "willing vassals" of an impotent government? I must apologize to the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) for using a remark that he made in this House when he said, applying the words to this side of the House, that we were "willing vassals of a foreign power." The hon. gentleman in those words expressed volumes with regard to his attitude towards the empire. What has become of the independence of the hon. member for Labelle that he has become such a " willing vassal " of the usurper of the premier office of the Dominion of Canada? The Right Hon. Mr. Mackenzie King, who is so anxiously waiting for returns from Prince Albert to-day, stated very frequently while in opposition in this House that if he were made Prime Minister he would convene parliament early in January in order to meet the wishes of our friends of the Progressive party. But since he has attained office, he has failed to implement his pledges with any performance. He is something like Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, one time Labour Prime Minister of England, who very frankly admitted, after he became Prime Minister, that those things were not so easy. He made this frank admission in the British House of Commons:
In regal'd to our pledges and their fulfilment, why should I not confess we -were a little innocent in this matter? Things which seemed very simple to carry out when we were without experience became very complicated and difficult when we became members of the cabinet responsible for them.
That is exactly the position of the Right Hon. Mr. Mackenzie King to-day and the government find that these things are not so easy when they are in office.
With regard to the amendment moved by the hon. member for South Oxford (Mr. Sutherland) a week ago to-day, may I, just for the purpose of refreshing the memories of

The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
hon. gentlemen behind the government who do not seem to be taking interest in this debate, read it?
We desire respectfully to express regret that resulting from the policy of and recent trade agreements made by the present government the dairy products industry of Canada is now being subjected to most unfair and unwarrantable competition from other countries, and that the Speech from the Throne gives no indication of any remedial legislation which would remove the discrimination under which this industry suffers.
This is a very important resolution which aims at remedying the defect in the treaty. That treaty came before the House last June and it went into effect on the 1st October, 1925. When it was before the House last June, it was thoroughly discussed by members on both sides. At that time I took occasion, in connection with the treaty, to make some remarks which I do not feel I have any need to retract, and I shall read them to-day largely because in the course of those remarks the attitude of some of our Progressive friends to our left is brought out. As reported on page 4853 of unrevised Hansard of last year, I made this statement:
Mr. Anderson: Mr. Chairman, although T am not opposed to the advantage given the pulp and paper industry under this treaty, yet I do not believe it is proper that that advantage should be gained by sacrificing our agricultural interests. I think our agriculturists need just as much protection os any other branch of Canadian industry. Under this treaty they will be up against almost a free trade proposition with respect to the farm products of Australia, the import of which must result to their serious disadvantage. In that regard I do not feel that I can support this treaty, although I agree that we should do everything possible to get a market for our manufactured products. But we should also conserve our own market here in Canada particularly for the agriculturists, and especially those who are engaged in mixed farming. I am satisfied that our friends from the west who support this treaty now will find it detrimental to them when they go into mixed farming a few years hence. I should think that they ought to look a little bit into the future.
Mr. Campbell: May I point out that the three prairie provinces to-day, taking into consideration the rural population, produce more butter and cheese per head of population than all the other provinces?
Mr. Anderson: Then I will guarantee they will feel the competition coming from Australia more than the rest of Canada will, and that when the treaty comes into operation they will be soriy they voted for it.
An hon. member: We have not voted for it yet.
Mr. Anderson: Will hon. gentlemen support it?
Some hon. members: No.
What I said then is coming true to-day and the dairy industry of Canada is beginning to feel the effects of the Australian treaty. It is interesting to recall some of the statements made in this House at the time by members of the Progressive group. For instance the hon. member for Rosetown (Mr. Evans), who was then a member, made this statement:
Mr. Evans: Now, we should be doing all we can to foster primary production in this country, and
particularly in the basic industry, which is agriculture,
and if this country is to prosper this must be done.
Mr. Anderson: Are we doing it by means of this treaty?
Mr. Evans: No, that is what I am saying.
This clearly indicates that 'the hon. member was in favour of protection for agriculture; he opposed the treaty for the simple reason that he felt that the protection which was enjoyed by the dairy industry in western Canada was being taken away by the treaty. The hon. member for Brandon (Mr. Forkel also contributed a few remarks which will be found on page 4674 of Hansard:
Now, when I look out to the west I remember that the people there are great consumers of raisins-perhaps no other dried fruit is more generally used in the prairie provinces, and when I think of my own constituency and the large amount of duty they will be called upon to pay under this treaty, I .feel that I will have to vote against it. It is contrary to the principles which we have always professed that tariff rates should be increased, consequently I feel as a matter of principle that I cannot support this treaty, although I do not entertain perhaps the same hostility towards it as the hon. member for Bow River, but, balancing the whole thing, I thing I will be compelled to vote against the measure.
The only increase in duty brought about by that treaty was a slight one on raisins in the general tariff, and yet the hon. member for Brandon opposed the agreement on that ground.	I thought I would look into the
question to see what the Objection amounted to and I find that the duty on raisins up to then had been two-thirds of a cent per pound. That duty was increased to 3 cents per pound in the general tariff while raisins were allowed in free from Australia. I might make the point here that the hon. member for Brandon contended that free imports of raisins from Australia would not reduce the price of that commodity inasmuch as they could not supply the market, and he argued that we should still be using California raisins, paying 3 cents per pound on them. But even with the 3 cents per pound duty, I find that we imported in 1924 38,000,000 pounds of raisins on which duty amounting to $1,140,000 was collected. This meant 12J cents per capita of the population or 65 cents per family of five, while if we deducted the two-thirds of a cent per pound which was on before the increase the duty would amount to 10 cents per head or 50 cents per family. Surely that is not a very great price for the constituents of the hon. member for Brandon to pay in order to maintain protection to the dairy industry of western Canada. As I have said, we imported in 1924 38,000,000 pounds odd of raisins at a cost of $3,222,000, when we paid two-thirds of a cent per pound duty, and in 1925 we imported 44,000,000 pounds at a cost of

The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
$3,157,000, a reduction of over $100,000 in the total price paid, although the importation was
6,000,000 pounds more. This proves that the increased duty did not cause any increase in price, which was materially reduced.
With regard to the vote which was taken on the treaty when it was brought up in the House, I have before me a copy of Hansard of that date showing the division.


Can the hon. member tell us what countries those raisins came from? Hid they come from California as before?


A large quantity came from California as before. Now, the division as it appears in Hansard shows that hon. members of the Progressive group in the House at that time and who are in the present House voted against the treaty, and they voted against it on the ground that there was an increase in duty on raisins. But in the light of the facts that I have already cited you can see how small that objection was, and I am constrained to believe therefore that the real reason why those hon. gentlemen voted against the treaty was the fact that it was going to do away with a certain amount of protection on the dairy products of the provinces they represent. They are in favour of protection on the things they sell while they advocate free trade in respect of what they buy. That is the only conclusion I can come to, and it is interesting to note in that connection that five members of the Progressive party now in the House who were opposed to the treaty at that time did not vote at all. I am not going to name them for I do not wish to infer anything from the fact that they did not vote. There are [DOT]many circumstances beyond the control of a member which may prevent him from voting at any time, and there may have been circumstances best known to those hon. gentlemen which made it impossible for them to vote on that occasion.
The amendment before the House challenges the existence of the treaty. It is a demand for its amendment, to remove the restrictions under which the industries of dairying and mixed farming suffer in Canada. This bias been very clearly stated by other speakers, but I intend to enlarge somewhat upon it. The concessions to our manufacturing industry undler the present treaty could have been secured without any sacrifice of our agricultural interests. In fact the first agreement entered into between this government and the Australian government provided for that very thing. The government did not present the agreement

to parliament, and we could get no information concerning it from official sources, but we did learn from the American press that the treaty provided for a substantial increase in the general tariff in order that Australia might be given a substantial preference in our markets without sacrificing the agricultural interests of .Canada. That proposed treaty was not presented to parliament because hon. members of the Progressive group opposed it. The government thereupon amended the agreement reducing the duties on the general tariff to their present level and sent it to Australia for ratification, but in so ' amending it the Canadian government in some instances reduced the duties on agricultural products from Australia to the free trade line. When the new treaty was brought down hon. gentlemen of the Progressive group voted against its ratification, but they delegated a sufficient number of their colleagues to vote for the treaty in order to save the government.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I state in the most positive terms that I want to see manufacturing industries flourish in this country-I want to see the paper industry flourish, the fishing industry, the automobile industry and the iron and steel industry flourish-these and all other industries in this country I desire to encourage, but I do not want to see them flourish at the expense of agriculture. I am in favour of protection for all our industries -including agriculture. In a word, I am in favour of the policy enunciated by the Conservative party in the last campaign-that all interests and all classes in Canada should receive the benefits of protection.
The districts in which mixed farming, dairying and fruit growing are carried on, are the beauty spots of this Dominion. In fact, Sir, they improve upon nature, they make the very landscape smile with happy homes embowered in flowers and fruit. That is the outstanding feature of a prosperous agricultural industry in any country; it makes for a contented people. Naturally these are the sections which with their beauty and prosperity attract tourists. And these smiling districts are to be found all over Canada. You will find them in the Annapolis and adjacent valleys of Nova Scotia; in the valley or the St. Lawrence in Quebec; along the north shore of lake Ontario, extending thirty miles inland; in the Niagara peninsula, which has become a veritable garden; along the north shore of lake Erie; along the shores of lake Huron, extending for miles inland; also in the Okanagan and adjacent valleys of British Columbia, and in the delta of the Fraser river. These fruitful sections connect-

The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
ing the Atlantic with the Pacific are a very beautiful and a distinct connecting link. In short, Sir, mixed farming is a national industry. I am not now speaking in the interests of any province, but of the whole Dominion. Agriculture in other parts of Canada is flourishing, but in the sections I have enumerated it is ia very distinct industry, and a blow at our mixed farming is a blow
4 p.m. at our national existence. The capital invested in our dairy and mixed farming activities runs into hundreds of millions of dollars. We produce similar pioducts to those which are produced in such profusion in Australia and New Zealand- fruit, vegetables, butter, cheese, and meats- all of these are produced in Canada, but they are produced in even greater profusion in the Antipodes. Why, then, should we give the. people of Australia and New Zealand these tariff concessions?


May I ask the hon. gentleman a question? Are not raisins, which are produced in vast quantities in Australia, one of the commodities accorded very favourable treatment under the Australian treaty? I am not aware that we produce raisins.


A concession
was given to the Australians on raisins, and as we do not produce this fruit ourselves, there is no reason why we should not allow it in free. But Australia and New Zealand can produce the other articles I have mentioned much cheaper than we can on account of their more favourable climatic conditions. Nearly half of Australia is in the tropical zone and the other is in the south temperate zone. Thus that country can produce fruits and vegetables under just as favourable conditions as they can be produced in the United States, and the competition of our Antipodean cousins in these lines is almost on a parity with similar competition from the United States. While the distance from Australia is greater, involving higher transportation charges, yet this is more than offset by their climate, which does not require the Australians to house their cattle during the winter; it does not require the winter storage of fodder for their cattle; -it does not require any winter care of plants and fruit trees. Consequently their cost of production is very much lessened. They have another advantage in that their summer season is our winter season, and under this treaty their grass-fed butter will be coming in here during the winter months to compete with our stable-fed butter, which costs us considerably more to produce. This will be a serious menace to our dairy producers.
Many of our farmers 'have gone to great expense in improving their herds, their stabling, their facilities for storing fodder, t'heir feeding equipment during the winter months, in order to cater to the wants of the Canadian people throughout the winter. We have also large sums of money invested in creameries and cheese factories all over the country in order that a steady flow of these products may be maintained to our own market and to the export market. In addition to those capital investments we have a large amount of capital invested in cbld storage plants for the purpose of preserving the summer or grass-fed butter for winter consumption in order to maintain a steady flow of this commodity ,the year around, and so prevent any sharp rises in price. The people interested in these various activities have a right to expect the government to conserve their investments. But this government, apparently unknowingly, throws their interests in the waste paper basket in order to advance the interests of the people of the Antipodes. In other words, this treaty affords a splendid opportunity to our cousins in Australia and New Zealand to capture the Canadian market for dairy products, particularly in the winter season when prices are high. Yet the government, blind to its duty to its own people, and obsessed with the idea that freer trade, irrespective of competition, produces national prosperity, is jeopardizing an industry which it should be protecting to the utmost.
The concession given by the Australian government on manufactured articles, which she cannot produce and which she needs, is no real concession to offset the concessions which this government has granted to the dairy farmers of Australia. The Australians wanted our manufactured articles. On the other hand, they asked and received concessions on what they do produce on an extensive scale and naturally have a large surplus for export. Consequently, they are looking for export markets, and they are very glad to get concessions for their products in the Canadian market. They would not ask for these concessions if they did not feel they could successfully compete in the Canadian market; and they can successfully compete in our markets because the transportation charges are not greater than the transportation charges the Ontario farmer has to pay who ships butter to Calgary. The two can meet there in competition on equal terms, and the consequences will be that the dairy industry of the west will meet with severe competition from Australia and New Zealand just as soon as they are able to ship
990	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
their products into our market. The Australian government of that day must have felt they were dealing with amateurs in diplomacy when they met our ministers, for the Australian people knew absolutely that this trade treaty would not be in the interests of Canadian agriculture. Their Minister of Trade and Commerce said so. He apparently had a better conception of what the treaty would mean to Canadian agriculture than our Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) for what did he say? I am quoting now from the speech which the hon. member for South Oxford (Mr. Sutherland) made in this debate only a few days ago. The Australian Minister of Trade and Commerce, Mr. Pratten, said:
The problem was to arrive at a result which would achieve the main objects of the negotiation, namely, a wider market for our primary products with a minimum of disadvantage to our secondary industries. The utmost care has been exercised to attain the result, and I feel sure that a careful examination of the proposals will prove that it has been attained.
Further on Mr. Pratten said:
We can readJily imagine that the concessions proposed by Canada on primary products, of which she is a large producer, will lead to criticism by representatives of Canadian primary producers on the ground that their interetsts are being sacrificed to Canada's need for markets for manufactured goods.
Evidently the Minister of Trade and Commerce for Australia sized up the situation and foresaw what the results would be in Canada. He felt, as the members of this House felt, that agriculture in Canada was being sacrificed in the interests of industry. This man, thousands of miles away, was able to size up the situation better even than our Minister of Finance, who, speaking of the Australian treaty, said in this House on June 22, 1925:
We do not claim that this is going to be of any material advantage to agriculture, but we do claim that it will not injure agriculture.
That is the postion the Minister of Finance took. He felt that the treaty was not in the interests of agriculture, but. he was willing to take the risk of injuring agriculture in Canada to see how the treaty would work out.
Another point I wish to take up is in connection with the extension of the Australian treaty to New Zealand. Twice before the question has been asked in this House as to the extension of the Australian treaty to New Zealand, but no answer has been elicited from the government. An order in council was passed on September 26, 1925, and the question was asked in the House whether by that order in council the same concessions given to Australia were being extended to New Zealand, and if New Zealand was giving to Canada the same concessions that Australia

was giving. The hon. member for South Oxford asked:
What concessions were received from New Zealand by extending to that country the same treaty that was extended to Australia, and what pressure was brought to bear by New Zealand to secure the advantages Australia had received?
That question was asked of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell) who replied:
I will answer that very shortly. I do not know all the details, but I know that we are all in the one family.
But he did not come back to the question. and1 'he gave no answer to it.


Excuse me. That
was the end of my remarks, and I did not want to open up the question again.


The hon. member for East Calgary (Mr. Davis) also raised the same question. He said :
According to the order that has been passed in council, we as a Canadian -people do not enjoy the same privileges and rights in connection with this treaty as we do in connection with the treaty with Australia. The order in council provides that our markets can be used for the shipment of Australian products for which we receive no consideration whatever. Therefore I say that if we have a government which is willing to open up our markets, under conditions which this order in council provides, for t'he products of other countries in competition with our own products without receiving any consideration whatever, it is the duty of this parliament to deal with the situation. If any minister to-day is of the opinion that I have made in this House an assertion that is not correct, I will give him a few moments to take an opportunity o-f correcting it.
No answer was forthcoming from the members of the government, and several of them were in their seats. That question has not been answered yet, and it is an important question, and should be cleared up. Has New Zealand given us any concessions in return for the concessions that have been extended to her, or was the order in council just a blank order allowing New Zealand products to come into our market without our receiving in return any concessions whatever? This House and the country are entitled to an answer to that question, and I think the members of the government who are now in the House should make some attempt to deal with it.
As regards the trade of Australia and New Zealand-, if we look at those two countries combined, in order to see if they can compete in the Canadian market, we find that the combined area of Australia and New Zealand is almost equal to that of Canada-3,078,443 square mil'esl. The combined population of those two countries in 1921 was 6,654,000, while that of Canada in the same year was 8,778,000. In 1923, the combined foreign trade of

The Address-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
Australia and New Zealand amounted to $1,747,4:75,000, while Canada's, trade in the same year amounted to $1,747,875,000, or a difference of only $400,000. The combined foreign trade of Australia and New Zealand works out at $160 per capita, while Canada's amounted to $104 per capita. The combined exports of Australia and New Zealand in 1923 amounted1 to $825,335,000, as compared with $945,295,000 for Canada. But when you look at their dairying, at their mixed fanning, you will find the difference is much greater and much less favourable to Canada. Australia and New Zealand combined have 1,008 factories engaged in dairy production, and they produced in 1923, 370,000,000 pounds of butter and 146,667,000 pounds of cheese. Their production of butter was far in excess of Canada's production, which amounted to 151,000,000 pounds. Canada also produced in that same year 135,000,000 pounds of cheese. So Canada must face keen competition in both these products, and it must be borne in mind that Australia and New Zealand will certainly export more of these products because they have a smaller combined population than Canada. Consequently they compete in the keenest manner with Canada in the British market, and there will also be very serious competition in the Canadian market under the terms of the present treaty. The exports of butter from New Zealand and Australia in 1923 amounted to 204,593,000 pounds, the exports from Canada to 21,900,000. Of cheese in the same year they exported 149,600,000 pounds whereas the Canadian exports amounted to
114,000,000 pounds. The same year there were exported from New Zealand and Australia 152,000,000 pounds of tallow, and 1,236000 dozen eggs. Now, a serious situation will be caused if this butter enters the Canadian market, and it has been coming in since this treaty was negotiated. I have here some figures given me by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics. They show that in 1924 there was no Australian butter imported into Canada, or in the year following, 1925, until the month of December when a few pounds, amounting in all to 278, came in. But in January, 1926 -and it will be remembered that the treaty became effective on October 1, 1925-476,198, pounds of Australian butter were imported into the Dominion, showing that Australia has already taken advantage of the treaty to ship her butter into Canada. A similar condition applies with respect to New Zealand. There were quite a number of pounds coming into Canada from that dominion in 1924, but the significance of these imports lies in the fact that they nearly all came in during the winter
months. Just as soon as summer comes along New Zealand butter ceases to compete in the Canadian market, but the competition begins again in the fall of the year, when the cold weather is approaching, in order to derive ,the advantage of the increased1 price in the Canadian market. In 1925 there was scarcely any butter entering from New Zealand1 until about the end of the year when imports commenced to enter this country. In November of that year the imports of butter amounted to 37,800 pounds. In December the importations amounted to 13,000 pounds and in January, 1926, to 570,185 pounds. That was the amount which came in in one month. It is still coming in, and will continue to come in in greater quantities as time passes, Showing very distinctly that those countries in the Antipodes are going to take advantage of the Canadian market at the very time of the year when it costs the Canadians most to produce their butter, and when Australia and New Zealand can produce their butter at a minimum of cost.
The same is true with respect to fruit. Aus