On the Orders of the Day:
In
the course of my speech on Tuesday evening I was asked by the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) whether certain figures that I had presented as the average wages earned in Canada by those employed in the manufacturing industries included salaries. On the spur of the moment I replied in the affirmative, but on going over the figures again I find that I should have answered in the negative. I want to take this opportunity of correcting that statement in fairness to all concerned.


On the Orders of the Day:
I beg to call the attention of the Minister of Customs and Excise (Mr. Boivin) to a report which appeared in this morning's Citizen, as well as in other newspapers, of a speech which is alleged to have been made by him in Montreal yesterday. The minister, according to the report, made the statement that he did not think that the people wanted an election, and he proceeded to say that all that had been discussed at Ottawa was whether a Governor General from England would decide or whether the people should choose. May I ask the minister whether that report is correct or not? If it is, then the statement would seem to me to be a most injudicious one.


I am glad to have the opportunity of replying to the question asked by my hon. friend. It is true that I spoke in Montreal last night before the members of the Young Men's Association at the Montreal Reform Club. I hope that those who do me the honour of reading the press reports of my speech will not attribute the misleading headings to myself. The headings as everyone knows are the work of the editors of the respective newspapers in which the report appears and were not inspired by me. As regards the specific statement that has been brought to my attention by the hon. gentle-

The Address-Mr. Doucet
man, the exact translation of the words which I used in the French language would be as follows: The question that has been decided at Ottawa was whether or not the leader of the government should be chosen by the people of Canada through their elected representatives or by His Excellency the Governor General upon the advice of one who was described by the opposition as a defeated Prime Minister. I am sorry that the words "His Excellency " were not used in the translation; they should have been there, as also the words "upon the advice of one who was described by the opposition as a defeated Prime Minister."


I understand the hon
member to deny having used the phrase, "Governor General from England"?


Yes.


There seem to be several hon. members who are maltreated by the press now.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, might I ask the government whether it is its intention to appoint an envoy to Washington this session, or does it intend to wait until after the next general election?


The suggestion of my hon. friend
will certainly be taken into serious consideration, and I will give him some information later.


Which suggestion?


The House resumed from Wednesday, January 20, consideration of the motion of Mr. J. C. Elliott for an Address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his Speech at the opening of the session, and the proposed amendment thereto of Right Hon. Arthur Meighen.
Mr. ALEXANDER J. DOUOET (Kent, N.B.): Mr. Speaker, when the House rose last evening I was discussing the platforms upon which the last election was contested throughout the Dominion. I had reached that stage where I had demonstrated-conclusively, I believe-that in the Maritime provinces, instead of being elected as a Maritime group ready to oppose our right hon. leader (Mr. Meighen) we were returned on the policies of
a protective tariff and consideration of our transportation problem as dealt with by my right hon. leader in his speech of June 2 last.
Now I come to the province of Ontario. Yesterday afternoon the hon. member for South Perth (Mr. Sanderson) said that the tariff was the real issue in that province. But I ask this House, what was the issue in the seventeen Ontario ridings where the government had no candidates? Certainly it was a most extraordinary thing that in the last election 31 out of the 245 seats were not contested by the government; in other words, in 12i per cent of the federal seats, or one-eight of the whole representation, the government could not find candidates willing to sacrifice themselves to their political convictions. If the tariff was the real issue in the province of Ontario, unquestionably the great majority of the electors in that province decided emphatically in favour of the programme offered by my right hon. leader.
Next let me deal with the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan. The hon. member for St. Boniface (Mr. Howden) said that the issue in the west was transportation. But in Manitoba I find the government failed to contest six constituencies. In Saskatchewan they allowed two to go by default-Long Lake and Qu'Appelle. I think we see before us this afternoon the reason why Long Lake was not contested by the government. In Alberta the government also allowed two seats to go by default. If transportation was the primary question in the prairie provinces, then most assuredly the Conservative vote in the last election compared with that polled in 1921 shows that the people out there have faith in the proposition put forward by our party to make it possible to transport the products of the east and the west to the central provinces, and if need be, let the whole country shoulder the burden.
Now I come to a discussion of the campaign in the old province of Quebec. This is the more important, Sir, because 60 per cent of the hon. members sitting on your right were returned by that province; that is, out of an available 99 votes, 60 are from Quebec. In that I am not including the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa). I purpose to show that some of the propaganda used and some of the speeches delivered in that province on behalf of the government were entirely aside from the real issue-the tariff. Throughout the campaign in that province our friends discussed in the majority of the constituencies every other issue but the tariff, and to confirm my statement I need quote only from Le Soleil, the chief Liberal organ in the province
The Address-Mr. Doucet
of Quebec. In its editorial columns of October 15 last I find the following:
A bas T imperial! isme!
Nos adversaires ont cherch6 a distraire 1'esprdt du peuple de la question vitale de Ja presente campagne, en aveuglant l'electorat de chiffres et de th6ories pro-tectionnistes. La question supreme, celle qui domine toutes les autres, c'est Timp^rialisme.
I do not want to vouch for the translation, but to me that quotation would read something like this:
Down With Imperialism
Our opponents have tried to divert public opinion from the important question of this campaign by blindfolding the electors with statistics and protectionist theories. The supreme question, that which overshadows all others, is imperialism.
Now, Sir, I think I shall be able to establish by further quotations that in some sections of that good province the campaign was carried on as a campaign of hatred and prejudice by the chief Liberal organs of the province, by some of the most outstanding' speakers of the province, and even by some of the ministers of the crown.
Will the
hon. member allow me to ask him a question? In order to make it clear to the House, would he tell us what were the views of the leader who had charge of the opposition campaign in the province of Quebec?


With reference to Imperialism.


Of Canada.


I have no hesitation in
using that phrase-the grand old man of Canada-speaking August 19, 1914, in this House said:
The gravity of the occasion which has called us together makes it incumbent upon us even to disregard the formalities and conventionailities which in ordinary times the rules of the House, written and unwritten, enjoin as a wise safeguard against precipitate action, but which, on such an occasion as this, might impede us in dealing with the momentous question before us. This session has been called for the purpose of giving the authority of parliament and the sanction of law to such measures as have already been taken by the government, and any further measures that may be needed, to insure the defence of Canada and to give what aid may be in our power to the Mother Country in the stupendous struggle which now confronts her. Speaking for those who sit around me-
He occupied the seat which my right hon. leader occupies at the moment.
-speaking for the wide constituencies which we represent in this House, I hasten to say that to all these measures we are prepared to give immediate assent.
Not only in the beginning, but later on during the debate he used these words:
But to-day the spectre of civil ifrar has vanished from Ireland; all Irishmen are united, ready to fight for king and country. The volunteers of the north and the volunteers of the south, forgetting their past differences, stand shoulder to shoulder ready to shed thedr blood for the common cause. And, Sir, may I not say that the hope is not vain that in that baptism of blood may be washed away, and forever washed away, the distrust of one another which has been the curse of Ireland in ages past.
But it is not only in Ireland that you find this union of hearts. In the two other united kingdoms the voice of faction has been silenced. Even those who on principle do not believe in war admit that this was a just war and that it had to be fought. That union of hearts which exists in the United Kingdom exists also in Canada, in Australia, in New Zealand. Yea, even in South Africa-South Africa, rent by war less than twenty years ago, but now united under the blessing of British institutions, with all, British and Dutch together, standing ready to shed their blood for the common cause. Sir, there is in this the inspiration and the hope that from this painful war the British Empire may emerge with a new bond of union, the pride of ail its citizens, and a living light to afll other nations.
That bond, sir, you cannot maintain, that tie you cannot cement, by political campaigns begun and carried on in such a spirit as the editorial I have just read to the House exemplifies.


Will my hon. friend state
whether, when the words he has just quoted were pronounced, conscription existed in Ireland, Australia or New Zealand, or in any other British dominion except Canada?


It did not exist in
Canada.


I am not a student of
history, and I do not happen to have under my hand at the present moment the information which my hon. friend the Solicitor General (Mr. Cannon) seeks, but what I do know is this, that in 1898, there were no provisions in the Militia Act whereby soldiers could be sent from Canada to participate in a war overseas. I know this further, that the party of the hon. gentleman seem to blame the Tories of this Dominion for everything done since confederation in connection with Canada's part in overseas wars, but I want to point out that it was the amendments that were made to the Militia Act in 1908 by my hon. friend's own party that made it possible for Canadians to be sent overseas to fight.
The leader of the Liberal party of that day expressed his views on the question of Canada's participation in the war on the floor of this House, and those of you who wish to read it will find reported on page seven of Le Soleil of Friday, September 25, 1914, that speaking before a convention of Methodists in Ottawa at that time, Sir Wilfrid Laurier used these words:
Adressant la parole a un convention de methodistes, k Ottawa, sir Wilfrid Laurier dedlara, en parlant de la guerre, que "nous devions etre fiers de ne pas etre les agresseurs dans le present conflit. Nous devons etre fiers," dit-il "malgre toute la repugnance que nous avons pour la guerre, de participer a cette guerre pares que *nous combattons pour la cause de la justice et de la sincerity. L'histoire fait voir que '.orsque 1'empire britannique entra en guerre, c'Stait parce que la paix ne pouvait pas etre honorablement maintenue. Notre devoir en Canada est d'aider la mere patrie jusqu'k la contribution de notre dernier dollar, et la participation de notre dernier soldat, si necessaire.
Nearly all the members of this House must have read the statement published in the papers, and repeated by hon. members opposite, that the right hon. leader of the opposition was the man who first said that this country was in the war to the last man and the last dollar. Now, I will translate the passage I have just quoted from Le Soleil of September 25, 1914:
Addressing a Methodist convention Held in Ottawa, Sir W'ilfrid Laurier said, speaking of the war: "We ought to be proud not to be the aggressors in the present conflict. We ought to be proud in spite of our disgust for war to participate in the present struggle, because we are fighting for the cause of justice and sincerity. History teaches us that when the British Empire took part in a war it was because peace could not honourably be maintained. It is our duty as Canadians to aid the Mother Country, even by contributing our last dollar and our last man, if necessary.
The Address-Mr. Doucet

Those were the words of the then great chieftain of the Liberal party, and we have to-day unmistakable evidence-evidence that cannot be contradicted-that those who follow him in this country, and who pretend to recall the spirit of that grand old man to the electors of their province, have at the same time practically accused him of disloyalty by pretending that he was opposed to any participation by Canada in empire ware, and they lay the whole blame for Canada's participation in the war, if blame it be, on the leader of the opposition.


Will my hon. friend say
whether he took any part in the election in the province of Quebec in 1925?


What has that to do with
it?


I am addressing my hon. friend from Kent, N.B. (Mr. Doucet).


The question is irrelevant.


Never mind the interruptions; I rather invite them. Once you get under a man's skin, he generally squirms. I was not hesitating to give my hon. friend the Solicitor General an answer; I only waited for him to resume his seat. I took no part in the general elections in Quebec in 1925, but I did take part in the by-election in the county of Rimouski in 1924, and I want to say this for the hon. member for Rimouski (Sir Eugene Fiset), that, in his own by-election of 1924, I do not believe he was guilty of using any of the stuff that was used in the last general election.
SIR EUGENE FISET: Will you kindly tell me if in that by-election of 1924 you and your-


Order.


Order. I must remind
hon. members, first, that interruptions can take place only with the consent of the hon. gentleman who has the floor; secondly, that when an hon. member addresses the House he must address himself to the Chair. Otherwise, we cannot have orderly debate.


As a general rule I have
no objection whatever to interruptions.


You have quoted from Le Soleil and have drawn conclusions-


Order.


I would ask hon. gentlemen not to interrupt. It is not conducive to order.


I have so far been allowed to quote only from Le Soleil. I can, however, assure hon. gentlemen opposite that if they will give me time, and I assure them they will lose nothing by waiting, I shall quote from other sources. I did not know that hon. gentlemen opposite had so much "repugnance" to Le Soleil. I qualified my assertions at the outset by stating that this had occurred in some of the counties of the province of Quebec, but I think before I take my seat I shall be able to show that this sort of campaign was carried on in most of the counties in Quebec during the last election, and not only in the province of Quebec, for Le Soleil was distributed to every house in my own constituency, and house to house canvasses were made and the people told that if Doucet was elected we would have a war with Turkey within thirty days.
In that same editorial from which I have just quoted I find this:
Huit annees nous separent de l'nnnSe terrible, eelle de la conscription. C'est beaucoup dans la vie d'un in-dividu. En huit ans, des memoires, surtout parmi lea peisonnes a peine arrivees 4 la majorite, ont le temps d'oublier. Mais la Providence, qui veille sur lea des-tinees de3 peoples, a suscite, au cours de ces dernieres annees, un incident qui a ravive le souvenir de la grande tragedie de 1917 et reveille les justes coleres. Bile a rendu 4 la question de participation forcee toute son actuality.
I translate as follows for the edification of hon. members:
Eight years stand between us and the terrible year, the conscription year. This is quite a stretch in the life of an individual. In the course of eight years, memories fade, particularly in the case of persons who barely reached their majority. But Providence which keeps a watchful vigil on the destinies of people, has brought forth in the course of the last few years an incident which revived the memory of the great tragedy of 1917 and aroused righteous anger. It has restored to the question of compulsory participation its fullest actuality.
Further on the same editorial says:
Ready, aye ready we are!


Hear, hear.


My hon. friend the Solicitor
General says "Ecoutez, ecoutez."


Sans doute.
Ready, Aye, ready we are! Paroles providenfciella* qui sauveront le Canada du gouffre imperialiste 1 Grftce k elles, 1 indignation populaire s'abattera de nouveau sur le faeatique qui les pronongat.
Ready, Aye, ready, we are! Providential words which will save Canada from the chasm of imperialism. Thanks to them, popular indignation will once more fall upon the fanatic who uttered them.
And it concludes:
Done, Arthur Meighen met le Canada en danger.
Or:
Therefore, Arthur Meighen puts Canada in danger.

The Address-Mr. Doucet
That is part of the campaign literature which was distributed throughout Quebec and parts of New Brunswick during the campaign, and yet certain hon. members from the province of Quebec and ministers of the crown claim the campaign was fought on the issue of protection.


Oh, oh.


The hon. gentleman did
not make clear his assertion-


Order.


I simply want to ask my
hon. friend a question.


Ask it and do not make a speech.


The hon. gentleman has not made good his assertion that it was claimed that if Mr. Meighen were returned to power war would be declared with Turkey at once. From what paper or what editorial can he quote anything of the kind?


I did not make that assertion and Hansard will bear me out but the insinuations throughout the editorial would certainly lead one to believe it. What I stated was that in my constituency eanvassers, on behalf of the Liberal government, went from house to house and declared that if Doucet were elected we would have war with Turkey immediately. Until that time I had no knowledge of my importance as a factor in imperial politics. To show that this editorial "down with imperialism" was found to be very acceptable to its subscribers and was thought to be doing good work throughout the province it was reprinted in Le Soleil of October 28, 1925, just on the eve of the election. We must conclude that those responsible for it thought it had produced an effect and that by reprinting it the editorial might do better work yet. I quote from the editorial in question the following:
En cas de conflit, on salt ce que ferait Arthur Meighen. II recommencerait les orgies de 1914 et pous-serait la logique de son fanatisme jusqu'k la conscription et a l'abolition presque complete de notre souve* rained parlementaire.
Est-ce que le peuple se laissera entminer h tel point en de vaines considerations protectionnistes qu il en oublie la grande question nationale par excellence: l'autonomie du Canada et la lutte a un impSrialisme desastreux.
I translate this as follows:
In the event of a conflict we know what Arthur Meighen would do. He would repeat the orgies of 1914, and would carry the logic of his fanaticism to conscription and to the almost complete abolition of our parliamentary sovereignty. Will the people allow themselves to be led to such a degree by vain protectionist considerations, that they will forget the 14011-20
great and outstanding national issue of the autonomy of Canada and the fight against a disastrous imperialism?
Apparently the fiscal policy of Canada, party programmes, and so on were not the questions at issue. The real issue was autonomy for Canada and a fight against imperialism. The editorial concludes as follows:
L'eleetorat devra bientot choisir en ces deux chefs.
II lui appartient de decider s'il consent a risquer de renouveler I'aventure de 1914 a 1918.
Translated it reads:
The electorate must soon make a choice between these two leaders. It behooves it to decide whether it is willing to risk a renewal of the adventure of 1914 to 1918.
Now, Mr. Speaker, sometimes cartoons are very instructive, and when one has not very much to do they serve to while the time away.
I have a cartoon here issued by Le Soleil on October 24, 1925. In the French inscription Mr. Meighen is made to say:
Jusqu'au dernier sou, jusqu'au dernier homme pour l'empire.
The last dollar, the last man for the empire.
You have here the leader of the opposition and standing in the background Mr. Gauthier and Mr. Patenaude. On the other side you have Mackenzie King in the foreground and close by I see the smiling countenances of my hon. friends Messrs. Lapointe, Cardin and Cannon. Mr. King says:
Pas un sou ne sera depense, pas un homme ne sera mobilise pour l'empire.
The translation of the French inscription attached to the cartoon in which Mr. King and his colleagues appear is:
Not a dollar will be expended, not a man will be mobilized for the empire.


That is King's idea?


Yes, that is King's idea.
This cartoon was distributed through the medium of the chief Liberal organ of the province of Quebec. One hon. gentleman from the province of Quebec felt somewhat cross because I included the representatives of the entire province in this category. I made it clear, however, that what I was giving were quotations from some of the Liberal organs. I have now to give a quotation from a speech made by the Solicitor General at Trois Rivieres.


I never spoke there.


Take it back.


Read the quotation and let us see where he did speak.


I shall quote from Le
Soleil of October 15. The despatch is dated

The Address-Mr. Doucet

"Trois Rivieres, October 15, from our special correspondent." I see the meeting was at Grand'Mere. That does not matter very much; it could not have been very far from Trois Rivieres when a correspondent sent his information from that town. The despatch says that the meeting was held at the city hall of Grand'Mere which was packed! to the doors. I do not think the Solicitor General will deny that fact.


I spoke at Grandi'Mere. I did not speak at Three Rivers.


This report says speaking of my right hon. leader:
II est l'auiteur de la loi de conscription, ill est l'au-teur de ces ordre3 en conseil pour autoriser la poflice k venir chercher les consents dans vos campagnes et meme k se servir de chiens policiere. Etes-vous en fa-veur de 1'avoir?
The English translation of that statement is:
He is the author of the Conscription Act, he is the author of the orders in council authorizing the police to hunt the conscripts in our rural districts and even to make use of police dogs. Do you favor his election?


Low tariff!


If that were printed by
some paper not recognized as the chief organ of the party, or spoken at some meeting by some would-be political campaigners who have no responsibility in this House, or who may never acquire that responsibility, we might ignore it, but that comes from a minister of the crown-a member of the government. He was speaking to a meeting of electors in the constituency of Three Rivers-St. Maurice.


In order to shorten my hon. friend's remarks, I may tell him that I do not take back one word of what I said.


Where does that come in the tariff?


I will show my hon. friend later.


The Solicitor General (Mr. Cannon) will have ample opportunity to show wherein he stands and how he can connect that with one of the planks of the platform of 1919 which I have before me and which reads:
Resolution on National Unity
Recognizing that the crown of Six Wilfrid Laurier's life work and the dearest wish of his heart was the establishment of racial concord and national unity throughout the Dominion, the Liberal party of Canada in national convention assembled emphatically condemns all attempts to create racial discord and national disunion and would hold up as a lasting example to the Canadian people the inspiring ideal of that great Canadian-a united Canada in which all Canadian!
fMr. Doucet.]
shall be on an equal footing, all working together in harmony and concord for the upbuilding and aggrandizement of their common country.
Those are very eloquent words, and I wonder not that they are applauded by hon. members opposite, but, Sir, I say that the old adage, "Example is better than precept" should be applied. And rather than applaud the reading of the paragraph, they should practice what they preach.
Now, Sir, the same minister of the crown, speaking at St-Malachie, is reported as follows:
L'honorable M. Cannon fait alors remarquer que si la guerre est finie elle peut recommencer. II im-porte done de prtivenir les coups et de ne pas mettre k la tete du gouvernement un homme 'toujours pret k lancer le Canada dans un nouveau conflit comme si le grand derangement de 1914-18 n'avait pas fait couler assez de larmes dans nos foyers, (appl.)
Translated:
The Hon. Mr. Cannon observed that if the war was over it might break out again.
That is the low tariff campaign.
It is therefore imperative that a recurrence of such happenings be prevented by not placing at the head of the government a man who is ever ready to throw Canada into a fresh conflict as if the great disturbance of 1914-1918 had not caused enough tears to be shed in our homes. (Applause.)
Those were the words of the Solicitor General himself.


Promoting unity.


Promoting unity-national unity. It would be interesting to have just at this moment a copy of the Toronto Globe of the following morning-I was going to say the morning after the night before-the morning following the evening on which my hon.
friend spoke in Toronto, and to
4 p.m. compare those words with the words used! at GrandtMere and the other places I have mentioned. But he is not the only one, there are others in the same class and in the same boat. They often say they are misquoted, but the Hon. L. A. Tasehereau, Premier of the province of Quebec-


He is not here.


No, he is not here, but
he spoke of those who were not present when he was speaking at Chateau Richer, and L'Evenement of October 34, 1925, reports him as saying:
"Combien de jeunes gens", dit 1'honorable M. Tasehereau, "sont alors venus nous demander de les faire exempter du service militaire! Mais la loi Borden-Meighen 6tait inexorable. II fallait partir pour Valcartier. Soixante mille des notres sont tomb^s sur lo champ de bataille europ^en."

The Address-Mr. Doucet
The translation reads:
"How many young men", said the Hon. Mr. Tas-chereau, "came to us and asked us to have them exempted from military service? But the Meighen-Borden law was inexorable. They had to leave for Valcartier. Sixty thousand of our sons fell on European battle-fields."
If that be true, what would have been the situation if the law o.f 1908 had been applied without any provision for exemption? The most that can fee charged against those who were responsible for the administration of affairs in those days was that they applied compulsory service; but they took the means by which those who had the right to be exempted could be exempted, and not drawn by lot, as they would have been under the law of 1908, prepared by the Liberal government. I admit, Sir, that that was correct, and my hon. friend the member for Rimouski (Sir Eugene Fiset) who was Deputy Minister of Militia at the time, and who undoubtedly had charge of the administration of that part of the act, knows full well that it was true.


The hon. member
knows that I did not administer that act.


My hon. friend will have
an opportunity to correct any statements in regard to which he thinks I may be wrong, but I should like to proceed now without interruption. But there were others too. The hon. member for Quebec West (Mr. Parent), who is not altogether a [DOT] stranger to that Liberal organ from which I have been quoting all afternoon, held a meeting at St. Augustine in his constituency, and although he himself did not make any statements out of the ordinary,-at least no such statements were attributed to him in that paper-he had with him a young man by the name of Jean Marie Fortin of Le Soleil, who said:
On ne peut oublier des gens qui nous ont claqufl dans le dos, mais s'il en est parmi vous qui veulent encore des jobs h $1.10 par jour, pour s'en aller pour-rir dans les tranchees ils n'ont qu 'h voter pour Meighen et Patenaude.
We cannot forget those who formerly knifed us in the back, but if there are any who are still looking for jobs at a dollar ten a day to go an rot in the trenches all they have to do is to vote for Meighen and Patenaude.
The reporter Says that there was applause and I suppose that the hon. member for Quebec West applauded with the rest of them. I have here a little pamphlet, the sort of thing we call a dodger in business, and although it is one of the requirements of our election law that the name of the printer shall appear at the bottom of every pamphlet or piece of printed matter circulated in connection with any election, I notice that this 14011-20J
particular pamphlet does not comply with the act in this respect. It declares:
Un vote pour Davidson est un vote assur6 pour Meighen, le pere de la Conscription.
Si vous voulez que vos fils aillent & la guerre, votez pour Davidson.
A vote for Davidson is a sure vote for Meighen the father of conscription. If you want your sons to go to war vote for Davidson.
There was another member of the provincial government of Quebec who took part in that campaign, the Hon. J. E. Perreault, Minister of Mines and Colonization, who spoke at Victoriaville in the county of Drummond-Arthabaska. This gentleman, who has not so far denied it, is reported as having said:
Vous savez comme moi que M. Meighen est l'auteur de toutes les iniquit^s du regime bleu, qu'il est II'auteur de la fameuse loi de conscription et qu'il s'en vante. Vous vous rappedez, jeunes gems de Victoriaville, les tristes jours que nous avons v6cu pendant que Meighen etait au pouvoir. Vous vous rap.pelez que merae apres la guerre, alors que tous les pays avaient pardonnS aux conscrits qui ne s'6taient pas rapport^s, M. Meighen les pourchassait quand meme et faisait remplir par ses agents da prison d'Arthabaska.
You are aware as well as I am that Mr. Meighen is the author of all the iniquities of the bleu regime- that is, the Tory regime. He is the author of the famous Conscription Act and he boasts about it. Young men of Victoriaville, you recall the sad days we lived through while Meighen was m power. You recall that even after the war, when all countries had pardoned the draftees who had not reported for military service, Mr. Meighen still kept on their trail and had his agents filling the Arthabaska jail.


What paper is the hon. member quoting from and of what date is it?


I	am	quoting from Le
Soleil of October 13, 1925, from a report of its special correspondent bearing date Victoriaville, October 12. Now the Hon. J. E. Caron, Minister of Agriculture of that province, also took part in the campaign. He spoke at Levis at a meeting in the drill hall at which the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) was present, and in concluding his speech, as reported in L'Evenement of October 6 he said:
Pour terminer 1'orateur s'attaqua a M. Patenaude et a M. Meighen. II insista sur le souvenir de 3a loi de conscription en montrant un nouveau fleau possible causS par la guerre greco-bulgare.
In conclusion the speaker launched an attack on Mr Meighen and Mr. Patenaude. He stressed the memory of the Conscription Act and pointed to the possibility of a new call resulting from the Greco-Bulgarian war.
Hon. members will recall with interest that the Minister of Justice who was present at Levis when these words were spoken made the statement in this House the other day that the question at issue in Quebec was protection versus low tariff. I have here a circular or cartoon which I understand was distributed in that district by hundreds of thousands and I
The Address-Mr. Doucet


Will my hon. friend allow
me a question? Is he aware that the Premier of the province of Quebec denied this report?


He did not deny it.


I am talking to the hon. member for Kent (Mr. Doucet), not to the leader of the opposition (Mr. Meighen).


Order.


The rules apply to everybody in this House, and I should like the Speaker to enforce them.


You cannot get away from it.


Mr. Speaker, I believe the hon. member has stated his question. This is my answer. It is a question of veracity between the Premier oif the province of Quebec and the correspondent of Le Canada, represented in this House by the member for St. James (Mr. Rinfret). But on my own responsibility as a member of this House I have no hesitation in stating that in view of the general tone of the campaign throughout Quebec and the other provinces where such tactics might benefit the Liberal party, I think it is altogether probable that he might have uttered those words. I have another poster. This was printed on behalf of the hon. member for Sherbrooke (Mr. Howard). Now, a little while ago the member for St. Hyacinthe-Rouville (Mr. Morin) took objection to my including the whole province, and I then stated that there may have been some counties where this campaign of misrepresentation was not resorted to, but I am including the great majority of the counties of that province in my argument. On behalf of the Liberal candidate for the county of Sherbrooke this poster says:
Votez pour C. B. Howard, le eandidat du peuple.
Un vote pour Worthington est un vote pour Meighen, l'auteur de la conscription, du fanatisme et de tous les scnndales de la guerre.
Vote for C. B. Howard, the people's candidate.
He lias no platform. He is not the Liberal candidate, he is the people's candidate.
A vote for Worthington is a vote for Meighen, the author of conscription, fanaticism and all the war scandals.
That was the campaign of moderate or low tariff as carried on in the protectionist town of Sherbrooke! Now, Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to delay the House-

The Address-Mr. Doucet


Go on, take your
time.


-but I want to be fair to every hon. member, 1 do not want to neglect any of them. I have here a four-page circular to the electors of the county of Matane- that is getting rather near home in my case- a circular which, by the way, does not contain any imprimatur, no one seems to be responsible for it; but I am certain that neither Meighen's nor Patenaude's followers in that county were responsible for it. It says:
II fut le -principal instigateur de la conscription, qu revoltait tons les instincts de notre nationality.
He-
Of course that is Meighen.
-was the chief instigator of conscription, which was revolting to all the instincts of our nationality.
II traqua notre jeunesses sur toutes les places publi-ques et j usque dans leurs foyers.
He hounded our young men in all public places, and even in their homes.
II provoqua dans la ville de Quebec des 6meutes qu'il fallut reprimer dans le sang.
He provoked in the city of Quebec riots that had to be quelled in blood.
II laissa insudter toute notre race par ses journaux et par un pitre du nom de Harry J^auder.
He allowed all his newspapers and a clown known by the name of Harry Lauder to insult our race.
II n'eut pas un seul ministre canadien-fran^ais 61u dans son cabinet.
He did not have in his cabinet a single elected French Canadian minister.
The province of Quebec did not give him any material, so how could you blame him? Nor did the province give him material in the last election.


They might take the hon. gentleman in. -


pate in it? Sir Wilfrid Laurier was the first man in this capital city of Ottawa to say that we should carry on this war to the last man and the last dollar? During all the years from 1914 to 1917 he supported every measure introduced for the purpose of carrying on that war overseas, and every follower of his-and there are some within my hearing this afternoon-voted for every war budget passed at every session of that parliament. I say, Sir, that it little becomes my French-Canadian friends opposite, though they constitute 60 per cent of those sitting on your right, Mr. Speaker, to appeal to my compatriots of their province and other provinces on the question of conscription. Since Mackenzie King came into power in 1921 he has handsomely rewarded those who left Sir Wilfrid Laurier and crossed the floor to put the Conscription Act upon the statutes of this Dominion. I do not have to cite any names; we have them on the bench; we have them on the public commissions of this country, and we have scores of them in the upper chamber where they are to be taken care of for the rest of their natural lives. By whom? By William Lyon Mackenzie King, the Prime Minister of this Dominion, and by the men sitting behind him who have approved of every measure of that nature. And they, Sir, come to us and display before the whole French-Canadian population of this Dominion that campaign of race hatred, religious prejudice and anger, for their own personal gain and political self aggrandizement.
As I said at the outset, Mr. Speaker, it is not a pleasant task to perform, but I want to tell my hon. friends opposite that they are a minority group in this House, that they count only 101 members providing the Prime Minister himself can be re-elected in Prince Albert, and if they expect to carry on the government of this country upon the lines of the last campaign in the province of Quebec, they are sadly mistaken, because the rank and file of this House and the people of this country generally are not going to be dragged into a turmoil of that nature again.
I shall conclude by saying this: Let my hon. friends opposite take a lesson from this afternoon's sitting. Since 1917 we have not had men in this House representing the Conservative party who could plead for the rights of the French-Canadian minorities in the other provinces, and hon. gentlemen opposite have had it in their minds that for their own interests they could stir up racial hatreds and political prejudices in this Dominion; but let them beware; the time has arrived when we must unite in a greater bond of national friend-
ship and national unity, and work for the greater grandeur of our whole country.


Mr. Speaker, as one of the new members of the House, speaking for the first time, I trust that I shall be able to make myself understood. Allow me, first of all, Sir, to compliment you upon your re-election to the high office which you now hold. As a new member I am especially glad that we have in the chair such a fair-minded gentleman, and one who is willing to be patient with those who are here for the first time and overlook any of their shortcomings in parliamentary procedure.
I also wish to compliment the mover (Mr. Elliott) and the seconder (Mr. Lacombe) of the Address. I realize that it is very difficult indeed to know just what to say and how to say it, but both hon. gentlemen acquitted themselves nobly and well.
With references to the remarks of the hon. member who has just spoken (Mr. Doucet), I may say that down in our province we take some Ontario papers, mostly of the Conservative leaning, and during the election campaign, as well as before and after, I read these Conservative papers a great deal. I have no doubt, therefore, that I too could compile a dictionary, or encyclopedia, or whatever my hon. friend may choose to call it, containing references which have appeared in these Ontario papers equally uncomplimentary to my leader the Right Hon. Mr. Mackenzie King and to the party sitting on this side of the House. But I shall not take time to go into the field that he has covered, except to say that the less we have of this stuff-to use his own word-from any side of the House, the better I think for all concerned.
I am very glad, Mr. Speaker, that great latitude is allowed hon. members in this debate, because most of us on this side of the House at least are not legal men, and it is very hard for some of us to confine ourselves strictly to one particular subject. Speaking as a business man, I have this to say: First of all, I think we need co-operation on the part of all the provinces. I have noticed in the speeches that have already been delivered in this debate that not a great dteal has been said by hon. members regarding the particular constituency which they represent. I believe with the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bour-assa) that what we need in this country is "diversity in unity;" or perhaps we might say, unity in diversity.
I was reading an editorial the other day which took my eye, and which I think

expresses very clearly my sentiments in this regard. It says:
Co-operation is the word on Parliament Hill. The path out from political confusion, instability, and ineffectiveness is seen to be along the lines of cooperation between groups of opinion that can work together. There may still be a considerable minority who believe that party interests come first, before the nation's interests, but the great majority of Canadian people want to see this Parliament rise above party politics for the greater cause of national unity and prosperity. The Maritime Rights group-
I have the honour to belong to that group.
-unless they are wedded to partyism, could profitably co-operate with other groups to carry on government, to the general advantage of Canada, as well as of the Maritime provinces. They need only get together with members from western Canada, to find how much they have in common, and how much the interests of producers and consumers can be advanced in every part of the Dominion by mutual aid.
Until the Conservative and Maritime province groups are ready to co-operate, the others can go ahead at least to the extent of forming the first co-operative administration. Readiness to co-operate has been expressed by Liberal, Progressive, Labour and Independent members. No time should be lost in promoting this desirable forward movement.
Better times are coming in Canada. The business outlook is encouraging. All the signs point to healthy progress. Parliament can surely help, by co-operation in deed as well as in word.
The situation is such that party government on the old fashioned plan cannot give Canada political stability. People in this eastern part of the Dominion might as well recognize that an adjustment has to be made in the direction of western views, whether they are termed progressive, liberal or radical.
Many people in the Canadian east are, indeed, ready to move forward to meet the west. No one party or group can accomplish that readjustment. It must be by co-operation. The most feasible co-operation in this parliament should be between Liberals, Progressives, Labour and Independent members, representing the majority of people in the country.
We sometimes find fault with the people in the republic to the south of us because, we say, they know more about the geography of their own country than they do of places outside. I think that is a very good fault, if fault it can be termed. The trouble with us as Canadians-and this has been very forcibly brought to our attention recently by the highest lady of the land-is that we do not know our own country. Only yesterday a gentleman speaking in this House-I forget just who it was at the moment-referred to the mining of coal in Prince Edward Island. I have the honour to represent that province, and I may say that there is no coal mining in Prince Edward Island. I only cite this as an illustration of the fact that we are not very well acquainted with each other. Only the other day I had an inquiry from a friend of mine regarding the Peace river district and when I came to think over it, I found that I knew nothing (whatever about that particular district. Had I been familiar with
The Address-Mr. Jenkins
the geography of Canada I should have known something about the Peace river country, but in order to learn what the conditions were there I had to ascertain the facts from the member representing that constituency. I am free to confess that is not a very edifying state of affairs. I am afraid that we Canadians, or at least a good many of us, know more about conditions in other countries than we do about conditions in this Dominion, and that should not be the Case. So I say to our western friends, in fact to all hon. members in this House, that we who represent the Maritimes here are willing to shake hands with you, are willing to study your problems and to help you out of your difficulties, and I trust that you are willing to act in the same way towards us. Because it must be remembered that co-operation should not be one-sided. Some folks are only willing to co-operate when things are going their way, but we should not follow that principle here.
As to the present condition of the country, Canada is going ahead; there is no doubt whatever about it. During the election campaign in our province we laid emphasis on that fact. We showed that prosperity was once more returning to this Dominion, and I notice in MacLean's Magazine of January I, 1926, an article by J. Herbert Hodgins along the same line. I crave the indulgence of the House while I read a few extracts from that article. He says:
When all is said and done, in the main, 1925 was good to Canada, "good", that is, in the economic sense, by reason of a tremendous crop with stimulating revenue possibilities, by reason of an accelerated and far-flung international commerce, and by reason of momentous development of those natural resources for which we have long counted Canada potentially great.
Then the writer goes on to give the opinions of well-known Canadian public men in the same tenor, and deals with the revenues from all Canadian industries for 1925 as compared with 1924, showing that the receipts last year were several hundred million dollars to the good. I might go on and mention many facts indicating the great improvement which has taken place in business conditions throughout Canada, and showing that the opinion of all those connected with banking and other financial institutions is that Canada is going ahead. I shall simply content myself however, with quoting this further paragraph on the development of the tourist business in the Dominion:
Then there is our rapidly developing tourist business which may be considered to have assumed a dependable basis of return. It was estimated a year ago that Canada's tourist trade was	to Jihis
country "new wealth" to an amount of $143,000,000 per annum. Certain it is then that with the stimu-
The Address-Mr. Jenkins

lated tourist traffic of the past season any previous figures must have been exceeded.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to represent the constituency of Queens, Prince Edward Island, and I find that a great many people, even in this parliament, know very little about conditions there. The other day the hon. member for Cumberland (Mr. Smith) painted a very dark picture of conditions in Nova Scotia. He said: "There may be prosperity in some parts of this great Dominion but in my part of the country there is none -in fact the condition is the reverse of prosperous." That statement recalled to my mind the fact that not long ago we had in Nova Scotia a Liberal government which had been in power a long time, and the cry was raised in certain sections of the Maritime provinces that if that government were only overturned, a greater measure of prosperity would result. I am not finding any fault with the present Conservative administration in that province, because it has its own troubles; but we were told by the newspapers that the moment the Conservatives came into power in Nova Scotia they settled practically everything, including the coal strike. Under the circumstances I am sorry to see my hon. friend (Mr. Smith) painting such a gloomy picture. If the present leader of the provincial government had only taken him to one side and coached him a little before he came to Ottawa, we should not have heard such a pessimistic story from the hon. gentlemen.
The outlook, Mr. Speaker, is not dark in our section of the Maritime provinces. Furthermore, I understand that so far as Nova Scotia is concerned her fruit crop was pretty good last year and that times are fairly prosperous in the "valley," as they term it there.
I have also been informed by hon. gentlemen representing some of the counties in Nova Scotia that the fishing was good in 1925.
I know that last June I went through the steel plant at Sydney and I found that it was running in splendid shape. I am afraid the hon. member for Cumberland must be looking at matters through blue glasses.
Speaking for Prince Edward Island, I think I am safe in saying that conditions were never better. I wired the provincial Department of Agriculture the other day for the purpose of ascertaining the details of the crop yield for 1925. I will ask the indulgence of the House while I read some of the facts imparted to me, and make my comments as I go along. The value of the yield of wheat was $79S,000 and of oats $2,468,000. The yield of barley was valued at $110,000, buckwheat $52,000, p