On the Orders of the Day:
That the following motion made by Mr. Woodswortb on Monday, March 15: "That in the opinion of this House a wage sufficient to provide for a reasonable standard of living should constitute a legal minimum wage" be referred to the select standing committee on Industrial and International Relations.
He said:	This was the understanding at
the conclusion of the debate on that motion on Monday last.


There does not seem to
be any reason why I should object. One cemetery is as good as another, and this one seems equally acceptable to the mover of the motion and to the government.


Is my hon.
friend the guardian of the cemeteries?


Motion agreed to.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
VANCOUVER HARBOUR-FATAL	ACCIDENTS
['1.\tYes.\n2.\tYes.']
Department of Public Works:-
1.	No.
2.	(a) No. (b) see (a).
Department of Marine and Fisheries:-
1.	So far as the Department of Marine and Fisheries is concerned complaints as to difficulty in navigating through the bridge in foggy weather only, have been received.
2.	No.


What portion of the building in Paris known as the Scribe hotel is occupied by the Canadian National Railways, and what has been the total capital and other expenditure upon said property to date?


Office occupied by Canadian National Railways has an area of 200 square metres, with a frontage of 15 metres on Rue Scribe. The amount expended by Canadian National Railways to acquire control of the entire property was $2,800,000. Under the lease to the Societe des Hotels Reunis, the tenants have expended approximately 15,000,000 francs in alterations and improvements, which will revert to the railway company as lessor, at the termination of the lease. The latter is for a period of 40 years on terms which will provide a return to the National Railways of 5 per cent per annum on the investment, in addition to providing rent free the office space above referred to, which has a rental value estimated at $15,000 per annum.

163S

Questions as Orders jor Returns


1.	Has the report yet been received of the official sent out by the Soldier Settlement Board last fall to investigate soldier settlers' farms in the electoral district of Comox-Alberni with a view to consideration of revaluation?
2.	If so, will the report be tabled for information of members?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.


1.	What number of motor cars have been purchased by the government since January 1, 1922, and assigned to members of the government?
2.	What department heads have been so supplied?
3.	What was the date of purchase in each instance, make of car and purchase price?
4.	What has been the cost o-f maintenance or upkeep in (a) wages of employees; (b) cost for repairs and (c) quantity of gasoline used by each?
5.	How many of these cars were of American manufacture?


1.	What is the total cost of government owned canals m Canada including amounts spent prior to confederation ?
2.	Were any allowances made by the Dominion government at the time of confederation to Upper or Lower Canada for expenditures on canals by those provinces prior to confederation?
3.	W'hat is the actual cost of each canal system in Canada ?


This was an order for
return, which I now table.
EXPORTS OF PULPWOOD *
iMr. SIMPSON:
1.	How many cords of pulpwood were exported during 1925?
2.	What amount from each province?
3.	How many cords of each of the following classes of pulpwood were exported from each province: spruce, poplar, balsam and jack pine?


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, reports and orders in council, relating to the diversion of the waters of the Great Lakes by the Chicago drainage canal, including all communications with the government of Great Britain, the British ambassador at Washington, D.C., and the government of the United States.


Mr. Speaker, there is no objection to the 
adoption of the motion provided it is understood that if the correspondence includes certain documents which the United States may-object to having brought down, they will not be produced.


Mr. Speaker, it is true
that some of the papers have been brought down, but none of the correspondence with the British government has been produced. This is the most important part, because Canada is not a party to the treaty. I would like to have tabled the correspondence of the government of Great Britain on this question.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. ALEXANDRE J. DOUCET (Kent, N.B.) moved:
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents exchanged between railway employees of Mont-Joli, Quebec, and the Department of Railways.
Mr. Speaker, on Monday last I directed the attention of my hon. friend to the fact that this order would date back almost to confederation, and asked him to limit it in some way.


Mr. Speaker, had I not
had my time taken up in the Customs committee I would have interviewed my hon friend. I would ask for the correspondence dating from May 1, 1923.
Motion as amended agreed to.


On the motion of Mr. ARTHURS:
For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams or recommendations relating to an embargo upon pulpwood or to a proposed export duty upon pulpwood shipped from Canada, such order to apply to correspondence, etc., subsequent to January 1, 1921.
Mr. Speaker, I notice the hon. gentleman is not in his seat. This might stand.
Motion stands.
TRADE COMMISSIONERS Mr. ROSS (Kingston) moved:
For a return showing the names of all appointees as trade commissioners, of all dismissals and resignations from such positions, and also a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, and other documents connected with the same appointees, dismissals and resignations, during the years 1922, 1923, 1924 and 1923.


Mr. Speaker, I
would like the question to be dropped, as I have received the information.
Motion dropped.

Taxation in Canada


Mr. ALEXANDRE J. DOUCET (Kent, N. B.) moved:
For a return showing:
1.	The numbers of each of the following, lieutenant generals; major generals; colonels commandant; colonels; lieutenant colonels; majors; captains; lieutenants; non-commissioned officers of each rank; privates at present or at the latest date at which the information is available, in the employ of the government of Canada in the permanent force, including civilian employment and the air force, (a) at headquarters at Ottawa, (b) at each military district in Canada.
2.	How and where each is employed, appointment, regimental, staff or otherwise.
3.	The amount paid each annually (a) in cash, (b) amount given to each annually by way of allowance, showing details of allowances.
4.	The amounts deducted from or charged to each annually on any account (other than penalties) showing details of deductions.
5.	Those employed as instructors, with the rank of each and where employed.
6.	The number of persons instructed from August 1, 1924, to August 1, 1925, the rank of each, the course given each and where each instructed.
I think the 'hon. Minister of National Defence (Mr. Macdonald) suggested' to my hon. friend that he should indicate more in particular the information he wanted, inasmuch as the motion as it stands would involve a great deal of research and Icopying. Perhaps my hon. friend would let the matter stand until he has a chance of conferring with the minister.


Stand.
Motion stands.


On the motion of Mr. Stevens:
For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, documents, etc., passing between R. J. Crombie of the Vancouver Daily Sun, Vancouver, British Columbia, and the Prime Minister of Canada or any other minister of the crown, or any officer of the government and having reference to the price charged in Canada for newsprint and the price at which Canadian newsprint is sold abroad, together with all documents and reports made to the government in regard to the same during the years 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925 and to date in 1926.
In connection with this *
resolution, Mr. Speaker, I understand that certain matters have been undertaken by the government which the passing of this resolution might adversely affect, and I would therefore suggest that it be dropped for the time being.


Dropped.
Motion dropped.


On the motion of Mr. Culligan:
For a copy of any letter or letters written by Mr. H. Boulay, of Sayabec, county of Matane, to the Minister of Militia and Defence at Ottawa, on January 18, 1918.
I understand that the minister desires to know the subject matter of the letters referred to. These letters are indexed according to the subject matter in the department, and perhaps the hon. member would indicate what the subject matter is.


On behalf of the hon. member for Restigouche-Madawaska (Mr. Culligan), may I ask that the motion stand until he is here.
Motion stands.


On the motion of Mr. Morand:
For a return giving a settlement of all permits issued by the Minister of Immigration, under section 4 of the Immigration Act, showing the names of all persons permitted to enter Canada under the said section during the years 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925; the occupations and former residences of all such persons; the dates and places of entry into Canada; the duration of their stay in Canada as allowed by such permits and whether still in Canada; and if so, their present places of residence; and if not now in Canada, the dates and places when and where they left Canada.
I do not think there will be any objection to this motion, but in the absence of the minister I would be obliged if it could stand.


Stands.
Motion stands.


On the motion of Sir Henry Drayton:
For a copy of the report or reports, finding or findings, made by the late Honourable William Pugsley, in his capacity as custodian of enemy property, or any other capacity while in the pay of the government of Canada, since his retirement as Lieutenant-Governor of the province of New Brunswick.
May I ask my hon. friend to let this motion stand, as I should like first to communicate with the Secretary of State?
Motion stands.


[DOT]
Whereas it was deemed necessary and expedient to impose an income tax by the parliament of Canada as a revenue measure growing out of the war and to temporarily invade the former exclusive field of the municipalities to collect this form of taxation.
And whereas such taxation has led to duplication and there in an urcent demand for reduction of taxation and to restore to the municipalities their former exclusive rights and prerogatives to this form of taxation. Therefore this House will support the government in any immediate measures it may take to give effect to the principles of this resolution and so rcducc taxation.
Taxation in Canada

He said:	Mr. Speaker, at the request of
some of the municipalities I am bringing up this question of taxation. Formerly, income taxation was imposed by the municipalities and provinces alone, but in 1917, during the stress of the war, the federal government initiated income taxation. It may have been a necessity during the war, but it was generally hoped that as soon as the war was over, in view of the increased burdens imposed by the war upon the municipalities of this country from coast to coast, and in view of the further fact that the federal field of taxation was unlimited, this form of taxation would be left as formerly to the municipalities and the provinces.
The main problem before this country today, Mr. Speaker, the one that is discussed upon the public platforms, in the press, by boards of trade, chambers of commerce business men and the working classes generally, is taxation. We spend many days in parliament here, but very seldom do we devote an hour or even half an hour to the most important question before this country to-day, taxation, which affects every man, woman and child in the country. Taxation, immigration, and the taking care of the deficits on the Canadian National Railways are three of the most important problems which the people of this country are facing at the present time. It was hoped, and indeed intimated by the late Minister of Finance and by the present Minister of Finance, that the conference between the federal, provincial and municipal authorities on the question of taxation would result in some equitable, fair and just division of the field of taxation in this country, so that further taxation might be placed on those who were best able to bear it, and that a fair, just and equitable system of taxation would be worked out in which the federal, provincial and muni->
cipal governments would each do its part.
I admit that the duties of the government are not at all light; the responsibilities are very heavy and their duties onerous. It is the desire of all good citizens to pay their fair share of taxation. I think it is the wish and the endeavour of every honourable mau to do what he can in this respect. The hope was entertained th'at when the conference on taxation took place the government would endeavour to do something for the struggling municipalities of this country. It is too bad that this hope has not yet been realized. We were told in the last parliament that the question of unemployment was solely a matter for the municipalities to deal with; th'at the federal authorities had nothing to do with unemployment. Let me point out, Mr. 
Speaker, that meeting the needs of the unemployed and dealing with many other matters entail a heavy burden on the municipal councils of cities and towns, and on the county councils as well. Not only have they to meet the distress resulting from this cause, but they have to maintain hospitals, care for the sick, and provide for many other burdens. Surely it was not within the minds of those who drafted the British North America Act that such a heavy burden should be thrown on the municipalities of this country from coast to coast.
So I say that in 1917 when the federal authorities invaded this income tax field of taxation formerly occupied by the municipalities, they went a little too far. However, the federal government having pursued that course, the hope was entertained that such action could only be temporary, that when the war was over, or within a few years afterwards, it would find some more equitable and just system of taxation as 'a result of which the municipalities would have restored to them the revenue from income taxation exclusively-which prior to that they have always enjoyed. As I figure it out, 80 per cent of the income tax is paid by persons with fixed salary-the small man, the consumer; perhaps it would be fairer, to say the middle-class people of this country. If you refer to the reports of the assessment commissioners of the cities and towns of Ontario, giving the population and the income assessment in each case, and the average tax payable per capita-and I have returns from twenty-six municipalities in my possession- you will find that the great bulk of the income tax levied by civic and the federal authorities is collected from those whose income is fixed and can be readily ascertained, and whose position leaves no possibility of escape from such taxation. I may say that the power of direct taxation on real estate and income is limited in the case of municipalities by the British North America Act. On the other 'hand the Dominion has eleven different methods of direct and indirect taxation. Surely therefore, it can leave to the municipalities the undivided enjoyment of the revenue from income tax which, in the case of the Dominion, has been felt as a great-added burden and double-header tax throughout Canada and has not given the yield it should have done. This is apparent when you remember that whereas the revenue from the Dominion income tax at one time amounted to $119,000,000, it fell last year to $46,000,000. The eleven different methods of federal taxa-

Taxation in Canada
tion now in existence can be enumerated as follows:
1.	Customs tariff.
2.	Excise taxes on various commodities, such as automobiles, matches, cigars, wines, beverages, and so forth.
3.	Income tax.
4.	Tax on sales.
5.	Tax on licenses.
6.	Taxation on corporations and companies.
7.	Tax on cables and telegrams.
8.	Railway and boat tax.
9.	Stamp tax on checks, drafts, bills of exchange, notes and stock transfers.
10.	Stamp tax on money orders, letters and postcards.
11.	Stamp tax on receipts.
From the foregoing eleven sources the Dominion collects about $346,000,000 of direct and indirect taxes in the country. The income tax has a super-tax feature of taxation as well. It is stifling enterprise and imposing a heavy burden on the people. In my opinion we should reduce the income tax and the super-tax to the United States level, thus encouraging capital to invest in Canada and making an economic surplus available for the development of the country, and increasing the revenues of the country.
The present method of taxation is far from equitable. The tax is levied on some and not on others; there are a great many people who escape entirely and who are not called upon to pay any income tax at all. I know of a case in Toronto where the man enjoys an income of from $50,000 to $60,000 but escapes with the payment of a very small income tax. In connection with his year's operations he voted himself a bonus of $100,000 and by calling it a bonus, not income, he escapes by design. That is one way of escaping taxation. Nobody objects to paying a fair share of taxation. It is the duplication and inequalities that make people dissatisfied, combined with the failure to allot an exclusive sphere of taxation to the respective authorities

the Dominion, the provinces, and the municipalities.
At present there are $931,512,900 of war bonds outstanding which are free from taxation. Why cannot part of this be commuted and this vast capital put back into circulation and into economic and industrial development, thereby Creating another source of revenue to the country? Canada is the most over governed country in the world. There are two houses of parliament for the Dominion; two legislative bodies for certain of the provinces; and innumerable municipal councils.


May I ask the
hon. gentleman who imposed upon the Canadian people the bodies of which he complains?
Mr. GHUR'CH: I cannot say our constitution does. The hon. gentleman has been in the House longer than I have and I will leave it to him to give that information. These taxes were said to be necessary during the war. I am not making any criticism because of their imposition.


I am referring
to the institutions which the hon. gentleman mentioned. They have been imposed upon Canada by the British North America Act. We cannot amend them as conditions are at present, so they will continue to be with us until such time as this parliament has the right to amend the constitution.


The British North America Act has nothing to do with this method of collecting taxation. The municipalities ought to have the field to themselves. The hon. gentleman wants to amend the British North America Act, but it will be a very sorry day for this country if his method of amendment goes through. It will be good-bye then to the province of Ontario, to property and civil rights within the provinces, to vested rights, to the rights of minorities, and to everything else in this country. That is my opinion. However, that issue is not relative here.
Public bodies all over Canada are complaining about the heavy burden of taxation which is in force to-day. In this connection let me quote the following from a speech by Sir Herbert Holt:
In his address at the annua] meeting of the Royal Bank of Canada Sir Herbert Holt said that taxation in Canada has reached the point where it is retarding the growth of national wealth, increasing the cost of production, decreasing demand-and with it profit and wages-and withdrawing money from productive use. He says the country is over-burdened with government, and the enormous expansion of the public debt is a matter of grave misgiving. Canada is over-governed and over-taxed, and the one is the natural corollary of the other. The political diseases from which we suffer have been diagnosed long ago, not only by business men, but by the ordinary voter as well. Administrative extravagance and incompetence have, been in the saddle too long.
Then, too, Sir Thomas White in a speech before the Canadian Club at Montreal expressed himself as follows:
Foremost among our problems of to-day is the problem of our public indebtedness. The net direct public debt of Canada is seven times what it was beforp the outbreak of war. One favourable feature is that it is principally held by our own people. Another is that it is funded and that consequently our currency is not depreciated. This is the reason why our exchange has been well maintained.
The inherent soundness of our financial position is best illustrated by the fact that the Canadian dollar stands at par. We are virtually upon a gold basis1 and at any time could resume specie -payment. Personally I have no criticism for our not having taken
Taxation in Canada

this tax and I think he has been doing what he can to remove the burden of taxation from the breakfast table and from those least able to pay. I hope he will consider the economic principle of taxation of the ability of the average man. to pay, a principle that is neglected in this method of income- taxation, as I think I Showed a few minutes ago. I pointed out that by these eleven federal forms of taxation 1345,000,000 had been collected from the people, eighty per cent of it being taken from the small wage earners, and as to the income tax the man with a fixed salary pays, while some jobbers and others with large incomes are not paying anything at all. I know of one gentleman in Toronto-I sat on a board of directors with him-who is said to have an income of a million dollars and was not paying a cent of income tax, and yet he is occupying one of the highest positions in the country.
Why should this double tax be collected by the Dominion on the first of May and then about the same time by the municipalities on the 15th of May, making it a doubleheader tax on the fixed wage earner at the same time who is moreover paying taxes on taxes, taxes to the Dominion on the amount of money he pays to the municipality?
The other day the editor of the Grimsby Independent was sitting in his office thinking on political economy and taxation and this is what he says:
Discourse On Taxes
Grimsby Editor Tells a Few Plain Truths to All and Sundry
Grimsby-Editor of the Independent puts on his thinking cap and hands out wisdom so that he who runs may read-
A good many municipal authorities have the idea that a grant from the province or from the Dominion relieves the municipality of just that much expenditure. But it does not. All government money is the people's money, and our old ifrienid, Mr. Ultimate Consumer, supplies it all in some way or other. This problem of taxation is one which requires much intelligent thought on the part of all citizens.
I understand the minister the other day met a deputation of the retail merchants who are complaining very bitterly about the burden of taxation that they are paying under the eleven different forms which I have set out to-day. I believe they went into the matter very thoroughly, pointing out that the federal income tax was not a tax which should continue and they presented him with a memorandum on the subject. I will not go into the memorandum to-day because time will not permit, except to say that it proves conclusively that this tax has been a failure and that by redistribution of the

other ten existing forms of taxation we would collect more than is collected by this income tax.
Since this tax has been imposed central Canada has been paying the greatest proportion of it. Of the $57,000,000 collected in 1924 the amounts collected by provinces are as follows:
Prince Edward Island	 $	38,000
Nova Scotia	 847,000
New Brunswick	 767,000
Quebec	 20,148,000
Ontario	 26,039,000
Manitoba	' ..	3,526,000
Saskatchewan	 891,000
Alberta	  1,189,000
British Columbia	 3,930,000
Yukon	 69,000
Total	 $57,466,000
The municipalities of the country are today facing a situation that it is becoming increasingly difficult to cope with. The tax rates of Ontario municipalities have risen fiom 12 to 14 mills on the dollar, which they were before the war, to 28, 32, 36 and 38 mills on the assessment, some of them just three times what they were before the war, the reasons being increased costs of labour and materials and money, the higher cost of living, better living conditions, the eight-hour day and many other matters like that brought about since the war. For these and many other reasons which I have not time to discuss now, I trust the income tax will be discontinued by the government and handed back to the municipalities where it always was, or that the minister in his budget will make reductions and thus give relief.
The municipalities have only a limited field of taxation whereas the Dominion government can levy taxes in ten or eleven different directions. Surely the Minister of Finance (Mr Robb) can relieve the burden on the Canadian people in the matter of income tax. I know that he is doing the best he can but it is obvious that something more must be done. The income tax is one form of taxation that has proved a failure: the government has not been able to collect the tax from those who can best afford to pay it; it is being collected from the poorer and the middle classes. The wage earners have to bear the brunt of this tax, which is unfair and unjust. It is easy for the officials of the government to get after the poorer classes and those in the middle walk of life inasmuch as they can go to the office of the business employing these people and ascertain just what their wages are. It is therefore the people who have a fixed income that are always subject to direct supervision. In the case of the others to whom I have referred there are many ways of escape.

Taxation in Canada
In conclusion I beg to move this resolution, which I trust the House will adopt. This field of taxation was formerly the special prerogative of the provinces and
4 p.m. the municipalities and I think they should once more have the right to collect income tax, particularly, as I have pointed out, in view of the fact that their field is so limited. Moreover, increasing burdens and responsibilities are being placed upon the municipalities. For example, they are being called upon to provide for the unemployed, while soldiers who do not benefit by the pension provisions of the Dominion become a charge upon the municipalities. Hospitals and charities of various kinds have also been shouldered upon the municipalities, who to-day are bearing the peak load of taxation. I regret that the conference between the Dominion and the provinces and municipalities proved abortive but I trust that something will be done this year to relieve the situation. If the income tax cannot be entirely wiped out, at least the government might reduce it by fifty per cent, and put this country on the same basis as the United States so far as this particular branch of taxation is concerned. In the United States the income tax has been reduced three times in five years so that to-day the people over there are well off in this regard in comparison with Canadians. If the government could see its way Clear to reduce the income tax to the extent I suggest, it would be the means of stimulating business and increasing production, and would help very materially indeed to solve the unemployment problem, and the $45,000,000 which the treasury would lose could be made up in other directions.


My hon. friend (Mr. Church) has presented his argument in a very fair manner, as he always does, and I thank him at once for his kind personal reference to myself. If there is any man in public life who requires a little comfort once in a while it is the Minister of Finance of the government of the day.


He is standing it all right.


Of course I am speaking of
governments in general. There might be another government to-morrow. The Minister of Finance is obliged to find revenues for the administration of the affairs of the country and to provide for the deepening of harbours, for the erection of public buildings, for increased salaries, and all the rest of it. No later than yesterday the hon. member for Toronto Northwest (Mr. Church), who has so
eloquently pleaded this afternoon for a reduction in the income tax, pleaded with equal ability for expenditures in the city of Toronto and for increased salaries to the employees of the country. Clearly, I shall have to have a half hour's quiet talk with my good friend to see whether he can offer me some recipe to enable me to meet the two demands he has made.
I know, of course, that taxes are never popular. Everyone likes to have his taxes as low as they possibly can be, and there are _ a great many people in Canada who are try- >
ing to dodge taxation. There are also methods provided whereby they can do so; we ourselves provided such methods during the war. At that time everyone was keyed up and we were all anxious to finance our share of the obligations of the war. We therefore issued a considerable quantity of tax-exempt bonds, which to-day are held for the most part, not by the ordinary taxpayer whom we can get at, but by rich people who could and should contribute to the revenues of the country. They have these tax exempt bonds stored away and are thereby enabled to evade taxation.
My hon. friend is quite correct when he says that the income tax and other taxes which the people of Canada are to-day paying are the result of the war. We went into the war to the limit, assuming great obligations, and although, as my hon. friend says, the war has been over for some years we must not forget that the expenditures incurred during that time have still to be met. In that sense, therefore, the war will not really be over for Canadians for some time to come.
I do not suppose that there is an hon. member who would stand up in his place in this House and advocate a repudiation of the obligations which we undertook in the war. Well, we require money not only to meet the interest in our war debt but for pensions, and many other expenses which are directly attributable to the war. For instance, it is reckoned by officers of the department that of the estimates now before the House fifty-eight per cent is required to -provide for statutory and war expenditures. Hon. gentlemen will therefore observe how difficult it is for a government, let it economize how it will, to make both ends meet and to provide for the requirements of the country. And everyone who h'as confidence in this country will admit at once, I am sure, that there are certain undertakings which it is necessary that we should carry out.
My hon. friend referred to the conference held a few years ago in Ottawa between the
Taxation in Canada

Minister of Finance of the Dominion iand the treasurers of a number of the provinces. Not all, but most of the provinces were represented at that conference, and while there was a difference of opinion upon some issues, I think we were unanimous on one point, and that is that both the Minister of Finance for the Dominion and each of the provincial treasurers were fairly well disposed to maintain the policy of "what we have, we hold." The provincial treasurers were all anxious to retain their taxes and I was equally anxious to hold on to the taxes in the federal field. It is true, as my hon. friend said in his concluding remarks, that the provinces have incurred considerable expenditure in recent years. This is due to the condition of the times. The automobile has brought about an increased expenditure in most provinces through the construction of better roads-for good roads are expensive. Many of the provinces have spent a good deal of money on the improvement of their highways, and this of course, involves taxation. I am glad to say, too, that there has been an improvement in our system of education; most of the provinces are paying more for education to-day. Many of the municipalities are also paving their streets, erecting public buildings, and doing other things that are adding materially to their expenditures, so that the provinces and the municipalities unquestionably have increased burdens to bear. But none of the provinces or municipalities have any war obligations to discharge. The obligations of the war are upon the federal treasury, and we of the Dominion parliament, having a desire to provide for the expense of the war and the carrying on of the affairs of the country, must consider very carefully what taxes we can dispense with. I notice in the argument of my hon. friend that he did not challenge the right of the Dominion government to impose an income tax. That question was challenged by a minister of one of the provinces, who claimed that under the- British North America Act the provinces alone could impose income tax. The question was decided in a judgment rendered by the Privy Council in the case of Caron vs. the King in 1924, and for the information of hon. members I shall place on the record the headnote of that judgment:
The parliament of Canada had power under section 91 head 3 of the British North America Act, 1867, to enact The Income War Tax Act, 1917 and amending act, of 1919, whereby every 'person residing or ordinarily residing or carrying on business in Canada is rendered liable to pay income tax; and a minister of the government of a province is liable under the acts 
in respect of the salary and sessional indemnity payable to (him under statutes of the province.
The Income Tax Act of 1917 was first introduced by Sir Thomas White in July of that year. It might be ' interesting to hon. members to have on the record the opinion of Sir Thomas White, who was Finance minister of the day. Sir Thomas White was not only a good Finance minister, but a good lawyer and a well posted legal authority as well, and had very decided views on taxation problems as between federal and provincial governments. Sir Thomas, in presenting that bill, made these observations, which I find on page 3760 of revised Hansard of 1917:
Mr. Chairman, the enactment of the Military Sendee bill which has just passed through the House will result in material increase in and acceleration of the war expenditures of the Dominion.
By that bill, provision ds made for calling an additional 100,000 men to the forces of Canada. In view of the expenditure involved, and in order to maintain the credit of the Dominion, it is necessary that we should adopt further taxation measures. Apart from this necessity from a financial standpoint, there has arisen, in connection with the Military Service bill, both in this House and in the country, a very natural and, in my view a very just, sentiment that those who are in the enjoyment of substantial incomes should substantially and directly contribute to the growing war expenditures of the Dominion.
In view of these considerations, I desire to-day to lay before this committee proposals for a national measure of income taxation. I may say that the adoption of such a measure is a distinct innovation in federal fiscal legislation. Hitherto we have relied upon duties of customs and of excise, postal rates and other miscellaneous sources of revenue. It is true that since the outbreak of the war we have adopted the Business Profits War Tax Act which is a measure of direct taxation akin to income taxation, but not so wide in its scope. As the members of the committee are aware, the Dominion government, under the provisions of the British North America Act, is empowered to raise revenue by any mode or form of taxation, whether direct or indirect. On the contrary, the provinces, and, by consequence, the municipalities which derive their taxation powers from the provinces, are confined, in the raising of their revenues, to measures of direct taxation. For this reason, since the outbreak of the war, I have hesitated to bring down a measure of federal income taxation. As I have stated, the provinces and the municipalities are confined to direct taxation, and I have not regarded it as expedient, except in case of manifest public necessity, such as I believe exists at the present time, that the Dominion should invade the field to which the provinces are solely confined for the raising of their revenue.
It will be observed that Sir Thomas White hesitated to bring down that measure, but having the responsibility of providing for the maintenance of our army at the front and for the interest on the debts which had already accrued, he saw the necessity of entering the income tax field and thus providing revenues for carrying on the affairs of the country.
I have sometimes heard Sir Thomas White criticized for having, when he was financing

Taxation in Canada
the war, exempted so many from taxation through tax-exempt bonds. I was never disposed to find much fault with that, because we were living alongside of the United States and they as well as most of the countries in the war at that time were providing tax-exempt bonds. Sir Thomas, having the responsibility of raising money, adopted those measures which were adopted by most of the other countries. So I say here to-day that I am not challenging the policy of Sir Thomas White. Had I at that time the responsibility I have to-day, and under similar conditions,
I do not know that I could have done much better.


I would like to ask my
hon. friend a question. Is it not also true that in the United States there are many states and municipalities which have the right even to-day of issuing tax-exempt bonds?


I am coming to that in a
moment, but the fact remains that in financing the war we did provide a means for many people to evade taxation. We have tax-dodgers in this country, as they have in other countries. I am told of a method of evading taxation which is not novel to this country but was borrowed from the United Kingdom, whereby certain companies were organized to enable people to escape taxation. Notwithstanding all that, the people of Canada very cheerfully and willingly contributed to the public exchequer for the carrying on of the war, and the revenues which we have derived from these various taxes have helped materially in providing the interest on the war debt and the pensions we are now paying.
My hon. friend a few moments ago made some reference to the changes in the revenues derived from these sources of income. I have before me now the figures. The revenues from that source in 1918-1919 were $9,349,719.80; in 1919-1920, 820,263,739.91; in 1920-1921 $46,381,824.31; in 1921-1922, $78,684,354.80; in 1922-1923, $59,711,538.37; in 1923-1924, $54,204,027.99; in 1924-1925, $56,248,04282. These figures may be found in the Public Accounts, at page 47.


In what
year was the maximum amount received?


The maximum was received
in 1921-1922. That, I imagine, would be due to the addition of some of the revenues from some of the previous years, when there was a change coming in concerning the business profits tax and the income tax. Some of the taxes which formerly went into the business profits tax might have come in the income tax.


If I might ask a question,
why does my hon. friend give the years as "1922-1923" and so on?


That is the way they are listed in the public accounts, from which I am quoting.


Will the minister tell* me
why that is? It is the annual calendar year.


The fiscal year ends March
31, and I refer to this year, for instance, as 1926-1927.


I see what you mean.


In addition to the income tax, we have other special war taxes that were imposed under the legislation of 1915. It is not necessary for me to enumerate all these special taxes, but the total revenue derived from these so-called war taxes-so-called war taxes, let me repeat that-in the last fiscal year was approximately $147,000,000, while during the same period the expenditure on account of the war was approximately $167,000,000; so these taxes imposed for war purposes last year were, in round figures, about $20,000,000 short of providing for the total obligations arising that year out of the war.
It may interest hon. gentlemen, in view of statements that have been made from time to time as to the cost of collecting the income tax, to know that the Commissioner of Taxation, Mr. Breadner, advises me that the cost of collecting the income tax has during / the past five years averaged two and two-thirds per cent.
While we all admit that Canada has more taxes than we would like to have, and more taxes than we had prior to the entry of Canada and of the whole world into the war, nevertheless Canada is not taxed to a degree that would induce any of our citizens to leave Canada and go and live in some other country. Indeed, the taxation in Canada compares favourably with that of almost any other countiy in the world where the people enjoy the same comforts. I have here a newspaper reference to the comparative taxation of Canada and other countries. I shall not read the article, because hon. members read the papers just as I do, but if they will refer to the Ottawa Citizen editorial column of March 13, 1926, they will find there a comparison of the per capita tax paid by Canada, Australia, Great Britain and the United States. It is estimated that the total per capita tax paid in Canada, and this includes, I imagine, federal, provincial and municipal taxation, is $66.11; in Australia, $69.68; in Great Britain, $97.12; and in the United States, $67.39. In other words, the per capita tax in the United States,
Taxation in Canada

the country where they boast much of reduction of taxation, is $67,39, as compared with $66.11 in Canada.


May I ask my hon. friend
a question in that regard? I do it for information, because that statement has been put out two or three times, and I fear it is wrong.


It is right.


What I was going to ask
is this:	How is it that the per capita tax in
Canada is only $66 when the tax collected by the federal government alone amounts almost to that? Where do the provinces and the municipalities come in?


I am speaking of the taxes
imposed. I have here a statement which has been sent to me by a firm-I do not like to give the name, but if any hon. gentleman is interested I will show him the letter in confidence. It is from a firm of high-class attorneys and counsellors-at-law in New York city, and they provide me with this information. It came about in this way. Their attention had been directed to the grumblings of some Canadians over the duplication of taxation in Canada, and they said: You people in Canada do not know anything about taxation. Here is the information they give me as to the taxation that would be imposed upon a gentleman residing in the city of New York. He would be subject to:
1.	Federal income tax.
2.	New York state income tax.
3.	Local real estate taxes.
4.	Local taxes upon certain kinds of personal property.
5.	Special tax laws, for instance, the tax on motor cars, motor boats, and so forth.
In addition to the foregoing, all individuals there indirectly pay various forms of excise taxes, taxes upon theatre tickets, taxes on club memberships, taxes upon automobiles, and so forth. Then in addition to that, there is another tax which their heirs cannot escape after they are gone; that is, the inheritance tax. Some of our provinces have an inheritance tax, but we have no federal inheritance tax like they have in the United States. In the United States they not only have a federal inheritance tax, but many of the states also impose an inheritance tax, and a resident of New York city, or rather his estate, would have to pay not only a federal inheritance tax, but the New York state inheritance tax and the inheritance tax of any other state in which he held property.


Would it not be much fairer to compare the ratio of taxation with

that of income? Upon that basis does not Canada stand fourth of all countries in the world?


That is a debatable proposition. Having placed these figures on Hansard, I come now to something that may be perhaps a little more hopeful. If hon. gentlemen will follow the estimates as presented to parliament, and the expenditure as found in the public accounts, for the different years this government has been in power, they will find that each year there has been a reduction in the estimates presented to parliament, and a reduction in the expenses incurred. We have reduced some of the so-called obnoxious taxes, and we have made certain exemptions. When Sir Thomas White brought in some of his obnoxious taxes, the sales [DOT]tax, for instance, and' excise taxes, certain exemptions were made, and from year to year we have added to the list of exemptions. On certain foodstuffs we have reduced the sales tax, and on certain items we have removed it entirely; we have cut it in two on boots and shoes, and the finances now are in such shape that I hope to sit down with the officers and be able to work out something that will give a little relief to the people in the waj' of taxation. I do not say that that relief will be in income taxation; I do not say it will be in the sales tax, but I do agree with my hon. friend from Toronto Northwest (Mr. Church) to this extent, that in so far as we are able we must from year to year try to reduce taxation, and particularly try to get away from these so-called obnoxious taxes. But we can only do that if we have the support not only of those who sit on this side of the House, but as well of hon. gentlemen opposite in effecting economies. It is no use to preach economy one day, and the next day to urge expenditures in different parts of the country.
I repeat that there are certain expenditures that must be carried on. Not long ago I had a conversation with the president of one of the largest banks in the country; perhaps I am betraying no confidence when I say it was with the president of the largest bank in Canada. He said: "Mr. Robb, I think we have carried this economy idea to an extreme. I think it is reasonable that the government should provide certain expenditures for carrying on the affairs of Canada and developing this vast country." So that is the policy of the government: to economize where we can but not to the extent to discourage the development of our country and the opening up of new territory.

Taxation in Canada


From 1921 to 1925 the
revenue from special war taxes was about $535,000,000 more than it was from 1917 to 1921. What attempt was made by the government during that time to economize with a view of reducing taxation and the cost of living? The minister spoke of economy. Well, the government had an increase in the revenue there, from that source alone, of over $500,000,000 in those four years. I fail to see what attempt was made to reduce the taxation of the national debt at that time.


Answering my hon. friend's
very fair question-and I observe that he not only iputs a question but attempts to answer it-if he will refer to the public accounts, audited by the Auditor General, he will discover that the expenditure has decreased year iby year since 1922.


In connection with the
levying of income tax, has the government considered the advisability of collecting the tax for a period of three, four or five years? If that were done it would be possible to provide for what we might call a lean year out of the profits of the good years.


There is something to be
said for my hon. friend's suggestion. I may say that the officers of the department have had that matter under consideration and study. Their objection to the proposal is that there is no finality. The system has not been satisfactory in Great Britain. They have there, I think, a three-year period, but it has not been as satisfactory as they would wish. Consequently they have recently been considering the adoption of the Canadian method, which is operative each year. I may say this to my hon. friend, that I have had some very lean years.


I asked the minister a
question as to the issue of tax-free bonds in the United States both by municipalities and by states. He said that he would deal with the question but omitted to dio so. May I ask if the minister has any information on this subject?


I have information that they
are even now in the United States issuing some tax-free bonds, but I am not prepared to admit that it is a wise policy in these days of peace.


I was not discussing that
point. I merely wanted to know if that was not true, and whether the minister had any
information on the subject.


I
largely sympathize with the motion made by my hon. friend (Mr. Church), in favour of a reduction in taxation. The minister spoke of the enormous burdens that have to be met in this country, and pointed out that the revenue from income tax goes in a measure to meet these obligations. Now, I want to point out-I have done so before, but I am going to do it again-that we are wasting over $200,000,000 a year by maintaining a duplicate system of railroads in this country.
I read in the evening paper that the new Minister of Railways (Mr. Dunning), says that he is going to maintain the two systems in spite of anything. He does say that he hopes to get a reduction of duplicate services; but I want to take this occasion, as representing the views of the Canadian people, to point out that they feel the enormous burden of our income tax. If that is so, it is up to the government of to-day to begin to reduce that burden and to deal with the railway question and the .waste of $200,000,000 by unnecessary duplicate services. I hope the minister will pay attention to the fact that the Minister of Railways makes the announcement in western Canada to-day that he is going to maintain the two railway services notwithstanding the cost to the country which they involve.


Mr. Speaker, contrary