Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present to
[Mr. Euler. 1
the House a resolution passed by the Galt city council, also another resolution passed by the village council of Ayr, Ontario, protesting against renewal of the charter to the Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Company, known as Bill No. 78.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to present a petition from the city council of Stratford, Ontario, with reference to Bill No. 78.


What is the purport of the petition?


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to place on the table a resolution from the town council of Sandwich protesting against granting a renewal of the charter to the Georgian Bay Canal Company.


I think it well to point out to the hon. members that the regular procedure to bring these protests before the House is by way of petition, and not by way of resolutions passed by municipal councils.


On the order Introduction of Bills: Bill respecting the Sterling Trusts Corporation- Mr. Boys.
Dropped.


Bill No. 155 (from the Senate), respecting Commercial Travellers Mutual Insurance Society.-Mr. Anderson (Toronto-High Park).
Bill No. 156 (from the Senate), for the relief of Dorothy Helen Murray.-Mr. Spence (Parkdale).
Bill No. 157 (from the Senate), for the relief of Lotta Maria McGregor.-Mr. Spence (Parkdale).
Bill No. 158 (from the Senate), for the relief of Harriett Louisa May MacCarthy.- Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 159 (from the Senate), for the relief of Adelaide Mildred Maguire.

Mr. Geary.
Bill No. 160 (from the Senate), for the relief of Dmytro Pushkedra.-Mr. Luchko vich.
Bill No. 161 (from the Senate), for the relief of Muriel Helen Louise Dunn.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 162 (from the Senate), for the relief of William Henry Poultney.-Mr. Church.	*

Private Bills
Bill No. 163 (from the Senate), for the relief of Cecil Chester Richardson.-Mr. Arthurs.
Bill No. 164 (from the Senate), for the relief of Bertha Amelia Bertelet.-Mr. Hocken.
Bill No. 165 (from the Senate), for the relief of James Edward Barnaby.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 166 (from the Senate), for the relief of Evelyn May Bateman.-Mr. Edwards (Ottawa).
Bill No. 167 (from the Senate), for the relief of Fannie Louise Dance.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 168 (from the Senate), for the relief of Sarah Simpson.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 169 (from the Senate), for the relief of Percy Compton.-Mr. Anderson (Toronto-High Park).
Bill No. 170 (from the Senate), for the relief of Hazel Green Anderson.-Mr. McMillan.
Mr. Speaker, would there be any objection to giving these bills second reading now? It would advance them to the committee stage.


I am in the hands of the House.


No objection.


Then I will take a
motion covering all the bills. Is that satisfactory?


On the order for the first reading of Bill No. 173 (from the Senate) to amend certain provisions of the Criminal Code respecting the possession of weapons:
There is no mover.


The mover should be
nominated on the order paper.


I understand that the
hon. member for Bonaventure (Mr. Marcil) is prepared to move the first reading of the bill.


This is a Senate bill, I
move that it be read a first time.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


When shall these bills
be read the second time?


We object seriously to
the inclusion of the last bill.


Very well; the others.


And the first.


With the exception of
the first and the last of these bills, it is moved by Mr. Edwards (Frontenac) seconded by Mr. Arthurs that bills 156, 157, 158, 159 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, 168, 169 and 170 be now read the second time.


I am not rising to object to this motion at all, but I want to call attention to the fact that there are a good many bills of a similar naure on the order paper, where they have stood for days for second reading, and it seems to me that if we are to dispose of these bills in the way proposed it will place them a stage ahead of the others. I submit that all these divorce bills should be treated in the same way, sent to the committee, and taken off the order paper, just as it is proposed to do in this case.


I suggest that probably a more expeditious way would be to conclude the debate on the Georgian bay canal and get that bill across to the committee as speedily as possible. We could then dispose of all these others in rapid succession. However, the government will be prepared to consider my hon. friend's suggestion.


I object to the suggestion of the hon. member for Argenteuil (Sir George Perley). I have a bill on the order paper coming immediately after the Georgian bay bill, and if these divorce cases are to be advanced' a stage I do not want my bill left behind. It is well for the House to remember that these divorces are a plague and that over 600 divorces were granted in Canada in 1926, according to the statistics.


Are there any objections? The motion can be entertained only by unanimous consent.


Yes.


No.


The motion for second
reading of these bills stands until the next sitting of the House.


On the Orders of the Day:
(Prime Minister):	I said yesterday that I
hoped to be able on the orders of the day to-day to make a statement on behalf of the

Maritime Claims
government arising out of the report of the Royal Commission on Maritime Claims. I am happy to be able to make that statement this afternoon. As I shall have occasion in the statement to refer to the exact text of the commission I hope hon. members will pardon me if I take the liberty of making free use of the statement I have in my hand.
The Royal Commission on Maritime Claims was appointed on April 7, 1926. The commission submitted its report to the Honourable the Secretary of State on September 23, 1926. As respects its subject matter and recommendations, the report is subdivided as follows:
I.	Money Grants to Provinces.
II.	Transportation and Freight Rates.
III.	Port Development and Export Trade.
IV.	Trade Policy-Forest Produce, Fisheries, Coal and Steel.
V.	Agriculture and Migration.
VI.	New Brunswick Railways.
VII.	General.
There are, in addition, a few paragraphs by way of introduction and conclusion.
The recommendations of the report may be briefly summarized as follows:
Under the heading-I. Money Grants to Provinces.
It is recommended " that the Dominion government should give immediate consideration to the whole of this subject, with a view to a complete revision of the financial arrangements between them and the maritime provinces." and
" that immediate interim lump-sum increases should be made in the payments to the three maritime provinces as follows:
Nova Scotia	 8 875,000
New Brunswick	 600,000
Prince Edward Island	 125,000"
and that
"These interim payments should be continued until the Dominion government has had time to complete its investigation and re-assessment."
Under the heading-II. Transportation and Freight Rates.
It is recommended "that an immediate reduction of 20 per cent be made on all rates charged on traffic which both originates and terminates at stations in the Atlantic division of the Canadian National Railway's-including export and import traffic, by sea, from and to that division,-and that the same reduction be also applied to the Atlantic division propor-

tion of the through rates on all traffic which originates at stations in the Atlantic division -excluding import traffic by sea-and is destined to points outside the Atlantic division." For this puipose the divisional points on the Atlantic division are to be Diamond Junction and Leyis.
It is further recommended, with respect to the policy of the railway companies-as interpreted in the rate structure-" that the railway board should be vested with somewhat
fuller supervisory responsibility,"	"in
its relation to the natural basic products of the country, and the development of these products and associated enterprises," and vested also " with power to order an accounting investigation at their own hand, into the incidence of the railway charge on the costs of production of the commodity, and its relationship to other costs, and to the general trading results of the interest involved ";
Also, that the matter of the system under which flat percentage increases-known as horizontal increases "-were added to railway rates,

in other words, the " incidence of ' horizontal ' war increases "-should be taken into fresh consideration by the railway commission, and that they "should be free to consider the whole question on its merits."
Referring to transportation for Prince Edward Island and the needed railway service improvements, it is recommended "that the railway administration should be asked to make a survey of what is required" and "that the department should make capital provision for the improvements to be undertaken within the shortest possible time;" and, referring to the need for improved ferry boat service, "that the matter be gone into from the point of view of placing at the disposal of the island such satisfactory means of communication as will ensure as regular and complete a service as can reasonably be made," and further "that, so far as the ferry boat service is concerned, it should not be run as part of the railway operations, but should be run by the railway administration under separate account for the department."
Under the heading-III-Port development and export trade-referring to Halifax and St. John; it is recommended "that, in respect of each of these two harbours, the federal government should establish a statutory harbour commission, whose business it would be to see that the port facilities are developed on such a scale as will gradually-but by no means slowly-create channels through which trade can expand both winter and summer."
Referring to harbour facilities in Prince Edward Island, it is recommended, "that the

Maritime Claims
Public Works department make an immediate survey of these harbours, particularly as to wharfage and storage accommodation, with a view to adequate provision being made to meet the needs of the island's produce." Under the heading-IV-Trade policy- forest produce, fisheries, coal and steel-with particular reference to "a mutual trade treaty" for forest products and fish, it is recommended: "that the Dominion government should apply its mind to the proposition in the light of maritime province interests, and having regard also to the position of other provinces concerned with these same products, and to Dominion interests generally."
Referring to coking plants, it is recommended: "that immediate practical steps be taken by the federal authorities in regard to the question of coking plants."
Referring to customs tariff on coal, it is recommended: "that the Tariff Advisory Board should be asked to give immediate consideration to the subject."
Referring to bounties, it is recommended: "that a bonus should be given in respect of steel when Canadian coal is used in its manufacture, and that the bonus should be calculated on the basis of the present drawback for every ton of coal used in such manufacture."
Under the heading-V-Agriculture and
migration-with reference to the need of closer cooperation between the federal and provincial governments on the question of maritime province colonization, it is recommended, "that the federal authorities should take the matter up with the governments of the three provinces, with a view to a plan being devised for much more active advertisement abroad of the attractions and advantages of the maritime provinces."
Under 'the heading'-VI-New Brunswick railways-referring to the St. John and Quebec railway, it is recommended: "that the government should, with the concurrence of the province, set up an ad hoc tribunal to enquire into the circumstances surrounding this matter, with power, if they are satisfied that the circumstances justify it, to arrange terms and conditions on which the railway should be taken over by the government." Referring to the Kent Northern railway, it is stated that representations were made to the commission that "the present was an appropriate time to reopen negotiations" looking to its "acquisition at a price of $60,000" and it is recommended: "that this be done."
Under the heading-VII General-with respect to fisheries organization, after mentioning that a suggestion had 'been made that there 85
should be a separate branch in the Department of Marine and Fisheries with a Deputy Minister of Fisheries at its head, "whose duties would be confined to that section of the department, and who would therefore be freer to keep in close personal touch with its problems by periodical visits to the fishery areas", the commission states that it recommends "accordingly".
After referring to a conflict of view on the question of closed seasons and conservation, particularly in regard to lobster fishing and on the question also of replanting oyster beds, the commission recommends that: "the deputy minister should take the whole subject into immediate consideration and that after consulting with scientists, fishermen and fish merchants, appropriate and definite regulations should be framed".
The commission recommends, "that the geological department undertake, as soon as possible, a more detailed survey of New Brunswick, and an exhaustive survey of Prince Edward Island for the purposes of re-mapping this province, of investigating its mineral deposits and materials for roadmaking and of examining the possibilities of its clay resources."
With respect to Prince Edward Island, where there are no large industries which would justify the establishment of an institution for technical education, the commission cites the suggestion that the technical education legislation should be given a broad application in their case, and that agricultural education should be deemed to be covered by the term "technical education". The commission recommends "this suggestion to the favourable notice of the department."
Finally the commission mentions that at their request, the Bureau of Statistics had prepared a special memorandum giving the more important statistics of social and economic progress in the maritime provinces since confederation and recommends "the immediate publication of this memorandum".
This concludes the enumeration of the recommendations made by the commission. There are scattered throughout the pages of the report many observations upon conditions in the maritime provinces as well as suggestions, expressions of view and of feeling on the part of the commissioners, as for example: "We feel that a more active and vigorous commercial policy should be developed and that much wider scope should be given to the functions and activities of trade commissioners." The government is prepared carefully to consider whatever the commission has set forth in this manner. With respect to the recommendations themselves, it may serve to

Maritime Claims

bring the proposed action of the government into dearer relief if, in presenting to parliament the statement of the government's attitude with reference thereto, I reverse the order of presentation adopted by the commission and first take up the miscellaneous recommendations which find their place at the end of the report, and proceed therefrom to the far-reaching recommendations which are to be found in earlier subdivisions.
Commencing, then, with the last mentioned recommendation, namely, the immediate publication of a special memorandum giving statistics of social and economc progress in the maritime provinces since confederation, I wouid say that the memorandum is already in type, and that such number of copies will be published as the House may direct.
The government accepts the recommendation made with reference to Prince Edward Island, that, inasmuch as there are no large industries in Price Edward Island which would justify the establishment of an institution for technical education and as agriculture is their principal interest, technical education legislation should be given a broad application, and that agricultural education should be deemed to be covered by the term "technical education," and action is being taken accordingly.
The more detailed survey of New Brunswick and an exhaustive survey of Prince Edward Island which it is recommended the Geological department should undertake is being carried out.
The commission's recommendation with respect to the appointment of a deputy minister whose duties will be confined to what at present constitutes the fisheries section of the Department of Marine and Fisheries will be carried out.
With respect to the commission's recommendations concerning the possible acquisition of the St. John and Quebec railway, and the Kent Northern railway, the government is of the opinion that the matters referred to are, in some particulars, incidental to the larger transportation problems of which mention is made in the report and to which the attention of parliament will be invited at the present session, and that the situation with respect to these railways will in no wise be prejudiced if the course recommended by the commission is permitted to await a knowledge of the probable effect of the adoption of such legislation as may be enacted with respect to maritime railways generally.
The recommendation of the commission, with respect to closer cooperation between the federal and provincial governments on the question of maritime province colonization, accords with the policy of the government as

repeatedly set forth. The federal authorities will cordially welcome that larger measure of cooperation on the part of the provinces which the commission's report recognizes as both desirable and necessary.
With reference to the natural basic products of the maritime provinces, namely, agriculture, fish, timber and coal, the government shares the view expressed by the commission that aspects that arise from the character of these natural basic products of the maritime provinces "lie at the very foundation of the economic prosperity of these provinces," and that, as respects these subject matters, "no greater dis-service could be done than to evade deliberate decision."
As respects the specific recommendation that the Dominion government should apply its mind to the proposition of a mutual trade treaty for forest products and fish, it may be pointed out that reciprocal trade treaties in natural products are, and have been for many years, a part of Liberal trade policy. The attempt of a great Nova Scotian in 1911 to remedy the situation by a reciprocity treaty did not, in our opinion, meet with the support it should have from the maritimes. We believe that to the defeat of the proposed reciprocal trade agreement, more than to all other factors combined, may be traced the causes of existing economic depression in the maritime provinces. Our policy remains one of seeking to advance, as opportunity affords, mutual trade agreement in natural products.
A declaration of our readiness and our willingness to make an arrangement with the United States whenever they are ready to meet us on fair terms, will be found in the following clause which, at the instance of Mr. Fielding, the then Minister of Finance, was inserted in 1923 in our tariff laws:
The Governor in Council may authorize any minister of the crown to enter into negotiations with any authorized representative of the government of the United States with a view to the making of a commercial agreement between the two countries on terms that may be deemed mutually beneficial. Any agreement so made shall be subject to the approval of the parliament of Canada.
This is a general indication of our willingness to make a commercial treaty with our neighbours. If favourably entertained, some time would have to elapse before an agreement could be made and brought into effect. It would require action by the United States congress as well as by the Canadian parliament. Under the present law of the United States there is a privilege granted to the President of the United States to make certain reductions of duties if he likes to do so.

, Maritime Claims
He may do that without waiting for congress As an intimation to the president that if he is prepared to exercise the power which congress has given to him by way of reduction, we are prepared to meet him on similar terms. Mr. Fielding proposed in 1923, the insertion of the following clause in our tariff law, which clause is in effect to-day:
If the President of the United States, under authority of the United States' Tariff Act of 1922, determines to reduce by fifty per cent the duties imposed by such act on the following articles, that is to say:
Cattle, wheat, wheat flour, oats, barley, potatoes, onions, turnips, hay, fish, as enumerated in paragraphs 717, 718, 719, and 720 of the said Tariff Act of 1920. the Governor in Council may, by order in council, make such reductions of duties on similar articles imported into Canada from the United States as may be deemed reasonable by way of compensation for such reductions of duties on Canadian products imported into the United States.
The appointment of a minister to Washington is a step which it is believed will be helpful, as opportunity offers, in the negotiation with our neighbours of trade treaties of mutual interest and advantage.
With regard to the question of coking plants, the commission's recommendation that immediate practical steps be taken, has been accepted and a bill will be introduced at the present session of parliament respecting the establishment of coking plants at convenient centres in Canada under government assistance, along lines approved by the special committee of the House of Commons, which dealt with the fuel question last year.
The recommendation of the commission that the Tariff Advisory Board should be asked to give immediate consideration to the customs tariff in its relation to coal, anthracite and coke has been met. The matter is now before the Tariff Advisory Board. It would appear desirable at this point to recall that at the session of 1925, as a means of assisting coal production in the maritimes, the customs duty on slack coal was raised from 13 cents to 50 cents. The question of protection on the primary products of iron and steel was, as stated in the report, under the consideration of the Tariff Advisory Board at the time of the commission's investigation. Owing to the existing uncertainty of conditions surrounding the iron and steel industry in the maritimes, the government does not feel in a position to make at present any pronouncement with respect to the commission's recommendation of a renewal of the system of granting bounties with respect to steel when Canadian coal is used in its manufacture.
32649-85J
The government is prepared to accept the recommendations of the commission concerning the establishment of harbour commissions for the harbours of Halifax and St. John and bills with reference thereto will be introduced at the present session.
In connection with port development and the development of trade through Canadian ports, it might here be mentioned that within the past year increased loading accommodation has been provided for the elevator at Halifax; also that the bill "respecting the Canadian National Steamships and to provide for the establishment of a West Indies service," at present before parliament, will have an important bearing upon port development and trade of the maritime provinces. Mention should also be made of the enactment of 1923 whereby a discount of 10 per cent of the existing customs duty in addition to the preference rate is allowed on goods entitled to the benefit of the British preference when shipped via Canadian ports, and of the enactment of last year which restricts the advantages to be derived from the British preference to commodities entering Canada via Canadian ports.
In regard to harbour facilities in Prince Edward Island, it should be stated that the Department of Public Works had begun a survey of the harbours of Charlottetown, Georgetown and Summerside, particularly as to wharfage and storage accommodation, prior to the date on which the commission presented its report. In this particular the commission's recommendation has, therefore, already been acted upon in part. The survey will be continued, in as far as may be necessary fully to comply with the commission's recommendation.
I come now to the important subject of transportation and freight rates and to the far-reaching recommendations of the commission "that an immediate reduction of 20 per cent be made on all rates charged on traffic which both originates and terminates at stations in the Atlantic division of the Canadian National Railways-including export and import traffic by sea from and to that division- and that the same reduction be also applied to the Atlantic division proportion of the through rates on all traffic which originates at stations on the Atlantic division-excluding import traffic by sea-and is destined to points outside the Atlantic division."
Subject to certain modifications, which may appear to be necessary respecting international rates and through import rates by sea, a bill will be introduced at the present session giving effect to this recommendation.
Maritime Claims ,

With respect to the recommendation "that the railway -board should be vested with somewhat fuller supervisory powers," it is felt that, if accepted, this recommendation would bring about a radical change in the fundamental powers of the railway commission affecting the whole of Canada. It has no immediate bearing on the rights of the maritime provinces any more than of other parts of Canada and is of such a far reaching character as to demand more mature consideration than has been possible up to this time.
There is now before the railway commission the whole matter of flat percentage increases, known as horizontal increases, which the commission recommends should be taken into fresh consideration by the railway commission.
A survey of what is required with respect to the needed railway service improvements on Prince Edward Island will, as recommended, bo made immediately, in order that future action may be intelligently determined.
The whole matter of ferry boat service between the island and the mainland is now under investigation, as recommended by the commission.
This brings me to the last of the recommendations, which in the order of the report are the first there mentioned, namely, those respecting money grants to the provinces. The government is prepared to accept the recommendation of the commission to give immediate consideration to a revision or readjustment of the financial arrangements as between the Dominion and the maritime provinces. In this connection attention is invited to what is said by the commissioners with respect to the increase and form of Dominion aid. The statement in reference thereto immediately precedes their recommendation, and is as follows:
The terms of readjustment are obviously a matter for detailed determination and assessment, so that the actual amount-as well as the reasons and purposes attaching to it, can be recognized by the rest of Canada as fair and equitable. It is not possible, therefore to make a final recommendation as to the increase and form of Dominion aid which is required to satisfy the just claims of the maritime situation.
To gain recognition by the rest of Canada as to the fairness and equity of any revision or readjustment of the financial arrangements as between the Dominion and the maritime provinces, it would appear that the proposed revision or readjustment should be made a subject of consideration in the first instance by a conference at whidh all of the provinces of Canada as well as the Dominion would be represented. This indeed is directly implied by the language of the commissioners and by the reference which this portion of the report makes to "the revision of 1907" to "general

grounds applicable to all other provinces as well as to .the maritimes," to "the contention of the maritime provinces that they have been, and are being, dealt with differently from the western provinces," and to the "territorial limitations" of the maritime provinces and their claim that the "extra-provincial lands which came into the possession of the Dominion government at the date of confederation were acquired by purchase and have been developed and given value at the expense of the Dominion."
In order that there may be no delay in effecting consideration by a Dominion-provincial conference of a revision or readjustment of the fianancial arrangements as between the Dominion and the maritime provinces, the government has decided to place this matter on the agenda of the Dominion-provincial conference to be held, as already announced, during the course of the present year. In that conference the Dominion will be in a position which it has not thus far enjoyed, to present its views on the general question of the financial relations between the Dominion and the provinces, as well as on the question of a detailed determination and assessment of the special claims of the maritime provinces, and every province will have an equal opportunity of stating its position.
As already indicated, we believe with the commissioners, that the time is opportune for a readjustment of the financial arrangements between the Dominion and the maritime provinces, but it would not make for an harmonious and lasting settlement of the financial issue, a settlement based on due regard for the needs and interests of all the provinces and of the Dominion itself, to attempt to set a final figure now, before the views of the other provinces and the position of the Dominion have been set forth, and a settlement reached which public opinion will be prepared to accept. For the same reason it is not possible, in advance of the deliberations of the conference and of the detailed determination and assessment which the report recognizes is necessary, to accept the view for which no detailed grounds are advanced, that certain sums set forth in the report should be regarded as "the minimum addition that the three maritime provinces should have in any such revision." The final revision can only be made in accordance with the merits of the case.
As evidence of the desire of the government to go just as far as may be possible, in relieving any feeling of suspense pending a final revision and in order to enable the maritime provinces, in what the commission

Ruled of the House
describes as "their present state of grave necessity" to deal with any special industrial or financial situation which, in the view of their governments may require public assistance, we are prepared, without prejudice as to the amount to be arrived at as a final solution, to recommend to parliament at the present session the making of special grants to Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island of $875,000, $600,000 and $125,000 respectively, these amounts being the sums recommended by the royal commission as immediate lump sum payments.
In concluding this statement, may I 6ay that the government hopes that, by accepting as we have, the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Maritime Claims, virtually in their entirety, parliament and the country will recognize in the attitude of the government a wish to remove this great question as largely as possible from the arena of sectional discord and party strife, and a desire to give to our Dominion in the sixtieth anniversary of its founding, a renewed expression of the spirit which animated the fathers of confederation in their efforts to construct out of British North America a federal union under a system of government devised "to protect the diversified interests of the several provinces and secure efficiency, harmony and permanency in the working of the union."


On the Orders of the Day:
I wish to call the attention of the House to an item appearing in the Vancouver Province of last Sunday, which reads:
White Halibut Men Oppose, Granting of Licenses to J apanese
White halibut fishing men are alarmed over the report that large numbers of Japanese, formerly engaged in salmon fishing and now barred by the reducing quota under federal regulations, are turning to the halibut banks.
Has the Minister of Marine and Fisheries heard anything of this matter? If so, I should like to ask if the government has jurisdiction in these ex-territorial waters where halibut are caught, and if [DOT]any licenses are issued to halibut fishers?


I am not in a position to give a definite answer to the question. I have not seen the report to which my hon. friend refers. I would be inclined to state just now that I do not think we have any
authority beyond the limits. At all events, I will make inquiry in regard to it and will inform my hon. friend at the next sitting of the House.


I move that the House
revert to motions in order to consider the report of the committee on rules.


Motion agreed to.
I move that the House resolve itself into committee of the whole immediately, to consider the report of the committee appointed to revise the rules of the House of Commons, which report was presented to the House on Tuesday, 15th March last.
Motion agreed to and the House went into committee on the report, Mr. Johnston in the chair.
Amended rule No 1.-Procedure in unprovided cases.


Rule agreed to.
Amended rule No. 2-House to meet at 3 p.m.
The hon. member for
Macleod (Mr. Coote) wished to speak on this rule; he has left the chamber. Perhaps the committee could proceed with the other rules and take this up later.


All right.
Stands.
New rule to be added after rule 3-Adjournment at 11 o'clock p.m.


Following the appointment of this special committee we held sittings on every day set apart for meetings. The meetings were well attended by every member of the committee, which represented fully the three groups in the House. There was harmony and unanimity in the making and adoption of the report.


I think it is a rule in
practice in this House that on Wednesday at six o'clock the Speaker leaves the chair, and any matter then under discussion virtually drops out, or goes to the bottom of the list on the order paper. I wonder whether this rule that is now under consideration would apply to the Wednesday afternoon discussion as it does to discussion on other days closing at eleven o'clock.
Ruled of the House


This question was considered by the committee, and it was decided that the same rule should apply in the future as in the past. The matter under discussion at six o'clock on Wednesday goes to the bottom of the list of public bills on the order paper, but these items under public bills have, under our amended rules, a chance to be debated again in the House on Tuesday and Friday evenings during the hour devoted to private bills, because when private bills are disposed of the remainder of the hour is taken up with the public bills. Sometimes, however, they lie in abeyance during the whole session. I hope my explanation is clear.


We will revert to
amended rule 2.
Amended rule No. 2-House to meet at 3 p.m.


I would like to make a remark or two in regard to this rule. I think the House should seriously consider starting its business, at an earlier hour than three o'clock in the afternoon. Ottawa has been well named, I think, the land of afternoon. We should start our work in the morning, in my opinion, but if we cannot do that, surely we might start at two o'clock. As it is, we turn night into day, and those who can Steep in the morning turn day into night. I am not one of those happy individuals who can sleep in the daytime. If I am kept in this House until eleven or twelve at night and get to bed around midnight or one o'clock in the morning, I wake up at any usual time in the morning, and I do not get enough sleep, and then I am accused by some members of getting very cranky before the session is over. I think many other members are in the same position. I am sure it would be better for the House, better for the individual members and better for the business of the country, if we started our work at a reasonable hour in the day and quit at a reasonable hour at night. I do not want to delay the committee or get out of order, Mr. Chairman, but if we agree that the House is not to start until three in the afternoon, it may be impossible to get the House to consent to closing earlier than we do now.
I want to draw the committee's attention to the hours that we must keep here if we do not start our work until three in the afternoon. First of all, there is the effect on the members themselves, and the ministers of the crown and the leader of the opposition are in the worst position. They should be here on most occasions, in fact, nearly all the time the House is in session, and in addition, ministers must attend coun-
[Mr. Irvine.1
cil meetings and look after the work of their departments. I do not see how they can be mentally in a fit condition to attend to all these duties if they are compelled to sit here until midnight.


They were not even before
they became ministers.


The ordinary member-I am going now by my own experience-is here as a rule from about nine in the morning until nearly midnight for at least four days in the week. It is true that we have Wednesday night off, but I think that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. There is no other class of people that I know of that works four nights a week as well as in the daytime, and I am firmly convinced that if we would adopt reasonable rules to expedite the business of the House and of the committees, we could get along without sitting until eleven at night, but to bring it about we should have to start a little earlier in the day.
If I may go back again to the members of the House, we are here from about nine in the morning until midnight four days in the week, and the other day we are here from nine until six or seven. That leaves us only two nights a week. I think even members of the House of Commons should have a little time for play, and the only time they can get is in the evening, and if they take those two evenings for recreation there is no other evening left in which they can go to bed early. Besides there are lots of people around this House in addition to the members. We have Hansard reporters and reporters in the press gallery, whose work is not done when the House adjourns. They are here for about two hours after the House closes, and if a member happens to speak at eleven or eleven-thirty-
Mr. LAPOINTE; Does my hon. friend know that we are going to adjourn at eleven in the future under another rule?


Even supposing we adjourn
at eleven, if the member remains to correct his remarks in Hansard, he is going to be here till twelve or twelve-thirty.


Under the new rules a
member will not be allowed to speak for so long, so they will have less work to do in correcting proofs.


A few nights ago I was
speaking here for about five minutes, and I did not want to correct my remarks because it was after eleven. In my remarks I used the word "turbines," and it appeared in Hansard as "carbons." Anyone reading my re-

Rulei' oj the House
marks in Hansard will naturally wonder what I am talking about. I do not blame the Hansard reporters because very often this House is so noisy that they cannot hear what is being said.
I would like the committee seriously to consider the question of starting our business earlier in the day and quitting earlier in the evening. As far as I have been able to find out, Great Britain and Canada are the only two countries in the world where night sittings are indulged in by parliament to any extent. At Washington, congress does its business, a business probably three or four times as great as ours, without any night sittings. Nearly all the parliaments in the world do without night sittings except Canada and Great Britain.
May I draw the attention of the House to this fact? Away back in 1907 a resolution was introduced into this House by the then member for South Renfrew asking that the House adjourn at ten-thirty in the evening. We shall have made very little progress in twenty years if we are now simply proposing to adopt a rule to adjourn at eleven o'clock. What I would suggest to the House is this: We might at least sit at two o'clock in the afternoon, take recess at six o'clock, and adjourn at ten. If there is objection to that, could we not at least have two other nights a week off? On Monday and Friday nights we cannot do any very important business in the House because so many members from Ontario and Quebec wish to go home for the week-end, but the members from the west and from the east have to stay here and all they can do is to transact routine business. I say that if the members from Ontario and Quebec are privileged to take off Monday and Friday nights and go home over the week-end, why should not the members from other parts of Canada have the same privilege? Let us do without Monday night and Friday night.
Now a word on behalf of members who come from a distance and bring their families with them. A man's family life should not be destroyed because he accepts the position of member of parliament. If a member does bring his family to Ottawa-and I speak now from experience-


Hear, hear.


I do not understand the
applause. I must admit that I am Scotch. Sometimes I bring my family to Ottawa, but my family complain that I spend almost all my time in the House of Commons and they do not see me in the evening.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Chairman, I do not
care how much amusement the committee get out of this if I can only persuade them to do their business within reasonable hours. All joking aside-


What is the joke?


I do not know. If a member takes his duties seriously, and if he has as much correspondence and as many departmental calls to attend to as have some of the members from western Canada-their constituents including many homesteaders, people who want leases, and others who desire their member to do something or other for them- he has to be here from nine o'clock in the morning until midnight. I repeat, I do not see where the joke is when I say that even if a man brings his family to Ottawa they will not see very much of him unless they come and sit in the galleries. We have committees almost every morning of the week, we have our correspondence to attend to, and we have our duties in this chamber. It means, as I say, that a man is tied down here from nine o'clock in the morning until midnight. Is it any wonder that in the last parliament we lost so many of our members? I think it is too severe a strain physically on members to carry on even during the hours that are proposed under the new rules, which I must admit are an improvement on the present rules. In my judgment if this House of Commons cannot devise rules for the transaction of the country's business without sitting here until eleven o'clock at night four nights a week it is certainly a reflection upon our intelligence.


Mir. Chairman, I differ just a
little with my hon. friend from Macleod. I get ample sleep at home during the summer and I thought that coming down to Ottawa I could perhaps do without as much sleep as I had been accustomed to. I find I can. I have reached the conclusion that there are too many days and too few nights in our time-table. If we can readjust ourselves in some way I am quite willing that we should have at our disposal more nights and fewer days. But what affects some of my colleagues from the western provinces most seriously seems to be the disturbance of their family arrangements. Thus far my experience is that I really see more of my family here than I do at home. But perhajps so far as the major membership of the House is concerned it would be agreeable to them if some of us at this end were not so frequent in our attendance and so keenly interested in public af-
Rules' oj the House

fairs! In all seriousness, would it not be possible for us to agree to attend punctually at the hour of opening and devote our time to our parliamentary duties during the full duration of each day's sittings. I do not refer so much to attendance in this chamber, and being a new member I am not offering any advice, but I have noticed that in our committees we are punctual for the opening meetings, although afterwards we are often fifteen to twenty minutes late. Not only in this chamber but in the various committees it is most difficult to carry on our work because apparently we give too much attention to something that ought not to concern us and too little attention to the subject matter in hand. I do not know that the acoustics of this chamber can be improved to any very great extent, but certainly from either end it is most difficult to hear discussion that may be proceeding beyond the centre and nearer the chair. I believe that if we would give a little more serious thought to the business of the House we might accomplish much more within the present hours. Then we would have ample time for play and when the weather is fine we would be able to enjoy the beauties of Ottawa, for in the summertime I am told it is a very pretty place. I am not so busy at home during the summer season and with the kindly cooperation and hospitable generosity of local members and the ministers who desire to entertain those of us who are living here on the European plan and not on a flat rate, perhaps we could spend some part of the summer very profitably.


May I draw the attention
of the committee to the fact that during the last nine years that I have been a member of this House no budget debate has been terminated before eleven o'clock at night. A great deal more progress is always made after that hour than at any other period of the day.


No.


I am calling the attention
of members to that fact. It may be that some of us are not fully awake and in our best state of mind until after eleven o'clock. It seems to me that we will be prolonging the length of the session if we lay down any such hard and fast rule as that now under discussion. I am very much opposed to it and do not think that it should be adopted. If it does pass, and it is desired to have a fixed hour of adjournment, let us sit straight through from three o'clock in the afternoon until eleven o'clock at night, as is, I understand, the custom in Great Britain. We could very easily arrange

that between six and eight o'clock only noncontentious measures would be brought up and that no votes would be taken either in committee or in the House during that period. It would be a comparatively easy matter to keep a quorum and we could get through a great deal of work. However, I put that forward only as an alternative suggestion in case the House decide to give up the good old practice of sitting as late as we can as long as we get our business done.


What rule
are we on?


Rule 2. The third
rule is carried.


That is putting the cart before the horse.


Rule 2 was allowed to stand.
Rule 2 agreed to.


If the third rule is carried I cannot do anything more than enter my protest. I heartily agree with the hon. gentleman who has just taken his seat. I am in entire agreement, as I am sure other member's are, with the proposal that it would be advisable for this House to rise every evening not later than eleven o'clock. I do not think there is any difference of opinion as to that, but I do question very strongly the advisability of laying down a hard and fast rule to effect it. I believe it would take away, to a certain extent at least the liberties of the members and I believe it would not conduce to expediting business, for in many cases members would continue to talk on the principle, " Oh, well at eleven o'clock the sitting will be through anyway."


We are to have a rule
governing the length of speeches.


There are a sufficient number of members who would be prepared to talk forty minutes each and thus keep a debate going interminably. I do not think that a hard and fast rule for the adjournment of the House at eleven o'clock would make for despatch. Hon. members would simply keep an eye on the clock, knowing that at eleven o'clock the House would automatically adjourn, and they would just talk to kill time. That would not be in the interests of the country. The rule is absolutely unwise, aijd it would be an infringement of the liberties of members. In my judgment it is not in the best interest of Canada to adopt such a rule. Surely we can leave the adjournment of the House to two factors]

Rules' oj the House
first,, the general disposition of members to close at a reasonable hour. We might put some dependence on that disposition. As has been suggested, in the budget debate, which usually comes on early in the session, or in the debate on the address, no harm would be done if the sitting now and then exceeded eleven o'clock. A member might be able to conclude his remarks if he'were allowed to speak for half an hour or so after eleven o'clock, but with a rule in force for adjournment at eleven he would have to wait until the next day. I do not agree with the statement of the hon. member for Macleod (Mr. Coote), which is very often repeated in the press, as to time being wasted in this House. I admit that a certain amount of time is unavoidably lost in parliament, but it has often struck me that newspaper editors in criticising the members of the House of Commons for waste of time might very well look over their own papers and see how much space is wasted by Jiggs pictures and things of that sort. Having regard to the extent of this country, some members representing constituencies which are larger than some independent countries in Europe, does this parliament waste any more time^indeed, in view of the business to be done, does it wraste as much time

as the township council, the city council, the county council and the provincial legi