My hon. friend the hon. member
for Argenteuil (Sir George Perley) the other day asked for the tabling of a certain letter sent by the Deputy Minister of Justice to the Deputy Minister of Public Works on January 17, 1925. I now lay it on the table.


Hon. FERNAND RINFRET (Secretary of State) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 114, to repeal the War Charities Act, 1917.
Explain.


In 1917 an act was passed to regulate appeals for donations or subscriptions for the relief of persons suffering as a result of the war, and particularly returned soldiers. That act required that all such organizations should obtain a certificate from the Department of State, and make reports twice a year. A large number of organizations registered under the act, but they have gradu-
Questions

ally diminished' in number and are now practically limited to the Daughters of the Empire and the Great War Veterans' Association. We find that this legislation has become obsolete because these organizations do not require such control, and therefore we propose to repeal it.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. FERNAND RINFRET (Secretary of State) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 115, to amend the Naturalization Acts, 1914 and 1920.
He said:	This bill proposes to do away
with sections 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of the Naturalization Act. These sections require the applicant to make his application before a judge or a court of justice. We propose to do away with that obligation, and return to section 2 of the act of 1914 directing the application to be made to the Secretary of State, under the conditions contained in the 1914 act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What persons compose the board of pilot commissioners for the district of the Miramichi river, New Brunswick, when were they appointed and what is their remuneration?
2.	Was J. W. Brankley, Esquire, of Chatham, New Brunswick, a member of the said board of pilot commissioners, and if so, when was he appointed, and when did he cease to be a member of the board?
3.	Was Mr. Brankley dismissed as a member of the board; if so, when and for what reasons?


Names of Commissioners-Address- When Appointed.
1.	David Ritchie, Newcastle, N.B., order in council 20th November, 1922, Leonard O'Brien, Nelson, N.B., order in council 8th March, 1924. J. Kerr Logie, Chatham, N.B., order in council 24th March, 1925, R. A. Snowball, Chatham, N.B., order in council 17th May, 1926, G. P. Burehill, Nelson, N.B., order in council 21st December, 1926. Remuneration-None.
2.	J. W. Brankley, of Chatham, was appointed a member of the Miramichi board of pilot commissioners by order in council of 23rd September, 1926, and ceased to be a member on 21st December, 1926.

3.	The order in council appointing Mr. J. W. Brankley a pilot commissioner was cancelled by P.C. 65/2118, dated 21st December, 1926, on the ground that the former was passed on the day previous to the resignation of the then government and after said government had sustained defeat at the polls.


In view of an appeal to the Governor General in Council by the municipalities or others from the recent judgment for an increase in tolls and rates by the Bell Telephone Company of Canada, effective from March 1st next, will the government under the general Raihvay Act postpone the coming into effect on March 1st next of the new schedule of rates pending the hearing and determination of such appeal?


There has been no appeal to the Governor General in Council as suggested by the question.


1.	What revenues from royalties on coal have been received by the dominion since 1905?
2.	What has been the expenditure, by years, of the dominion, for past 20 years, on so-called national parks within Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta?


1.	$2,973,364.51.
2.
Year	Manitoba	Saskatchewan Alberta	1906-07	Nil	Nil	$ 21,112 081907-08	Nil	Nil	179,577 691908-09	Nil	Nil	209,222 361909-10	Nil	Nil	128,496 071910-11	Nil	Nil	103,288 671911-12	Nil	$5,500 00	137,805 461912-13	Nil	3,005 95	192,408 761913-14	Nil	491 21	524,267 181914-15	Nil	441 67	580,051 761915-16	Nil	600 00	265.308 521916-17	Nil	600 00	274,889 231917-18	[DOT] Nil	19 60	221,970 611918-19	Nil	Nil	259.691 561919-20	Nil	Nil	464,056 811920-21	Nil	Nil	580,754 521921-22	Nil	50 00	622,572 381922-23	Nil	1,719 08	618,068 721923-24	$1,046 43	1,889 94	1,024,649 041924-25	1,019 69	2,033 58	830,196 421925-26	405 02	669 75	793,613 22Total.	. $2,471 14	$17,020 78	$8,153,017 03
Note:-Prior to the year 1924-1925 there were certain expenses at head office which had

Questions
not been allocated to the different provinces. For the last two years these expenditures have been charged against the services in these provinces.
POSTMASTER AT GIBBON	.


1.	Was Edgar Finniss, postmaster of Gibbon, dismissed by the present government?
2.	If so, who recommended dismissal, and why ?
3.	Were there any charges against the said Finniss?
4.	If so, by whom were they made?
5.	What was the salary of the said postmaster ?


1.	Yes.
2.	Postmaster General-in order to locate office more centrally.
3.	No.
4.	Answered by No. 3.
5.	$60.


1.	What applications, if any, have been made from the county of Wellington for permission for immigrants to enter Canada as farm labourers ?
2.	By whom were these applications made?
3.	How many of these immigrants are now working on farms?


1.	Applications for the entry to Canada of immigrants are not classified by the Department of Immigration and Colonization according to counties and the information requested is not, therefore, available.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Is the government enforcing without reserve stringent regulations for the killing of all unmuzzled dogs on the island and in the city of Montreal?
2.	Has the government modified the regulations allowing owners of valuable dogs redress to recover them upon payment of a fine or penalty; and if not, is such action contemplated, and when?
3.	Is a special or standardized type of dog muzzle demanded by the regulations and is a sufficient supply of the same now obtainable from the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals or other official source?


1.	Yes. (There were captured and killed yesterday 14 dogs. This morning up to nine o'clock, four more had been captured. Dogs are killed in the Humane Society's pound, by electricity or gas; none are killed by our men.)
2.	The government has not modified its regulations in this respect as yet, but has the matter under consideration.
3.	No, but an effective muzzle is required to be worn, safety wire muzzle cages fitting over dog's heads are considered the best. Such a muzzle fitting loosely over the whole head and fastening to the collar is the one we recommend.
Timothy Eaton Company handle such muzzles, and have we believe furnished them to many other vendors. This muzzle allows dogs to open their mouths and to drink water, but they cannot bite.


1.	How many postmasters in the province of New Brunswick have been dismissed since October 1, 1926?
2.	What are their names, the names of the post offices and the federal constituencies in which said post offices are located?
3.	How many of said positions have been filled to date, and on whose recommendation were the appointments made?
4.	Has one H. C. Ramsay of Bathurst, New Brunswick, been appointed a commissioner to investigate charges against government officials?
5.	If so, upon whose recommendation was he appointed and what is the remuneration to be paid to him, (a) for services; (b) for expenses?
0.	In how many cases has he made reports, who were the officials charged and who laid the charges in each case?


1.	38.
2.	Statement showing the names of the postmasters in the province of New Brunswick who were dismissed since the 1st of October, 1926, etc.
Name of Post Office	Electoral District	Name of dismissed postmaster	New appointment recommended byMiddle Ste. Louise	
South Bathurst	Gloucester	
u a	R. S. Hachey	
Richard Doucet	Postmaster General. it aa	Inkerman Ferry	
Lobster Beach	
Black Rock	tt a a a	Jos. A. Arseneau	
Michael Murphy	
David J. Murphy	Ste. Anne du Bocage	a	Delas Cor. ier	
Questions


1.	Has there been a change of postmaster at the following post offices since the election of 1926, (a) Woodrow, Saskatchewan, and (b) Summereove, Saskatchewan?
2.	If so, when was the change made?
3.	For what reason was the change made, and on whose recommendation?


1.	(a) Yes. (b) Yes.
2.	(a) 15th February. 1927.	(b) 31st January, 1927.
3.	(a) and (b) Active political partisanship, on recommendation of member for constituency.


1.	Has the postmaster at Melaval, Saskatchewan, been dismissed?
2.	If so, for wliat cause?

3.	AVas there any charge of incompetence?
4.	AVhat was his salary?
5.	AVlio laid the charge or charges, if any?


1.	Yes.
2.	Active political partisanship.
3.	No.
4.	$831.22 including allowances and commissions.
5.	Member for constituency.


On what articles of any kind have customs duties been lowered since 1922, and on what articles have such duties been entirely removed since same date?


Hon. ERNEST LAPOINTE (Minister of Justice) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to amend the Judges Act, chapter 138 of the Revised Statutes, 1006, to provide:-
1.	That a salary of $12,000 per annum be granted for one additional judge of the Supreme Court of Canada;
2.	That on his attaining or having attained the age of seventy-five years, any judge of the

C.N.R.-Branch Lines
Supreme Court of Canada or of the Exchequer Court of Canada may be granted an annuity equal to that which he would then have been eligible to receive if this legislation had not been passed and if he had at that time resigned his office.
3.	That if the said judge be not then eligible for the grant of an annuity, and was appointed before the passing of this legislation, or if he was appointed after the passing of this legislation and has continued in office for at least ten years, he may be.granted an annuity equal to two-thirds of his salary at the time he ceased to hold such office.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution recommends it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Railways) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to bring in measures to provide for the construction, prior to the 31st day of August, 1930, of the following Canadian National Railway branch lines:
1.	(a) From a point about three miles west
of St. Felicien on the St. Felicien branch of the James' Bay and Eastern railway to a point on the Mistassini river, in the province of Quebec. Estimated mileage 27.5 miles; average expenditure per mile $53,589; estimated cost $1,463,000.	*
(b) Section (1). From a point near Hebert-ville on the Quebec and Lake St. John Railway to lie d'Alma on the Saguenay river in the province of Quebec. Estimated mileage 9.5 miles; average expenditure per mile $56,526; estimated cost $537,000.
Section (2). From a point on He d'Alma on the Saguenay river to Savanne on the Peribonka river in the province of Quebec. Estimated mileage 25.0; average expenditure per mile $63,800; estimated cost $1,595,000.
Total (b). Mileage 34.5; average expenditure per mile $61,797; estimated cost $2,132,000.
The construction of these lines shall be subject to the following conditions:-
In the event of running rights being secured between near Hebertville and lie d'Alma over the line of the Alma and Jonquiere railway, that part of the line authorized by this act between near Hebertville and lie d'Alma shall not be constructed by the company, nor shall securities be issued or guaranteed in respect thereof.
2.	From a point near Grand Mere on the Canadian Northern Quebec railway in the province of Quebec. Estimated mileage 7.9; average expenditure per mile $213,038; estimated cost $1,683,000.
3.	From a point near Pilkington on the Canadian National railway to a point near Niagara Junction on the Canadian National railway in the province of Ontario. Estimated mileage 16.7; average expenditure per mile $69,700; estimated cost $1,164,000.
4.	From a point near Weyburn on the Grand Trunk Pacific Saskatchewan railway to a point near Radville on the Canadian Northern railway, in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 22.7; average expenditure per mile $25,110; estimated cost $570,000.
5.	From a point near Willow Brook on the Canadian Northern railway to a point in township 27, range 9, west of the second meridian, in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 22.0; average expenditure per mile $28,000; estimated cost $616,000.
6.	From a point near Sturgis on Canadian Northern railway to a point on the Canadian Northern railway between Crooked river and Mistatim, in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 100.0; average expenditure per mile $33,950; estimated cost $3,395,000.
7.	From a point between Crooked river and Mistatim on the Canadian Northern railway to a point in township 48, ranges 11 or 12, west of second meridian, in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 19.0; average expenditure per mile $30,000; estimated cost $570,000.
8 From a point on the Canadian Northern railway between Shell Brook and Kilwinning to a point in township 50, ranges 9 or 10, west of the third meridian, in the province of Saskatchewan. . Estimated mileage 37.0; average expenditure per mile $32,432; estimated cost $1,200,000.
9.	From a point at about mile 67 on the Turtleford Southeasterly branch of the Canadian National railway to a point on the Canadian Northern between Hafford and Richard in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 35.6; average expenditure per mile $31,742: estimated cost $1,130,000.
10.	From a point near Kindersley on the Canadian Northern railway to a point near Glidden on the Canadian Northern railway in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 18.0; average expenditure per mile $35,555; estimated cost $640,000.
11.	From a point near Spruce lake on the Canadian Northern railway to a point in township 53, range 25, west of the 3rd meridian, in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 29.5; average expenditure per mile $33,559; estimated cost $990,000.
12.	From a point near Hudson Bay junction on the Canadian Northern railway to a point in townships 39 or 40, range 5, west of the second meridian, in the province of Saskatchewan. Estimated mileage 32.0; average expenditure per mile $34,000; estimated cost $1,088,000.
13.	From a point near Elk Point on the Canadian National railway to a point in township 55, ranges 3 or 4, west of the fourth meridian, in the province of Alberta. Estimated mileage 19.0; average expenditure per mile $39,210; estimated cost $745,000.
14.	From a point near Ashmont on the Canadian Northern Western railway to a point at or near Bonnyville, in the province of Alberta. Estimated mileage 38.0; average expenditure per mile $37,237; estimated cost $1,415,000.
15.	From a point near Bretona on the Canadian Northern railway to a point near Clover Bar on the Grand Trunk Pacific railway, in the province of Alberta. Estimated mileage 11.0; average expenditure per mile $29,000; estimated cost $319,000.
Motion agreed to..
Pure Bred Stock
Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Minister of the Interior) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to amend the North West Territories Act, chapter 62 of the Revised Statutes, 1906, to provide that the Commissioner in Council may make ordinances for the levying of an export tax upon furs exported from the territories to any part of Canada, or to any foreign country.
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the House.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Railways) moved that the House go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to bring in a measure respecting the Canadian National Railways to provide for the refunding of certain maturing financial obligations, and to issue substituted securities therefor guaranteed by the Dominion as to principal and interest, but not exceeding $20,000,000, the aggregate face value of the original securities.
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the House.
I do not think
the minister said that His Excellency had approved the resolution having to do with the branch line construction.


I must apologize. I
communicated that approval to the Clerk a moment afterwards.


Motion agreed to.
On the Orders of the Day:
Having received a telegram yesterday from a representative of the Cattle. Breeders' Association I would ask the government if they have discontinued the policy of distributing sires among cattle breeders?


As my hon. friend1 knows, the
federal Department of Agriculture has been under some criticism in the last few years because it has engaged in certain activities

which have been looked upon as of a distinctly provincial character. As an evidence of this I might say that the first distribution of live stock was engaged in by the province of Saskatchewan as long ago as 1908. This was taken up by the adjoining prairie provinces shortly after, and in 1913 the federal Department of Agriculture began the same work and has carried it on up to the present. It has been thought advisable now to leave this field exclusively to the provinces, because, it is distinctly productive work which lies within their particular prerogative, the idea being that we may engage in some new and more particularly federal work such as the question of marketing cooperative and otherwise.
PRIVILEGE-MR. EDWARDS (Frontenac)
On the Orders of the Day:


As a matter of privilege, Mr. Speaker,
I wish to call your attention to an error which I notice in Hansard of yesterday and which I have no doubt was quite inadvertent. Just before taking miy seat I said:
I want to add, before moving the adjournment of the debate, this further word.
Then follows a very short sentence, which I concluded with these words:
I now move the adjournment of the debate.


No, you didn't.


My friends
sitting near me heard those words but possibly you, Mr. Speaker, did not. As I understand the rules of the House, if this matter should come up again I would be deprived of the very great pleasure of discussing it further if this is not understood.


I heard the hon. gentleman when he was speaking last evening, but as it was just a minute or so beyond the allotted hour for the House rising, I did not think his motion was in order. The hon. gentleman in the course of his remarks had indicated his intention of moving the adjournment of the debate. Personally I have no objection, if the House gives unanimous consent.


I would point out, Mr. Speaker, that it is never six o'clock until you say so.


On the Orders of the Day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask of the
acting leader of the government a question which I think is of very grave public importance. In view of the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council awarding to

Old Aac Pensions
the Dominion of Newfoundland an immense area of the mainland of British North America which naturally forms a part of the Dominion of Canada, will this government forthwith take into its favourable consideration the acquisition by purchase from the government of Newfoundland of the territory so awarded to the Dominion of Newfoundland, so that Canadian citizens resident in that territory and their large financial investments and other interest therein may continue under the legislative and administrative jurisdiction of Canada?


Is that for the Bank of
Montreal or the Canadian Pacific Railway?


I would not like to commit the government to any course at this early stage. The time has not yet elapsed during which unfortunate litigants have the privilege of abusing their judges, and I think the best thing to do is to wait until the text of the judgment reaches us, when it will be time enough to consider the suggestion of my hon. friend.


Perhaps, speaking ironically, it would meet the wishes of the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan), if the Canadian government at once mobilized and despatched the Canadian navy to the Labrador coast!


On the Orders of the Day:
May I ask the Minister of Agriculture when we may expect a copy of the report in connection with the investigation of the Live Stock Exchange at Calgary? I have been telegraphed most urgently because it is conceived that a great injustice is being done by this report not being presented, and I should like it to be presented as soon as possible.


In reply to a similar question
in the early part of the week, I expressed the hope that I would be able to table the report before the end of the present week, and I am still of that hope. The staff is busily engaged now typing out the report.


On the Orders of the Day:
I would like to inquire from the government, and particularly from the Minister of Labour, whether it is the intention of the government to make any contribution, either jointly with the provinces or otherwise, to municipalities which 32649-534
have expended money during the winter months for the relief of unemployment within their borders.


There have been only about two
applications from the whole Dominion, from cities, asking for relief along the lines suggested by my hon. friend. I have communicated with them, and they have not insisted upon any relief being granted by this government. They will be able to cope with the situation themselves.


The House resumed, from February 18th, consideration in committee of Bill No. 70, respecting old age pensions.-Hon.	Mr. Heenan-Mr. Johnston in the chair.
Section 1 agreed to.
On section 2-Definitions.
I would like to make a
suggestion to the minister and to the government in connection with this bill which I think is well worthy of consideration. I understand that the annuity system that we have under Domnion government auspices is under the control of the Department of Labour. I am not opposed to an old age pension scheme, but it does seem to me, Sir, that if somewhat better conditions were attached to the annuity system it might be taken advantage of by many people who now do not think it is within their reach. For instance, why should we not endeavour to the utmost of our abilitiy to develop that spirit of self-help among the people of Canada? Why should we not encourage the sale of annuities, instead of placing so much stress upon old age pensions? Would it not be a reasonable policy for the government of Canada to add to the payments that are now being made to annuitants under the annuity scheme some further substantial sum, say 25 per cent? My belief is that that would make the annuities much more attractive than they are at the present time. Of course, neither this government nor any other have ever treated the annuity scheme as a serious proposition. They put the act upon the statute book and let it go at that. We cannot develop business, especially in a new line like this, unless some greater energy is applied to make the plan familiar to the people who ought to take advantage of it and give some advantage? that will encourage them to purchase these annuities. I am not prepared to move anything in connection with this bill. I do not know that my proposal comes properly within the purview of the bill. I am merely throwing out

Old Age Pensions

the suggestion, as it seems to me I have reason to do in this connection, for the further consideration of this government, that they should make their annuities attractive, to encourage people of Canada to buy them instead of depending upon the $20 a month payment as an old age pension. Undoubtedly a great deal could have been done to increase the number of annuities purchased if greater publicity had been given to the scheme, and if further advantages had been given to those who might reasonably be expected to provide for their old age in that way. It is a form of insurance which I believe the insurance companies engage in. I think I am right when I say that the government established this annuity system before any of the companies adopted such a scheme. The companies came in afterwards, and if those companies are doing a big business they are taking it away from the government. It is a very proper thing-well, it might be described as public ownership-and it is a most advantageous system for men who have sufficient money to put away a little year by year to provide for their old age, and to maintain their self-respect as they certainly will, better than they can by taking an old age pension at the age of sixty or seventy. I hope the government and the Minister of Labour will go into this, figure it out and at the next session of parliament present some reasonable measure for the development of annuities.


We have already under consideration and under way an investigation on behalf of the department of the very matter which the hon. gentleman has spoken of, and I hope our annuity system will be extended so that it will do just what the hon. member proposes it should do and thus make it easier for the workers. I am trying to develop a joint contributory scheme in which employers, the provinces and the Dominion will have a part. It would bear very lightly on the shoulders of the workers, but the provinces, the Dominion and the workers would all contribute.
I do not know whether it will shorten the discussion on the bill now before us, but I may tell the House that the bill we have before us is to provide relief for those who have already reached the age of seventy. Last session the bill was defeated in the Senate. It was discussed during the last election, and I think I am safe in saying that if anything was prominently before the electors of the country the old age pension bill was. This was the bill that was before the electors at that time and we are now submitting it to you in the form in which the House and
[Mr. Hocken.l
the people endorsed it. It is true the bill does not go as far as some of us might desire but no matter what proposition is offered it necessarily involves expenditure. The bill was thrown out by the Senate last year, because it entailed an expenditure of approximately $14,000,000. The suggestions which have been made are good and will be valuable for future consideration, but if adopted by the government, would mean an expenditure of between $60,000,000 and $70,000,000, and I hardly think that would be an inducement to the Senate to accept it, when they did not see their way to pass a measure which would entail a cost of $12,000,000.


If I understood the minister correctly, he estimated that it would cost the Dominion treasury about $14,000,000.


About $12,000,000.


Will the minister please explain just how it is going to cost $60,000,000 if the Dominion bears the whole expense?


I do not think the hon.
member understood what I said. The suggestions were to make it a purely federal bill, to reduce the age from seventy to sixty-five, and to give the pensioners a dollar a day or $365 a year, instead of $240. I said that if those suggestions were acepted by the government the bill would entail an expenditure of between $60,000,000 and $70,000,000 roughly calculated. I would ask the Llouse to accept this measure, get it on the statute book, and then we can amend it as we see fit, in the light of our experience.


Has the minister made any calculation as to how much it will cost the provinces if this measure goes through? He states that $12,000,000 would be the approximate cost to the Dominion treasury. How much would it cost the provinces?


The same amount.


Hardly the
same amount, because section 3 speaks of fifty per cent of the net cost. Who is providing the machinery? If it-only costs the Dominion half of the net cost to the provinces, then manifestly it will cost the provinces much more than it will cost the Dominion.


We have taken that into
consideration, and almost every province in the Dominion has some kind of social service work, such as workmen's compensation board, or mothers' allowance board, and this measure can be readily administered through those

Old Age Pensions
boards without any extra cost-probably the cost of one or two clerks. A bill has been introduced1 in the legislature of British Columbia which will give power to the Workmen's Compensation Board to administer the Old Age Pension Act, and it will not cost them anything additional.


What I have to say perhaps would more properly come under the next section of the bill, but I will make my statement now, in view of the remarks of the minister. The reason he has given to the House for not going into a detailed consideration of the clauses of the bill is that it was before the electors at the last election. Doubtless most of us in this House are well aware that it was before the electors, but I believe in some quarters, amongst those who supported the bill last year, there has been a change of heart or a change of opinion. For instance, we have in Nova Scotia the Halifax Chronicle, the chief Liberal organ of the province. During the federal election the Halifax Chronicle extolled the old age pension bill as presented to parliament during last session, but I hold in my hand an editorial which appeared in the Halifax Chronicle, February 18, of this year, which reads as follows:
While strongly favoring old age pensions, the Chronicle believes, for reasons set forth in previous articles, that the federal government would do well, in dealing with the old age pensions bill, to arrange itself to make the necessary provision for the payment of the pensions. Having in its possession the principal sources of revenue in Canada and having initiated the old age pensions scheme, it would seem to be the duty and privilege of the Dominion government to provide ways and means for carrying that worthy measure into effect.
Most of the provinces are short of revenue. In fact, it may be impossible for some of them to respond to the terms of the present bill. Nova Scotia with a deficit of more than one million dollars might find it difficult to assume additional burdens. In this circumstance, then, it would seem only fair that in promoting the purpose of the measure, the federal government should also see to it that it provides the necessary money to carry on the work. It is submitted that if any province had passed such a bill, contingent upon the federal government providing half the funds, it would probably be considered inappropriate and ineffective if not offensive. The present bill of the federal government is in much the same category.
I draw that to the attention of the House, Mr. Chairman, in view of the remarks of the minister that the bill was before the electors at the last election.
I endorse the statements made by the member for Cumberland (Mr. Smith) when he spoke on the measure in committee two weeks ago. As far as Nova Scotia is concerned, it would not come into effect for many years. As the minister knows, this year the province has
a deficit of 1855,000. It is in the unhappy position of having had a great many of its young men emigrate, and there is probably a larger proportion of old people in Nova Scotia than in any other province. Taking what I believe to be a typical district in my own constituency, I reckon that one person in forty would come under the provisions of this bill. True, the majority of them have property, but they would be eligible for pensions. On that basis it would cost the province approximately $1,500,000 a year as its proportion of the pension fund. With the deficit of $800,000 facing it now, it would be impossible for Nova Scotia to put the measure into effect. I think the same applies to several of the other provinces.
I believe in the principle of old age pensions, but I do not believe in the present bill. It is nothing more than a political gesture and will never give pensions to our old people.


What do you do now
with your old people, let them starve?


We have poorhouses maintained by the municipalities. It has been pointed out that the bill would enable the municipalities to do away with their poor-houses, but I believe this to be a fallacy, because many of the inmates are under seventy years of age and feeble-minded. In neither case .would the bill provide for those people.


Mr. Chairman, last session when a similar bill was before the House I spoke strongly in favour of its principle. I am still in favour of the principle of old age pensions, but in this proposed legislation I see many manifest injustices to the provinces. On the introduction of the resolution preceding the bill the minister was questioned as to how many of the provinces had agreed to the principle. I think he said one. So only one of the nine provinces has agreed to cooperate in this legislation. In Ontario we have somewhat similar legislation in the Mothers' Pensions Act; and it has worked very satisfactorily. That work has been undertaken, entirely by the province, and if it is deemed necessary to look after our people who are over seventy years of age, I believe Ontario will be equally willing and able to take care of them. In my own riding the position is pretty much the same as that described by the hon. member who has just sat down (Mr. Ernst). We have a home which is well sustained and very satisfactorily carried on to take care of old indigent people, and I do not think that the majority of my constituents would be in favour of this legislation.
Old Age Pensions

In my view the bill is unworkable in some particulars. For instance, under section 10 if a pensioner moves from one province to another the province from which he is receiving his pension is entitled to recover from the other province a proportionate amount of that pension. But how is it possible to recover if the other province has taken no steps to put this proposed legislation into effect? Section 11 is also objectionable.
I repeat, Mr. Chairman, I am in favour of the principle of old age pensions, but I believe the Dominion government should bear the total cost. We have had several instances along this line. It will be remembered that the Dominion government provided $20,000000 to assist the provinces to build good roads, but I think if the expenditure were scrutinized it would be found that an undue proportion of it represented administration costs. The same is true, I believe, in regard to technichal education. We have made a federal grant of $1,000,000 a year-


A little more.


-and probably up to the present time only one of the provinces has taken advantage of that grant, but the act has to be administered and the cost of administration is entirely disproportionate to the amount of the grant. I think the same condition would apply in this case. I believe every member in this House is in favour of the principle of the bill, whether he sits on *he right or the left of the Speaker; but we differ as to the manner in which it should be applied. Speaking for myself, I am entirely in favour of the Dominion either assuming the whole liability or leaving the matter alone.


Mr. Chairman, both last
session and this I have listened to a discussion of the "principle" of this bill. It seems to me to be a bill without principle. The bill is a sorry political gesture, made for the purpose of creating confusion in the minds of those who would be entitled to pensions, those who are promoting the bill knowing full well that under existing conditions it is utterly impossible to carry the proposed legislation into effect throughout the Dominion. There is very strong ground why the government should take into consideration the necessities of those who are unable by reason of age to earn an ordinary living. But the same principle that applies to those who would be entitled to pensions by reason of old age applies to those who by reason of any physical or mental infirmity are deprived of the capacity of earning a living and have no private revenue for their support. During my last election contest in the city of Montreal it was not the question of old age pensions that 
caused me difficulty; it was certain promises made by the Prime Minister of this country (Mr. Mackenzie King) to a delegation, partly from my constituency, to the effect that all those who suffer from blindness would this year receive by federal measure relief on the scale suggested in this bill for old age pensions. In fact, so confident are some of those people who were led to vote for my opponent on that occasion, by reason of the promises made by the Prime Minister to that delegation, that I hold in my hand a letter dated February 10 of this year written by Philip E. Layton, president of the Canadian Federation of the Blind, in which he asks me, confident in his belief that this remedial measure will be introduced at this session, to give my support in its favour when the bill comes before the House.


Does Mr. Layton in that
correspondence suggest that the Prime Minister made the promise which the hon. gentleman has mentioned?


Let me read the letter:
Mr. C. II. Cahan,
Parliament Buildings,
Ottawa, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
Premier Mackenzie King on June 22, 1926,

Note the date.
-received at Ottawa a delegation of 100 blind persons from all over the Dominion, who presented to him a petition asking that pensions be given by the government to the blind. . . . Premier King on receiving the petition kindly stated that he would be pleased to sponsor a bill for state aid for the blind at the next session of parliament. I am instructed by the council of the Canadian Federation of the Blind to ask if you will kindly give your support to this bill when it comes up in the legislature.


I rise to a point of order. I
dc not wish to interrupt the thread of the hon. gentleman's remarks, and for that reason I have kept silent hitherto. But as he himself has said, he is discussing the principle of this bill and I would direct the attention of the Chair to the rule that the principle shall not be discussed in committee, but merely the particular section of the bill under consideration. With no ill-will to the hon. member, and with no desire to cut off his line of thought, which of course should have been given to us on the second reading or during the discussion of the resolution, I submit that this is not the time and place to go into a general and wide consideration of the principle of the bill. If we do so we shall never get anywhere. I would ask for the ruling of the Chair.


It has been frequently stated in this House in my hearing by the leader of the House that in order to avoid any lengthy

Old Age Pensions
discussion on the second reading of a bill hon. members might reserve their remarks for the committee stage, when the utmost liberty would be given.


To discuss the details.
Mr. CAHA.N:	I was not discussing the
principle but the utter lack of principle of the bill, and the unprincipled ground on which the legislation is being promoted. This objection will simply prolong discussion. We are facilitating the passage of the legislation and it is convenient that I should have five minutes now in which to state my position, rather than take five hours to state it later on. The bdl has not received the consideration from the department which it should have been given. It should be a federal measure, because this parliament has no control over the provinces. This parliament is well advised that the provinces of Canada will not accept the measure in the terms in which it is now before the House, and the Prime Minister has promised a special measure for those who are suffering from blindness. For these reasons the bill should in my opinion be withdrawn to allow the government ample time to consider it in all its bearings. Thereafter the government could submit a measure of wider application, carrying out on the one hand the Prime Minister's promise to the delegation which approached him in June last, and, on the other, making due provision for those who are suffering from other physical or mental deficiency or infirmity which prevents them from earning a living. With regard to those who are now in a position to earn a living and who have an income, I think that such a general bill should provide that those, under the pension age, in that position, should contribute an amount, however small, towards the pension which they would be entitled to receive later in life. There is no objection anywhere in the country, on the part of those wage earners who are likely to participate in the pension provisions of a bill of this character, to making a modest contribution during those years in which they are earning a revenue, while there is a persistent opposition throughout the length and breadth of the country to the adoption of anything approaching the dole system, which has proved so disastrous in some other countries. I suggest therefore that the government should carry out its pledge to the blind delegation or withdraw this bill. We have ample time now for sober reflection, as we are not now on the eve of a general election. The government at a subsequent session could bring down a bill more thoroughly considered, more complete in its terms and one which would meet
with the general approbation of the whole country and at the same time provide a basis for contributions, however small, from the wage earners towards paying the pensions to which they would subsequently become entitled if through infirmity of mind or body they should find it impossible to earn a living.


Rule 13, section (5),
reads:
Speeches in committee of the whole must be strictly relevant to the item or clause under consideration.
I must rule in accordance with this provision that general remarks under the section now being discussed are not relevant.


The minister opened the discussion.


So far as the government
is concerned we have no desire to curtail discussion on any question relating to this bill. We did say that we would allow the fullest opportunity for its consideration in committee, but of course, we cannot prevent any hon. member from appealing to the Chair on a point of order.


It would expedite the
passage of the bill if the committee would adopt section 2 and proceed to the clause relating to agreements with the provinces.


Have any conferences
been held with the premiers of the different provinces regarding this legislation?


If the hon. member
would allow section 2 to pass his remarks will be relevant to section 3. Shall section 2 carry?
Mr. BLACK (Yukonl:	Before section 2
is carried I point out to the minister that subsection (d) of the section reads:
"Province" includes the Yukon territory, in respect to which "commisioner" shall be read for "Lieutenant Governor in Council".
There is no such official in the Aukon as commissioner as the word "commissioner" is used here; that position was abolished as long ago as 1918. Although the bill for many other reasons is not practicable but is unworkable, and will in all human probability never be put into force in .the Yukon territory, and probably not in any of the provinces, for the reason alone which I have mentioned it would not be workable in Yukon, and the minister will have to find some other wording for the subsection than it contains now if he is going to make the law applicable to and workable in the Yukon territory.
Old Age Pensions
-COMMONS


My advice from the law
department is that the term "commissioner" is quite correct and that it will not interfere with the proper working of the bill. If I remember aright the hon. member raised the same question last year, but since then the law department has advised me that the term is perfectly proper and that Yukon will be able to come in under the bill.


I can only say to
the minister that I have warned him and although I do not think the effect will be very disastrous if he proceeds-because as I said before the bill in all probability will never be applied in that territory and therefore it does not matter how it is worded-yet in the first place to be of any use to the people up there a larger pension should be provided and the entire responsibility should be assumed by the federal government, because the local government in Yukon is in no position at all to carry out the requirements of this bill.


Is the government absolutely adamantine in regard to this bill? Is there no possibility of their considering a federal scheme?


I thought I had made it perfectly plain on two occasions that the government would like the House and particularly the labour men to accept this bill. We have had other legislation such as pension bills and mothers' allowance bills, and they have never been one hundred per cent perfect when enacted, but they have been amended afterwards in the light of experience. I think I have said enough without directly answering my hon. friend's question.


The point I have in mind
is that when the principle of this bill was discussed I understood that the Alberta government fully intended to pass legislation complying with the federal bill, but since that time I understand the Alberta legislature has voted against the resolution asking the local government to pass enabling legislation. I should like to see the old people in my province get some relief under an old age pension bill, but if we can gather anything from the resolution passed by the Alberta legislature a few days ago the present proposal will bring nothing to that province.
Now a lot has been said about what the people expected from old age pensions during the last election. We are all aware that the people want old age pensions, but they did not know what kind of a -bill was being talked about. They want an old age pension and they want it now, but I venture to say the present bill will not receive the endorsation

of the people of Canada. I am not opposing the government in this matter, but I would insist that they give this bill reconsideration in view of the difficulties that seem to present themselves in carrying it out; and in view of the fact that the entire House is in sympathy with the government in introducing old age pensions, and is willing to support a proper scheme, I cannot for the life of me see why they should not reconsider the proposal.
Mr. AD8HEAD:	The hon. member for
Wetaskiwin (Mr. Irvine) has spoken of the resolution before the Alberta legislature on the subject of old age pensions. I hold in my hand an extract from a speech made by Premier Brownlee, and while it is true the legislature voted down the resolution, at the same time Premier Brownlee corrected Mr. White, one of -the members for Calgary, with respect to some statements he had made, adding simply that they were not entirely satisfied with the proposed fifty-fifty arrangement provided for in -the bill. He pointed out, however, that the bill had not passed the federal parliament, and they hoped to do some further bargaining by which the federal government would assume a little larger share of the cost than was involved under the fifty-fifty arrangement. So that the resolution failed to pass, I take it, in consequence of the representations of the Alberta government that there would be further negotiations in order to see if some better arrangement could not be arrived at. The attitude of the labour members of the legislature was not entirely antagonistic although they expressed themselves as not quite satisfied with the bill. For example Mr. White, to whom I have already referred said he was not quite satisfied with the bill. -He believed that the age limit should be below seventy years. While the labour men in parliament asked the federal government to assume full responsibility, they would accept the present bill. The local member also said that amending legislation could be enacted from time to time, and he asked why the aged should be deprived of assistance because the local authorities could not get all their own way at this time. Mr. Parkyn member of the legislature for Calgary supported the view that half a loaf was better than no bread and the bill ought to be sustained. Mr. Smeaton, member of the legislature from Lethbridge, asked the legislature to commit itself to the enactment of the necessary legislation in Alberta as soon as the old age pensions bill passed parliament. Mr. Christopher, a member from the Crowsnest pass mining district, said that the federal government would put up $10 out of every $20 paid. In this connection 'he used rather

Old Age Pensions
peculiar language for he said "it would mean a large sum coming to the province and should not be sneezed at."
I just want to say a word or two with respect to the remarks of one of the members from Toronto. The hon. member in question referred to annuities, and said that everybody should, during his wage-earning period, lay aside sufficient out of his meagre earnings in order to provide for his old age. That is a very good principle and I only wish it could be carried out in its entirety. But in looking through the estimates I find that judges who receive salaries ranging from $5,000 to $8,000 are retired with an annual pension of $5,000 or $6,000. I have not learned that these gentlemen have made any particular provision for their old age during their tenure on the bench, but I am quite