I have the honour to inform the House that I have received from the clerk of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario the following communication:
Toronto, March Sth, 1927. The Honourable Speaker,
House of Commons,
Ottawa, Ontario.
Dear Sir:
At the session of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario held yesterday afternoon, the 7th
instant, a resolution was adopted by the House dealing with the request contained in Bill No. 78 of your House asking for an extension of the charter of the Georgian Bay Ship Canal Company.
A properly certified copy of the resolution in question is being forwarded to you through the medium of the Lieutenant-Governor, as is proper in such cases, but as the bill is now before your House for consideration I am taking the iiberty of enclosing herein a copy of the resolution duly certified by me in order that you may be advised of the action of the Ontario assembly.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) Alex. C. Lewis,
Clerk of the Legislative Assembly.
On motion of Mr. Ferguson, seconded by Mr. Raney,
Resolved, that this House respectfully urges the parliament of Canada not to enact Bill (No. 78) of the House of Commons respecting the Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Company for the reasons hereinafter set forth:
That the bill proposes to renew a charter to authorize the construction of a canal and the development of water-powers on the Ottawa and the French rivers which said charter has already been in existence for thirty-three years without any evidence of progress toward the accomplishment of the projected canal;
That the application to parliament is an effort on the part of private promoters to secure through the federal parliament the control and ownership of a great and valuable public utility;
That the water-powers in the Ottawa river in inter-provincial waters are the joint property of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, and that the powers in the French river are wholly situate within Ontario and are the property of the province of Ontario and cannot be rightfully legislated upon by the Dominion parliament;
That the development of these powers is essential to the industry and the prosperity of the two provinces of Ontario and Quebec, and the only effect of federal legislation purporting to vest these powers in a private company will be to retard development, create litigation and impair the public interest;
That the water-powers of the Ottaw'a river, so far as they belong to this province, are an essential part of the public development and distribution of power in Ontario in which the people of this province have already invested upwards of $276,000,000;
That this legislative assembly desires to record its most earnest and emphatic protest against the attempt being made, by means of a private bill in the Dominion parliament, to alienate valuable water-powers from the control and ownership of this province, and thereby deprive the people of Ontario of the advantage of one of our greatest natural resources for the benefit and advantage of private promoters;
That the province of Ontario respectfully urges that the rights guaranteed to the provinces under the federal constitution should be at all times respected by the parliament of Canada;
Questions

That this House believes that the occasion calls for a strong and conclusive pronouncement against the proposed legislation as being contrary to the spirit and the terms of confederation and prejudicial to the public interest.
For these and other reasons this House directs that copies of this resolution be forwarded to the Prime Minister of Canada and to the Speakers of the two Houses of Parliament of Canada.	_______
The above is a true copy of a resolution
a don ted without a dissenting voice, by the
.Legislative Assembly of Ontario on Monday, March 7, 1927.
(Signed) Alex. C. Lewis,
Clerk-of the Legislative Assembly.
Toronto, March 8th, 1927.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Lewis Wilkinson.
2.	$100 per month plus $25 board allowance while station is in operation and $75 per year extra for his services as caretaker during winter.
3.	No.
4.	No.
5.	No.
6.	9-Coxswain, cook and 7 boatmen.
7.	$725. (Wages $500, board $225). (Repairs, supplies, etc., vary).
8.	A cook is provided and each member of the crew is allowed $25 per month for his board.
9.	The cheque for board allowance for the full crew is sent the coxswain.
10 and 11. No complaints have reached the department.
12.	$7,378.76. (Up to date for fiscal year 1926-27) (covers: wages, board, repairs and labour supplies, clothing, etc.)
13.	The station was first established in 1900 with a volunteer crew? Since 1910 the station has been manned by a permanent crew, that is, during the season of navigation.
14.	(a) $112,244.43; (b) 1900, $224.29; 1901, $2.SO; 1902; 1903, $730.44; 1904, $411; 1905, $439; 1906, $327; 1907, $427.10; 1908, $294; 1909, $361.50; 1910, $363.56; 1911, $1,838.25; 1912, $4,125.97; 1913, $4,449.42; 1914, $4,859.93; 1915, $4,878.51; 1916, $10,626.26 ($5,500 erection of boathouse); 1917, $4,948.69; 1918, $5,252.54; 1919, $4,052.88; 1920, $4,701.51; 1921, $9,322.71; 1922, $8,504.84; 1923, $7,126.80; 1924, $7,670.55; 1925, $7,513.25; 1926, $11,412.87; present fiscal year, $7,378.76.

Questions
15.	Drills performed twice a week (include managing the life boat and other duties connected with the station and an exercise of four or five miles in the boat.
16.	Household supplies (living room, dining room, bedroom and kitchen furnishings) uniforms, oilskins and rubber boots, and boathouse supplies. Only essentials supplied and articles replaced when deemed unfit for further use.
17.	The coxswain will be requested to submit a report of the operations of the station covering the fiscal year ending March 31st.
18.	No. (Extract from a letter received from clerk of the peace, Windsor, Ont.) "Although this took place within 3 miles of the life saving station no one there knew of it, although the boat could be seen floating bottom up quite clearly from the shore and the whistle was blown hard before the boat turned turtle."
19.	The coxswain in his report of the accident states:	"When the man on the beach
reported ship aground made ready to go out. Saw fishing vessel " Flossie G." which had been lifting nets close by proceeding to assistance so waited their report. Survivors landed by fishing boat and taken care of at station. Survivors stated no danger whistle blown- engine room whistle blown by captain-two short blasts."
Captain Demers in summing up his evidence of investigation states:	" Even if the lifeboat had been manned it could not have rendered any help as the turning over of the vessel was so sudden that the crew was trapped and perished within a few minutes. The distance from the station to the place of casualty is estimated to be 3 miles and when the crew searched the place on the following morning Sunday May 3rd, when the weather and wind had subsided, this distance was covered in one hour and ten minutes. In view of this I am of the opinion that the life saving crew would not have rendered help and saved other lives."
20.	The department has no record of the coxswain's resignation having been received.
21.	William A. Grubb, Jr., recommended by Eccles J. Gott, M.P., and others.
22.	Yes.
23.	The department did receive the resolution dated 28th June, 1926.
24 and 25. The department contemplates the complete reorganization of this station.


1.	Will the government lay on the table of the House the text of the reference to the
Supreme Court of Canada of the Alberta resources question?	_
2.	Will the case be argued before a special sitting or at the next regular sitting of the court, and if so, when?
3.	What counsel will appear for the government or province?	,
4.	Has the Alberta government agreed to this reference, and will Alberta be represented at the hearing, or it?
5.	Will the y . rernment lay on the table any correspondence on the subject of this reference with Alberta't, government?
6.	Who were the persons who expressed "implied doubts" as to the validity of the Alberta Act, 1905, referred to in statement of the Minister of Justice in the House on reference to Supreme Court (1926) ?
7.	Will the government lay on the table of the House the opinions it secured or has received as to the validity of the Alberta Act, 1905, from the Alberta government?


Mr. Speaker, in
answer to the hon. gentleman, the government has already laid on the table of the House all documents and given all the information concerning this matter. Argument was concluded last Monday on the reference to the Supreme Court of Canada. The Attorney General of Canada was represented by the Solicitor General (Mir. Cannon) and Mr. Eugene Lafleur, K.C. of Montreal; the case against the validity of the Alberta Act was presented by Mr. F. H. Chrysler, K.C. of Ottawa, who was appointed by the Supreme Court for that purpose; the province of Alberta was represented Iby Mr. George F. Henderson, K.C. of Ottawa, and the province of Saskatchewan by Mr. Harold Fisher, K.C., of Ottawa.


1.	Has the government received any requests to amend the Pension Act so as to enable the granting of pensions to soldiers who, when on active service, contracted venereal disease and as a result, partly or wholly, are under disability?
2.	Will the government take steps to amend the act so as to permit issue of pensions in such cases?


1.	A resolution submitted by the Canadian Legion proposes that the Pension Act be amended to provide for recognition of disabilities from venereal disease contracted during service.
2.	The recommendation is being considered together with some one hundred others recently submitted by the legion.


1.	Has the government a contract or contracts with the Bell Telephone Company of Canada for telephone service?
Questions

2.	Have the Canadian National [DOT] Railways a contract or contracts with the Bell Telephone Company of Canada for telephone service?
3.	If so, may all such contracts be tabled?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes; covered by agreement between the Bell Telephone Company of Canada and the Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada, dated May 1, 1913.
3.	Copy will be tabled.


-
1.	Is the Department of Agriculture aware that United States government has adopted what is known as the Lenroot Taber Milk Bill, controlling and regulating the acceptance of milk and cream in the United States?
2.	If so, when will this Lenroot Taber Milk Bill, as far as it affects Canada, come in force?
3.	Will it prohibit Canadians shipping milk and cream to United States, and if not, on what regulation will Canadian products be controlled?
4.	Has the Department of Agriculture taken steps so that Canadian producers of milk and cream will put in equipment to meet these regulations?


1.	Yes.
2.	The Act itself comes into effect within ninety days after the date of enactment, that is ninety days after February 15th, 1927.
3.	It is not anticipated that the new Act will prohibit Canadians shipping milk and cream to the United States, as provision is made in the Act for all applicants to receive a temporary permit at the outset, until the machinery incidental to the Act is put in motion. The conditions under which shipments will be permitted will not be known until the regulations are drafted and approved, and the Canadian Department of Agriculture is to have an opportunity of being represented at the public hearing to be held at Washington when these regulations are being drafted, probably late March or early April.
4.	No, inasmuch as the conditions under which Canadian milk and cream will be permitted entry into the United States are not yet fully known, no steps have been taken, but the Department is keeping in close touch with day-to-day developments in Washington with respect to the subject in question.


1.	Has the royal commission for the investigation of illegal warfare claims and for the return of sequestrated property in necessitous cases made its final report to the government?
2.	If so, when will the contents of same be laid on the table?


1.	No. An interim report covering 1,497 claims totalling $41,505,787.80 has been submitted by the commissioner. There still remains thirteen claims for assessment, and the commissioner reports that "there are in these cases such masses of documents, evidence, briefs, calculations by experts, accountants, etc., that it will take further time to deliver intelligent decisions."
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	What federal taxes does the Bell Telephone Company pay per annum?
2.	What federal taxes does the provincial government owned telephone systems pay per annum, (2) in Manitoba; (b) in Saskatchewan; (c) in Alberta?


1 and 2. It is contrary to the practice of the department to give information which would disclose the business of an individual concern, except by resolution of parliament.


1.	How many appointments have been made by the Civil Service Commission during each of the years 1924, 1925 and 1926, to positions for which one or more returned soldiers were applicants?
2.	Hoiv many returned soldiers were appointed to above vacant positions in each of the years 1924, 1925, 1926?


1.	Number of persons examined by the Civil Service Commission for entrance to the civil service:
Year	O.A.S.	Non-O.A.S.	Total1924 ....	.. 4,875	5,269	10,1441925 ....	.. 4,962	7,931	12.8931926 ....	.. 3,942	7,997	11,939Total ..	.. 13,779	21,197	34,876

2.


Year	Permanent (Including Postmasters)	Seasonal	Temporary	Total	OAS	MC	Wo.	Total	OAS	MC	Wo.	Total	OAS	MC	Wo.	Total	OAS	MC	Wo.	Total1924	952	510	360	1,822	114	54	6	174	1,020	936	468	2,424	2,086	1,500	834	4,4201925	1,085	761	323	2,169	100	59	15	174	877	1,437	614	2,928	2,062	2,257	952	5,2711926	635	575	305	1,515	97	41	16	154	934	1,222	791	2,947	1,666	1,838	1,112	4,6162,672	1,846	988	5,506	311	154	37	502	2,831	3,595	1,873	8,299	5,814	5,595	2,898	14,307
OAS-Overseas Active Service. MC-Male Civilian.
Wo.-Women.
Year	Permanent	Seasonal	Post- masters	Total Permanent	Temporary	Grand Total866	114	86	1,066	1,020	2,086986	100	99	1,185	877	2,062554	97	81	732	934	1,6662,406	311	266	2,983	2,831	5,814
Questions
Questions
Mr. HO'CKEN:
1.	How many employees are there in the post office in Ottawa?
2.	How many are males?
3.	How many are females?
4.	How many of the females are French?
5.	How many of the males are French?
1.	357.
2.	348.
3.	9.
4.	4.
5.	115.


1.	How many special preventive officers are there in the county of Inverness?
2.	Who are they and what salary does each receive ?
3.	How much time are these officials supposed to devote to their duties?


1.	How many commanding officers of infantry battalions in Canada have resigned in last three years?
2.	How many have been appointed to replace them in command?
3.	How many officers of other ranks than command have resigned?
4.	How many appointments have been made to replace the vacancies caused by (3) ?


1924	1925	1926	Total1	nil.	nil.	nil.2	nil.	nil.	nil.3	45	52	1454.	Officers of the various ranks provided for in the establishments laid down for infantry battalions are replaced by the promotion of juniors if qualified as soon as vacancies are created, and the same numbers given in answer to No. 3 may be held applicable to No. 4.


1 and 2. J. C. Bourinot, salary SI ,920 per annum; A. J. Campbell, salary $1,200 per annum.
3.	Full time.
This does not include four officers without salary, whose headquarters are outside Inverness county but who have Dominion-wide authority.


. . 

Yvcic received Dv the Dominion government from the Yukon, by years Slrlce formation as an administrative unit' fW,What 'Tere expenditures in Yukon during these years by the Dominion government?


1.	Has the government received from the commissioner appointed under the Home Bank Relief Act, a recommendation for a further grant of five hundred thousand ($500,000) dollars, in order that creditors who have filed their claims may be dealt with?
2.	If so, what action is being contemplated?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Has the government taken any steps to include under the revised civil service pension scheme, those government telegraph employees who have not given twenty years' service or more?
2.	If not, is it the intention of the government to place such government telegraph employees under the revised civil service pension scheme ?


1.	The telegraph employees are paid at prevailing rates, and as such do not come within the Civil Service Superannuation Act of 1924.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	How- many private cars are owned or leased by the government and what are they named or numbered ?
2.	What was the total cost of said cars and the amount expended during the last five years in making repairs or changes to such cars?

Unopposed Motions for Papers
3.	What was the cost of operating same during the calendar years 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925 and 1926?	.	.
4.	Was anything paid for hauling or shunting of said cars during each of the said years? If so, how much?
5.	Where are the said cars located, how many at Montreal, how many at Ottawa and how many elsewhere?
6.	Have any of the departments of the government or ministers of the same, cars for their particular use and what are the names and numbers of such cars and the departments and ministers making use of the same?
7	Have any of the cars referred to been
placed at the disposal of other ministers or other persons during the last five years. If so, when and by whom?	.	.
8	Ho any of the railways m Canada or m the" United States make any charge for transportation or handling of said cars? If so, what is the rate or do the companies in Canada by courtesy dead head such cars?


1.	How many persons are employed by the Civil Service Commission, and what are their respective functions?
2.	What salary is paid to each person employed by said commission?
3.	What salaries do the commissioners receive?
4.	What were the total expenses incurred tor the administration of said commission including salaries and all other expenditures, for the years 1921 to 1927, respectively?


1.	What are the names of the postmasters dismissed from office since the last federal election for political partisanship, and in what counties are the offices situated?
2.	What are the names of the postmasters removed from office at the request of,- (a) Liberal members of parliament; (b) Liberal candidates defeated at last election; (c) Conservative members or defeated Conservative candidates; (d) Progressive members or defeated Progressive candidates; (e) Liberal-Progressive members or defeated Liberal-Progressive candidates; (f) members of other parties or defeated candidates of other parties?


For a copy of proposed agreement regarding resources of Alberta, with amendments; also a copy of all correspondence between the Prime Minister of Canada and the Premier of Alberta, dealing with same, from December, 1921, to date.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS-PURCHASE OF THOMPSON AND AKERBURg's MACHINE SHOP


For a copy af all letters, telegrams, proposed agreements and agreements affecting the purchase by the national railways or by any department of the government of the machine work shop of Thompson and Akerburg, Prince Rupert, British Columbia, together with the report of the officer or officers who made the appraisal of the said plant and assets so purchased.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams or other correspondence between E. W. Backus, or any other individual, company or companies, and the Department of the Interior, relative to the purchase of pulpwood in the province of Manitoba.


For a copy of the official regulations at present in force to exterminate rabies in the city and district of Montreal.	.


For a list of all the civil servants in Canada earning a salary at the rate of $3,000 a year or over, on the date of January 1, 1927, indicating in each case, the full name of the person, the grade or nature of the work done, the salary so earned and the department in which that person is working, all names for each separate department being grouped together.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, reports and other correspondence or communications between the government of Canada, or any member thereof, or deputy minister, or official of the government, or the Civil Service Commission, or any official thereof, or the Gold Commissioner of Yukon, or any official of Yukon, and any person or persons, relating to the proposed appointment, the appointment and the cancellation of appointment of George Reid of Yukon to be acting mining recorder or to perform the duties of mining recorder at Mayo, Yukon territory, in the absence of the mining recorder from Mayo during the winter or part of the winter of 1926-27, and the same relating to the appointment of one Colley to fill said position of acting mining recorder.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams and other documents from July 1, 1926, to March 1, 1927, with regard to the moving of the post office from one building to another in the village of Limerick, Saskatchewan.


For a return showing the names and locations of all live stock exchanges in Canada, the owners of each exchange, the names of members of each exchange, the firms represented by such members and the cost of each, membership.
B.N.A. Act-Amendment


That, in the opinion of this House, in view of: (a) the constitutional developments of the last sixty years:	(b) the dissatisfaction of
certain provinces; (c) the changed conditions in industry, commerce and finance not contemplated at the time of confederation; and, (dl the action of the Senate in preventing the enactment of popular legislation, there should be appointed a special select committee to consider what amendments might be made in the British North America Act which, while conserving the principles of confederation, would enable us more adequately to cope with the complicated problems which now confront Canada.
He said: As will be observed, my argument is outlined in the terms of the resolution itself. I have called attention to the changes and developments in the constitutional relations of this country during the past sixty years. It is not my purpose to go into the rather complicated question of the Imperial conference and the changed status which has come, or is alleged to have come, through that conference. I presume that that matter will receive very full discussion at a later date when the report of the conference is under review. I would, 'however, venture to call attention to the fact that the conference itself recognized some of the changes which are becoming necessary because of the altered conditions in Canada and in the other dominions. From the report of the Imperial conference I quote the following:
The rapid evolution of the oversea dominions during the last fifty years has involved many complicated adjustments of old political machinery to changing conditions. The tendency towards equality of status was both right and inevitable. Geographical and other conditions made this impossible of attainment by the way of confederation. The only alternative was by the way of autonomy; and along this road it has been steadily sought. Every self-governing member of the empire is i jw the master of its destiny. In fact, if not always in form, it is subject to no compulsion whatever.
There is here very clearly recognized the evolution that has been taking place in the relations of the various overseas dominions, and now it is declared that Great Britain and the dominions are equal in status and in no way subordinate one to another, in any aspect of their domestic or external affairs. It seems to me, then, that the time has come when we must implement this statement by amending our constitution and our constitutional procedure in order that these may conform to our present status-whether 
that status was acquired at the Imperial conference or at that conference it was merely formally declared.
I do not think that for my purpose it make3 very much difference whether we acquired a new status at the Imperial conference or whether, at that conference, declaration was made of a condition of things which was already in existence. The fact is that we are recognized as having a certain status to-day, and it is also clearly recognized that there are many legislative and constitutional anomalies in existence which ought to be removed in order that we may fully implement the declaration made at the Imperial conference. Among these anomalies, and in my opinion, of very great importance to us, is the fact that at the present time there is no way in which we ourselves can amend our constitution. I presume that we could pass an address in this House and ask that a similar address be passed in the Senate, praying the parliament of Great Britain to change our constitution. That may be the manner in which the change will have to be brought about. The fact is, however, that we ourselves have no means by which we can amend our own constitution; and in this respect we are inferior to Australia and South Africa. We talk about equality of status, but in this direction alone we are inferior not only to the motherland, but to others of the dominions. Decidedly we should bring our status up to that of South Africa or of Australia, whose constitutions happen to be more modern and therefore include the right of amendment. We 'have been rather accustomed to think of ourselves as the premier dominion, but it cannot be said that we have very much to boast of when these much less important and more recent confederations enjoy greater autonomy than we do. I quite admit that they may be right who say that this power of amending our constitution is already within our possession, and that in reality we have those powers; I fancy if we made a request to Great Britain, that request would be complied with. In that case, let us proceed to find out as a first step what modifications we really want to see brought about. The exact method by which that may be done may be a matter for subsequent discussion.
I would draw attention to the fact, Mr. Speaker, that there is dissatisfaction in certain provinces of Canada. I think I need not go into the question of the rights of the Maritime provinces, since that matter was before us last session, and will shortly be brought up again in connection with the report of the Duncan commission, but in certain quarters

B.N.A. Act-Amendment
of the maritime provinces there has been distinct talk of secession. I am not in a position to say how widespread that sentiment may be, but I do know that it has been overtly expressed and, I am inclined to think, with considerable earnestness. It is stated that unless conditions are radically changed it may be necessary to advocate secession. Undoubtedly that feeling points very distinctly to the need for modification of our present relations.
Further I would say that our western provinces are far from satisfied with the conditions which have prevailed for a good many years in the public policies of Canada, and which we have found it very difficult to remedy. The other day, in the discussion of this resolution by a western gentleman of considerable political experience and, I think, of good judgment, he said, "What is the use of tinkering with the British North America Act? The west must brealk away, and then possibly we can cooperate on another basis." That is, he felt the case at present to be so hopeless that it was a mere waste of time to suggest that we should modify the British North America Act, and that the only possible thing for us to do was to let things go from bad to worse until the crash came, when the west might unite with the other provinces under some entirely new arrangement. That is not an extravagant statement by any means, but represents a feeling which is very widespread throughout the western country. It would seem to me a great deal wiser to recognize the economic developments which have taken place and which call for the adaptation of our political machinery. I know it is very easy for certain members of this House to jump up and say that those who talk secession or express dissatisfaction are traitors; that is especially easy for those who live in the central provinces, which are so very largely the beneficiaries of the present arrangements. But I would say rather that they are traitors- if that harsh term must be used-at least, that they are not working in the best interests of Canada, who deliberately refuse to recognize the actual conditions, and who refuse to allow these modifications which will do away with that dissatisfaction.
Of the many great changes which have come about in the last sixty years I would mention only two or three, and first I would take the opening up of the Canadian west. Sixty years ago the Canadian west was inhabited only by Indians. Now all that vast territory has been developed; great cities have been established and that part of Canada has become the source of a great deal of the production of
this country. We have now nearly 2,000,000 people living in the three prairie provinces. I would submit that that in itself represents an entire change in the life of Canada, a change which has not been fully appreciated by those living in the older sections. I know from the casual contacts which one has with the people of the east that a great many of them think we westerners are very extravagant and have all sorts of queer notions. I would remind the House that a great many of us came originally from the east, and have had to face new conditions. So it would seem to me that when we present these conditions to the east our eastern friends might surely realize, that if we have reacted in a particular way because of our contact with conditions in the west, very prolbably they would react in a similar way if they were to face similar experiences.


They would be a lot worse.


My hon. friend from Macleod (Mr. Coote) suggests that they would be worse, and that is possibly so.
In the next place I would refer to the great changes only beginning to be felt because of the opening of the Panama canal. I know that many of my fellow citizens of Winnipeg are only beginning to realize what that will mean, and some of them resent very strongly the diversion of traffic which has already taken place. All I desire to point out in that connection is that tlhis means that our trade relationships must be placed on an altogether different basis, and that we may require modified policies. Again there is the development of trade with the orient, and I think hon. members from British Columbia would try to impress upon the House what that is going to mean in the days to come. Already that trade has a large volume, and here again thi3 will mean a complete shifting of the trade routes in future, together with the'modification of our trade policies. A further extension of that same line of thought is the wider world relationships in which we find ourselves, and which I think have become apparent to all especially since the war.
The mere mention of these concrete facts, should be sufficient to convince any member of this House that we have gone through very distinct changes, and that because of these changes we have experienced very considerable dissatisfaction with the old and inadequate political forms and policies. It would appear to be the part of wisdom to try to get at the real causes of this trouble, because there are real causes behind it which should be remedied.
B.N.A. Act-Amendment

Almost every day in this House we are confronted with difficulties arising from the conflict of jurisdiction as between the Dominion and provincial governments; only this morning in the banking and commerce committee we had another illustration of this difficulty. I suppose troubles of this kind may give our constitutional lawyers a great deal of work, but it would seem to an ordinary layman that instead of wrangling eternally about these matters and instead of having to refer one thing after another to our law officers, to the Supreme Court of Canada and1 to the Privy Council, it would be wise to clarify our constitution so that we would know just what, is under federal jurisdiction and what is under the control of the provinces.
I have called attention to the changed conditions in industry, commerce and finance not contemplated at the time of confederation. At the time of confederation, as a matter of fact, Canada consisted of very little more than a series of pioneer settlements. The life of Canada was very largely agricultural. On the whole the communities were more or less self contained. Nearly all of us in going back to our childhood days can remember the little villages scattered throughout the country where there would be found at the comers a blacksmith shop, a carpenter shop, possibly a weaving establishment, a few simple industries that provided for the needs of the immediately surrounding country. We had those small country stores, while in the cities there were general stores that supplied the needs of the comparatively small populations of those centres. I can remember living in the city of Toronto when there were fewer than 100,000 inhabitants. Some of the Toronto people can hardly realize that Toronto was ever so small, but large as the city is to-day we must remember that its growth is of very recent years. These are some of the changes that have come about. Sixty years ago we had no highly concentrated system of capitalism such as we have to-day. There were a great many small industries, there were a great many small banks. To-day everything is changed. We have our huge factories, we have our developing trusts, we have our two great railway systems, and we have our banking systems representing a very highly concentrated system of finance. All is changed.
I note this particularly in connection with questions of legislation affecting labour. I come now to some very practical questions. Take the Industrial Disputes Investigations Act. We all know how difficult it has been to get anything of that kind established in

Canada, and even to-day we hardly know whether the present legislation is intra vires of the Dominion or not. Take such questions as the eight-hour day, the minimum wage, old age pensions, unemployment insurance, the education of immigrants- especially the foreign immigrants who are coming to us-questions with regard to bonuses and subsidies and how far any particular undertaking ought to be declared for the general welfare of Canada. These are very important questions, and I find that with regard to such practical considerations we can hardly touch one of them without being held up over this question of jurisdiction. As far back as 1889 the Royal Commission on the Relations of Capital and Labour reporting said:
Your commissioners cannot venture to determine where, in legislation affecting labour and capita], the authority of the Dominion parliament ends and that of the provincial legislatures begins.
That is the commissioners found themselves absolutely nonplussed when they came to run a dividing line between the jurisdiction of the Dominion and the provincial assemblies. Or again only last year in the report of our own select standing committee on industrial and international relations we find the same difficulty revealed. I read from the report:
It was stated by the Deputy Minister of Justice that according to the British North America Act legislative jurisdiction in regard to minimum wages is vested primarily in the provincial legislatures. He also quoted section 132 as follows: "The parliament of Canada shall have all powers necessary or proper for performing the obligations of Canada or any provinces thereof as part of the British Empire, towards foreign countries, arising out of any treaty between the empire and such foreign countries." Commenting on this he said: "There can be no doubt that where Canada has entered into an obligation by treaty-and in that connection I mean an association with the empire of course-within the meaning of section 132, which I have just read-I do not think there is any doubt but that parliament has power to legislate for the purpose of carrying into effect the provision of the treaty." This opinion goes to show that the British North America Act by no means contemplated industrial problems of the kind and scope to which Canadians to-day must adjust themselves.
It is that kind of thing that has led me to introduce a resolution of this character. In one sentence we are told by the Deputy Minister of Justice that this matter is primarily the affair of the provinces; in the next, he quotes another clause of the act, and says there is no doubt but that the federal authorities have jurisdiction. It depends upon the clause of the British North America Act

B.N.A. Act-Amendment
which you quote, and lawyers can argue themselves black in the face over the matter. It all depends on the emphasis that is given to one or the other of these clauses. I have no doubt that this confusion may be a very good thing for some of our legal friends who may be retained on one side or the other, but I would suggest that when the matter is viewed from the standpoint of the country as a whole it is better that we should know clearly just where we stand on these matters.
I have said that these 1 changes were not contemplated at the time of confederation. I do not suppose it is necessary to say that in making such a statement I am not casting any reflection on the fathers of confederation. They did the best they could to meet the needs of their day, but I would say that we are truest to their spirit if we attempt in our day to meet the needs that concern us. The fathers of confederation could not have had any idea sixty years ago of the vast changes that were coming; they could not possibly have the prescience which would enable them to visualize them. Hence there were no suitable provisions in the British North America Act for these new needs. This summer we shall celebrate the diamond jubilee of confederation. I think it could not be done better than by showing that we at least are sufficiently the children of our fathers to insist that we will do in our day what they did in theirs-try to meet the real needs of the country.
Now I pass on to the next point I have mentioned in the resolution, and that is the action of the Senate in preventing the enactment of popular legislation. It is not my purpose, Mr. Speaker, to enter into any very lengthy discussion of the need for reform of the Senate. But I should like to point out that we have had in the last few years a splendid exhibition of the power the Senate possesses in nullifying the expressed will of the people. I have here a list of the measures rejected by the Senate since confederation, which was placed on Hansard in 1925 by Mr. Lewis, the then member for Swift Current. It will be found in volume 1, page 935 and consists of some one hundred and fifty measures. Whilst there may be some whose rejection a later and more mature judgment might justify, I think it will be recognized that on the whole the action of the Senate ha3 been reactionary in character. We remember the measures that last year were rejected by the Senate. The amendments to the criminal code, the amendments to the
Immigration Act, which had passed this House several times in succession in various forms were again rejected by the Senate. But above all I think of the old age pension bill. I am not going to characterize the action of the Senate in rejecting this bill. I think I could not do better than to refer hon. members to the speech of my friend from Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill), on his motion to ascertain the action taken by the Senate. You will find that in Hansard, page 4420. I do not know that that motion was ever put, I do not know that we ever had any report as to why the Senate threw out that legislation, I content myself with saying that it is intolerable that an irresponsible body should be able to nullify the action of the elected representatives of the people. Right across this country from coast to coast there has been felt and expressed a decided resentment on account of the action of the Senate in regard to that bill. We have been accustomed possibly to speak a little bit slightingly of that body, as if it were composed of elderly men, themselves in receipt of a pension. On the other hand there have been those who saw in the Senate the champion and the safeguard of provincial rights. I think there is another aspect from which we ought to view this matter, and that is that to no small extent the Senate is the champion and safeguard of what are commonly called the big interests.


As soon as the Liberal party gets through reforming the Senate it will be all right.


For the Liberal party.


A few weeks ago,
in a little labour paper published in Toronto, Canada Forward, I find this statement:
In the Senate fifty members of that body control and direct the economic life of Canada. That is to say that fifty senators are directors of 334 commercial and financial institutions.
I wrote to the editor of that paper asking him on what data he based his statement, and he was good enough to send me a list of the companies ,in which some of the senators were interested. The editor is Mr. James McA. Conner, of Toronto. It is possible that there may be some inaccuracies in this list. It is quite true that it is not complete, as one can readily recognize that there are other companies in which these senators are interested that are not listed here, but I would like to run over a few of
B.N.A. Act-Amendment

these companies briefly, in order that the class nature of the Senate may be clearly seen. I take them almost at random. I find the name of Senator C. B. Beaubien.


Not I.


No.


Not yet, but soon.


I notice that he
is interested in the following companies:
The Atlantic Sugar Refineries Limited.
The Frontenac Breweries.
The Mount Royal Hotel Company.
The North Railway Company.
Beaubien Limited.
The Ames Holden Limited.
The British Empire Steel Corporation.
The Dominion Steel Corporation, Limited. Dominion Iron and Steel Company Limited. Nova Scotia Steel and Coal Co. Limited. Eastern Car Company Limited.
Acadia Company Limited.
Dominion Coal Company.
Nova Scotia Land Company.
Sydney Lumber Company Limited.
James Pender and Company Limited.
Halifax Shipyards Limited.
Cumberland Railway and Coal Company. Sydney and Louisburg Railway.
Canadian Car and Foundries Limited. Canadian Steel Foundries Limited.
Montreal Steel Works Limited.
Pratt and Letehworth Company Limited.


Does he
happen to be a farmer as well as director of these companies?


Is that all one man?


Yes, it is all one man.


What about the
Levis Laundry?


The Levis Laundry has been suggested. I am not sure of that. I said the list was quite incomplete.
I pass on now to Senator Casgrain, and I find he is a director of the following companies:
Canada Steamship Lines Ltd.
Northern Navigation Co. Ltd.
Tidewater Shipbuilders Ltd.
Davie Shipbuilding and Repairing Co. Ltd. Great Lakes Transportation Co.
Midland Shipbuilding Co.
George Hall Coal Co.
Richelieu Ontario Navigation Co.
Inland Lines Ltd.
Niagara Navigation Co.
St. Lawrence River Steamboat Co. Ltd. Thousand Island Steamboat Co. Ltd. Merchants Montreal Lines Ltd.
Canada Cement Co. Ltd.
Montreal Cottons.
Montreal Life Insurance Co.

Reliance Life Assurance Co.
British Empire Steel Corporation Ltd.
Dominion Steel Co. Ltd.
Dominion Iron and Steel Co. Ltd.
Dominion Coal Co. Ltd.
Nova Scotia Steel and Coal Co. Ltd.
Eastern Car Co. Ltd.
Dominion Shipping Co. Ltd.
Acadia Coal Co. Ltd.
Cumberland Railway and Coal Co.
Halifax Shipyards Co.
Nova Scotia Land Co.
Sydney Lumber Co. Ltd.
Sydney and Louisburg Railway Co.
James Pender and Co. Ltd.
Montreal Tramways Co.
United Securities Ltd.
Montreal Life Insurance Co.
Montreal Herald.
Le Canada.
It is perhaps rather wearisome to hon. members to listen to my reading of all these names.


Read some more. They are fine.


I shall be glad to read a few more. I think that perhaps only in this way can we form any idea as to the interlocking directorates which we have in this country, and as to how far even one individual can control a vast range of industrial, commercial and financial enterprise. I come now to Senator N. Curry, and I find he is a director of the following companies:
Cuban Canadian Sugar Company.
Montreal Life Insurance Company.
Hattie Gold Mines Limited.
Rhodes Curry Company Limited.
Canadian Car and Foundries Company Limited.
Canadian Steel Foundries Company Limited.
Montreal Steel Works Limited.
Pratt and Letehworth Company.
Canada Land Company.
Bank of Nova Scotia.
Canada Light and Power Company.
Beatty Gold Mines Limited.
And to use the words of the official description, if I may call it such, that is given us in the Canadian Parliamentary Guide of 1926, he "is president of twelve companies and
director of thirty." Let me complete the Guide's account of the well-rounded life of a Senator. At page 78, I find the following.
Altogether is president of twelve companies and director of thirty. A large contributor to educational, religious and charitable institutions, including $100,000 to Acadia University; $25,000 to McGill University; $5,000 to Dal-housie University; and so forth. Recreations: yachting, motoring, shooting, fishing, curling. A Baptist. A Conservative. Summoned to the Senate November 20, 1912. Clubs: Marshlands, Amherst, N.S., Rideau and Country Clubs, Ottawa; Mount Royal, St. James', Forest and

B.N.A. Act-Amendment
Stream, Montreal. Business address, Transportation Building, Montreal; city residence, 581 Sherbrooke street west, Montreal, country residence, Tidnish, N.S. Winter house, Paget, Bermuda.


Is my hon. friend suggesting that a captain of industry such as this man whom he has last quoted effected educational policies by giving large contributions to universities?


Read them all.


Here is Senator L. C. Webster. He is interested, a director, and no doubt working hard in all these various lines of industry;
Sun Life Assurance Co. of Canada.
Dominion Manufacturers' Ltd.
Travelers' Life Assurance Co.
St. Lawrence Sugar Refineries.
Hudson Bay Knitting Co.
Goodwins Ltd.
Montreal Tramway Co.
Webster Steamship Co.
Canadian Import Co.
Quebec Power Co.
Quebec Railway Light Heat & Power Co. Dorchester Electric Co.
Quebec, Montmorency & Charlevoix Railway. Imperial Trust Co.
St. Lawrence Stevedoring Co. Ltd.
Holt Renfrew Co. Ltd.
Canadian Salvage Association.
Canadian Fur Auction Sales Co. Ltd.
Quebec Apartment House Co.
Montreal Cottons.	|
Canadian Car & Foundry Co. Ltd.
Montreal Steel Works Ltd.
Canadian Steel Foundries Ltd.
Pratt & Letchworth Co. Ltd.
Dryden Paper Co. Ltd.
United Securities Ltd.
British Empire Steel Corporation.
Dominion Steel Co.
Dominion Iron & Steel Co.
Dominion Coal Co.
Nova Scotia Steel & Coal Co.
Eastern Car Co. Ltd.
Dominion Shipping Co.
Acadia Coal Co. Ltd.
Cumberland Railway & Coal Co. Ltd.
Halifax Shipyards Co.
Sydney & Louisburg Railway Co.
Nova Scotia Land Co.	[DOT]
Wassis Steamboat Co.
Sydney Lumber Co.
James Pender & Co. Ltd.
I will give one other. Here is Senator R. S. White. He is a director in the following companies:
Gazette Printing Co.
United Financial Corporation.
Montreal Trust Co.
The Steel Co. of Canada.
The Hamilton Steel & Iron Co.
The Montreal Rolling Mills Ltd.
Canadian Screw Co. Ltd.
Dominion Wire Mfg. Co. Ltd.
Canadian Bolt & Nut Co. Ltd.
Western Wire & Nail Co. Ltd.
Guarantee Co. of North America.
Canada Steamship Lines Ltd.
Northern Navigation Co. Ltd.
Tidewater Shipbuilders Ltd.
Davie Shipbuilding & Repairing Co Ltd.
Great Lakes Transportation Co.
Midland Shipbuilding Co.
George Hall Coal Co.
Richelieu & Ontario Navigation Co.
Inland Lines Ltd.
Niagara Navigation Co.
Mount Royal Hotel Co.

B.N.A. Act-Amendment

My correspondent makes the following comments and summarizes this information as follows:
There are 27 lawyers in the Senate, of whom 12 are Conservatives and 15 Liberal. Some 6 Conservative lawyer senators^ are directors in 52 financial and commercial institutions, while ij Liberal lawyer senators are directors on 36 commercial and financial institutions, making a total of 12 lawyers in the Senate who are directors in 88 different concerns. There are 11 journalists, editors and publishers, 6 of whom are directors in 34 commercial and financial institutions. There are 11 manufacturers and capitalists who are directors in 131 commercial and financial institutions. There are 8 doctors who are directors in 22 commercial and financial institutions.
The House rather encouraged me to go on, Mr. Speaker, and read these long lists, and I did so even though it might somewhat interfere with the argument I was trying to present in as concise a form as possible. But in view of the character of the interests of the members of the Senate I think I am quite warranted in the statement which I made a few minutes ago, that it is intolerable that an irresponsible body such as this, so largely representing big interests, should be able to nullify the actions of the elected representatives of the people.
Now my resolution is as follows:
That, in the opinion of this House, in view of: (a) the constitutional developments of the last sixty years

I think I have shown some of these main lines of development, how extensive they have been, and how much they demand some corresponding changes in our constitutional procedure, and generally in our legislation:
-	(b) the dissatisfaction of certain provinces

Here again I think it will be manifest to all that it is the wiser course to recognize the underlying difficulties that may prevent confederation from attaining all that it ought to attain, rather than simply and blindly to worship what was done sixty years ago, and refuse to be guided by the spirit of those who made confederation possible. And in view of:
-	(c) the changed conditions in indus