Bill No. 116, to incorporate "La congregation de Saint-Dominique du Tiers-Ordre en-seignant."

Mr. Raymond.
Bill No. 117, respecting a patent owned' by The John E. Russell Company, Limited.- Mr. Chevrier.
Mr. A. M. YOUNG (Saskatoon) presented the second report of the select standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines as follows:
He moved:
Your committee have considered the following bills and have agreed to report the same without amendment, viz:
Bill No. 71, an act respecting the Alberta Railway and Irrigation Company.
Bill No. 76, an act respecting La Compagnie du chemin de fer de Colonisation du Nord.
Your committee have also considered the following bills, and have agreed to report them with amendments, viz:
Bill No. 73, an act respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.

Old Age Pensions
Bill No. 77, an act respecting the Manitoba and Northwestern Railway Company of Canada.
A resolution has been referred to the committee in respect to a direct railway outlet from the Peace river country to the Pacific coast. Your committee recommend that 300 copies in English and 100 copies in French of the evidence to be taken by the committee in connection therewith be printed for the use of the committee and of the House of Commons, and that rule 74 be suspended in relation thereto.
He moved1:
That, in accordance with recommendation contained in the second report of the select standing committee on railways canals and telegraph lines, 300 copies in English and 100 copies in French of the evidence to be taken by that committee respecting a direct railway outlet from the Peace river country to the Pacific coast, be printed for the use of that committee and of the House of Commons, and that rule 74 be suspended in connection therewith.
Motion agreed to.
OLD AGE PENSIONS The House resumed, from March 3, consideration in committee of Bill No. 70 respecting old age pensions.-Hon. Mr. Heenan- Mr. Johnston in the chair.
On section 9-Maximum pension $240.
Before we consider section 9, with leave of the committee we might return to section 8 in order to meet the objection raised by the hon. member for Vancouver Centre (Mr. iStevens).


Is it the desire of the committee that we return to clause 8?


Carried.
On section 8-What persons are pensionable.


The hon. member for Vancouver Centre raised certain objections to the wording of paragraph (a):
Is a British subject, or, being a widow, was such before her marriage.
There was quite a discussion about it. Since the point was raised I have had time to examine the law, and chapter 44 of the statutes of 1914 covers the case of an alien woman who marries a British subject as to her status when she becomes a widow. Section 11 reads:
A woman who, having been a British subject, has by or in consequence of her marriage become an alien, shall not, by reason only of the death of her husband, or the dissolution of her marriage, cease to be an alien, and a woman who, having been an alien, has by or in consequence of her marriage become a British subject, shall not. by reason only of the death of her husband, or the dissolution of her marriage, cease to be a British subject.
Therefore the argument which I ma.de last night that the clause as it reads now covers both cases holds good, I submit, but there is no doubt that the phraseology might be improved. My hon. friend from Toronto referred to the interpretation which should be given to the word "such". If the interpretation is to be restricted to the rules of grammar, my hon. friend would be right. I move, Mr. Chairman, that paragraph (al be amended by inserting after the word "widow" the words "who is not a British subject."


Amendment agreed to.
Referring to paragraph
(cl, which reads "has resided in Canada for the twenty years immediately preceding the date aforesaid," I would refer to those people who come here from Great Britain say at the age of 58, who in twelve years would be 70, and who would have to sacrifice any right to a pension they might have received from Great Britain. At the same time, under this clause, they would have no right to a pension in Canada until they had reached the age of 78 and completed twenty years' residence in this country. I would ask the minister if there is no way of meeting that situation, so that these people who come here from Great Britain and have been in this country twelve years by the time they reach the age of 70 may receive a pension.


That has been considered, but we do not want to load the bill up with any more provisions than it had last year. This bill may not be all that we require- and here I am taking the same ground that I took last year, and the same ground that was taken by my hon. friend from Winnipeg North Centre-but we feel that it is a step in the right direction, and we do not want to do anything to jeopardize its passage through the second chamber If the bill works any hardship upon any British subjects, there will be time enough to look after that once we get the principle established.


In connection with the same paragraph of this section, may I cite the case of a person born in this country and who fifteen years ago went to the United States, and then came back here in a couple of years. Under this clause he would be entirely deprived of any benefits under this bill until he had lived here for twenty years after his return from the United States. Surely it is not intended that the bill should not provide for a case of that sort. There ought to be some provision in the bill that exceptional cases of
Old Age Pensions

89U
this sort should be treated as if the person had continued to live here for the twenty years.


Mr. Chairman, I do not want to be bobbing up and down all the time answering questions, but I think my hon. friend- will realize that we must draw a line somewhere. This bill is not intended to provide that the man who leaves this country for the United States and stays there until he gets too old to work shall come back here and then get a pension from Canada.


I should like to
have an answer from the minister to the question I raised last night in regard to certain immigrants from England who might be qualified under the old country scheme, who come to this country and forfeit any rights they have in the old country to a pension, and who would not have any rights under this scheme short of twenty years' residence in Canada. It was suggested at the Imperial conference that an arrangement could be made by which there would be some sort of reciprocity between this country and the old country, and in that case the old country could give a financial consideration to cover its proportion of the period. I would submit to the minister that this is not a matter that would interfere with the passage of the bill through the Senate. It involves no extra expenditure by this country in any way. It would simply mean the insertion of a clause in the bill providing that in the case of such immigrants it might be possible that the British government would advance certain amounts of money; that the time spent by the immigrant over there would be, as it were, credited to him. I think in view of the very large number of old country immigrants coming to Canada it would be wise to have a provision of this kind, and I would like to ask if it is not possible still to insert such a provision.


I think there is a great
deal in my hon. friend's contention, but as I said before, we want to get the principle of old age pensions established before we load the bill up with further provisions. Let us get the scheme into operation and see how it works out.


If we cannot insert a single provision in the bill, why not just come here and say, this is an old age pension bill, and then let us pass it and send it on to the Senate, and then when it comes back here, we can make a bill of it.


Perhaps that is what my
hon. friend would do.


The proposal I am making, Mr. Chairman, would not involve one dollar of expense to this country. It is simply to insert a clause by which we could enter into an arrangement with Great Britain that, if they wished to do so, they could advance certain moneys, and the immigrant would benefit under that arrangement. This is not something that I am proposing. It is something that was proposed at the Imperial conference, and it is a suggestion that was accepted by the government of Canada at the Imperial conference. Now that we are drafting this bill, I do not think it is too much to ask that a clause along this line should be inserted, which would leave us free to enter into an arrangement of that kind in the future.


My hon. friend will
realize that we have had a whole lot of trouble with this bill coming from the other side on account of our having to come to certain agreements with the provinces, and on account of our lack of jurisdiction over the provinces. His suggestion, which certainly contains a whole lot of good, immediately opens up another difficulty, that of our legislation having the effect of encroaching, so to speak, upon the imperial jurisdiction.


Oh no, not at all.


Certainly. Here in this
parliament we pass legislation which concerns us. My hon. friend suggests that we should have a clause saying that we arc going to enter into an agreement with the Imperial government on certain subjects. My hon. friend has been very well disposed towards this bill both last year and this year, and has endeavoured to put the legislation through this House and through parliament, and if I might be allowed to suggest it to him, would it be wise to open up this question now of an agreement with the imperial authorities on certain subjects, when that matter could be taken up later?


The answer given by the
Minister of Labour to my question is like many of the answers given to us on this side of the House-no answer at all. It is the duty of any country to take care of its old people. The point whether a person happens to have lived in Canada for twenty years makes no difference whatever. If a person over seventy is unaMe to provide for himself, the country has to take care of him. If a person lived two years in the United States fifteen years ago, and comes back here, why should he not be taken care of under this bill, the

Old Age Pensions
same as if he had lived here all his life. I think these cases should be given a little more consideration.


Section agreed to.
On section 9-Maximum pension $240.
Section 9 was the subject of very considerable adverse comment amongst the people at large during the recent election, and the objectionable feature is that the home of the pensioner can, under certain circumstances, be taken and used to reimburse the government for pensions paid. I am not arguing as to the merits or demerits of that point. It has been argued before, and I know the position the members of the government took at that time. But I should like to draw to their attention the fact that in some other countries, particularly New Zealand, they grant an exemption. In my judgment and in the judgment of all fair-minded Canadians, all old folks who have been thrifty, saved their money and own their home should not be penalized for owning that home. I think a halfway measure, or a compromise, Which is the true viewpoint on this question, should be reached by following the provision which is now the law of New Zealand, and that is that this clause does not become operative, so far as the taking of the home is concerned, to reimburse the pension authorities, unless that property 'has a value in excess of $2,000. Would the minister not be favourable to consider an amendment in both subsections 2 and 3 which could be properly inserted-and I have worked it out -after the word " therein " in the twelfth line. I suggest that we insert the words in subsection 2:
In excess of the sum of $2,000.
In subsection 3, after the word " pensioner " I suggest that we insert the words:
In excess of the sum of $2,000.
What objection can there be to the granting of that exemption to the did folks for the homes and property which they have lived in?


I think-


I was asking the minister
a question.


I thought my hon. friend
was making a speech.


I thought we discussed
that suggestion very fully last night. In this bill we are not limiting the value of the property to $1,000, $2,000 or $3,000. In the case of an old couple living in a home, having reached the age where they desire a
pension and apply for it, we do not say that if the property is worth $1,000, $2,000 or $3,000 they must give it up. We place no restriction on the value of the property, but we do say that if a person is making over $125 a year he is not entitled to the full pension of $240. In the case of those who have property and occupying premises, where no one is contributing to their support but the estate, we take the excess of what they have paid, after they die, over and above what the man would take if he was simply earning his wage, about $125 a year. Section 3 provides that if anyone has contributed in any manner whatever to the upkeep of those people the board has no claim whatever on their property. If they had a son in good circumstances we all agree that it is his duty to contribute to the upkeep of his parents, but if he fails to do so the pension board would not put that old couple out of their home; but on the other hand, when this couple die the board would not allow the whole property to revert to the son, but would take the excess out of the value of the building or the home. If they have contributed ever so little to the upkeep of the father and mother, the board has no claim whatever on the property.


In the case of a man over seventy, having a wife of the age of fifty-five, where the husband leaves the home to the wife, who gets the home-the pension authorities or the wife?


Naturally, the wife would have contributed something towards the upkeep of the home.


In my hypothesis she has contributed nothing. He has been supporting her, as it is his duty to do. The husband owns the property and dies. Does the pension authority take the property from the widow?


May I reply to the hon.
member's speech?


Is the hon. member answering my question? I am asking the minister what I consider a very personal and important question.


I think that is right.


I would like the minister to answer and I would like the hon. member for Comox-Alberni to permit me to have an answer.


I think the clause is wide enough to cover what my hon. friend has in mind. If anyone has contributed to any extent the board have discretionary power- in fact they have no claim.
Old Age Pensions


But in the case I have
given the wife has contributed nothing and the husband has looked after the wife. As a still better example, let us assume that the wife is an invalid, the husband is looking after her, and they are living together in a house. He wishes to leave the house to his wife. My interpretation of that section is that unless somebody has contributed something in money-


Or otherwise.


What would "otherwise"
be?


Looking after his household. Surely that would be contributing.


My understanding of that
section as a lawyer-


That does not matter.


Order.


I think the observation of the hon. member for Lisgar is quite correct- it would not matter to him for he would not have understood it. This in my judgment, Mr. Chairman, is a very important section, and if we can avoid doing a palpable injustice to unfortunate people in the future now is the time to do it. I think a proper reading of the section will disclose the fact that if the husband dies owning a house, and leaves it to his wife, and, let us say, she is an invalid, the pension authority takes the home and not the wife.


Perhaps they
would prefer to have the house rather than the wife.


I think, Mr. Chairman,
that this is as broad as it could possibly be drafted:
-regularly contributed to the support of the pensioner by the payment of money or otherwise to an extent which, having regard to the means of the person so having contributed, is considered by the pension authority to be reasonable.


Is the minister aware that the words, "money or otherwise" must mean in ordinary judicial construction, "money or something equivalent to money?" The ejus-dem generis rule will always govern in that case. I leave it to my friend the Solicitor General to say if I am not right.


Mr. Chairman, my hon.
friend from Vancouver (Mr. Ladner) is perfectly right when he says that in case a pensioner dies and leaves a dwelling the pension authority has a right to recover out of that dwelling or the value of it whatever has

been paid to the pensioner in excess of what he might have received from other people in money or otherwise. It is very easy for an ingenious mind like that of my hon. friend to make an argument which will appeal to the sympathy of his listeners by describing the unsympathetic action of the government in taking away in such a case the house from the poor widow. I do not blame my hon. friend for giving us that pathetic scene. I have some experience in politics, and I know that on the hustings it always has a good effect. But talking as a law'yer to a lawyer, that is, dealing with this matter according to the strict principles which underlie all our legislation, suppose a man owns a house in the city of Ottawa but fails to pay his taxes, after his death if his widow appeals to the city hall officials and says, "You are not going to take away that house from me?1", what answer is she going to receive? When we pass a law imposing certain taxation and providing, in order to protect the rights of the exchequer, for a lien on the property of any defaulting taxpayer, in what position are his children or his widow? Are we to renounce our rights? If this argument of sympathy is to be invoked to cover these cases how are we going to collect our revenue?


Mr. Chairman, I think some
confusion has arisen through considering these subsections together rather than separately, because their two aspects are entirely remote one from the other. To begin with, I would draw the attention of the committee to the fact that under subsection 2 the whole action is absolutely permissive on the man or on the government. That it is not obligatory will be seen by looking at the way in which it is worded:
Where a pensioner is the owner of an interest iD a dwelling house,-
and so on
-and the pension authority "accepts" a transfer thereof.
The pension authority does not need to accept a transfer of the dwelling house, and undoubtedly the pensioner does not need to give it unless he likes. That aspect has been entirely ignored. The reason I think it is so phrased is to provide against oases where the pension authority perhaps would be importuned to take a house under unreasonable circumstances. It merely says that the pension authority has the option and, inferentially, that the pensioner has the option, because there must be an offer before there is an acceptance. That is a phase which I think is somewhat lost sight of. This section of the bill was much abused on the platform. It was said, "This bill is going to rob the poor old couple of their home. It is too bad. These wretched people are going to come and rob the widow and the orphan of the only home they have." I was asked on one occasion to go to see an old man who was too infirm to visit me. He lived with his wife in a beautiful little home, and this lovely old couple
were of the very type that needed such assistance as is given in this bill. It was a nice little house, worth perhaps $10 a month. They were old and infirm and unable to work, and they had been told that if this bill passed or if the Liberals got into power their home would be taken away. They were much upset, and realizing that the pension was all they could look forward to, they asked me, "If our home is taken away from us, what shall we do?" No explanation should1 have been necessary had the matter been truthfully stated to the people, 'but I had to explain to this old couple that there was no danger of their losing their home. I pointed out that 't would be rated, perhaps, at ten dollars a month, and twelve times ten being $120 that was less by $5 than the amount Which the pensioner would be allowed without any reduction. So that this particular couple would have been allowed to live in their home and draw the full pension, and when they died the house would belong to their heirs. This was a typical case.
The intention of the section was to meet the case of the owner of a house worth, say, $30 a month, which he might not be able to sell or dispose of otherwise-this happens in the country-although he would be technically charged with that $30 per month by reason of the fact that he occupied the house. It was to meet such a case that the section was framed. If he wanted to do so, and if the board were agreeable he could turn the house over to the board on certain terms. It has been popularly stated, erroneously and even maliciously stated, that when a pensioner owning such a house died, the house would go to the government who would sell it to recoup themselves to the full amount of the pension that had been paid out. This of course is not so. The government will recoup themselves, not for the full pension but only for that portion which the pensioner would not have received had he not transferred the house. The pensioner cannot live on the proceeds of a house which he cannot eat, sell or rent, and it is to meet a case of this kind that the section has been drafted.
An hon. member has referred to the situation in New Zealand. I think he misunderstood it, for the situation there is more severe than it is in Canada. It is provided in New Zealand that:
Any person otherwise qualified to receive a pension who owns property on which he resides, and which does not permit of the granting of a full pension, may qualify for the full pension by transferring the said property to the public trustee. The pensioner is permitted to reside on the property rent-free during his lifetime, but lie must pay all rates and charges thereon.
Old Age Pensions

The taxes there are considerable in many cases. In our bill we propose to carry these charges so long as it is necessary.
If a husband and wife, both being pensioners, are living together, and one dies, the survivor is permitted to continue to reside on the property. On the death of both pensioner and survivor, or where the pensioner is no longer entitled to a pension, the public trustee shall sell the property, and, after deducting from the proceeds of the sale the amount of pension paid as a consequence of the transfer of the property, together with his commission and interest at the rate of four per cent, shall pay the balance to the person or persons entitled thereto.
There is nothing wrong there although that provision is not so generous as the one in the bill before us.


'Either Australia or New Zealand has an exemption of property up to four hundred pounds, as my hon. friend will see if he refers to the book which may be obtained from the department.


I do not agree.


-then the widow is
not in the same position as was the deceased, and in this particular subsection provision

should be made that she should have the right to continue to occupy the house so long as she lives, just as the deceased pensioner would have done.


The opinion expressed by the hon. member for Vancouver South, with which I agreed, was to the effect that under certain conditions the pension authorities had the right to recoup themselves by the sale of the house. One of the conditions is that when any person has contributed to the maintenance of the pensioner, the amount so contributed shall be taken into consideration. How can one contribute to the maintenance of a pensioner? In two ways: in cash or otherwise. What is the meaning of "otherwise?" Obviously one need not be a lawyer to know what otherwise means in this act; it simply means, in other ways which are not directly pecuniary. My hon. friend (Mr. McQuarrie) suggests that this would not apply to the widow. If a woman has nursed her husband through sickness or old age and if she has acted also as housekeeper, I appeal to the common sense of the committee whether "otherwise" does not cover such a case. It certainly does; if it did not there would be no reason for including it in the bill. The bill would simply be restricted to the word "money," a pecuniary contribution. It was to meet precisely the cases pointed out by hon. gentlemen from British Columbia that the other words were added.


In the case of the wife,
so far as the legal interpretation goes, you have the words "payment of money or otherwise," and I admit that if food or clothing or something of value of that nature were furnished, something that might be exchanged for money, the contribution would fall within this category.


Or services.


A wife giving her services to her hudband is not entitled to a salary or any payment in money, and therefore those services could not be considered as a payment of money or otherwise, and accordingly she would be dispossessed of her home by the pension authorities.


My hon. friend would be
perfectly right if this clause were interpreted according to what was to be paid to the person giving those services, but that is not the case. We are not legislating now as to w'hether or not a wife is entitled to charge her husband for whatever care or services she may give him; we are legislating to meet another eventuality, the case of the wife who, after her husband has died, appears before

Old Age Pensions
the pension authorities and explains that while her husband was living she kept house for him, cooked his food, looked after his clothing and did all the household duties. In such a case, would the authorities decide that the word "otherwise" did not cover such services? I do not think anyone called u-pOD to make a decision in any such case would decide otherwise than I am now pointing out To make my contention more clear, what are the words used in the act? The act says, "any person", so who is excluded? That is a general expression which means that any person no matter what his or her relation may have been to the pensioner is covered by this act and may make a claim before the proper authorities.


But supposing the wife
has been an invalid for ten years and was able to contribute nothing -in services or otherwise; will not the minister agree that the pension authorities Would then have a prior claim and take the house?


There is no doubt about
that. In discussing legislation it is always easy to point out extreme cases which are exceptional in their nature and very few in number, but this law applies not to these exceptional cases but to all cases. My hon. friend will admit that general legislation is t-o meet general oases and that special bills are introduced to meet exceptional cases. If we in this House are to consider general legislation to meet extreme and exceptional oases as indicated by my hon. friend the task of legislation becomes impossible and beyond the wit -of humanity. These extreme -cases are cases of hardship, but such things exist under any law. Last night, for instance, the hon. member for Fort William (Mr. Manion) pointed out exceptional cases of certain soldiers, which goes to show that with all the legislation introduced in parliament during the last six or eight years to meet the needs of soldiers, everything has not been done to meet all the oases which should come within the scope of that legislation. Again I say that we are now simply in the position we find ourselves in dealing with legislation of any kind. General legislation along general lines can very seldom, and as a matter of fact I may say never, include every case which might come to the conception of any member of this House. This is an extreme case pointed out by my hon. friend, it is a case of hardship but so long as we legislate generally we cannot legislate especially and particularly.


Why not include a
provision giving some discretion to the 32649-57
pension authority to exempt certain houses under these -circumstances?


There is a good deal in
the suggestion of my hon. friend and evidently the author of this bill thought of that. In the last lines of subsection 3 of section 9 great latitude is given, and if I am not mistaken power is also given under section 10 to the governor in council to make certain regulations. I have no doubt that when these regulations are drawn up the governor in council will give to the authority dealing with these cases the necessary discretion to deal with them.


As a matter of information I
should like to ask the Solicitor General how it is proposed to transfer an interest in a dwelling house.


I think the only way to
transfer an interest in a dwelling house is to sell it.


I do not believe the minister understands me to mean that. It cannot be done. I do not want to be too critical, but at the same time I suppose we should have things so they can be carried out. You can transfer land and chattel property by a bill of sale, but how to transfer an interest in a dwelling house is a new proposition, under the law of this province.


This bill was drawn up by the parliamentary counsel, Colonel Biggar, who has given great thought to all of these clauses, and I may say without fear of contradiction that the ability of Colonel Biggar is fully recognized by every member of this committee. Furthermore as I stated last night, all these Clauses offer difficulties of execution; this law will certainly offer a number of su-ch difficulties and as my friend will fully realize, I am not prepared to give a ready answer to all the objections which might occur to the minds of legal members of this committee.


Supposing in the province of
Quebec you wanted to transfer an interest in a dwelling house. How would you do it? I suppose you could sell the land -on which it stands, but I think there should be a change made here in order to have things as they should be. As this is now worded it is impossible to make that transfer. You can transfer the land on which the house rests, but you -cannot transfer your interest in the house.


My hon. friend will admit that as a rule the owner of a house owns the land on which it stands. No man with ordinary common sense will consfruct a house on

Old Age Pensions

land that does not belong to him. If my hon. friend wants to point out difficult cases, it would be easy for him to point out the case of a man who erected a house on another man's property, with the consent of the other man. Again I must say that these are exceptional cases. In my own province we have the system of what we call emphyteutic leases, by which a man can lease his property for 99 years or for 999 years, and the lessee can build a house on that property. Strictly speaking he does not own the land; he has only a lease. When the lease terminates, the house remains on the property. These are very exceptional cases, and I do not think at this stage we need bother about them. The provinces will have the machinery in hand, and I have no doubt that these exceptional cases will be met as they should.
Again I repeat that it is very easy for any lawyer in this House to bring forward these cases that may seem to be difficult to meet. I may say in justice to my hon. friend that if I were sitting on that side instead of sitting on this side, I might also find certain cases that would embarrass my hon. friend.


I am not making this suggestion in order to cause any trouble. I am suggesting to the minister that he should so word this that the intention' of the clause may be carried out as I submit it cannot be at the present time.


If I make that amendment, my hon. friend might find other cases that would compel me to amend it again.


My hon. friend seems to have a high opinion of my ability. He has only to consider once again that what he has to deal with is the interest in the land, not in the dwelling house.


We have in Ontario, as the hon. member (Mr. Boys) well knows, a clause that corresponds almost exactly with the clause in this bill, that is a clause by which the county that helps an indigent person shall have a right to a transfer of the property belonging to that person and the county judge is resorted to for his decision whether or not under all the circumstances the transfer should be made. In that case they charge the full maintenance and six per cent instead of $ve per cent. I happen to have the Ontario act in front of me.


Would my hon. friend read the wording? I am quite familiar with the act but I do not recall the exact wording.
rMr. Cannon.]


It is chapter 290. [DOT] Section 12, subsection (3), reads:
Where an inmate of a house of refuge is or becomes possessed of any real or personal property out of which the cost of his maintenance or any part of it can be paid, if any sum is due for such maintenance and has not been paid, a judge of the county court of the county in which the house is situate may, on the application of the council of any municipality interested, and upon such notice to the inmate as he may direct, order.that any part of such real and personal property be vested in the corporation or corporations by which the house was established for the purpose of securing payment of the cost of the maintenance so due, or which may thereafter become due, with full power to take or recover possession of, manage, lease, mortgage, sell and convey all or any part of such property in the name of the inmate, or may make such other order, limiting oi' extending such powers, as may be deemed proper, due regard being had to the value of the property, and as to what part, if any, of it is necessary for the support and maintenance of the family of the inmate.
And so on. May I call my hon. friend's attention to the fact that the clause in question provides for a greater safeguard to the widow about whom the hon. member for Vancouver Centre (Mr. Stevens) was quite properly concerned?


My hon. friend will agree with me at once that that demonstrates the point I am presenting to the committee. That deals with real property and personal property. Real property is the land; personal property is something that is movable. I am suggesting simply that the wording in this particular clause is wrong and that what we ought to have is what is in that very act.


The clause reads:
Where a pensioner is the owner of an interest in a dwelling house.
That is an interest in a dwelling house, I do not care whether it is an interest which enables him to use it for one month or six months or a year or for life, or an interest in tenancy, or an interest in fee simple. My hon. friend knows quite well that if a house is built on a freehold, it becomes part of that freehold.


Real property.


Yes. But any interest in a house covers every possible interest that he might have and he can convey it.


In the house, yes.


There is no interest in a
dwelling house which cannot properly be conveyed under the law of Ontario or of any of the other provinces even if that interest is only a weekly or a monthly tenancy. My hon.

Old Age Pensions
friend will recall that under the maxim that has already been referred to, if you build a house on a piece of property that house becomes immediately affixed to the freehold and passes with the freehold, and the only way you can deed it is by a deed of the land. I submit that under the circumstances the clause in question has made the most ample and careful provision for the unfortunate widow. May I call my hon. friend's attention to the last clause which I think has been somewhat overlooked?
But no claim shall be made by a pension authority for the recovery of such debt directly or indirectly out of any part of the pensioner's estate which passes by will or on an intestacy to any other pensioner or to any person who has, since the grant of such pension or for the last three years during which such pension has continued to be paid, regularly contributed to the support of the pensioner by the payment of money or otherwise to an extent which, having regal'd to the means of the person so having contributed, is considered by the pension authority to be reasonable.
I think that meets what my hon. friend has in mind. If the widow was not able to contribute any more, what she contributed will be considered by the pension authority to be reasonable. If, having regard to her means, the pension authority considers that what she has done has been reasonable in assisting the pensioner, then no claim will be made.


Those last few words refer only to the extent. The operating portion is the one which specifically states:
To the support of the pensioner by the payment of money or otherwise-
And then it goes on to say:
*-to an extent-
Then of course the pension authority calculates the extent; but if there has been no contribution, if the widow has been an invalid or for any other reason has made no contribution, the Solicitor General will agree with me that she would not have consideration; the home would be taken from her on behalf of the pension authority to pay the pension.


Can my hon. friend conceive of any one case where there would be no contribution either by money or otherwise by the deserving widow of a deceased person?


I can conceive of the most deserving of all cases, the sick wife, the woman who perhaps with a large family has been an invalid for years.


Then she did the best
she could.


Certainly she did. Providence did not give her a constitution strong 32640-574
enough to stand up to her ailments, and during, let us say the last five or ten years of her life, she finds herself an invalid contributing nothing in money or services or otherwise. Yet that most deserving of all cases is the very one which will suffer under this clause while others less deserving have the advantage of it.


There are two different points of view, one with regard to the income of any two persons who might be living together. I think my hon. friend has omitted to look at the whole of the bill. If he will refer to section 19, he will see that power is given to the governor general in council to make regulations and among the regulations are these:
(e) The manner in which the income of a pensioner is to be determined for the purpose of this act, and in particular the mode of reckoning the income of either one or two spouses who live together.
Under paragraph (m) regulations can be made with regard to:
(m) The administration of a pensioner's property by a pension authority.
I have had some experience with the administration of old age pensions, because I happened to be the secretary of one of the committees that was in charge of the old age pension bill when it was first introduced in Britain, and I can remember quite well that all the discussion that has taken place here to-day and yesterday came up in Great Britain. The act as first drawn by the Imperial parliament was altered out of recognition almost after two or three years experience with its provisions, and I think the same thing is likely to happen here, because we shall find so many circumstances that will have to be provided for in the general act. The Solicitor General is perfectly right when he says that a general provision in the act giving power to the authorities to do certain things cannot take into account every exceptional circumstance that may arise, but we have that general provision backed- up by the power that is given to make regulations, and we may assume that these regulations are going to take into account all the arguments that have been submitted here to-day and yesterday, and that they will be framed ac-' cordingly. But apart altogether from that, my experience has been that the committees and those in charge were always willing to give the very best possible view to a pensioner, and I think in common humanity no province will take away from the surviving widow of a pensioner the little piece of property which her husband had accumulated
Old Age Pensions

from, his earnings. I think wei may feel perfectly safe in leaving it to the authorities to carry out the regulations in conformity with equity and justice.


Will my hon. friend,
as an expert in old age pension legislation, say that this act follows the act at present in force in the old country?


This clause 9 was not in the'
act of 1904.


I would like to ask the
Solicitor General what is the connotation of the phrase "dwelling house?" In British Columbia many of the fishermefa who possess land live habitually in a boat. That is their home. Would "dwelling house" include such a place?


I do not think there is
any doubt that the words "dwelling house" would include that.


The dictionary definition
does not cover it.


Again that would be a
question for the pension authority to* decide, but notwithstanding the findings of my hon. friend in the dictionary which he consulted,
I have no doubt that any person who would represent to the pension authority that his dwelling place was a boat would not be forced by the pension authority, notwithstanding any dictionary, to live anywhere else. It would be considered as the pensioner's regular dwelling place. I had a somewhat similar case in our city of Quebec, where it was decided that if a person lived habitually in a boat which was moordd to a wharf within a certain constituency, he was entitled to vote as being a dweller in the constituency.


I regret exceedingly, Mr. Chairman, that the Solicitor General should consider that every question asked has an ulterior motive. I had no intention of prolonging the discussion or objecting to the passing of this clause. I asked my question simply for elucidation.


I may say to my hon.
friend that I did not impute to his remarks any ulterior motive. His suggestion may bo due to the instance which I quoted, but only when my hon. friend gave it that interpretation did it occur to me that he might have got that impression. I just quoted the instance as an experience I had had in my profession as a lawyer, and my hon. friend may rest assured that when he has known me a little longer he will realize that I do not impute motives to anybody.
I Mr. Glen.]


May I ask the minister
in charge of the bill, as one layman speaking to another, a plain, simple question? Let us get away from some of this technical, legal phraseology. In the case of an applicant for a pension owning a house, irrespective of what it is-we will say it is a small home-can he receive the pension and continue to live in the house without either transferring the house to the pension authority or suffering any deduction from his pension?


Yes, it is intended that
he shall get the full pension and still reside in his own home.


There is no question
about that?


No question.


Then this transfer is
purely optional?


Surely.


I would like that made
perfectly clear so that no dispute can arise later.


If that is not perfectly
clear, we will make it clear in the regulations.


It is meaningless altogether as it stands.


I do wish to keep
away from a technical argument in this matter. Will the minister, as the one in charge of this bill, and speaking for the government, say that the intention is clear and definite that an applicant for a pension who owns a house may continue to live in that house without transferring it to the pension authority and without suffering any deduction from his pension?


Without transferring it?


Yes.


Oh, no.


My hon. friend asks, if a
person owns a dwelling house and refuses to transfer it to the pension authority, will the value of his interest in that dwelling house be deducted from the pension he receives? There is no doubt it will be deducted. But this clause provides simply for the case where the owner of a dwelling house transfers his interest in it to the pension authority, and the pension authority recoups itself after his death. But if the pensioner refuses to transfer that interest, clause 9 does not cover that case.


Then it is not optional,
as indicated by my hon. friend from Comox-

Old Age Pensions
Alberni a moment ago? I was quite sure my hon. friend was in error there. I do ask that this point be made absolutely clear because there is a marked difference of opinion between the interpretation of my hon. friend and myself, both of us laymen, and consequently giving a common sense interpretation. I would like now to have the assistance of a legal adviser to make the intention abun-dantlj'- dear. The point my hon. friend takes is that it is purely optional with the applicant whether he transfers his dwelling to the pension authorities or not, leaving the inference -I think he believes this-that the applicant will not suffer a deduction from his pension if he does not transfer. My interpretation is that if he fails to transfer to the pension authorities a deduction will be made from his pension.


That is right.


Then I am afraid my hon. friend is not correct in his statement.


My hon. friend has not interpreted my remarks correctly. I was saying that it is absolutely optional. The words used must indicate that. The pension board may accept, but before they accept somebody has to make the offer.


Why should any person offer a dwelling house to the pension board?


For some advantage to be
gained.


What is the advantage to be gained?


If he does not wish to transfer to the government he does not have to. If he does not transfer to the government, the rental value of the house will be deducted from his pension if it is worth more than $125 a year, but if only worth $10 a month he will suffer no deduction, and will be able to continue to live in the house. Where the house is of a greater value, for instance, a white elephant, worth $30 a month, of course the case is different. 'He does not want to live in such a house. Therefore he says to the board, " Will you take a transfer of this property from me "? Later, when the government sell the house, they recoup themselves not to the full amount of the man's pension but only for that portion in excess of what he would have received if he had not transferred the house.


That would necessarily be much more than the pension, would it not, according to your statement of fact -$30 a month for the house?


He does not have to transfer, but if he does not transfer the rent of the cottage will be charged against him, if over $125 a year.
Mr.'STEVENS:	Deducted from his pension?


Yes. But in the other case
he does not require to have any deduction and he gets his full pension.


I do not wish to continue the legal argument with the Solicitor General and the Minister of Public Works, because I do not think we can ever agree. A feature in section 2 I desire to call attention to, is the provision for the payment of interest at the rate of five per cent per annum compounded annually. I do not see why we should charge this rate of interest, or in any event why we should charge compound interest.


This is one of the clauses to which I took objection last year, but I have no desire to prolong the discussion on the bill, as no doubt the clauses will go through as they are framed at the present time. However I have had a little experience in the city from which I come of a similar clause of an act in which they provided social relief, and I found that it worked out unsatisfactorily. In addition to that, as far as the pensioners are concerned there will be opportunity for evading this particular provision of the bill. If a pensioner at the age of sixty-eight or sixty-nine, who is about to receive a pension, has a certain amount of real estate, he may either transfer that property or sell it and retain the proceeds, in which case the government will not be entitled to take anything out of the proceeds of that property.


He cannot do it.


There are always ways and
means of overcoming these provisions. There are many lawyers in this House who could devise means of overcoming the provisions of the bill.


Winnipeg lawyers.
Mr. HEAPS. And New Westminister lawyers as well. The act works out very unsatisfactorily in Winnipeg. I hate to think the authorities could go to a person who is about to receive a pension, and say, "You own a piece of property, and you will' have to sign the agreement or we will put a lien against your property." That would take away a good deal of the benefit to be derived by the recipient of the pension. Personally I would far rather see the bill go through
Old Age Pensions

without any clause of this particular character. It would be much better, and I think it would have the effect of giving a real pension to the pensioner. Under the present bill we give with one hand and we are likely to take away with the other. The average pensioner owns very little property. If a person happens to own a few hundred or a few thousand dollars' worth of bonds, his estate will not be confiscated by the authorities, but those who happen to own a home are likely to have it confiscated. I do not see why we should differentiate between the two cases, or why one should be exempt and the other confiscated by the government. I suppose the bill in its present form is going to be passed and anything I miay say will not change the intention of the government.
In addition to this particular clause we have a clause which allows a petitioner to receive from wages or other forms of income a maximum of $365 a year only. He must be receiving less than that before he can obtain a pension. Where a person receives $125 per annum, the pension is deducted, and consequently I think the clause is rather harsh. It will work a great hardship on some people. One consoling feature I see in the measure is that a great deal will depend on the regulations which will be framed 