House of Commons ^Debates
Friday, May 4, 1928
On the orders of the day:
My hon. friend asked
yesterday whether an application had been made by the Beauharnois Power Company to the International Joint Commission or had been referred by the government to that tribunal. The answer to both questions is in the negative.


On the orders of the day:
The hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan) asked yesterday with respect to an order of the house passed for a return of certain documents relating to applications for the construction of a dam between lake St. Francis and lake St. Louis.


I meant to say "canal". It, I think, is misreported.


Probably it is the same order. I am advised by the Department of Railways and Canals that its portion of the return has already been made, and by the Department of Public Works that its portion of the return will be made by that department next week. I am sorry to have to inform my hon. friend that the word in Hansard is "dam." I know my hon. friend did not intend to use that word.


On the orders of .the day:
The hon. member for Pictou (Mr. Cantley) asked yesterday with regard to a return relating to a commission investigating charges of political partisanship against public employees in the
5oi03-no
province of Nova Scotia. I am advised that the return is ready for signature and that it will be brought down by the minister on Monday.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION On the orders of the day:


There is a press despatch in the morning papers stating that a delegation waited upon the Prime Minister yesterday in regard to technical education and that the Prime Minister intimated thalt as certain of the prairie provinces and Prince Edward Island had not participated in the grant until several years after it was provided, it was the intention of the government to extend the grant to Saskatchewan, Alberta and some of the other provinces. Is that the intention of the government?


With respect to grants for technical education the government has under consideration a policy similar to that, adopted with respect to grants for road and highway construction at the time those grants expired under the statute by which they were provided. That is to say, where provinces up to the present have not made use of the opportunity which they have had the government will be prepared to consider extending the time for them. I think my hon. friend may rely upon the extension being considered favourably.
SCATARIE ISLAND MARINE SIGNALS On the orders the day:


I wish to call the attention of the house-
Some 'hon. MEMBERS: Hear, hear.


I should like to ask my hon. friends opposite if this ovation is an expression of goodwill and if it comes from them as a result of my having defeated the chief Liberal whip in 1925.
I wish to call the attention of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries to an article which appears in the Halifax Chronicle under date of May 1st. It says:



Scatarie Island Marine Signals
The jagged rocks of Scatarie island, or its adjacent promontories, have claimed another victim. The Dutch steamer Callisto, 2,660 tons register, is a total loss, and its crew, estimated at from 25 to 30 men, have gone to, the bottom of the Atlantic.
Deck hatches, life boats, a life boat, badly battered, and the nude body of seamen were washed up on the shores of Main-a-Dieu and Scatarie, this afternoon. Parts of the deck and other paraphernalia found along the shores, told only too plainly the fate that had met the Dutch vessel, bound probably for Sydney or Louisburg to load bunker.
I should like to ask the minister as to the nature and condition of the signals on Scatarie island. I notice in the article a statement made by Mr. Burke, a well known Main-aDieu fisherman, that in that vicinity some five or six ocean-bound, vessels have been wrecked and that in a good many instances the whole crews have been lost. In one instance, in 1926, five men went down'. I claim, and this man, Mr. Burke, claims, that these men could have been saved.


I would ask the hon. gentlemen to come to his question.


Is it the intention of the government to place proper signals on the western coast on Scatarie island? I would also state that a seaman, Mr. James Burke of Main-a-Dieu-


Order.


-I stated that these accidents could have been avoided if proper storm signals had been placed at that point.


The hon. gentleman has stated his question. He cannot go beyond his question based on the article.


The seamen cannot hear the present fog whistle and there is no gun on the island. In thick, heavy weather the sound of the fog whistle cannot be heard in a westerly direction, two miles west of the island. Everyone of these ships could have been saved if proper storm signals had been provided.


Having called the attention of the government to what has happened and having put his question, I think the hon. gentleman might now resume his seat.


Is it the intention of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries to hold an investigation into this matter and if the facts as reported are correct, will his department see that the proper signals are given for the guidance of ships going in that direction?


The question raised by my hon. friend is certainly one that should be looked into. I will undertake to secure all the necessary information in regard to the matter and I can assure him that the department as well as the government are always anxious to take all possible precautions to protect fishermen and navigators. We are endeavouring to do the best we can but if there is something else we can do, I am quite prepared to do it.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Cardin) when the house may expect him to table the correspondence relating to the cancellation of the radio license held by the International Bible Students Association?


I think that the copies have been completed and sent to the Department of the Secretary of State, and I expect to be in a position to table the correspondence shortly, probably on Monday.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to ask if the government intend to begin morning sittings of the house next week, and whether it is considered advisable to suspend the eleven o'clock rule for the balance of the session.


And sit on Sundays.


The government has not yet considered the points which my hon. friend mentions, but it may do so in the course of a short time.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to ask the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Cardin) when we may expect the report of the royal commission on fisheries. Some two weeks ago the minister promised that it would be tabled last week. Another week has passed and we have heard nothing about it. The session is pretty well advanced;

Supply-Public Works-Ontario
we should like to have a discussion upon the report, and I think it is desirable that it should be tabled at the earliest possible moment.


I am informed that the report is completed, and I shall be in a position to table it probably on Monday or Tuesday.


The house in committee of supply, Mr. Johnston in the chair.
Public Works-Ottawa-greenhouse, $27,000.
What is the explanation of this item?


This is a revote. It is intended to provide a greenhouse and potting shed either in Major Hill park or on parliament hill to replace the greenhouse now located in Major Hill park.. The chief architect reports that the present greenhouse is past repair, and that the woodwork has become so badly decayed that to renew it would mean practically rebuilding the superstructure. The greenhouse is also too small to meet the gardener's requirements, which consist of propagating bulbs and plants for the parks and supplying ferns, palms, and so forth for parliamentary functions. He suggests the building of a palm house with two greenhouse units and a potting shed, but that the present requirements may be met by the building of one greenhouse and potting shed. When the full arrangements are completed the greenhouse situated near the supreme court building and which is in very bad condition, will be removed.


Would it not be possible to take care of all this work at the Central experimental farm? What is the necessity for having a greenhouse in Major Hill park? Could we not save money by concentrating all this work at the farm?


I am afraid that that suggestion would hardly be practicable in view of the distance of the farm from the parliament buildings.


Would the minister explain why it is impracticable?


Perhaps my hon. friend
did not hear me. I said on account of the distance.


The minister must know that commercial houses have the means for carrying their stuff much longer distances than that.


Oh yes, but it would
necessitate the transferring of it.


You would save two
overheads.


The location of the greenhouse which is to be replaced has always been in Major Hill park.


You are doing away
with the greenhouse near the supreme court building?


Yes.


My suggestion is that they both be done away with. The distance from Major Hill park to the farm is not very great, and it is well known that most greenhouses are situated out in the country, not in the city. Vancouver gets its supply of flowers and shrubs and all that kind of thing at a considerable distance from the city. The nurserymen have found it economical to locate their greenhouses outside the city.


This vote is apparently
for just one unit. What is the estimated total cost of completion?


This is the total cost
of what is now proposed.


I thought the minister said this was for one unit.


There is something in the suggestion jof my hon. fiend from New Westminster as to the location. This is a revote, and perhaps the reason why the work was not undertaken a year ago was because of this question of location. We have not been able to decide definitely what is the very best location. That question is still under consideration, and I shall be glad to bear in mind the representations made by my hon. friend, but I do not want to lead him to believe that any suggestion of the kind he has made has been favoured in the past.


Has there been any money spent on this proposition?


No.


Then it seems to me the minister had better reconsider the matter. Having several greenhouses run independently seems to me a waste of money. You could

Supply-Public Works-Ontario
save a lot of overhead by having them all in the one place. The suggestion of the hon. member from New Westminster looks to me a very good one. I think it is the common sense thing to do.


Is this to
replace the greenhouse immediately west of the parliament buildings?


It is to replece the one
in Major Hill park.


If we place
a few more hotels and greenhouses in Major Hill park there will be little of the park left.


What is the estimated cost of upkeep?


It is difficult to say. In
all probability the upkeep of this greenhouse will not be greater than that of the present structure, and certainly the cost of maintenance will not be exceeded.


What is the cost of
upkeep of the present greenhouse?


It is not kept separate
from the cost for repairs of the other government buildings in the city.


How many men are
employed in connection with the greenhouse?


The men who look after
the greenhouses are on the staff of the superintendent of all the government buildings in this city.


What is the area of this
particular greenhouse?


I have not the size.


Surely there are plans
for an expenditure of 827,000.


The plans are not yet out.


When the minister submits a vote of $27,000 for a greenhouse he ought to be able to tell the committee its dimensions. That appears to me to be a reasonable question.


We are judging the cost
by the cost of other greenhouses constructed by the department at the experimental farm and at Rideau Hall.


How many other greenhouses are there in separate locations like this; how long are they expected to last; what shape are they in? It seems to me that this is an opportunity for co-ordination. A small greenhouse cannot be run profitably.
[Mr. Chaplin.)
The major cost of this greenhouse will be the fuel necessary to heat it and the wages of special men to run it, because unskilled men around the building cannot run this or any other greenhouse. I have one of my own and I know what I am talking about. It seems to me foolish for the minister to ask for a vote of $27,000 for a greenhouse of which he cannot tell us the size. I think with his usual courtesy he will allow this item to stand until he had secured the necessary information.


Perhaps my hon. friend
was not present when I read the statement as to the necessity of replacing the old greens house.


Yes. That was the reason for my questions.


I would not have thought so. My hon. friend of course realizes that the cost of heating will not be more than for the old greenhouse.


That is admitted.


This is to replace the
worn-out structure.


I agree with the minister that it will cost no more to run this greenhouse where he proposes to put it than it did to run the old one last year. But I want an improvement. If he is going to build a new greenhouse let him put it where it can be run with the surplus heat generated for the other greenhouse. That is the point the minister misses.


When this vote was up
last session I opposed it vigorously. The minister was then asked as to the size of the proposed structure, and he said it would be about 25 by 60 feet. A greenhouse of this size should not cost $27,000. I know something about the cost of construction, for unfortunately I have a greenhouse myself. The hon. member for Lincoln (Mr. Chaplin) has made a good suggestion, that these units should be co-ordinated. The old greenhouse should be remodelled and placed in a more convenient location so that delicate plants could be distributed from it without too much cost. There is no need of a greenhouse in Major Hill park. It is a bleak place and it will always be difficult to maintain the temperature of the greenhouse at the right point. As the minister has not the plans and cannot give the committee any information, I move:
That this item be reduced by $10,000, and that the old greenhouse be remodelled and used until the minister makes up his mind what he will do with it.

Supply-Public Works-Ontario
This will reduce the vote to $15,000, a sum sufficient to build two greenhouses of the dimensions that he speaks of.


Was this money voted
last year and not spent?


Yes.


I do not see how any minister can expect to get this vote through, knowing as little as he does about the business. A year ago he had no plan to submit to the committee, and now he comes back as per usual without any information.


I think my hon. friend
has not yet clearly understood what is intended by this vote. True, we have not the plans and specifications. Certain changes in the local buildings at the present time are partly responsible for the location not having yet been settled, but this will be considered, and my hon. friend may rest assured that this greenhouse will be located in the most desirable spot. No doubt both my hon. friends have a great deal of experience with regard to the construction of greenhouses, but I can assure them that a larger greenhouse than has been suggested by either of them will be necessary to meet the requirements of the parliament buildings. All we are aiming at is the substitution of a new building for an old and worn out one. The new building will provide better facilities and it has been urgently demanded. We are not proceeding precipitately in this matter. For a number of years this demand has been made, the building being absolutely required. I do not know that there is any further information that I can give. My hon. friends know that for less money a suitable building to replace the present one could not be constructed.


If the minister could
give us some idea of the size of the greenhouse we could tell whether it could be constructed for less or not; but he does not give us any information.


When the plans are completed public tenders will be called for, and the lowest tender will be accepted. That is a safeguard against the payment of any undue price. My hon. friends may have no worry on that score.
Amendment (Mr. Spence) negatived: yeas, 31; nays, 52.
Ottawa-improvement of square west of post office, $30,000.


Is this the first vote for the improvement of the square west of the post office?


It is the first vote, but
my hon. friend understands that it is for the improvement of the square after the removal of the buildings, including cleaning up and putting the square into proper shape.


I do not want to inconvenience the minister, but I will ask two questions: First, out of what vote is the cleaning up of the present work being paid? Secondly, will the minister explain what this vote is to be used for?


The cleaning up going
on at present is to be paid for out of the proceeds of the removal of the building. We are receiving something over 88,000 by way of salvage from the removal of the buildings, and what is now being done in the way of cleaning up is being provided for out of that.


The minister has not
answered the second question; I will add a third to it. How is this going to be spent, and why is the money not spent out of the grant to the Federal District Commission?


This is not part of the
Federal District Commission's work; the section west of the post office is not under the jurisdiction of the commission.


Then we are to understand that some half a million we voted last year, and this 830,000-and undoubtedly more money will be spent on this improvement scheme-are all in addition to the statutory vote of $3,000,000 voted a few days ago?


The statutory vote of
$3,000,000 relates to the Federal District Commission. This is not under the commission.


It is in addition?


Yes.


What work will be done
with this vote? Is it proposed to use it to pay for the removal of the present post office?


Not at all.


Is it merely to clean up
the spot and put some grass on it?


As the work progresses
the department will be able to decide better as to what will be required. At present the estimate is for a considerable amount of paving, running to about 4,000 yards at $4 a yard. That represents $16,000. The pavement will be the main part of the work

Supply-Public Works-Ontario
Then there will be grading, estimated at $4,000, and new sidewalks, $1,440, besides drainage, surface drains, manholes, catch-basins electric light poles and other items running to, say, $5,000. That is our best estimate.


When the work is completed, is it proposed to make the spot a parking station for the people of Ottawa as the present plaza is?


No, that is not the intention.


What is the idea of paving 4,000 yards at $4 a yard? That is a considerable item.


That is so the street cars can turn easily.


Four thousand yards at
$4 a yard represents altogether too high a figure; the estimate is entirely wrong.


If we can get it done
for less we will do so.


I hope it will be done
by contract. I know some people who would like to have that job at $4 a yard.


There is an old expression which has been often used, referring to persons spending money like drunken sailors, and I think it is applicable to this government in view of the way they are now seeking to spend the money of the people of this country. Tens of thousands of dollars have been spent tearing down a city block, and now $30,000 is required to cover that area with concrete in order to add to the general appearance of these parliament buildings and to beautify the city of Ottawa. In proposing an expenditure of this kind the government are giving another example of their absolute disregard for the needs of the people of Canada in those hundreds of places throughout the country which have inadequate accommodation both as to post offices and otherwise. The government are showing no concern in matters of public health and other questions of vital interest; there is no money for such things, but they can tear down a perfectly good city block in Ottawa and now ask for $30,000 to clean up that little bit of land consisting of only about a quarter of an acre. That sum would clean up about fifty acres of the most heavily timbered land in British Columbia. Therefore I am going to move, Mr. Chairman that this item be reduced to $25,000.


May I ask the area of this
piece of land?


Is there any plan of the proposed alterations or improvements?


Yes.


Could we have a look at it? This sum of $16,000 for putting in a few little paths astonishes me. This is a small piece of land, and I do not see where $16,000 can be spent in that way.


That is the estimate of
the chief architect.


What is the area of the land?


The area which it is proposed to pave is 4,000 square yards.


What are the dimensions of the plot?


I do not know that I
can give my hon. friend the exact area of the plot.


Why not make it a nice green grass plot; that will cost about one-tenth or one-twentieth of this amount and will have a much more pleasing effect. The only excuse I can see for this amount is to provide for a job which should be done by the Ottawa Electric Railway. I have before me an item which reads, " Certain property described as part of lot 27 south on Wellington street" but the minister has not extended the price or the size.


It is not settled yet.


Can the minister not tell me the area?


Only the area it is proposed to pave.


Will the minister say whether there was a contract for demolishing the buildings?


Yes.


And the government received so much for the salvage?


Yes.


When the contract was
drawn, why was not some arrangement made to have these people take the other stuff that was there when they took the salvage? You let them tear down the buildings for salvage and leave all their rubbish, while we must
MAY 4, 1928 [DOT]	2679
Supply-Public Works-Ontario
spend this money to clean it up. Did not the contract for salvage contain anything which would provide for the mess to be cleaned up?


My hon. friend knows
very well that when several buildings are being removed, after they are taken away it is desirable to make your own levels yourself, rather than leave it to the parties who removed the buildings.


I could understand that
answer if each individual owner of property demolished his own building, but the government made a contract with one firm to look after all the salvage, for which the government received so much, and the mess they left was nothing more or less than a crime They took away all the stuff that was any good and no provision was made to have them take away the rubbish, which should have been looked after when the arrangement was made.


That will provide another contract.


It means that another contract will be given in order to spend a little more money.


I have not yet received an answer to my question; I want to know the area of this land, and if the minister does not know let him say so.


I have not the area of the land, but I can obtain it.


Give us the dimensions.


I have waited for a day or two in order to get the proper orientation with regard to these estimates, and I am thoroughly convinced that the people throughout Canada who are building up this country feel disgusted and ashamed with what the government are doing with these estimates. According to the Bureau of Statistics, during the past five years 573,854 immigrants have entered Canada, while during the same period 591,121 Canadians left for the United States.


Order.


I wish to bring out my point in this way: Throughout the length and breadth of this country we are pleading for the people who are building up Canada, and who are being denied even the bare necessities which will keep them in Canada. I protest against this extravagance, and I am sure that protest will be echoed by many members. We must now decide squarely-


Louder.


I am sure my hon.
friend will not complain if I refer him to the rule which says all discussions must be relevant to the matter before the committee.


All right, Mr. Chairman. My feelings are deeper than I have words to express.


That is relevant.


Where there are legitimate reasons for carrying on work already done in our cities, our harbours and our ports, that is all right and I have no objection; but when I find that in many parts of this country where facilities are necessary to hold the people,

the necessary encouragement is not given them to remain. I think it is time that we entered a formal protest against all unnecessary expenditures and turned attention to those that are absolutely essential.
Mr. RO-SS (Kingston): I want to say, Mr. Chairman, that for many reasons I am going to support the amendment. Members on the other side of the house, as well as the chairman, talk about what is relevant to this subject. We thought we had voted money for the beautification of Ottawa. But when we study the question we find that there are two or three different votes with practically the same object. If you want to find out what the beautification of Ottawa means and what it is costing the country, all you need to do is to walk around the canal and see what is being done. I considered that that was all a question of beautifying Ottawa, but it will be found that part of the work comes under railways and canals. That part of the work of beautifying Ottawa has been done in the following way: They have taken down an earth bank along the canal in older to put up a permanent cement wall. The earth has been thrown into the canal and for a time two or three men with Shovels were throwing it out. I believe the water is now to be let into the canal and then dredges will be used to remove the earth. This is beautifying Ottawa at the expense of the country. We are willing to spend money but we are not willing to waste money, and we want the people of Ottawa and the country to understand that.
In the same way we believed that we were voting money for a park. We are told by the minister that on one side of the road the park is not under the Federal District Commission but that on the other side it is to (be under the commission. The government should get this question straightened out and tell us what we are voting for. Perhaps it is a question of slipping through a vote here and another there but there is no question that this is a waste of money. Last night under the pretence of repairing the citadel at Quebec we voted $150,000 and there was a waste of money there. This appropriation is also, I believe, an absolute waste of money and when we are asking for things that are important we find that the money is being used to throw earth from the bank into the channel of a canal, water 'being let in and then a dredge brought along to take the earth out again.
As soon as parliament began some time ago to discuss the question of water the city got busy and hired an engineer. I think after the amendment is carried quite enough money will

Supply-Public Works-Ontario
remain in this appropriation to cover the levelling of the site. My opinion is that by this vote the government is simply splitting the city of Ottawa into two sections or making two cities of it. It is making a paved square which the people from one part of the city will never cross in the hot summer, if we have such in Ottawa, or in the cold weather. The government is absolutely destroying the city and doing it for one purpose, namely to glorify and keep in power the King government.


A few minutes ago I
asked the minister to give us the area of the piece of property which they have acquired and on which this vote is to be expended, but he is a little short of information. He tells us that the proposition is to pave four thousand square yards within the property or around it. From what I know of the property-and we pass it every day-four thousand square yards constitute practically the whole property and consequently the whole of it is going to be paved. Is the committee prepared to spend this vote of $30,000 and $8,000 of salvage on a proposition of that kind in Ottawa? The proposal of the minister is simply absurd, nothing more and nothing less.


I apparently have not made myself clear with regard to the $8,000 of salvage. We were paid the $8,000. We did not pay it.


I understand that quite
well.


My hon. friend was adding the two together.


The government have
been paid $8,000 for salvage. I presume with that $8,000 they can do something; or does that money go into the treasury?


Yes.


And $30,000 is the money to be spent?


Yes.


That explains the matter but my remark still stands regarding the foolishness and inappropriateness of this. If these improvements are to be made around Sparks street, as the plan we have shows, the Ottawa Street Railway or somebody else should paj-for them or part of them.


Carried.


The minister may be able to get his vote through but my hon. friends had better not make such a row or it will
probably be delayed more. My hon. friends are entitled to state their points of view; I am entitled to state my objection to this vote and I propose to do so. My hon. friends cannot get anything simply by calling " carried ". This is an absurd vote. This appropriation of $30,000 is wasted money. It is in addition to what we have already voted for Ottawa. After what we have heard this square should be paid for out of the $3,000 000 appropriation and the government should not come back and ask us to vote more money in drips and drops as they are doing.


I should like to ask the Prime Minister if the immediate destruction of the post office building comes within the scope of his scheme of beautification, and if the destruction is not immediate, when he proposes starting to tear down that building.
MY ELLIOTT: It is not, the intention to tear down the post office for some years at any rate.


Do I understand that a contract was entered into for the removal of those buildings?


Yes.


Has the minister a copy of it?


Yes.


Is it not customary in connection with the removal of buildings, to have the debris removed, that is, to have the property left in a reasonably clean condition? Any business man of acumen would have a contract drawn up to that effect and therefore a large portion of the expenditure which is now being made for the removal of the debris would not be necessary. Every business man making a contract for the removal of a building requires that the site shall be left in a reasonably clean and proper condition so that all he has to do is to erect his building without having to remove rubbish and other stuff left by the contractor. If a contract was made, why was a clause of that kind not inserted?


It was in January, I think, and the ground was all covered with snow and ice at the time of the removal of the buildings. There was in the contract a clause such as my hon. friend suggests. Tenders were called for and a contract was entered into, the highest tenderer being given the contract.
Mr. AD3HEAD: The highest or the lowest?
Supply-Public Works-Ontario


The highest. Wie asked how much they would give for the buildings which they were to remove. At the time they finished removing the buildings it was impossible, on account of the frost, ice and snow, to level the site. Part of the debris was removed by the contractor and then an arrangement was made by him allowing us $700, the department to do the levelling themselves as soon as the frost was out of the ground.


Were these public tenders?


Yes; they were advertised.


Who got the contract?


The Betchemman Company.


When the grant for the Federal District Commission was before the house a few days ago, the Prime Minister presented a plan which I think we all understood covered and included the work that was to be done by the commission, and on that plan I see included this particular area, and no paving is shown on the plan. It is simply a matter of shrubbery, grass and a few paths. Has this plan been departed from, and if so, why has the change been made?
I want to say that from time to time in the past few years I have endeavoured to get an extension of the rural mail delivery or some other comparatively inexpensive service for the people of the constituency I represent, and I have been unable to get these essential services which would foe so valuable to the people of my constituency. Yet here we are asked to vote $3,000,000 one day, and now $30,000, and further sums in connection with this Square. It does seem to me that we are losing our sense of proportion, and that we are not giving our attention to the matters that should really have our serious consideration, and that we are spending these moneys unnecessarily. For these reasons I am strongly in favour of the amendment. If this area were converted into a grass plot, it seems to me that would be very much better than paving. One can scarcely see how so much paving on this small area could possibly be required, unless it is to be converted into a parking area.


Yesterday afternoon the minister informed the committee that he had received about one hundred applications for public buildings throughout various parts of Canada, and he informed me that he would be able to give me a list of the places from which the requests had come, together with the estimated cost. I was wondering if he had that list ready yet.
[Mr. Adshead.l


I certainly have not. Did my hon. friend expect that I would have it this afternoon?


Frankly, I would have thought that a clerk could have got it ready without the slightest difficulty, but perhaps that is because I have not a proper comprehension of the work entailed. I hope the minister will agree to let me have the list before his estimates are concluded.


Yes.


Has there been any departure from the plan of the federal commission as to this particular area? The minister's statement does not seem to correspond with the plan submitted to the house.


It does not correspond entirely with the plan. The plan my hon. friend refers to has been suggested since the estimates were published, and it is possible that there may be a variation which will render less paving necessary than was contemplated by the architect as absolutely necessary. But the estimate we have before us is the best estimate we can give as to the expenditure, in order to make the area in keeping with the general scheme.


Is it not part of the Federal District Commission's scheme as a whole?


This part is under the
Dominion government entirely. The other part of the federal scheme is under the commission.


I was given to understand
when this matter was under discussion before, that one of the reasons for this plan was to get a driveway leading from the canal up to the parliament buildings, perhaps not in the exact location shown in the plan, but at all events as part of the scheme. If that is so, I do not see why this work has not been done by the federal commission, and out of the appropriation they are getting, which surely was large enough for the purpose. Are we to understand that the country is not only to provide the sum already voted, but that in addition this square is being taken over by the Public Works department, and that more money will be spent on it too? I can understand that this plan, as the minister says, is not absolutely accurate, but I feel confident that I am right when I say we were told that the intention was that there should be a driveway continued from the canal and approaching this building from the southeast. Am I not right in that?


Yes.

Supply-Public Works-Ontario


Then that driveway must
come beside or through the square in question, and surely it forms part of the general scheme of the commission. If that be so, why is the work not left to the federal commission?
While I am on my feet, I would like to say that' if it is the intention to pave that area, that does seem to me to be a serious mistake. What is the sense of doing that? I thought it was to be a park, and that is what we all understood. The idea of putting a cement square right in the heart of Ottawa, which is hot enough in the summer time as it is. is absurd. If we want to improve that area, surely it would be much better to have it laid with grass, with perhaps a fountain or something of that kind. I can hardly believe that the federal commission should contemplate paving it.


And perhaps use boiled
tar.


We have had some experience
with creosote and boiled tar in connection with the square in front of the Chateau. I think the minister ought to give us some more definite idea of what is intended, unless he expects us to vote this sum blindly. We do not know what the size is, we do not know what the intention is, we do not know whether it is part of the general scheme, or whether it is something being undertaken by the Public Works department apart altogether from the general scheme for which we have already voted a very large sum of money. The minister ought to give us some information. This plan was passed around the house, and I certainly did think at the time that it was to apprise us as to the intention of the Federal District Commission, but now when we want to use the plan in connection with this vote, although this area is shown on the plan as part of the federal commission's scheme, we are told that the commission has nothing to do with it, and that it comes under the Public Works department. Why should they be separated unless it is to get more money?


I thought I had made
it clear to my hon. friend that this expropriation of buildings west of the post office has been carried on by the Department of Public Works, and not by the federal commission.


The expropriation, certainly.


Yes, and the ownershinp
of the property will be in the Public Works department as soon as the values are ascertained. The ownership is really vested in the department now.


What was offered by the government for this property?


Speaking from memory,
something in the neighbourhood of $600,000.


Is that all?


Yes, but I want to say
that these plans are more or less tentative. The plans of the federal commission will be followed as far as they can be followed by the government in connection with making this part of the general scheme, but I am bound to state to my hon. friend that the expenditure here is being borne by the De* partment of Public Works, and the work is being done by the department, and not by the commission.


Are we to understand that
the tearing down of the Russell block comes under the Public Works department too?


No, that is federal commission work. The part which the Public Works department is doing is the part in the block in which the post office is situated.


And we pay that $600,000 out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada?


Yes.


Mr. Chairman, here is an
amazing situation. There is a good deal of laughing on the other side; apparently this is a joke. The other day the Prime Minister made a very long and apparently a very carefully prepared speech in which he presented to the house what he described as an elaborate scheme for the beautification of this capital and to add to the dignity of parliament hill. In presenting that scheme he rather appealed to the house for support on the ground that wisdom dictated that a large sum should be appropriated, even though it * was to be spent over a period of years. Therefore he introduced a separate bill for a grant of some three million dollars.
But what are the facts? We have this bill for three million dollars to be handed over to the Federal District Commission. In addition to that we have a prospective vote of $600,000 for a property which is part of the scheme; we have this paving vote for $30,000; we have a vote of $500,000 or more for the New Edinburgh mills which I understand were

Supply-Public Works-Ontario
offered for gale a couple of years ago for $250,000; we have an extra sum of $100,000 for Rideau Hall above the $60,000 that has been voted in the last itwo years for improvements and maintenance and furnishings, and we have an extra sum of $150,000 above what we were asked to vote last year for the citadel in Quebec for gubernatorial purposes-a total of $4,800,000. Unquestionably this huge total will be added to Iby other votes similar to what we are now considering for the purpose-* well, some say, of beautifying Ottawa, but I think, Mr. Chairman, it is simply to cater bo the extravagant social spirit of this city.
I hold in my hand the plan. It shows a green plot swith trees on it in the very area for which the minister is asking a vote of $30,000 for paving. Why in the name of common sense should we pave this area and later break it up and plant trees there if we conform to this plan? The whole proposal seems to me preposterous. I wholly agree with what my friend from Kingston (Mr. Ross) said a moment ago, that by our vote in relation to the Ottawa improvement scheme we are driving a wedge through the very heart of this city and dividing it into two sections, and in this way actually destroying its symmetry. Wre find that for years the drift of business has been towards Bank street, and now the Prime Minister comes along with this scheme. It is not the town planning scheme which was prepared by experts a few years ago at an expense of sixty or seventy thousand dollars. It is a scheme that the Prime Minister has taken into his particular care and presented to parliament. I repeat, the scheme is not in harmony with the natural growth of this city. It is going to divide the city into two sections. It was bad enough before when business was carried through by the Russell block and the buildings on the other side of the street; but now business will go down the Bank street section, and the Rideau street section will be neglected and depreciated in value. I am confident that the taxpayers of Ottawa as yet do not quite understand just what the effect will be when the Russell block is cleared away.
I am opposed to this vote of $30,000 as an attempt to extract from the exchequer under- I will not say false pretenses; perhaps that would be too strong a term-under a misapprehension by parliament and the people, because we fully understood that the three million dollars vote the other day, which we thought excessive, was to cover all the necessary expenses of this scheme. Let me recapitulate. In adition to that parliament is voting at least six hundred thousand dollars for this property which, mark you, is the offer

by the government, but experience justifies us in asserting that the cost will be in excess of this figure by at least ten or twenty per cent; five hundred thousand dollars or more for the New Edinburgh mills, and the minister is coming to parliament in his supple-mentaries for an additional sum to remodel the saw mill for the purpose of turning .it into an office for the statistical branch. In addition to that we have these extra sums for Rideau Hall. Surely, Mr. Chairman, it is time that parliament seriously faced its duty here and insisted that the government should curtail these extravagances. If the Prime Minister had come to parliament this session and asked for half a million dollars to proceed with the general scheme of development of this capital city, I do not think there would have been any very great objection; but he actually asks for four or five million dollars, with no assurance whatever that this will be the end of the expenditure. This, I submit, is carrying the matter altogether too far.
It may seem almost ridiculous to drop from four or five million dollars down to eight thousand dollars, but after all eight thousand dollars is a considerable sum. The minister gets eight thousand dollars for the buildings which are included in the purchase price of the property, and I have no doubt that they were valued at a hundred thousand dollars. Will the minister tell us? I venture to say that that is about the figure. He sells the buildings for eight thousand dollars. If I am wrong the minister will correct me, for undoubtedly he has the particulars. Not only is there this great sacrifice, but the contractor who clears away the buildings leaves hundreds of tons of debris on the site, and we are now paying seven hundred dollars to clear off that debris. Then he is going to spend thirty thousands dollars or thereabouts to improve the property.
Another complaint I have is that the vote as it appears in the estimates is entirely misleading. It reads:
Ottawa post office-addition.


My hon. friend is wrong.
He is referring to the item above:
Ottawa-improvement of square west of post office.


That is right. But there is another item "Ottawa post office-addition -$30,000" right below that. I forgot to include this vote. This too must go into the beuatification scheme ?


When we reach the item I will give the particulars.

Supply-Public Works-Ontario


Will the minister answer
me now; is it going into the beautification scheme?


No. This addition is for
the purpose of providing a covered entrance to the post office for the vehicles that are taking the mails in and out, and for increased postal facilities.


It is on the property immediately to the west of the present post office, and actually connected with the property we are now discussing. The only reason for putting that cover there is to cover up what was previously the back door of the post office, which will now be fronting on this park area. So that we can add another $30,000, made necessary unquestionably by the cleaning up of the property. I submit to the committee that this is the grossest form of extravagance; there is- no justification whatever for it. One half of the members sitting on the other side know in their hearts at this moment that it is an unjustifiable extravagance on the part of the government, and the only reason on earth why they are voting for it is simply to maintain in power the government they happen to be supporting at the present time.


I have been trying to find out where the square is to be paved. I understand that the property we are discussing is bounded on the east by the post office, on the north by Wellington street, on the west by Elgin street and on the south by Rideau street, or the continuation of Sparks street. Am I to understand that the whole of that is to be paved? If that is so you are going to have cement within 66 feet of the buildings which we pass on the west side of Elgin street immediately we leave the parliament grounds. In that case you will have no driveway whatever up to the parliament buildings, which certainly we were led to believe by the Prime Minister when he made his address during the discussion of this subject. And the plan handed to us plainly shows that this is the intention. It may be that this has to be altered slightly; but is it possible that this pavement is going to continue within 66 feet-that is the ordinary width of a street-of the eastern boundary of Elgin street? In other words, when you have the improvements made along the canal and someone, driving along the driveway, wants to reach this building, he must go into Rideau street until he comes to the 66-foot strip of roadway, along which people drive to-day if they want to get to the parliament buildings. One can understand that if the driveway were to conform to the plan which has been exhibited, it would go right to the centre of the property, and at all events there would be continuity of approach to the parliament buildings from -the Rideau canal driveway, up through the southeast comer. I want to find out whether it is the intention of the minister to pave the whole square. Unless you are to have motors driving over the whole of the pavement you will have no entrance at all to the parliament buildings in line with the driveway which is supposed to lead up to them. The committee should be informed on this point.
The minister says this is a tentative plan. Is it possible that the government have come to parliament for this vast sum of money without having before them a solitary plan which can be described as in any degree a definite scheme of improvement, and that the whole proposition is merely tentative? I can only say in all sincerity to the minister, if that is so-and that is the impression he leaves with the committee-it is not business, it is not common sense, it is not fair to those of us who want to take the slightest interest in the matter, to ask us to vote in this blind manner. I cannot conceive that there is any member -prepared to vote this money to pave that square and not leave a driveway leading up to- the buildings. The only possible excuse for the work would be a driveway up to the southeast entrance to the grounds. II* would be extravagant then, although there would be some justification for it. We have asked the minister to tell us what the area is that is to be paved; and I gather, when he tells me that the boundaries of the property are as I have indicated, that it must be as I have suggested: it is going to be paved to within 66 feet of the existing buildings on Elgin street on the western side. If that is so you will not have any entrance whatever to the grounds. I do not suppose that vehicles will be able to cross it very well; there will be railings or something to stop -them. For that reason they will have to drive to the 66-foot driveway.
I want to be right on this matter; I do not wish to offer any objections that have no basis in commonsense. But as the minister has presented the matter to us, I think we have taken the proper interpretation from his statement. If there is some definite scheme, does not the minister think the committee should have it? Should not the committee be given some idea of the situation, by means, for example, of some plan such as has appeared in the newspapers? This all came out in the newspapers, and I presume the gov-