(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
What steps, if any, have been taken by the government to give Nova Scotia its full representation in the House of Commons, as provided for under the terms of the British North America Act?


The present representation of Nova Scotia and the other provinces of Canada in the House of Commons was fixed by this parliament, as provided for under the terms of the British North America Act, by statute 14-15, George V. chapter 63.


1.	What was the total revenue of customs at entry port of Chicoutimi in the years 1926 and 1927, respectively?
2.	What was the revenue collected in each sub-port in each of the above years, the subports being Port Alfred, Jonquiere, Hebertville, etc.?
3.	What was the total revenue of customs entry at the port of Chicoutimi itself?
4.	How many inbound and outbound ocean going steamers have reported to the customs port of Chicoutimi during 1926 and 1927, and what was the tonnage of each?
5.	How many of above reported from the subport of Alfred (on Ha-Ha-Bay) and what was the respective tonnage?


1, 2, and 3.
Statement of Revenue Collected by the Department of Customs and Excise. At Chicoutimi, Hebertville, Jonquiere, . and Port Alfred-during the Fiscal Years 1925-26
and 1926-27.
Fiscal Year 1925-26 Customs Excise Taxes Excise Sundry	Total
Duties	Duties Collections
*	Chicoutimi	$	70,090 05 $	39,285 57 $	423 76	
$ 109,799 38* Hebertville	
98,332 29	37,483 41	
135,815 70*	Jonquiere	
98,387 39	37,913 14	1,026 58 $	209 49	137,536 60* Port Alfred.'.' .. ..	86,233 60	19,704 03	
105,937 63Grand Total.. . .$ 353,043 33 S 134,386 15 $ 1,450 34 $	209 49 $ 4S9.089 31
Fiscal Year 1926-27
** Chicoutimi	$	57,519 16 $	50,711 48 $	380 56	
$ 108.611 20Hebertville	
51.927 40	24.034 53	
75.961 93Jonquiere	
265,169 95	62,400 53	1,261 81 $	120 00	328,952 29Port Alfred	
370,330 29	96,493 25	
466,823 54Grand Total.. ..I 744,946 80 $ 233,639 79 $ 1,642 37 $	120 00 $ 980,348 96
* Outports under chief port of Quebec during 1925-26.
**Chief port from April 1st, 1926, with Hebertville, Jonquiere, and Port Alfred as outports.
4 and 5.
Port	1926	1927Inbound	Outbound	Inbound	Outbound
Quan- Reg'd. Quan- Reg'd. Quan- Reg'd. Quan- Reg'd.
tity	Tonnage	tity	Tonnage	tity	Tonnage	tity	TonnageChicoutimi,	Que....	4	5,924	4	5,924	2	2,664	31	55,005Port Alfred,	Que. .	31	67,398	32	58,454	19	45,762	Total.. 56103-85	35	73,322	36	64,378	21	48,426	31	55,005
Questions


1.	For how many days in the fiscal year 1926-27 was J. Reid Hyde employed in connection with, (a) the High Commissioner's office in Londpn; (b) the Department of the Secretary of State; and, (c) any other government department?
2.	What was his remuneration per day?
3.	What services did he perform?


1.	How many acres of school lands were sold at the recent sales of school lands in the province of Alberta?
2.	How many acres of school lands were knocked down to Jos. A. McCallum, or to Mc-Callum agencies?
[Mr. Euler.
3.	How many acres were knocked down to one A. Shandro?
4.	Was the regulation initial payment made on each parcel of land sold or knocked down?
5.	If not, how many parcels were knocked down on which no initial payment was received?


1.	What is the total amount of money already loaned to the Chicoutimi Harbour Commission?
2.	What was the total amount of money spent during the year of 1927 for dredging at Chicoutimi ?


1.	None.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Did the government in 1911 purchase a double corner in the town of Merritt, British Columbia, for the purpose of erecting thereon a public building?
2.	Did the government in 1911, or subsequently, appropriate a sum of $24,000 for the construction of said building?
3.	If so, vras the building erected?
4.	If not, how many times was this sum revoted ?
5.	Has the government recently received representations from the board of trade of Merritt to renew this appropriation and proceed with the erection of this building?
6.	If so, what decision has been arrived at?


1.	No, but a site on the northeast comer of Granite avenue and Voight street was purchased in 1913.

Questions
2. No, but appropriations were granted as follows:
1911 12			$ 5,000
1912-13			 10,000
1913-14			 20,000
1914-15			 25.000
1915-16			 25,000
1916 17			 25,000
3.	No.
4.	Answered by No. 2.
5.	Yes.
6.	The matter is under consideration.


1.	What repairs have been made on each of the railway wharves at Pictou, Nova Scotia, since January, 1922?
2.	What was the amount spent on each of such wharves on account of, (a) labour; (b) material, during the years 1922-23-24-25-26-27?
3.	Were the repairs made by employees of the government or by contractor ?
4.	If by a department of the government, what department and who was the foreman in charge?
5.	Have these two wharves been taken over by the Public Works department?
6.	If so, at what date was the transfer made?
7.	Will repairs be made on each of said wharves during the present calendar year and, if so, will the repairs be made by a department of the government or by public tender and contract?


1.	Approximately 100 per cent of the deck, caps and stringers, and 25 per cent of the piling, renewed on the freight shed and east wiharves.
2.	Labour	Materials
1922.	Records destroyed
by fire at New
Glasgow	
Nil	Nil1923.	Freight shed wharf.	$ 500 85	$	554	16East wharf	
Nil	NilLabour	Materials1924. Freight shed wharf.	2,925 69	4,339 59East wharf	1,051 53	673 301925. Freight shed wharf.	54 49	21 58East wharf	Nil	Nil1926. Freight shed wharf.	267 17	191 04East wharf	423 34	846 731927. Freight shed wharf.	3,970 44	3,556 34East wharf	2,115 83	2,824 05
3. By employees Canadian National Railways.
4.	Engineering department, Canadian National Railways, Robert Bowen, foreman.
5.	No.
6.	Answered by No. 5.
7.	Present plans are that repairs will be made ito both wharves during present calendar year by Canadian National Railway forces.


1.	On what dates did the trade agreements between Canada and Australia, and between Canada and New Zealand, become effective?
2.	What were the imports into Canada from (a) Australia, (b) New Zealand, during the years 1925 and 1927, respectively, of the following commodities, cheese, butter, milk, cream, milk powder, bacon, ham, and mutton?
3.	What were the exports from Canada to, fa) Australia, (b) New Zealand, in the years 1925 and 1927, respectively, of the following commodities, cheese, butter, milk, cream, milk powder, bacon, ham, and mutton?


1.	Trade agreement between Canada and Australia became effective 1st October, 1925. This agreement was extended to New Zealand on 1st October, 1925.
2.	Imports into Canada from Australia and New Zealand of the undermentioned articles during the fiscal years ended March 31, 1925 and 1927.
Articles
Cheese	
Butter	
Milk (fresh)	
Cream (fresh)	
Milk powder	
Bacon	
Ham	
Mutton	
	Prom Australia		New Zealand	
1925	1927	1925	1927.Pounds	18	15$	10	6.Pounds	801,324	162,848	4,904,536$	289,098	59,579	1,728,020.Gallons	$	.Gallons	$	.Pounds	96$	12
$				
				
$				
.Pounds	117,969	895,268	40,174	12,785$	13,527	113,217	5,801	2,098
1326
Questions

3.	Exports (Canadian produce) from Canada to Australia and New Zealand of the undermentioned articles during the fiscal years ended March 31, 1925 and 1927.
Articles
To Australia 1925	1927
To New Zealand 1925	1927
Cheese	Pounds

Butter	Pounds

Milk	Gallons

Cream	Gallons

Milk powder	Pounds

Bacon	Pounds
Ham	Pounds

Mutton	Pounds


1.	On what date did the new system of medical inspection of immigrants come into force?
2.	What was the object of the increase of medical inspectors in Great Britain and on the Continent ?
3.	What qualifications (were demanded in selection of these medical inspectors?
4.	Where were these officers trained for this special work and by whom?
5.	Who were appointed to this work and what was the address of each in Canada?
6.	At what points overseas have these inspectors been placed, giving name of inspector at each point, and date when duty began?
Mr. KING (Kootenay);
1.	Medical inspection of immigrants compulsory from 15th February, 1928, but inspections carried out at the request of prospective immigrants from 15th October, 1927.
2.	To carry out medical inspection of every prospective emigrant before embarkation.
3.	Qualifications required: Graduation from a medical school of recognized standing; a license to practice medicine; two years' experience in the practice of medicine or in making medical examinations and analyses; inherent executive ability; tact; good judgment; excellent physical condition; moral character.
4.	Training in special duties carried out at London, England, under Doctors Jeffs and Pamey.
5.
Name of Medical Officer-Canadian Residence
Archibald, C. H., Toronto, Ont.; Arpin, C N., Regina, Sask.; Audet, G., Quebec, P.Q.;

Bain, T. D., Toronto, Ont.; Currie, G. C., Regina. Sask.; Cock, J. L., Halifax, N.S.; De-lamere, H. D., Toronto, Ont.; DuPlessis, F. X. L., Richmond, P.Q.; Douglas, J. S., North Bay, Ont.; Egan, W., Ottawa, Ont.; Ferguson, G. B., Hamilton, Ont.; Grant, J. E., Locke-port, NjS.; Hames, C. F. W., Toronto, Ont.; MacDermott, W. B., London, Ont.; Nodwell, G. R., Grand Valley, Ont.; Rolland, R., Montreal, P.Q.; Savoie, A. M., Regina, Sask.; Turnbull, A., Flesherton, Ont.
6.	, i ;
Name of Medical Officer-Station Overseas- Date of Commencement of Duty
Archibald, C. H., London Area, October 17, 11927; Arpin, C. N., Danzig, November 9, 1927; Audet, G., Antwerp, November 14, 1927; Bain, T. D., Glasgow, November 24, 1927; Currie, G. C., Liverpool, November 24, 1927; Cock, J. L., Birmingham, November 23, 1927; Delamere, H. D., York, November 7, 1927; DuPlessis, F. X. L., Paris, October 15, 1927; Douglas, J. S., Liverpool, December 12, 1927; Egan, W. London, December 12, 1927; Ferguson, G. B., Rotterdam, December 12, 1927; Grant, J. E., Liverpool, November 21, 1927; Hames, C. F. W., Belfast, November, 16, 1927; MacDermott, W. B., Bristol, November, 15, 1927; Nodwell, G. R., Glasgow, December, 12, 1927; Rolland, R., Riga, November 28, 1927; Savoie, A. M'., Hamburg, November 18, 1927; Turnbull, A., Inverness, November 24, 1927.


1. What is the maximum moisture content which one northern, two northern, three north-

era, four, five and six wheat, is being shipped out of the port of Vancouver as straight grade cargoes, by government inspection department, for the crop year 1927-28?
2.	Is the moisture content designated on the certificate issued by the inspection department?
3.	Has the standard of the moisture content been changed or does it remain as in effect as in past years?


1.	14.4 per cent.
2.	No.
3.	Yes: Up to the present maximum which has been in effect during the last two crop years.


What was the total quantity of butter, (a) imported into Canada from Australia from April 1st to January 31st, 1928; (b) imported monthly into each province from April 1st to January 31st, 1928?


(a) and (;b).
Imports of Butter from Australia Entered for Consumption in Each Province of Canada, Monthly, from April 1, 1927, to January 31, 1928
British
Month Quebec Ontario Columbia Total lib. lb. lb. lb. 56,672 616
42,000
99,288 42,000 192,584 333872


1.	How often in 1927 were the provisions of the dumping clause in the Customs Act applied?
2.	What particular industries were affected?


1.	Dumping clause applicable to importations entered at customs without reference to department at Ottawa. No special compilation made of entries on which dumping duty was collected.
2.	Dumping duty applies to all imported goods of a class or kind made or produced in Canada if the selling price to purchaser in Canada is less than fair market value.
-	-	56,672
-	- 616
- 28,000 28,000 42,000 164,584 24S,584
April, 1927 ..
May	
June	
July	
August .. .. September .. October .. . November .. December .. January, 1928
Totals ..
Capital Increases and Profits


1.	How many persons were appointed as postal helpers in Montreal during the months of July, August and September, 1926?
2.	Were applications for such positions invited by the Civil Service Commission?
3.	How many applications were received?
4.	Were appointments made on the recommendation of the Civil Service Commission?
5.	How many applications were received from men who had seen active service overseas, and how many of such men were appointed?


1.	43.
2.	An eligible list for postal helpers was in existence at that time and .there was no necessity for calling for applications.
3.	Answered by No. 2.
4.	25 were selected from the Civil Service Commission's eligible list. 18 were obtained by local selection.
5.	3 of the men employed had seen active service overseas.


1.	How many employees of the Department
of Agriculture were on salary, pay or allowance in each province during 1927?	_
2.	What amount per province was paid to those mentioned in question one, as salaries and also as travelling expenses?
3.	What number of officials of the Department of Agriculture were employed in each province during the year 1927 in each of the following classes, (a) sheep promoters; (b) wool graders; (c) egg promoters; (d) egg graders; (e) hay promoters; (f) hay graders?
4.	What amount was paid in each province to each class mentioned above under the name of salaries and of travelling expenses?


For a return showing-1. All increases made to capital from profits in the form of stock dividends or in any other form whatsoever.
2. The profits Reported by all industrial organizations as to: (a) gross profits (per cent) on nominal capital, (b) gross profits (per cent) on actual cash invested in each case exclusive of bonus stock dividends, (c) net profits (per cent) as to nominal capital, (d) net profits (per cent) on actual cash invested in each case exclusive of bonus stock dividends.


However much it may be desirable to secure this information in whole or in part, I think I can convince my hon. friend that he is asking for something which it is practically

Evidence in Japan in Litigation
impossible to obtain. I direct his attention to the first part of his motion, which asks for a return showing:
All increases made to capital from profits in the form of stock dividends or in any other form whatsoever.
Take a small business started many years ago; perhaps the owner of the business was unable to borrow money and all his savings from year to year went back into that particular business, which may have grown to a considerable size. Or take a fanner who started out on a homestead or who bought a farm at a low price; perhaps he got a little stock, and the herds and flocks increased from year to year and he put the money back into the farm. After a period of years that farm and stock may have become quite valuable.
Then take the next clause, with regard to industrial organizations; I imagine my hon. friend refers to incorporated companies. Some of these companies are incorporated under provincial charters, and it would be impossible for this government to secure the information with regard to the actual cash invested in such organizations. It may be said that the government could obtain part of this information from the Income Tax branch, but so far parliament has declared that income tax returns are confidential, and we are not allowed to give out that information.
In view of this explanation perhaps my hon. friend may see fit to withdraw his motion. I am not sure just what he wants to get at, but I suggest that he might very properly drop the resolution, and he and I could have a word together to see what he really does require. If the information is within the department we will be very willing to help my hon. friend, but as the resolution stands it is impossible to carry out.


Dropped.
Motion dropped.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called I wish to ask-


The hon. member is too late. The order of the day has been called.


I was on my feet, Mr. Speaker.


Yes, the hon. member was on his feet.


Very well.


May I ask if the attention of the Prime Minister has been directed to the press despatches from British Columbia, which indicate that the Japanese government have lately refused to allow a commission appointed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia to take evidence in Japan in a case which was pending in British Columbia involving something over $1,000,000. Much to the embarrassment of the parties, the Japanese government refused to allow evidence to be taken by the commission before the British Consul General at Tokyo. I have press despatches here which I shall be glad to hand to the Prime Minister.


I have not been advised of the despatches to which my hon. friend refers, but judging from his remarks I would say they afford another reason why we should speedily have a minister at Tokyo.


The house resumed from Tuesday, March 13, consideration of the motion of Hon. J. A. Robb (Minister of Finance), that Mr. Speaker do now.leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means.
The house has disposed of two amendments-first, the subamendment- and second, the amendment. The question now is on the main motion.


Mr. Speaker, the house having disposed of the subamendment presented by the hon. member for East Lambton (Mr. Fansher), on which I spoke, and of the amendment proposed by the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Oahan), I propose now to address the house for a few moments on the main motion presented by the hon. Minister of Finance. In doing this I really perform what is perhaps a duty.


I rise to a question of
privilege. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Bourassa) has already spoken in this debate. The rule seems to be that when a motion is made, such as was made by the hon. Minister of Finance, and amendments are proposed, any member of this house who speaks to the main motion and the amendments after those amendments have been moved may not speak again. Otherwise the debate would never terminate. The members who may speak are those who had not spoken at the time the amendment

The Budget-Speaker's Ruling
was moved to the main motion. Otherwise, of course, the rule of the house against speaking twice to a question would be nugatory.


Does any other member
desire to speak on the question of order? I have been thirty-two years in the House of Commons and this is not the first time this point has been raised. Every amendment is a question by itself, and when an amendment is disposed of any hon. member who has not spoken before the amendment was moved is entitled to speak. The only member of the house in the present instance who is debarred from speaking is the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George, who spoke on the main motion. Now the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) spoke, it is true, last night but merely on a question of order for the purpose of asking the house to observe the rule which provides that the house shall not sit after eleven o'clock. Now let me quote what Beau-chesne says under standing order 43, paragraph No. 334:'
By moving or seconding an amendment a member, if he utters a few words, actually speaks to the main motion. It is only after the amendment has been put by the Speaker that it is considered a new question.
Each amendment is therefore a new question, and those who have spoken once on the amendment cannot speak twice, but as long as the main motion is not disposed of, if an hon. member has spoken only on the amendment, he can speak on the main motion.
Mr. JEAN J. DENIS (Joliette):	Mr. Speaker, I should like to say a word on the question of order. It seems to me that the leader of the opposition is certainly right and perfectly logical in his argument. If the rules are wrong in that regard they should be amended. As it is now this debate is liable to be reopened and every hon. member excepting the member for St. Lawrence-St. George may speak again. Now it is very hard to differentiate and to tell whether any hon. member spoke on the subamendment alone, or on the amendment alone, or on the whole issue. As far as I can judge, all members who have spoken while they spoke on the subamendment also spoke on the amendment and the main motion. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, if an appeal is entered from your ruling with all deference I think I shall be obliged to vote against that ruling.


My view has always been that the mover of an amendment, as for example my hon. friend, the member for St. Lawrence-
St. George who was the mover of the first amendment, would have the right to speak on a subsequent amendment. There was a subsequent amendment. All others who have spoken in this debate have spoken practically upon three questions-the main motion, the amendment and the subamendment. Therefore they are all precluded from speaking again, and the only one entitled to speak on the second amendment would be the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George, but as the second amendment has been decided by the house he also is now precluded.


May I say first that there is no man who would like better to have the vote taken immediately than myself. I do not propose to discuss what the rule should be, but I think all the old members of the house will remember as well as I do that it has happened not only once or twice, but many times, that the debate has been resumed after the vote on an amendment.


By those who did not speak on the amendment.


I would suggest an opportunity be given to each member to speak before the vote is taken. It will only cause a loss of two or three minutes, and we might sing Alouette.


I have looked into the question that has been raised, and my firm conviction is that every member of this house except myself has a right to speak on the main motion. That was the conclusion I came to after careful consideration of the procedure, and if it comes to a question of a vote I should have to vote that way.


I do not think that any member except the member for St. Lawrence-St. George has a right to speak. Any member who spoke before the amendment was submitted to the house is debarred, but any member who spoke after the amendment was proposed is free to speak again. Any member who spoke after the subamendment was moved is also free to take part in the debate on the main motion. As you have pointed out, Mr. Speaker, the subamendment, the amendment and the main motion are three different subjects of discussion, and when a member speaks he is supposed to speak on the question which is before the house at that time.


On a debate on the budget, members are at liberty to speak on

The Budget-Speaker's Ruling
matters generally affecting the affairs of the country, but if it is very clear, very evident that in the present debate the amendment and the subamendment raise an entirely different issue, then every bon. member is entitled to speak on those different issues so raised. The two amendments having been disposed of and the main motion being put to the house, every hon. member except those who have already spoken, has a right to speak to it.	*


I appeal from the ruling of the chair.
Mr. Speaker put the question as follows: On the main motion being put, the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) rose to address the house. Thereupon the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) raised a point of order on the ground that the hon. member for Labelle, having already spoken, was debarred from addressing the house. Mr. Speaker ruled that the main motion, the amendment and the subamendment were three different questions and that the hon. member for Labelle, not having already spoken on the main motion, was entitled to speak.


I did not vote, Mr. Speaker, because I was paired with the hon. member for Chicoutimi (Mr. Dubuc), who is not in his place. Had I voted, I should have voted against the ruling of the chair.


I was paired with the
hon. member for St. Ann (Mr. Guerin). Had I voted, I should have voted against the ruling of the chair.


I was paired with the hon.
member for Winnipeg South (Mr. Mc-Diarmid). Had I voted I should have voted to sustain the ruling of the chair.


I was paired
with the hon. member for West Hamilton (Mr. Bell). Had I voted, I should have voted to sustain the ruling of the chair.


I was paired with the hon. member for South Bruce (Mr. Hall). Under a misunderstanding, and under pressure, I voted thinking that there were no pairs on this division. I voted against the ruling of the chair.


Once a vote has been
recorded and proclaimed, it cannot be withdrawn.	.


I
am not withdrawing my vote, Mr. Speaker; I am simply making an explanation.


I was paired with the hon.
member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Hanson) on government questions only. That being the case, I did not consider that pairs held in this division, and I felt I had a perfect right to vote.


I was paired with the
hon. member for London (Mr. White). Had I voted, I should have voted to sustain the ruling of the chair.


Mr. Speaker,


Order. I would ask hon.
members to maintain not only the dignity of the house but the freedom of speech.


Now that a majority of
this house has sustained the freedom of speech and the liberty of individual members under the rules of the house, and voted that those rules shall be respected by all, I intend to devote a few moments not exactly to the consideration of the motion of the hon. Minister of Finance, but to exercise-


Order. I would ask the
Sergeant at Arms to exercise the rights of the house.


I propose to exercise the oldest privilege pertaining to a representative of the people, a privilege which, in the wording used yesterday by the Prime Minister, has behind it the sanction of centuries of tradition in the British parliament, and that is, that whenever the Minister of Finance or any adviser of the crown moves to go into supply, or into committee of ways and means, every free elected representative of the people has the right to express his views and the views of the people who have sent him here. In this I am sure the distinguished leader of the opposition, divided as we may be on many questions of public interest, will stand upon his long knowledge of British public affairs and his parliamentary culture, and admit that in so doing I am not only claiming my right, but asserting a right of every member of this house to whatever party he belongs.
May I say-and here I address myself quite sincerely to all the members of this house, no matter to what party they belong-that it was neither to my taste nor to my comfort that I prevented the house from concluding its business last night upon the proposals of the Minister of Finance? I did it for two reasons. One, because I wanted this house to have an opportunity of realizing the consequences of the rules of debate that it has established. Those rules are supposed to be for the common good of the country, of the House of Commons, of every party within the house, and of every freely elected member. When the revision of the rules was under discussion, my excellent and intimate friend the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) stated most positively, in the name of the government, that he accepted the rule for the adjournment of the house at eleven o'clock every night, provided it was connected with the adoption of the rule debarring any hon. member, with the exception of the leader of the government and the leader of the opposition, from speaking more than forty minutes. Although I did not believe that those rules would work for the benefit of the country, or that they would attain the avowed and sincere object of abridging debate, I did exactly what the Minister of Justice did; I accepted the one rule because the other \ as accepted and in the belief that both would be enforced.
What I wanted to emphasize before this house and before the country last night is this. If the forty-minute rule is to be enforced rigidly, as it has been since the beginning of the session, the other rule should also be enforced rigidly. It should not be relaxed for the comfort or at the wish of either the
The Budget-Mr. Bourassa

government or the opposition. I did not desire last night to embarrass the government or the opposition, neither did I wish to cause discomfort to any hon. member. I took my stand to exemplify the conjunction of those two rules, and to have it laid down in practice that they must be applied, whether they are agreeable or disagreeable to this member or that member, to this party or that party. In doing this, I believe-I may be mistaken- that I have helped the house to vindicate the primary right of every hon. member, and the house itself to observe its own regulations.
This brings me to the other consideration which induced me last night to prevent the final decision of the house upon the budget proposals. Yesterday afternoon we listened to two very interesting speeches from the leaders of the two great "historical" parties. These parties, according to the letter of this book-Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms-are the only acknowledged parties in this house. I want to be absolutely fair and as nice as I can afford to be. Both leaders availed themselves of the privilege accorded them to speak as long as they wished upon a measure which has been treated in detail by some forty members on one side and by some sixty members on the other, all of Whom have more or less upheld the same views and propounded the same policy. Under the forty-minute rule, the leader of a small group like our Progressive friends, the leader of a still smaller group such as our three Labour friends, and the unfortunate individual who, if you like, represents an eccentric brand of people, but people who are British subjects just as much as any other class of people in this country of ours, people who have elected me freely to this house under the same constitution and to express their views with the same freedom as may be enjoyed by the Prime Minister of Canada or by the leader of the opposition-under this rule each one of us is limited to forty minutes in which to expound doctrines or opinions with which you, Mr. Speaker, or the members of the government, or the members of the opposition, may not agree, but which I think you and they desire to listen to with the sense of British fair play and patience which we exercised in listening to the Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition.
But that is not the main point. Upon the subamendment presented by the member for East Lambton (Mr. Fansher), because of my determination to respect the longstanding traditions of the British parliamentary system, I refrained altogether from dwelling upon a matter which was brought up by the hon. member for Southeast Grey (Miss Macphail) 
and discussed at length by the Prime Minister last night; I mean, the evolution of our system of government and parliamentary representation. I refrained, because I considered that in discussing the subamendment it was not quite proper to dwell upon this question, which relates to the general policy of the country. But now that the amendment and the subamendment have been disposed of, I owe it not to myself-I am but an insignificant individual-but I owe it to the thousands of people in the province of Quebec, and even in Ontario and in the other provinces, who have done me the favour of expressing some degree of confidence in me in the last twenty years, to say what I think of the opinion which the Prime Minister expressed yesterday on the question of party evolution. The Prime Minister knows that I am a personal friend of his. The Prime Minister knows, and no one better, that no party call or allegiance brought me back to public life when, he being loaded from one end of the country to the other with Ihe accusation of being untrue to Canada and to the British Empire, and of harbouring American tendencies, I stood by him, because I felt that he was on the point of resurrecting the old "Canada first" spirit of which his illustrious grandfather was one of the creators, and of which his excellent father was one of the upholders. I sustained him freely in the province of Quebec and elsewhere during the elections of 1925 and 1926. The province of Quebec sent a solid delegation to support the government, and the Prime Minister knows, or ought to know, that that was not due to party allegiance, but to the free and voluntary determination of a growing number of men and women in my province who have ceased to believe in the gospel of party, and who vote for one party or the other according to circumstances and to their own convictions.
Of course, when the trial came in those days that were fought out during the session of 1926-and they have already been referred to in this debate-great respect was paid to every form of independent influence and support that could be given to the government. But since the general election of 1926 returned the government with a clear majority, it seems to me that the thermometer of sympathy and of expressed admiration for independence of thought and action of such people, in the province of Quebec or elsewhere, has somewhat come down. Therefore I simply wanted to choose this occasion to tell the Prime Minister and his friends that those men and women, free of their will, free

The Budget-Mr. Bourassa
of their convictions, who voted to support him in the fall of 1925 and the fall of 1926 because they thought that the Liberal party stood for freedopi of conviction, for freedom of speech, and for freedom of action, will be just as prepared to vote against that party the moment they find that such	appeal to their sense of honour
and sense of citizenship was misdirected.
I have always believed, in matters of political as well as individual hygiene, that an ounce of prevention is far better than a pound of cure. In the past I was forced, wrongly perhaps, certainly against my taste and personal affiliations, to fight against the Liberal party, thereby assisting the Conservatives-Heaven knows there was no co-operation-in gaining ground in the province of Quebec. Now for my own sake as well as for the sake of my good Liberal friends I do not want those days to return. I had enough of them, as I believe my good1 Liberal friends had also.
While no doubt there is much in what was said by the Prime Minister and, before him, by the Minister of Railways (Mr. Dunning) as to the inconvenience of group representation, at the same time, as I have suggested privately to friends on both sides of the house, I believe that if parliamentary government is to ensure to Canada what it ensured to England in days gone by, and what it still preserves to the people of Great Britain, there must be found some combination between the principle of free representation of all classes and groups, call them what you will, the free representation of all currents of opinion, of all interests, great or small, in every part of the Dominion, and the principle of stability of government for which the Prime Minister rightly stands and for which I stand just as firmly. But is it true, as was suggested yesterday, that the two party system is indispensable to proper parliamentary government?-that it is impossible to have stability of government without the house and the country being divided into two camps? I pay tribute to the Prime Minister's wide knowledge of history, his broad mind, and all the fine marks of scholarship which I have admired in him ever since he came back to this country as a young man; and I have followed his career with considerable interest. I was surprised, therefore, to hear the right hon. gentleman express the opinion that the two party system or, as he put it, the system of government now in vogue in Canada, has stood the test of the centuries in England. It is the very opposite. Study the glorious history of British parliamentary institutions, from the early days of the Witenagemot, transplanted to England from the soil of Saxony, down to the great revolution of 1646 and later to the less bloody though more significant revolution of 1688, and you will discover that in all this time the principle of class representation or, if you prefer the expression, the recognition of the needs of all classes, was vindicated by the free action of a free parliament long before there was any such thing as a two party system or before any cabinet existed. Not a revolutionary, not a jurist, but a conservative-minded man like Lecky pointed out some thirty years ago that in the evolution of representative government in Great Britain, from the days when the armed and privileged leaders of the masses, the noblemen, wrested from a tyrannical king, first, the primary rights of the aristocracy, and then those of society at large, as an annex to the aristocracy, until the time of the triumph-I will not qualify it-of so-called democracy, the distribution of power has been continually maintained in the balancing of political influence among certain classes of the people or among the people as a whole, but that in our days that balance is threatened by the usurpation of all powers by the cabinet.
One of the things by which I have been brought, French as I am by origin, to a sincere though not servile admiration for the British system of government, is precisely the fact that there is no finality in that system. Every nationality within the empire, whether English, Scottish, Irish, French, Dutch, or Italian in origin, which voluntarily acknowledges the king as the emblem, if you will, of the sovereignty of its nationhood, can commune with men of English extraction in the gradual evolution of government, and can bring its contribution to that system. I admire the British system for the very reason that it is at once broad and supple enough to survive all reforms, and to adapt itself to the genius of every race within the British commonwealth, without fear of any of its basic principles being destroyed. As the descendant, either of those Normans Who introduced into England some of the features of that form of government, or of four generations of Canadians who have lived under British institutions and helped in moulding the form of government in this country, I cannot endorse the words of the Prime Minister that the present system, under Mr. Baldwin or under any other gentleman who may be at the head of affairs in London or Ottawa, has reached the point of perfection. There is ample room for improvement.
The Budget-Mr. Bourassa

Not only is the two-party system a modern excrescence of British parliamentary institutions, but it is one that cannot last. Indeed, it has ceased to be in England. Under what conditions was it born? Every schoolboy who has studied the history of Britain knows that the tw'o-party system of government had its origin in the transmission of - sovereignty from a Scottish royalty to a German dynasty imported from Hanover and enthroned in the seat of the Stuarts. These Hanovers were good fellows enough but they did not speak a word of English; they could not communicate with the British people. A man of genius, though not afflicted with too many scruples, Robert Walpole, created a new system in order to strengthen the Hanoverian dynasty and to discourage effectually the champions of the alleged rights of the Stuarts. Finding that he had to encounter the opposition and ill will of the Tory aristocracy, still firmly entrenched within the precincts of the House of Lords; finding also that he could not depend even upon the Whig lords to assert the rights of the people as against the rights of the lords, Walpole purchased a majority in the House of Commons and thereby brought about the real cleavage between the Lords and the Commons, at the same time laying and strengthening the foundation of the two-party system. The Tories and the Whigs were the successors of the old Jacobites and of the Independents or Covenanters. It is therefore no exaggeration to state that the two-party system was bom in iniquity, as the result of a long civil war which had torn asunder the basis of government and social law in England.


And it has remained that way ever since.


But thanks to the
extraordinary genius of the British race, and to borrow the words of one of their greatest statesmen, a genius which is perhaps the more powerful because it is bound up with some degree of stupidity, the British people gradually adapted themselves to that system of government. They soon found out, however, that the two party system produced those things which were so deprecated two years ago and which have been deprecated ever since by opponents of the group system in this country; it produced corruption and logrolling-to	use modern	phraseology-as
between the two parties in the house and as between the organizers and vote catchers of the two parties among the people.
I pass over the period of the great crisis which accompanied and followed the French revolution and the Napoleonic wars, and come

to the time when affairs came back to their proper level in England. A new power had arisen, which has made itself felt ever since the world over; that is the power of the rising masses, the tillers of the soil and the toilers of the factories, who in their turn asked for a place in the sun and for a share of the liberty wrested by the nobility from the crown and by the high middle classes from the nobility. Ever since that time the two party system has failed to exist in its integrity in England.
Then how can the Prime Minister or any hon. member of this house fail to acknowledge the tremendous services which have been rendered to modern England by the newly arisen parties? If to-day, after centuries of religious and civil intolerance equal to that which existed in France or in any other country, England is held as the classical land of liberty, it is due of course to some extent to the commonsense of the British people, but it must be also acknowledged that it is due to the struggle which was made by the representatives of the Irish nation who, from the time O'Connell broke the doors of the House of Commons and refused to take an oath which meant abjuration of his faith, forced upon the conscience of the British people religious tolerance and respect for all creeds. If to-day the toiling classes of England, after having been deprived of their elementary rights for centuries by the Anglo-Norman nobility, can have a pride in their British citizenship, it is due to a certain extent to the commonsense of the Liberal party of England, but where would the Liberal inheritors of the old Whiggish party be today if it had not been for the struggle which was made by the representatives of the working classes? If to-day English labour has the right to share in English citizenship, in English nobility and in English monarchy, is it not, because of the fact that such men as John Burns, Kier Hardie, and Ramsay MacDonald, he the most illustrious of all living statesmen in England, supported by the growing strength of those who once and for so long were the subdued classes, have proven to the world that a labourer or a farmer may at times produce a political thought and a political strength which the time-serving politicians and classical parties have been unable to do.
Mr. Speaker, I do not want to delay the house at greater length; one reason why I have spoken, and the minor reason, was to show the house the result of those rules which were adopted in a somewhat hasty manner.
I have asserted myself, not for my own sake,

The Budget-Mr. Bourassa
as I have already said, but rather to my extreme discomfort. I do not like to be disagreeable to my fellow members when I can avoid it, even to my good friend from Frontenac (Mr. Edwards) who, by the way, is my best friend in this house, because every time he vituperates against me he brings more votes to me in my constituency. I like to be as nice as possible to all,-but I claim that every time even the humblest member of this house,-and I am one of the humblest individuals,-calls for the application of the rules indiscriminately as between parties and leaders, that man is working for the good of the house at large and for the good of every party in the house.
My second reason for speaking to-day is because, with the ideas, the principles and the ideals to which I have devoted my life at the expense of all political honours and comforts, and with all the friendship I have for the Prime Minister, I could not let pass that assertion of the tumbling-down party system of government, the complete failure of which both parties may delay for a certain time, but which they cannot stop. Something else will take its place. I do not find fault with the arguments brought forward by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Railways; although perhaps out of place and time, I believe they were valuable contributions, to what- should be one of the chief concerns of all people in different parts of this country. Last summer, from Halifax to Vancouver, I expressed the hope that every individual in every community in this federation of ours would devote more time and study to these great problems, because if there is one feature of our social and political state in which we have fallen far below the great traditions of the British nation, it is in the disinterestedness of many of our people. I might even call it the social aloofness with which all too many of our professional and business men, our farmers and our labourers look upon the great problems of the nation; it is the facility with which all classes and groups, if you wish to so call them, disassociate themselves from the general interests and the future of this country, relying upon this man or that man, this group or that group, this leader or that leader, to settle the affairs of state for them. Sir, if we want to preserve in Canada the essential characteristics of a nation, with the great moral and political inheritance we have received from the two great countries which have contributed the most of our population, and if at the same time we want to look to the future with optimism, strength of will and the determination of purpose which is characteristic of a young and growing nation,
we must be at once Liberal and Conservative, but we must have also an eye to the aspirations of all groups; racial groups if you like, provincial groups, or class groups, who find rightly or wrongly that the Liberal gospel or the Conservative doctrine is not sufficient to meet their desires.
I venture to predict that the first of the leaders of these great parties who understands the situation and leaves the narrow trail of party shibboleths, party traditions, party slavery and party narrowness of mind, to associate himself and his party with the growing aspirations of all Canadians, east and west, of old French or English stock, or those newcomers to whom we owe a duty to welcome as brothers in this great- family, will become in very truth the leader of the nation. The party and leader, I repeat, that will not go counter to these groups or classes, but will be prepared to receive the expressions of opinion of all and give them a sympathetic hearing without asking them to pass under the yoke of party allegiance or so-called party co-operation, will be the party and the leader of to-morrow. That leader will be the man of to-morrow and the leader of Canada, because he will have shown himself capable of understanding the hopes of this young giant nation that refuses to be shackled by the shibboleths and traditions of old countries, respectable though they may be, which do not fit our present state of mind, and which will not harmonize with it in the future.


Before my hon. friend takes his seat I wish to correct what appears from his remarks to be a false impression he has gathered as to the purport of what I said last evening. I was not attacking group government in what I said, and I was not seeking to emphasize the importance of the old political parties. What I was baking exception to was a theory of representation put forward by the hon. member for Southeast Grey (Miss Macphail) to the effect that a member is elected to parliament as a representative of a class. To make my meaning perfectly -clear, my hon. friend in order to take the same position would have to stand in this house to-day and declare that he is here to represent the journalists of Canada because he is a journalist and belongs to that class. His whole speech this 'afternoon has been an assertion of the position I was taking last night, namely, that an hon. member is not here to represent a particular class whether it be agricultural, professional, labour or other, but is here to represent all of the people regardless of the particular class to which he may belong.
The Budget-Division


I take advantage of the five minutes left to me to tell the Prime Minister that I could not read over his speech of last night, because owing to the incorporation of so much printed matter in it, Hansard was not distributed until five minutes before the house convened'. I agree largely with what the Prime Minister has just stated, but I claim that he has not put the question fully and completely. Every member of this house is bound, of course, to do justice to all classes; but the representative of a rural community is naturally obliged, because of the character of his constituency, to give more attention to rural interests. The representative of a labour community too, such as my hon. friend from Hochelaga (Mr. St. Pere), is bound to pay more attention to the interests of the people who send him here. As a matter of fact, we have, as representatives of constituencies, to take into account the desire of the particular classes who make up the majority of these constituencies. As to what the Prime Minister has said with respect to representation of a class, I have always opposed, for example, the idea of calling one of the members of the government, Minister of Labour.


Mr. Speaker, when is it considered that a member's speech is concluded? My understanding is that when a man r