Bill No. 14, to incorporate Niagara Falls Memorial Bridge Company.-Mr. Pettit.
Bill No. 15, respecting certain patent application of William H. Millspaugh.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 16, respecting certain patent applications owned by the British Steel Piling Company, Limited.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 17, respecting the Saint John River Storage Company.-Sir Eugene Fiset.
Bill No. 18, respecting a certain patent owned by Canadian Cinch Anchoring System, Limited.-Mr. Jacobs.
For obvious reasons I
have had placed on the table in advance the evidence taken before the Royal Commission on Customs and Excise. I hope the house will pardon me for not having attempted personally to table the volumes of evidence now tabled. I desire to lay on the table also the ten interim reports of the Royal Commission on Customs and Excise. With respect to the interim reports I move, seconded >by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), that twelve hundred copies in English and four hundred copies in French be printed forthwith and that standing order No. 64 be suspended in relation thereto.


Motion agreed to.
In tabling now a copy of the public accounts may I direct the attention of hon. members and of the press as well to page XIV. In order to secure an independent audit of the balance sheet the treasury board instructed Messrs. P. S. Ross & Sons, of Montreal, Toronto and Winnipeg, to perform the task and their certificate will be found on the page indicated.


Hon. FERNAND RINFRET (Secretary of State) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 19, to amend the Naturalization Act.
He said: This bill is the same as the one introduced last year proposing certain changes in the Naturalization Act in the way of simplifying the procedure whereby naturalization certificates may be obtained.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Toronto Northwest (Mr. Church) asked whether it was the intention of the government to adjourn parliament during the funeral in the old country of the late Field Marshal Earl Haig. I am at present communicating to ascertain whether or not the British parliament would in such circumstances adjourn and if so we shall do likewise. If there would be no adjournment of the British parliament, there will be no adjournment here. Before the day is over I hope to be able to give a final word to members of the house. In the meantime, I might say that instructions have been given to have-at the time of the funeral in London- the flags flown at half mast on all public buildings in Canada as a token of national respect to the memory of the late Earl Haig.

Unemployment in Nova Scotia


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday, on the orders of the day the hon. member for Halton (Mr. Anderson) asked the following question:
I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether the Farmers Bank has been definitely wound up and a financial statement received from the liquidator.
I promised to give the hon. member a reply to-day. This is the memorandum I have received from the department:
On December 20th, 1926, the liquidator G. T. Clarkson, received his discharge from the Supreme Court of Ontario, all assets of the Farmers Bank having been realized upon and accounted for.
Out of assets estimated in 1910 at $2,000,000 odd, the total amount collected by the liquidator was $1,372,829. This included $314,880 collected on account of double liability as against $584,500 capital subscribed.
After providing for note circulation 100 per cent and paying legal and liquidation costs, nothing was left for depositors, the total of whose claims was $1,134,036.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to draw the government's attention to the rather startling state of affairs in Nova Scotia in the matter of fuelling of Canadian government boats with American coal, as outlined in part by a telegram received by me this morning which reads as follows: Halifax, N.S., February 2, 1928.
R. K. Smith, M.P.,
Ottawa.
Unemployment in colliery districts. Glace Bay mines, only a few days' work each month. Startling fact that at present time in port of Halifax Canadian government boats being bunkered American coal. This has been going on since 1921. Within past forty-eight hours Lady Laurier and Arleux bunkered American fuel.
In view of the information contained in this telegram and considering the very serious unemployment situation among the miners in Nova Scotia, thousands being out of work and in destitute circumstances-


I would ask the hon.
gentleman not to argue the matter but simply to put a straight question.


I would like to ask the government if they will take immediate steps to have this unpatriotic practice discontinued-
Mr, SPEAKER: Order.


-and also
supply this house with an explanation as to why it has been countenanced.


Notice should be given of such a question. No argument should be made on a question put on the orders of the day.


The house resumed from Wednesday, February 1, consideration of the motion of Mr. Ilsley for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session.
Mr. Speaker, as I address myself to a brief discussion of the question introduced in this debate, one or two at least of which are not included in the speech from the throne, I feel at the outset that I should join with those who have preceded me in congratulating the hon. member who moved the address (Mr. Ilsley) and the hon. member who seconded it (Mr. Beaubien). I have no difficulty whatever in most sincerely doing so, as I rarely listened to so careful and eloquent a presentation of the motion as I did on that occasion. There is, however, a little curiosity raised in my mind. When I learned that the hon. member for Provencher (Mr. Beaubien) was to second the address, there immediately occurred to me a very fervid declaration of independence which I had heard from the leader of the Liberal Progressive party not so long ago in this house, and I naturally wondered if the independence had been sacrificed in order to permit the hon. member to second the address. Now I am not particularly critical of that at all, at the same time I think that an explanation might well be made, because if independence has not been sacrificed, then I submit that next year it would be quite in keeping that the hon. member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill) should move the address and that the hon. member for Nelson (Mr. Bird) should second it. If on the other hand the independence has been sacrificed, then surely the house would be at least interested, if not excited, over the information. I might even picture a more extreme case than that. We might have, for example, the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) moving the address, and the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) seconding it. I rather think, however, Mr. Speaker, that before either of these gentlemen would undertake that re-

The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
sponsibility they would at least like to have something to say in the drafting of the address. I am not sure what part the Liberal Progressives did take in the drafting of the address; I hope very little, if any, [DOT]because if they took any part in it, it does not do them much credit.
One point was raised by the mover of the address that I wish to refer to. He spoke in terms of adulation of prosperity-that was not unexpected. Any government, whether Conservative, Liberal or Farmer or anything else, at least allows it to be inferred that it is responsible for the prosperous condition, and those who toil for the country get very little share of the credit. In the course of his address he went on to speak of the amazing results achieved from the coking experiments of last year. I knew myself that no amazing results had been achieved, but after reading his remarks I desired to investigate the matter a little in case I had been mistaken, and I find that in the year that has passed since the coking legislation was enacted, only one contract, that with the Nova Scotia Power Company, has been entered into. Under the terms of the contract the total capital that will be invested in the plant is estimated at $160,000. The output naturally would be very, very low, and if the coal industry of Nova Scotia is going to depend upon such an extraordinary form of encouragement as that, with the result I have pictured, I am not surprised at the conditions which led to the question that has been asked by the hon. member for Cumberland (Mr. Smith). However, that is just in passing.
I regret, Mr. Speaker, that the speech made no reference to reductions in taxation. It is true, the Prime Minister at a later date remedied this neglect by intimating cautiously that he had no doubt the Minister of Finance would, at the proper time, on the budget, I presume, indicate to the house substantial reductions. I hope so. I congratulate the Prime Minister on being able to make the announcement. But let me utter a word of warning at this moment. My hon. friends to my right, following their convictions, urge that reductions be made on the sales and income tax. The reason is quite dear to everyone. The more reductions in the sales tax and the income tax, providing the necessity for revenue continues, the longer will be maintained the most objectionable of all forms of taxation, that of the customs tariff. I submit, therefore, if the Minister of Finance is going to be in the happy position of making any material reductions in taxation this
year, that those who are associated with him, as well as those in this comer of the house, who have always cooperated with him on this particular point, certainly will join in expecting that the reductions will be in the right direction. We hope to see material moderation in the customs tax on many articles. Not a mere ticking of the cotton duty, nor a mere dallying with some other bit of duty here and there, but a fairly general reduction. I would not ask for a monstrous reduction all at once. I grant you it is not reasonable to throw in the face of the manufacturing class anything in the way of great embarrassment at one time; but there are many commodities to-day that are carrying an absolutely undue privilege at the expense of the common people. Now, all I ask is that in the reduction of taxation this year a large number of the more important commodities at least shall receive a measure of consideration from the administration in the reduction of indirect taxation.
So far as the appointment of ministers to Japan and France is concerned, I must most sincerely congratulate the government. I think both from the point of view of our national position and our international relations the step is one which can well be justified, particularly with respect to Japan. After all, Canada's future will to a large extent develop along the line of expansion in oriental trade and oriental activities. At the present time no continent is receiving greater attention from all the other continents of the world than the continent of Asia. I think it is high time that Canada, so close to that great continent, should have representatives there who will take care of Canadian interests and do all they can to develop the most favourable trade and pacific relations with oriental countries. However, in the Prime Minister's remarks in this connection he made, I think, a little slip, which I am sure at the moment was not intentional, but which unfortunately may to some extent result in criticism in the orient. As the Prime Minister himself no doubt is aware, oriental countries are particularly sensitive, especially in their dealings with occidental countries; and the Prime Minister intimated that the proposed ambassador to Japan would represent Canada's Asiatic interests-Asiatic interests. I understood the Prime Minister to say so.


I think my hon. friend will find that I did not use that expression. At least such was not the inference I wished to have drawn. What I was stressing to the house was that there would be
no	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
only one minister on the continent of Asia, one on the continent of Europe, and that I did not think in the matter of diplomatic appointments abroad that this was travelling at a very rapid pace. That is the point I was making. The proposed minister will be to Japan only.


I understand that; but as the Prime Minister is aware Chinese sensibilities, as well as the sensibilities of other nations on that continent, are very easily offended, and it may be that they will resent the suggestion that the affairs of their country can be handled in any way, either in regard to diplomatic relations or otherwise, from Tokyo. I am glad tlhe Prime Minister is in a position to persuade me that there was no such intention behind his statement.
With regard to the remarks of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett), I regret that they were made. I regret it very sincerely because I am afraid that, again due to oriental sensibilities, even the nation of Japan may not now be willing to accept the kindly intentions of the Canadian government if it finds that His Majesty's loyal opposition in this house is opposed to the appointment at Tokyo. I rather think that _the Japanese government will hesitate to accept the interchange of ministers as long as any large portion of this house is opposed to it. Let me say, then, Mr. Speaker, speaking, I trust, the view of some members around me if not all of them, that so far as we are concerned we heartily approve of this appointment and sincerely hope that the Japanese government will accept the offer in the spirit in which it is tendered.
Recently my attention was called to the organization in the city of Montreal of a council to study Pacific relations. I simply remark that as an indication that other portions of Canada, besides the government and besides the members of this house, realize the necessity for taking a deep and personal interest in what is going on in the oriental countries and in what is likely to go on.
The hon. member from Calgary, who discussed many things in his address-


West Calgary.


I beg the pardon of the hon. member for East Calgary (Mr. Adshead). There is another illustration, Mr. Speaker, of the sensibilities of people, and one has to be very careful 1 The hon. member for West Calgary (Mr. Bennett) in his remarks referred with lamentation to the outflow of wheat, of mineral products, of pulp and

pulpwood, and even of paper. He just bemoaned the fact that they were going out. He did not say anything about an embargo on their going out,, he did not make the slightest' suggestion on what should be done, and I presume his remedy would be to cap all the oil wells, stop all mining development, and prevent the farmers raising more wheafr than could be consumed profitably at home. I am not at all sure that that is a fair conclusion to draw from his statement, but in the absence of a more reasonable explanation from him that conclusion is certainly inescapable.


He said they ought to be worked up in Canada.


Well, Mr. Speaker, I have waited patiently ever since the report of the board was made public for the announcement by the Minister of Railways that this meeting had taken place, but I have seen no announcement of it.


It has taken place.


I hope if
it has the minister will tell us the result of that conference, because it will be intensely interesting. Last year he went on to say:
But in so far as the government can move upon the basis of the information we expect to receive from the Board of Railway Commissioners. the government will move along lines designed to mitigate the situation and widen the market for Alberta coal.
That closing sentence fills me with hope. I am satisfied that we have now reached a stage of this prdblem so close to its solution 56103-8
that the ministry will this year find itself in a position to introduce a measure providing for the necessary alteration in existing conditions Which will bring about the desired result.	[DOT]
What should that change be? First of all we have this $7.22 rate which the board found to be the actual out of pocket cost involved.
I have heard men in the street discuss the matter, and they have said, "You cannot apply that rate because it would result in a loss to the railways." I say to you hon. gentlemen and to you, Mr. Speaker, that the $7.22 rate includes every possible charge that can be attributed to the movement of coal. So far does it go that it actually takes cognizance of the wear and tear to the steel rails as the result of the transportation of coal cars. It takes into consideration every other possible charge, switching, terminal charges, water, labour charges, everything which can possibly be attributed to coal, but of course it does not take into consideration the constant charges which would go on whether or not coal is moved.
Now, during the summer months I believe there are about 40,000 freight cars lying idle, according to the statement of the technical experts of the railways before the commission. All we ask is that some of these cars be put into operation for the transportation of coal, and we say further that not only will there be not a cent of loss to the -railways as the result of the establishment of a fair rate for this movement, but that the railways will probably make a profit as the volume of business increases. The out of pocket cost is fixed at $7.22, which includes every charge which can possibly be made against this movement, but that rate was arrived at upon a wrong basis; the conclusion was reached incorrectly, and the whole thing was absolutely unfair to the coal movement. Why the Board of Railway Commissioners arrived at such a decision is beyond my understanding. I dislike to impute motives, and I am not going to do so now; I am not going to suggest that they were under the influence of the railways, but I am going to ask that the commission give some explanation now as to why they proceeded upon the basis they did lake in finding that rate.
An estimate was made of the number of cars which would be used in the movement of coal; they were all considered going down loaded, and an estimate was made of the cost of moving the loaded train. Then the commission said, "You have to get these empty cars back again; how much will that cost?"

114	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
First of all they said, "Each of these cars is going to go back empty." That of course is perfectly absurd. The most ordinary individual on the street, with the most ordinary intelligence, will realize that if you are going to increase the volume of tonnage and the production in any .particular industry, you are also going to increase the quantity of commodities consumed by that industry, and as most of these commodities come from the central or maritime provinces, you must naturally increase your tonnage going back. So if you used 10,000 cars to bring coal to this part of the country, it is absurd to argue that 10,000 cars would go back empty, yet that was the basis taken by the commission.
However, we will not quarrel with that; we will go to another point. How much will it cost to move these cars back? The commission said it would cost as much to move the empty car back as it cost to move the loaded car down. I appeal to the intelligence of this house to find any common sense in a statement of that kind. They said, "It costs so much to move a loaded train of coal to Ottawa, and it is going to cost just as much to move an empty train back." Of course, any ordinary individual knows that is absolutely absurd, but we will pass over that. We will give them all these things for good measure; these will represent a share of the profits to the railway companies in addition to the cost rate.


Will my hon. friend
permit a question? Did the railway commission use the per ton mile basis in both cases?


No, they
used several bases; there was an A basis and a B basis; there was a C.NR. basis and a C.P.R. basis. I have the whole thing under my hand, but it would take me forty hours instead of forty minutes to dispose of it. My time is limited, so I must get on to the more important points. The Minister of Railways may smile at this, but he will not smile at what I am about to say.


I was not smiling at my hon. friend.


Perhaps my hon. friend was smiling at the forty minute limit. I am sure he is very glad that there is such a limit when discussions of this kind come up.
However, I want the house to consider one or two further points. In finding this cost rate, the Board of Railway Commissioners said that these cars would need repairs if they were put into that business.

We agreed to that and asked how much the repairs would be. We ascertained that the average cost of repairing freight cars over the whole Canadian National Railways system was $121.90 per year, but the provincial experts representing Alberta and Ontario brought forth another basis upon which this cost had been worked out. They said that there must be a scientific basis and that they would accept the only basis of that kind in North America, the one accepted and used by the Interstate Commerce Commission of the United States. On that basis the provincial governments worked out a cost per car per annum of $209.52. That was a large increase over the average cost of $121.90 but what did our friends of the railway commission say? They wiped that aside; they refused to consider that scientific analysis and accepted the statement of the Canadian National Railways that it would cost over $424.85 per car per year. Eight and a half per cent of the total available cars would be used in the movement, but for eight and a half per cent of the cars to be asked to carry 24 per cent of the total car maintenance cost is utterly unfair. If that were reduced it would mean a difference of $1.30 a ton in the cost of the movement of coal. But that is not all. There is something else which needs to be demonstrated. I ask you, gentlemen, to take out your pencils and first of all deduct $1.30 from $7.22. The board also asserted that fifty-nine days would be consumed in the round trip for a train of coal going from Drum-heller to Toronto. But the average for the round trip would be not more than thirty-two days; and the average speed of all trains on the Canadian National railway in the west is! fifteen miles an hour. Another unfair feature was in regard to the car loading Now the average car loading-not the maximum or the minimum-of the whole Canadian National railway system amounts to 36 tons. That is the average load put in a freight car for the whole system, including package freight, furniture and everything else. For the Canadian Pacific railway the figure is 38 tons. But the Board of Railway Commissioners took 33.4 tons as the basis for the coal movement. Anyone can understand how unfair that is when they begin to analyze exactly what this means to the coal movement. The difference in cost between a 33.4 ton load and a 36 ton load is exactly 47 cents a ten. Deduct this 47 cents a ton, plus $1.30 from the $7.22, and you have a rate of $5.45. At that rate nobody questions

The Address-Sir George Perley
that Alberta coal can be brought down to Ontario to sell in competition with American anthracite.
Then we come to the next point. We are asked:	Why fix the statutory rate of $0.50
a ton when it is said that 15.45 will carry the coal and cover every possible charge attributable to it? Well, this question came up before the Alberta coal operators. The analysis of the. Board of Railway Commissioners came before them and having carefully considered it they said:	There is no
use our demanding that minimum cost rate of $5.45; it might not be fair. We are going to be as fair as we can. All we are asking for is that we shall get a rate at which our coal can be moved. We will not ask for $5.45, but we are willing that $1.05 should be added to that amount making the rate 86.50. In the interests of the largest coal deposits in the British Empire, in the interest of the development of one of the greatest resources in the Dominion, and the second greatest resource after agriculture in my province, I appeal, with some hope, to this government and to this house, that a bill will be introduced before the session closes, providing for a statutory rate on coal. It may be that they may not feel free to set a permanent statutory rate, but that they will be willing to test my proposals, and in the meantime will establish a temporary rate by statute for three years. If that is done I would urge the government to place independent accountants at work in order to ascertain whether the report of the Board of Railway Commissioners is accurate or not. The future of the Alberta coal industry, the future of one of the greatest resources of this country, is at stake. There is no use talking about your resources-no matter how eloquent your terms may be, or how violent your arm-waving may be-until you develop them. You have here a chance of developing one of Canada's greatest resources, and I offer the suggestion I have made to the government as a solution of the problem, which may be applied without further delay.
SIR GEORGE PERLEY (Argenteuil): Mr. Speaker, in the first place may I join with other hon. members in congratulating the mover and seconder of the address upon the very eloquent manner in which they expressed their views. I rise simply for the purpose of making a few observations in reference to one particular clause in the speech from the throne-I refer to the proposal of the government to send ministers to foreign states. To my mind this is a step in the wrong direc-56103-8J
tion, and I regret to say that upon this matter I disagree with my hon. friend the member for Bow River (Mr. Garland) who preceded me. As a matter of fact, I am strongly opposed to this being done under present circumstances. I am not going to discuss the present constitutional position or development of the Dominion. This has already been done by my chief in a much better way than I could do it myself. It is sufficient for my purpose to remind the house that we have in Canada greatly progressed from the status of a crown colony, which we occupied years ago, to our present position. To-day we are, in fact if not in law, the master of our own destiny. In bringing this about all the prime ministers of the Dominion have given a helping hand, but none more than my former chief, Sir Robert Borden, during the war years and during the negotiations which resulted in the treaty of Peace.
To-day I make bold to lay before the house in a few plain words what I understand to be the position and feeling in Canada at this moment. On the one hand there has developed in this country a strong and robust Canadian spirit, and I believe it is increasing. I am glad that this is so, because it is certainly our duty to look after the interests of the country we love. This feeling is, I think, specially noticeable among the young men. They will not be content to have thi3 country remain in any position of inferiority or subordination. They say, and quite properly, that every British subject, no matter in what part of the British dominions he may live, should have an equal voice and influence in all matters of common concern, and particularly in any issue as to peace or war. On the other hand there is in my opinion an overwhelming proportion of Canadians who favour the maintenance of British connection, and the working out of the destiny of this Dominion of ours in cooperation with Great Britain and our sister dominions. Now the question that I wish to ask is: How are we going to reconcile these two ideas and what plan can be worked out to accomplish that result? There are some people who say the thing is impossible, and certainly nothing of the kind has been accomplished in the world up till this time. As a matter of fact we are, I believe, in the midst of a great experiment or adventure in government. And we have half a dozen separate countries working out their own destiny, having full authority over their own affairs, who should work together in foreign matters. While I acknowledge the difficulties-we must all acknowledge them- still our race has had a genius for compromise

The Address-Sir George Perley
and for arranging questions of this sort. I believe this problem can be dealt with by the exercise of patience and goodwill on all sides; but in my opinion we have no hope of bringing this about unless we have a single foreign policy. Unless the various parts of the King's dominions speak with one voice and present a united front to the rest of the world how are we to get along? Can this end be attained if any considerable portion of the British commonwealth is going to send independent ministers to all foreign countries? In my own opinion it cannot. The other day my chief referred to the unfortunate implications which would be conveyed to foreign countries by Canada's appointing ministers to them, and I can see further complications which I need not at this time enlarge upon inasmuch ns every member of the house may visualize them for himself.
Personally I never was in favour of the appointment of a minister to Washington, although there were many strong reasons for that departure which do not apply to other countries. The United States is our great and friendly neighbour and we have vast interests in common. In the case of France there are sentimental reasons why such an appointment might be considered, but as a matter of fact- at least this has been my experience-my fiiend Mr. Philippe Roy, Commissaire Gen-erale in Paris, has been able to deal with all problems which have arisen between the governments of the two countries. I believe his work has been most satisfactory. But this proposal that we should appoint more ministers to foreign countries is to my mind a most dangerous precedent. Who can tell where it is going to end? In his speech the other day the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) said that the government intended appointing a minister to France, who would be the sole representative of this country on the continent of Europe and one in Tokyo who would represent us on the continent of Asia. The hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Garland), in a few words, explained how this would create a misunderstanding, and I should be glad to have the matter explained by the Prime Minister. What other ministers are going to be appointed? By what authority did the government decide to appoint these two ministers and enter into an agreement before submitting the matter to parliament? I know there is general authority on the part of the government to perform executive functions, but the decision to make these appointments is something which will have far-reaching results. So far as I know there has never been any discussion in this house such as would indicate
ISir George Perley.]
that Canada is prepared to send ministers to all the countries of the world, and I submit that this matter is too serious for the government to have settled it without having first brought it up in the house and having had it thoroughly discussed. It seems to me that the opinion of parliament and of the country should have been sought to ascertain whether it was the desire of the people to have the appointment of these ministers proceeded with.


May I point
out to my hon. friend that the precise language in the speech from the throne is to the effect that we "propose" to send the representatives. Care was taken to indicate that parliament would in the first instance be called upon to consider the matter and to make the necessary appropriation, but before coming to parliament it was necessary to ascertain from Japan whether, in the event of the Canadian parliar ment agreeing to appoint a representative to Japan, that country would be agreeable to receiving him.


I can quite understand that the matter must be passed upon by parliament in some way or other, but an arrangement of this kind should be discussed by parliament before and not after it has been made. The exact words in the speech from the throne are these:
By agreement between the governments of France and Canada and the governments of Japan and Canada, it is proposed


It is proposed; that is all.
Mr. BENNETT.: By agreement.


We do not know whether the agreement has been made, although I understand that it has.


Perhaps I may tell my hon. friend exactly what has taken place. Japan has intimated to Canada that she is agreeable to receiving a representative provided we send one, and we have stated that we are agreeable to receiving one from Japan if one is sent. But the Japanese government *-and they have directed attention to this fact -have still to obtain the consent of their legislative body to sending a minister to Canada, just as we have intimated that on our part we shall have to get the consent of the Canadian parliament before any understanding can be implemented in the form of action.


My right hon. friend knows that this is a far-reaching question of policy, and therefore the government, in committing itself as it has done, is placing

The Address-Sir George Perley
the house in an extraordinary position. The agreement must be ratified by the house, because its rejection would amount to a vote of want . of confidence. A policy of this moment ought to be decided by the house before such action is taken as in this instance. What is going to be the situation if we have ministers in all parts of the world? The government is confining itself now to these two proposals. But who knows what day they may decide to appoint ministers to other countries? And what will be the position in those foreign capitals if every section of the British Empire decides to send a representative there? Let us suppose we had six ministers from as many parts of the British Empire, all resident in Czechoslovakia; we can imagine the confusion that would be there. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, whether this plan is going to make for the whole-hearted cooperation of the British commonwealth such as we all want to promote? What excuse does the Prime Minister give for this action? At page 60 of Hansard I read:
I believe it is true that our trade with the orient to-day is greater than was the trade of Canada with the United Kingdom at the time the government of Sir Wilfrid Laurier came into office. When that event took place Canada's trade with the United Kingdom stood at a certain figure. That figure is exceeded today, so I am informed, by the total trade of Canada with the orient.
I submit that the very reason given by the Prime Minister is an argument against his course. I wish to draw a sharp line between diplomacy and trade. In trade the various parts of the empire are rivals competing one with another, and it is our duty to see that our own people get the best chance possible for trade in every part of the world whether they compete against some other part of the King's dominions or against foreign countries. Let us have separate trade commissioners in the various countries as they may be required. That is one thing. But in diplomacy the King's dominions must be one and must speak as one people if we are to hold together. That is the problem which all the countries of the British commonwealth have before them at the present time. And you may ask, how are we going to accomplish this and still each part have a separate status? I appreciate the difficulty, but during the time I was in England I conceived the idea that it might be possible to have a foreign office representative of the whole British commonwealth. That is to say, it would be separated from the other departments of the British government, and would attend to the foreign policy on behalf of all parts of this empire.
Now I do not see why a foreign office should not be administered by El committee, on which each of the dominions would have a representative, and with a British representative as chairman, under present conditions, so long as the mother country is more populous than we are-


Is the hon. gentleman
aware that the British Prime Minister declared that the sharing of any such control was absolutely impossible?


He took it back two
years later.


I understand
that he has changed his mind since in that regard, and that happened some years ago. There is another prime minister now, and there have been several prime ministers since. As a matter of fact, my judgment is that so long as we find a way of holding together, the British government will be willing to listen most favourably to any suggestions put forward by the Dominion to that end. That is the way I found it when I was over there. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, whether this foreign office could not be administered by a committee, with a British representative as chairman. I ask you whether this service could not be recruited by men from all over the King's dominions. I ask you whether it could not be so arranged that a Canadian might be ambassador to France, for instance, or an Australian ambassador to the United States. In other words, these services should be recruited from all over the King's dominions. Some years ago Sir Robert Borden was offered the appointment as ambassador to the United States. I am sorry he found himself unable to accept the position, because I think it would have made a very good precedent. Some people say we cannot have an empire organization like such as I suggest that would be workable. There has been and is one empire organization that does work, the first one to function, and it works well. I admit it is in a different category, but when it was first started many people doubted whether it could be handled successfully and to the satisfaction of everyone. I refer to the Imperial War Graves Commission. I was at a meeting of the committee when it was first considered and when we got the royal charter. I was a member of the commission and took a great interest in it during all the time I was in London. Many people thought that Canada should look after the graves of her own men who died in the war. But the result has shown that joint action by the whole British commonwealth has produced the best results.

The Address-Sir George Perley
Everybody is satisfied with it and during the time I was in London and attended the meetings I felt that I was listened to and had as much to say about what was to be done as any other member of the commission. I say to the Prime Minister in all sincerity that I believe he is taking the wrong path, if he wishes to develop a plan of cooperation and partnership among the self-governing units of the British commonwealth., I admit that it would be difficult to work out a plan that you could feel would be satisfactory, but if my suggestion is not feasible then some other method should be found, so that we could all get together and speak with one voice to the whole world. I say again, in my opinion, that it is vital that we should do so, if the British commonwealth of nations is to continue to work together. As one of the half dozen oldest members in this house, I do not suppose I will live to see it myself, but in my mind's eye I can visualize an occasion arising when, under the present proposals of this government, the British ambassador and the Canadian minister in some foreign capital may be found urging different courses. How are we going to avoid that? We certainly do not wish anything of that kind to happen, and therefore, Mr. Speaker, I have taken this opportunity, in a few plain words, to try to put my views of this particular matter before the House of Commons, and I urge the Prime Minister to reconsider his decision.


Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasant relief to find, in the midst of controversial matters, a common ground of agreement. It relieves tension and imparts to a discussion a fellow feeling which makes us all akin. In the debate on the address from the throne, such a common ground occurs in the felicitations which have been offered to the proposer and seconder of the address by members on both sides of the house, and at the risk of saying something which may be considered stereotyped, I must take this occasion to express publicly what I have stated to them privately, that their speeches were models of brevity, conciseness and lucidity, delivered in a tone appropriate to a high occasion, flattering to themselves and honouring to their constituency. In connection with the remarks made by the hon. member for Bow Biver (Mr. Garland) regarding the seconder of the address, I would like to ease his mind with regard to that independence of which he speaks, and to say that the seconder of the address spoke f without consultation with me as chairman or any other member of this group, and he did 
so on his own responsibility as a member of this house, accountable only to himself and his constituency.
The leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) remarked at the beginning of his address that the speech from the throne is "remarkable more for what it does not say than for what it does say". If I have any dbjection to offer it is in what it does not say, and later I shall deal with the omissions.
While the leader of the opposition ha3 endeavoured to minimize the first paragraph of the address, which refers to the "marked prosperity of the country, the volume of trade and of building construction, the growth in employment, the increased railway receipts, the expanding revenues and business conditions generally all bearing testimony to a sound economic development which promises much in the way of substantial progress", yet by one of those "implications" which recurred so often in his speech, he does admit there is a present economic prosperity because, as he put it, "a lesser number of people inhabiting the same area have been creating new wealth more rapidly than they did before", and this wealth created by the depletion and sale of our natural resources. It is a gloomy picture he depicts. I trust he is not proposing to assume the devastating mantle of a Dean Inge. If his picture be true, then all the presidents of the banks to whose statements the Prime Minister referred must be wrong, absolutely and most negligently wrong. The president of the Canadian Pacific Railway must also be wrong in his statement published in several papers this year in which he says that:
The general business of the country experienced a consistent and widely spread development based upon very general agricultural prosperity and industrial expansion.
The leader of the opposition well knows- he has probably helped to draft in past years the statements published by the bank of which he was a director-that no more carefully worded documents are published than are those of our banks at their annual meetings, based alike upon their country-wide knowledge and experience, and definitely proved by the financial reports of which they form the prologue. By reason of these authorities and in the light of the reply of the Prime Minister, I am going to assume in my argument that the paragraph I have quoted from the speech from the throne is correct and that the leader of the opposition, not for the first time, is wrong.
But the leader of the opposition has a remedy upon which he dwelt at length, and that is immigration. No one will deny we

. The Address-Mr. Glen
need immigrants, no one will gainsay that in this Dominion we can offer to the proper kind of settler the opportunity of a fuller life than any other country in the world. That statement covers a large territory but I think any member of this house would have no difficulty in proving it. I would not wish, however, that any member would take the same illustration which the leader of the opposition gave and choose the year 1913 as a basis of comparison, for if we endeavoured to prove his contention, or rather his implication, that more settlers are necessary for permanent prosperity, the fact is that that year, 1913, in which he said " in no one year since 1921 have we brought into Canada half as many people as were brought here in 1924 "-a year, by the way, in which the Conservative party was in power-was the year in which, despite that tremendous immigration, our total adverse trade balance was greater than in any year of our history. But yet I would not lightly dismiss his suggestion of a reference to a special committee, if for nothing else than to dispel suspicion, to correct abuses if any, and not least, to curtail or control the activities of self-appointed immigration agents, be they railway companies or individuals.
I feel that the problem lies not in immigration, but in assimilation. In the vast farming areas of the west we want new blood in our settlements who will take up land for their own use. We have not had much difficulty in obtaining labour, apart from spring and harvest, but of actual settler immigrants -I speak of my own constituency-we have had very few. I agree with the leader of the opposition that this question transcends party and I will welcome any method to attain what we all desire. I would, however, point put. this fact, that Canada is big enough, broad enough and desirable enough to attract settlers; it should never be small enough to beg them.
In the limited (time now allotted, Mr. Speaker,-with which let me say I have no complaint, although like others I may at times wish it longer-I do not intend to speak on any of the various questions specifically mentioned in the address. I propose to speak on matters not mentioned, but which in my judgment will have to be discussed during this session. On Tuesday night I listened with interest to the address of the hon. member for South Wellington (Mr. Guthrie), and there was one sentence which particularly struck me. He asked: " What counts in the matter of taxation?" He answered it thus: " It is the burden upon the
people; that is the only test I think that is the most important matter we have to discuss and decide at this session of parliament.
I do not minimize or subordinate all the important subjects referred to in the address, but after all the well being, contentment and happiness of the people is the principal function of government, and for these reasons I was sorry to note that no reference was made in the speech from the throne giving promise of reduction of taxation. I was glad however, to hear the Prime Minister forecast reductions, and I hope they will be in the direction I propose to outline.
I would not wish to discuss this matter on any narrow basis. I have always realized and appreciated the fact that government of this broad and diverse Dominion must necessarily be based on compromise between conflicting interests; but having said that, let me also say that there are certain broad lines of general policy to which I, in common with almost all the members from the prairie provinces, am committed (1) by conviction and (2) as a representative. We must admit and record that nearly all the promises and pledges of the Liberal candidates in the 1926 election have been implemented by this government, for instance, the maintenance of the Crowsnest pass agreement- to which the Conservative party in convention assembled have given approval, although somewhat tardy; energetic and immediate steps towards the completion of the Hudson Bay railway-shall I say?-with the tacit approval of said convention; old age pensions; completion of the Customs probe; maintenance of the tariff reductions in the famous Robb budget, and others which I need not enumerate.
It is a matter of gratification to find that these reductions, which were so strenuously opposed by the manufacturers of automobiles-not forgetting His Majesty's loyal opposition, have resulted in no impairment of the production of cars by our manufacturers, but, on the contrary, have contributed to their progress. And when I listened to the hon. member for South Wellington, I was amazed to hear him accuse the Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb) of lack of courage. If anything was needed then, in view of the tremendous uproar made by these manufacturers, it was courage, and the Finance minister most certainly displayed it. When the same hon. member stated that the minister was "content to sit at his ease and .allow the Department of Finance practically to run itself," surely he was in error. At
The Address-Mr. Glen

all events, his experience must be different from mine, for I came to the conclusion very early that the Finance department was the minister, and a stubborn, self-willed Scotchman at that, with all that that implies.
I am therefore in my concluding remarks, going to address myself to him particularly. In my judgment a good deal of the prosperity of this country to-day is attributable to the fact that in the post-war period the government of the day have not sought to embark upon quack revenue-producing experiments, but have stayed put behind a tariff which in comparison with that to the south must be described as moderate. When the attempt was made to stampede the country towards higher tariffs, it failed ignominiously and the consequences so freely predicted then have failed to materialize. On the contrary we have made material progress. The work, however, is not yet done. The Conservative party, if you except the Winnipeg platitudinous utterance, have not so far indicated their tariff policy. The leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) has not yet volunteered to the country and to the house where he and his party stand, if one might except only the one word "protection" which one may hear delicately uttered now and again by one or two irresponsible members. He speaks, it is true, of trade within the empire. With all deference I would suggest that such an idea is merely a pipe dream and is relieved from absurdity only by the eminence and the position of 