Mr. ECCLES J. GOTT (South Essex): Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. The Ottawa Journal of this morning under the caption of "Joint Debates," contains an editorial, the first two or three lines of which are as follows:
Mr. Gott. Liberal member for South Essex, and Mr. Hepburn, Conservative member for West Elgin, are going to meet in joint debate at St. Thomas a week from Saturday.
I do not propose to read the remainder of the editorial, but I do want to say that under present conditions there can be no Liberal representative to the House of Commons from the good old riding of South Essex. The hon. member for Vest Elgin has been unduly complimented.
Order.


The Journal has referred to
me on another occasion as a Liberal member. I resent the imputation, despite the fact that hundreds of Liberal farmers are to-day supporting our policy of protection for the farmers.


On
the question of privilege, the hon. member for South Essex (Mr. Gott) appears to have been signally honoured. If press reports are authentic, he was on Friday last granted by the Speaker a special extension of time for his speech after a similar request had been denied to another member. This in my opinion violated not only the rules of the house but the neutrality of the Speaker. This latter honour, however, of being named as a Liberal member is the greatest of all. With regard to my name appearing as a Conservative member, I want to deny the allegation most emphatically.


I suppose the house will
accept the word of both gentlemen.


Eighth report of the select standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines. -Mr. Cahill.
That Bill No. 83 respecting the Canadian Pacific Railway Company be placed upon the order paper of the house for consideration this day in committee of the whole house and for third reading.


Motion agreed to.
Bill No. 85 for the relief of Effie Margaret Hill.-Mr. Clark.
Bill No. 86 for the relief of Frederick Ruth-erfoord Zoppi.-Mr. Kay.
Bill No. 87 for the relief of Lera Ethel Val-lance.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 88 for the relief of Minerva Elliott.-Mr. Young (Toronto Northeast).
Bill No. 89 for the relief of Naomi Pauline Wilson.-Mr. Lawson.
Bill No. 90 for the relief of Harry Babing-ton Millward.

Mr. Lennox.
Bill No. 91 for the relief of Frances Gwendolyn Snow Lott.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 92 for the relief of Edward George Croucher.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 93 for the relief of Elsie Alice Hervey.-Mr. Clark.
Bill No. 94 for the relief of Edyth May Shields.-Mr. Young (Toronto Northeast).
Bill No. 95 for the relief of Mary Melvina Guerin.-Mr. Young (Toronto Northeast).
Bill No. 96 for the relief of Calvert Mitchell Carruthers.-Mr. Sanderson.
Private Bilh
Bill No. 97 for the relief of Hunter Wilbert Faulkner.-Mr. Clark.
Bill No. 98 for the relief of Marion Ruth Laidman.-Mr. Young (Toronto Northeast).
Bill No. 99 for the relief of William Henry Blackwell.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 100 for the relief of Mabel Lorene DeClute.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 101 for the relief of Isabell Leach. -Mr. Lawson.
Bill No. 102 for the relief ot Emily Munn-ings.-Mr. Hubbs.
Bill No. 103 for the relief of Constance Mary Kearns-Mr. Anderson (Toronto-High Park).
Bill No. 104 for the relief of Alfred Rescorl. -Mr. Lawson.
Bill No. 105 for the relief of Clarence Percy Shields.-Mr. Hepburn.
Bill No. 106 for the relief of Isabella Ein-boden.-Mr. Lawson.
Bill No. 107 for the relief of John William Telfer.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 108 for the relief of Thomas South-wood.-Mr. Howard.
Bill No. 109 for the relief of James Ross Curry.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 110 for the relief of Edna Louise Brown.-Mr. Anderson (Toronto-High Park).
Bill No. Ill for the relief of Frederick Davenport.-Mr. Geary.
Bill No. 112 for the relief of William Greig Green.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 113 for the relief of Antoine Joseph Bourdon.-Mr. Clark.
Bill No. 114 for the relief of Arnold Whitchurch Little.-Mr. Boys.
Bill No. 115 for the relief of Arthur James Taylor.-Mr. Stewart (Leeds).
Bill No. 116 for the relief of Alla Chretter. -Mr. Lennox.
Bill No. 117 for the relief of Wallace Evered Gillespie.-Mr.	Anderson (Toronto-High
Park).
Bill No. 118 for the relief of Marjorie Grace Coleman.-Mr. Geary.
Bill No. 119 for the relief of Bessie Ruth Glass.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 120 for the relief of Janet Gee. -Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 121 for the relief of Sylvester Wilfred Kerr.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 122 for the relief of Florence May Forbes.-Mr. Bell (Hamilton West).
Bill No. 123 for the relief of Florence Velma Strachan.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 124 for the relief of William Ernest Foulkes.-Mr. Cahan.
Bill No. 125 for the relief of Edith Marie McFarlane.-Mr. Jacobs.

Bill No. 126-for the relief of William Henry Laverty.-Mr. Bothwell.
Bill No. 127 for the relief of Sophia Love. -Mr. Young (Toronto Northeast).
Bill No. 128 for the relief of Cleoniki Paleologou Drakoulas.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 129 for the relief of Ernest Carl Bouck.-Mr. Casselman.
Agreed to on division.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. In the local papers last night and this morning there is an account of the Liberal caucus, in which to my mind the honour of the house and o; the Speaker is brought into question at least the Speaker is severely criticized for certain restrictions he has placed on the activities of the messengers and for other reasons. This tends to hold His Honour up to the country as a man who needs discipline by a party caucus. As a member of this house I protest most emphatically against any caucus, whether Liberal, Tory or U.F.A., attempting to discipline His Honour the Speaker, and so holding him up to contumely. The reports to which I have alluded in both local papers appear under the heading, "Members kicked against the Speaker's ruling and the Speaker's action." Such accounts tend to undermine the prestige of His Honour the Speaker and to create an impression that he may 'be subject to influence in regard to his decisions, the value of which as a consequence may be very seriously impaired. I want to say, sir, that you were elected Speaker by all the members of the house, and that you are the servant, not of the Liberal party but of the whole house. One of the matters brought into question was the fact that you, sir, had given orders to the messengers of this house that they should not supply liquor to members of the house.


No.


That, I understand, was one of the orders. I wish to say, sir, if that is true, that I support such action on your part. But I have full confidence in the impartiality of Mr. Speaker, and I resent the impression that has been created.


May I ask where the question of privilege comes in? An unconfirmed report in the press is cited by the
hon. gentleman, and I fail to see the question of privilege. A few days ago a very serious accusation appeared in the press against some

House of Commons-Regulations
hon. members of this house and the matter was not allowed to be discussed. I fail to see where the hon. member who is protesting has been injured in any way.


May I say to my hon.
friend that I was present at the caucus to which he has just referred, and the one comment of caucus was upon the publicity that had been given to certain instructions issued by Mr. Speaker, which caucus felt had created a wrong impression abroad with respect to certain matters alleged to be transpiring in these houses of parliament. As a matter of fact there was not criticism of Mr. Speaker's instructions; there was no reflection upon Mr. Speaker. The one criticism that was made-and it was made with respect to this House of Commons and this parliament-was that the public would get an entirely wrong impression as to what is transpiring in these buildings, from the publicity that had been given certain instructions upon which the newspapers have put their own interpretation. The thought of caucus was that the committee on internal economy might very well take up that matter with Mr. Speaker, but I find that that committee has no authority whatever in this respect. I would take advantage of the present discussion to suggest that Mr. Speaker might meet with a committee of this house to discuss certain matters that relate to the House of Commons-not to the government but to this house which manages its own affairs. May I say this with respect to any report that has appeared in the press. Caucuses, as every hon. member knows, are private and secret meetings, and there was a most implicit understanding at this caucus, as there has been at every caucus, that members of caucus were to give no statement whatever to the press as to what might transpire there. Anything, therefore, that appears in the press with respect to yesterday's caucus is without any authority, and what I have read of its proceedings in the press cannot be said to be a correct account.


The fact that the Liberal party itself in the Liberal caucus reprimanded the Speaker for his regulations-


Order.


With many of the observations made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) every member of this House of Commons must be in accord. But I think it is also apparent that a matter of this kind should be discussed behind closed doors; and if it is agreeable to you, Mr. Speaker, I think 78594-96
that before we open the doors to the public at the next sitting we might discuss the subject that has now been brought to the attention of the house. That would be the more proper course to follow in dealing with the situation that has arisen.
Mr. FRANK S. CAHILL (Pontiac): I was not present at the caucus, but I entirely disagree with the suggestion of the Leader- of the Opposition (Mr. Bennett).	There is
nothing transpiring in this house or in the building, of which any of us are aware, that would necessitate secret discussion.


It is the practice of the house.


If there is to be discussion let us have it in open house. My only experience of a secret meeting of the House of Commons was some years ago when we held such a session to learn of certain things that were taking place in the war.


We have twice had such a meeting in the last few years.


The questions discussed on that occasion were published in the morning papers before this secret meeting took place, and the subject matter of any secret meeting we might hold here would be public property not many minutes after the opening of the house. I do not think, from my short experience in this house, that anything transpires here which cannot be dealt with openly by the members of the house, with Hansard and the galleries present. I entirely object to the suggestion of the leader of the opposition. I repeat, if we have anything to say, let us say it in public.	*


I am inclined to agree to a great extent with my hon. friend from Pontiac (Mr. Cahill). Anything that has transpired within the walls of parliament has been broadcast to the four corners of this country. The orders given by His Honour the Speaker, and the manner in which they were executed, are familiar to all who pay any attention whatsoever to the political situation in this Dominion.


What were the orders?


The orders were published in the newspapers, to the effect that certain messengers should not do certain work, and that certain policemen should patrol corridors on such and such floors of this building. I believe therefore that the suggestion made by the hon. member for Pontiac is quite sound, that no good purpose can be served by having a secret session. On the contrary, too much

1510	COMMONS
House of Commons-Regulations
importance will be attached to what after all are mere incidents, if we take the extraordinary view that a secret session is necessary. Secret sessions are held, as a rule, only when matters of great importance to the nation are to be discussed, and I submit-


May I correct the hon. gentleman in order that he may not misunderstand me. We are speaking merely of the internal economy of the House of Commons, and the secret session proposed is just such a session as those that have been held twice during the past two years in connection with the approaches to this building. It is not well that matters of internal economy should engage the attention of the public; such matters should be discussed by us before the doors are opened.


I accept my hon. friend's correction and I will go further and say that, if the matter is not important enough to warrant a special session behind closed doors, the house to-day should select from amongst its members a committee to wait upon Mr. Speaker to discuss the whole question with him and to report its findings to the House of Commons as soon as possible. In my humble opinion, the matter can be settled in fifteen or twenty minutes by means of a free, frank and open discussion with His Honour, and the report having been made to the house publicly we ^halt no longer have such a situation as has arisen, of reports in the press giving rise to rumours which are utterly unfounded and which seriously reflect upon the honour of all members of this house.


May I ask t'he hon. gentleman, before he takes his seat, what there is to be settled? I am not clear as to what the question is about.


I will briefly explain it,
although it must be quite clear to everyone. Undoubtedly the hon. member must have heard about the matter from conversation with other members. The question has reference to certain orders which have been issued, and to the publicity which has been given to those orders, and I think that question can be settled by discussion with the Speaker.


After a fairly long experience in this
house, I believe that in every instance I can recall where a matter of internal economy has been mentioned it has always been mentioned behind closed doors before the opening of the house. The very first day I sat in the House of Commons the late Sir Charles Hib-bert Tupper mentioned the question of the allocation of rooms as between the two parties

in the House of Commons. Mr. Speaker Brodeur immediately said the point should be discussed behind closed doors on the following day. On at least half a dozen occasions during the last thirty years a similar course has been followed, and I think that is the course which should be pursued now. That is parliamentary practice, and I see no reason for departing from it.


I desire to say that I agree with
the leader of the opposition and the hon. member for South Wellington as to that having been the usual practice in matters of this kind, and after all I think it is a good practice. A few years ago, Mr. Speaker, I heard you say with regard to a certain matter that this House of Commons was a gentlemen's club, the best club in the land.


A gentlemen's club?


I beg my hon. friend's
pardon; I suppose that will have to be modified now. However, that is an additional reason why this should be discussed in the usual way by the members of parliament themselves.


If it is the pleasure of
the house that this matter be discussed at a later sitting behind closed doors, I am the servant of the house.


I do not think, that is altogether
the opinion of the house, and I should like to protest against this closed door policy. Certain charges, whether founded or unfounded, have been broadcast by the press. These charges are not made against particular individuals but are made in a vague sort of way which leaves any member of the bouse liable to suspicion. I do not think that is fair to hon. members. Further, the very appointment of a committee such as has been suggested, under these circumstances would be more or less of a reflection upon the decision of the Speaker, and some of us do not want to see anything of that kind take place. Whatever the opinions of the members of the house may be with regard to certain practices, I submit that no one member can act along the lines which have been followed in the past without involving the standing of all the members in this house, against this any member has a right to protest.
I suggest that perhaps we might find a way out of the difficulty by appointing a sort of house committee such as exists in a good many clubs, not to deal with this particular matter at this time but rather as a support

House of Commons-Regulations
to the Speaker. I quite understand that there are certain difficulties which have made it very hard for the Speaker to act and take the entire responsibility for his actions without at least consulting some of the members in order to obtain their views as to what is proper in the circumstances. I do not think such a committee would discipline the Speaker at all. It would be a means by which various members of the house could make their complaints known to the Speaker in order to obtain that free discussion which is necessary.
With regard to the particular matter now under consideration I would protest against it being decided behind closed doors. If liquor has been carried by messengers, as I understand to be the case, I for one would like to see that practice cease; I do not think that is the work of a messenger of this house.


In view of the knowledge
which I have just gained that the rules do not provide for such a committee as I have suggested, I beg to withdraw my suggestion.
Mr. COOTE.:	It is with a good deal of
hesitation that I rise to take part in this discussion, because it seems to me entirely out of order. However, I am not going to miss this opportunity of pressing for the appointment of what I would call a house committee. For years I have thought such a committee should be appointed.


There is a standing
committee.


Then if we have a house
committee I would like to know what it is doing. I want a house committee representative of all parties and groups in this house, similar to the other parliamentary committees which now exist. That committee should have duties with respect to the house similar to the duties of the restaurant committee with respect to the restaurant. It does not matter very much to me whether this matter is dealt with in camera or at a public session of this house, but I do want to press for the appointment of a house committee which will include representatives of all groups in the house.


I am just told that you,
Mr. Speaker, would be ready to clear the galleries and' have the matter discussed now if it is the wish of the house.


I think hon.
members of the house will feel that Your Honour is the presiding officer of the house and that we should be quite prepared, after what has been said, to leave it to your own judgment, Mr. Speaker, to decide what fur-78594- 96J
ther step it may be advisable to take. I think we might proceed now with the business of the house.


I have no objection to
discussing this matter right now, but in deference to the opinions which have been expressed I shall wait, not until Monday, because, Monday morning I must attend the funeral service of a dear friend of mine in Montreal, but until Tuesday next when, behind closed doors, I will be ready to explain these two orders which were given ir good faith for the protection of the dignitj and the privileges of the house.


I do not want to prolong the debate, but I would like to remind hon. members that it always has been the custom of this house that before the doors are opened any member may bring up any question concerning the internal economy of the house before the ordinary business is taken up. That has been the custom for many years; I could cite many instances where that has been done before the doors were declared open.


Before this question is
left perhaps you, Mr. Speaker, might ask the clerk of the house to give the names of the members of the Internal Economy Commission already appointed, for the benefit of those hon. members who apparently are of the opinion that such a committee does not exist.


Early in the session
a message was read to the house from His Excellency the Governor General appointing four ministers of the crown as members of the Internal Economy Commission, but that commission deals only with the financial matters of this department. It must be remembered that this is a department, and I want the house to understand that as Speaker of the house I am head of a department which employes about 500 people. Under the Civil Service Act the Speaker is, just as much as any minister of the crown, the head of his department. Therefore, when the Speaker gives orders, they must be obeyed. On Tuesday next I will ask hon. members to stand by their Speaker if his instructions are in conformity with the privileges, the honour and the dignity of the house.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to direct the
Speech oj W. H. Moore

attention of the government to a press report of a meeting held last night, which was addressed by Mr. W. H. Moore, chairman of the tariff board. In that speech Mr. Moore uses language which I regard as strictly political and which would result in any civil servant being dismissed under the provisions of the order in council which was approved by Sir Wilfrid Laurier and adopted during the regime of Sir Robert Borden. Mr. Moore said:
"We, as the tariff board, should not be left with this tariff problem, nor should those on parliament hill be asked to saddle the whole burden," Mr. Moore observed. "One thing the tariff board has done and that is that it has brought out from day to day the different situations which you people have to face on election day for whatever interpretation you place on them, that is your responsibility."
"There is a conflict of tariff opinion in the United States," Mr. Moore said. "We have a clearer vision of what is going on in the states to-day than we have perhaps of what is taking place at home. But American standards of living cannot be increased by making food dearer. The farmers there have come out boldly with their demand, 'We want dearer food/ but in no case was the demand stated more boldly nor baldly than by the sugar beet farmers, who are asking $6 for sugar, when it is now $4.70."
In reference to the dairy industry, he said:
We hear a lot that our imports of New Zealand butter are increasing and our exports of butter are decreasing. That does not necessarily mean, however, that our dairy is dying; only that it is taking another form in the export of milk and milk products.
I ask the government what is to be done with a civil servant, a servant of the Department of Finance, as the minister said last night, who goes out and carries on political propaganda within sight of the walls of parliament.


At what gathering was this?


The heading of the article
reads:
W. H. Moore, of Tariff Board, gives entertaining address to Men's Association of Glebe United Church.
This article appears in the Ottawa Citizen of Friday, April 12.


Some days ago the chairman
of the tariff board told me that he had received an invitation from some church to give an address at their annual men's meeting. He wanted to know if there was any objection to his giving this address, and I told him I could see none. He is a citizen of this country and has the same rights as any other citizen. I read this report very carefully, but I am bound to say that I cannot place t'he same construction upon it as does the hon. leader 
of the opposition (Mr. Bennett). They had asked Mr. Moore to explain the workings of the tariff board, and he was making that explanation as interesting as he could.


It is purely a political
speech.


If that is a political speech,
then the Deputy Minister of the Ontario Department of Agriculture made the same type of speech in London not very long ago, as did Mr. Ruddick, the dairy and cold storage commissioner. These men who are conversant with what is going on in the country should be allowed to present a statement of facts to the people.


It was not a statement of facts, but absolutely the contrary.


Surely Mr. Moore, the chairman of the tariff board, has equal rights with an employee of the government of Ontario.


What have we to
do with the Ontario government?


WTe are talking about
the parliament of Canada.


This gentleman has the same
rights as an employee of the Ontario government speaking in the province of Ontario. I am bound to say that I cannot find a statement made by Mr. Moore which is not a statement of facts.


It is not a statement of facts.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN -FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata):	Mr. Speaker, I wish to say a word
of praise for the reporters of Hansard. They deserve a lot of credit because when I was speaking last night there was considerable noise from the opposite benches, but to my great astonishment I found my speech complete in Hansard, with the possible exception of one or two phrases. I think a great deal of praise should be given to these reporters.
Write them a letter.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Johnston in the chair.
Customs tariff-215. Stearic acid, n.o.p.; British preferential tariff, 12J per cent; intermediate tariff, 174 per cent; general tariff, 20 per cent.

Ways and Means-Customs Tariff
Customs tariff-215a. Stearic acid, when imported by manufacturers of candles or crayons for use only in their own factories in the manufacture of candles or crayons: British preferential tariff, free; intermediate tariff, free; general tariff, free.
When we rose last night the minister (Mr. Robb) was reading from a document which had been prepared by one of the officials of his department. He had not completed reading that document, and I would like to know by whom it was signed.


I thought I read it all.


You said you would
make it available to us.


I gave it to Hansard and I
am not sure whether they have returned it.


The minister was also to produce the typewritten evidence taken at the hearings of these applications.


May I ask what item
we are discussing?


Item 215.


I was reading from a memorandum which had been given to me by an officer of the department; it is not signed.


Was it prepared by Mr. Moore?


It was prepared by Mr. Mc-
Kinnon.


He is the secretary of the tariff board?


Yes.


The minister intimated
last night that he would let us have the typewritten copy of the evidence which was taken at the hearings of these applications; has the minister obtained that evidence?


I have two copies and I will
send them over to my hon. friend.


I would like to ask the minister if it will be possible to obtain any information before we pass these items.


I will give the hon. member
all the information I can.


We have not been able to get very much as yet. Last night we had one of the strangest spectacles I have ever seen in this house. We received information that the tariff board had been holding secret conferences with the manufacturers, coming to secret agreements, and holding secret conferences with the ministers, and yet none of that information was available to this house.
We are being asked to make changes in the tariff which may be of far-reaching importance, and I think this whole matter of the relation of the tariff board to the government should be cleared up. That board is costing this country about $120,000 a year and, so far as we can ascertain, its usefulness is practically nil. More than that, we have the spectacle to-day of the chairman going out and making political speeches containing statements contrary to facts. I think it is time that this parliament should object to the servants of this government carrying on political propaganda in favour of one party. It is time we got rid of them and I think we should get rid of them now.


I have in my hand the
report of the second hearing of this item. This evidence shows that the application was opposed, although last night the minister was of the opinion that it had not been opposed. At page 2 of the evidence in connection with the hearing of reference No. 96, this is what is said:


Who appears on reference No. 96, application by the Canada Crayon Co., Ltd., for upward revision of the tariff on chalks and crayons?
Mr. Wilson: I do.


Who is appearing in opposition?
Mr. Darby: We shall certainly oppose the application. . . There are good reasons for opposing this particular application.
Then the chairman proceeds to ask what it is about, and the brief, consisting of a letter written to the minister in December of last year-part of which the hon. gentleman read last evening-was presented. Then there was a question as to the capital involved in the enterprise and the hon. gentleman cannot be expected to remember all the facts. This is the record as it appears at page 5 of the report:


Is the applicant company connected in the States?-A. Indirectly.
Q.	Has it a factory there?-A. No, the applicant company has not.
Q. What company is it connected with or related to?-A. It is related in this way; the stock in this applicant company is partially owned by Canadian people, partially owned by British people, and partially owned by American people, but the bulk of the stock is owned by British or Canadian capital.
Q. When yau say American people, does that mean people in the crayon industry?-A. Yes, the American Crayon Company.
Q. Have you a wage comparison between the wages paid by them in the states and by you in Canada?-A. If you are talking of hourly wages we could give you that.
I do not think the minister last evening had that clearly in mind. Then Mr. Wilson related the facts and Mr. Gravestock made
1514	COMMONS
Ways and Means-Customs Tariff
some observations, he being the managing director of the company. At the end the chairman said:
How can we make further progress when you submit a seven page statement, which is apparently somewhat technical, it contains several figures, how can you have an examination without notice?
Mr. Wilson: I did not expect that. I figured that when we sent this information here a few days ago Mr. Deachman and Mr. Darby would have opportunity to look it over.
Well, we are quite willing to adjourn.


All right: it stands adjourned.
That apparently was on May 16, 1928. The question I should like to ask the minister is this: There appear to be no recommendations made by this political tribunal to which he has referred the matter; there appear to be no findings of fact, the work which, he stated last year, this body was created to do, and there is nothing to indicate upon what principle the minister now proceeds to place upon the free list a material used in the production of crayons while not dealing with the application at all. That is the question we want to have some light upon. It is idle to say that we should have two or three gentlemen meet together in secret session with the Minister of Finance and then, instead of meeting the application as agreed and dealing with it on its'merits, the minister to say: We will not do what they ask, but we will put some raw material on the free list. The house is entitled to some definite information in a matter of this kind which appears in the report of the hearing before the tariff commission, more especially in view of the fact that this appears to be an enterprise owned by Canadians which is giving employment to Canadians in a Canadian town or city and which had recited the circumstances under which it sought to avail itself of a tariff to enable it, not to exploit an industry but to place it on an equal basis with competition from across the border, asking no favours, but merely to be placed on even terms of competition. I remind the minister that his political chairman of his political board, in the blister copper inquiry where it appeared ;hat raw copper left Canada, went to the United States to be refined and then had to be bought by Canadians at an excess over the price at which United States could buy the same copper for, was good enough to say that Canadians should be placed on terms of equality with respect to competition under such conditions. Mr. Gravestock in his memorandum asks only that his company should be placed on terms of equality with respect to competition: that they should be given an even chance in competition. The minister

says: Look what I am doing for you: I am putting stearic acid on the free list. This is not mentioned in the hearing. Is this the method of compromise to be adopted? The amount involved is small, but the method is one of far-reaching consequence. It represents the difference between the Liberal party and the party with which I am associated. In one instance the government are willing to make a compromise for power, for the purpose of retaining their seats on the treasury benches, without regard to the welfare of Canadian industry. The minister thinks he is going to serve the public by sitting down secretly without Mr. Gravestock, without Mr. Wilson, without any representative of this industry being present, and saying: I will put stearic acid on the free list and not place the manufacturers of crayon upon such terms as, it is claimed in the brief that was submitted to the minister, will enable it to compete successfully with the United States industry. In other words, Canadian industry is to be destroyed in order that more employment may be given to people of the United States and Canadians may be put out of a job. That is the policy the minister has enunciated in his budget if it means anything, and if it does not mean that, it means nothing.


I see from the other
brief which the minister has submitted, reference No. 96-and I fancy this is the first application-the application was for an increase in the duty. There is in the brief one rather significant statement which seems to have been accepted as a statement of fact as it existed: that is, that in the United States the selling price of a certain line of crayons was $7.20, while the selling price of the same article in Canada made by the same United States firms was $6.50. It was asked that a dumping duty be applied and it is stated by Mr. Darby that the dumping duty on that particular lot of crayons would be 16 cents, making the Canadian price $6.66, duty added, while at the same time the price maintained by these United States manufacturers in their own market was $7.20. This clearly indicates the effort, and the successful effort, on the part of United States manufacturers to dump their products in Canada and to destroy competition on the part of any industry in this country. The cost of production in Canada for the same article is pointed out in this brief to be $6.20, allowing them only 46 cents as a margin for selling over the cost of production if they meet the United States price. It strikes me that there is a condition of facts which Should call for some action upon the part of the government.

Ways and Means-Customs Tariff
If a. 16 cent dumping duty is not sufficient to enable the Canadian manufacturer to have at least fair terms, then impose a dumping duty that is sufficient, because it is clear that in this instance the United States manufacturer is using Canada as a dumping ground. He will not cut the price in his own country, though there is evidently competition there, because there are ninety-five concerns engaged in this line of manufacture; but he will cut the price in the Dominion of Canada where it is sought to establish another independent industry. It is to the interest of the United States manufacturer to say: No, we will dump our goods and cut the price to such a point that you cannot manufacture, but the moment you cease manufacturing in Canada, then you will pay the higher price. Surely that is a situation that calls for some action. Has t'he minister had any report upon that phase of the case? Did the official of his department, in the memorandum he has submitted, draw that to the minister's attention? Because it is very clearly set out in his brief. Moreover, these statements seem to be accepted as facts by the board, as well as by Mr. Deachman, Mr. Darby and the applicants, so I assume they are thoroughly substantiated.


While this incident may
seem trivial in itself, it becomes very important because of the policy of the government which is here displayed. Here is a company that is given a concession by the government, and neither the tariff board nor the minister himself has yet shown that the company needs any concession. Not a single thing has been placed before the house to show the need of any concession or to show that this industry needs protection. There is another thing, and that is that the government, by this proposal, is impairing the revenues without in any way aiding the industry from the point of view of the workman, or from any other point of view. I cannot help looking at this incident from no other standpoint than this, that the tariff on this item is used as a bargaining point between the politicians and the manufacturer; it absolutely comes down to that. This company enjoys a monopoly, and nothing has been presented to show that the industry needs help, and so I say it comes down simply to a bargaining point for some reason or other. This is what I protest against, and it is what this budget in particular shows all the way through. It puts the burden on the shoulders of the people, and the government for that very reason is willing to impair the revenues of the country so long as the
whole burden goes on the consumer. I protest against this whole thing.


We are able to get a
little light from time to time by getting these typewritten reports. Last night the minister in reading a memorandum, rather needlessly I think, emphasized one portion of it which read as follows:
At the second hearing of the application, Mr. R.	P. Sparks, representing the Garment Manufacturers' Association of Canada, objected to any increase in tariff that might involve chalks used in the clothing industry.
I have here the evidence that was taken before the 'board, and so far as Mr. Sparks is concerned, it is as follows-


Who is he?


He was representing the
Garment Manufacturers' Association of Canada.


Has he ever been heard
of before?


Mr. Sparks in his evidence before the board said:
We have no opinion to express on the merits of this particular case because it does not touch chalks in which the clothing industry is interested.
Mr. Darby: Would you not like it to affect the chalks in which you are interested?
Mr. Sparks: No, in view of the fact that they tell me the quantities used in Canada would not be large enough to justify them or anyone else manufacturing them.
Why does the memorandum of Mr, Moore single out Mr. Sparks and say that he appeared on behalf of the Garment Manufacturers' Association objecting to this application? Mr. Sparks himself clearly says:
We have no opinion to express on the merits of this particular case because it does not touch chalks in which the clothing industry is interested.


Mr. Sparks appeared before
that. I would ask my hon. friend to bear in mind that the application originally was for an increase of 40 per cent, and Mr. Sparks decidedly objected to that increase until he was told that it did not affect chalks, and then he withdrew his objection.


So far as I can see from
glancing hurriedly over the report, there is no reference to Mr. Sparks at any point preceding the evidence I have just quoted, he appears before the board at that point only. Of course I may have overlooked his name, but I have not noticed it in the evidence prior to the quotation I made. In justice to Mr. Sparks it should be stated that he was not there opposing this application. I think it is only fair to say that when a man's name
1516	COMMONS
____Ways and Means-Customs Tariff
is brought into a discussion on the floor of this house and he is unable to be present. The application in its original form was for an increase in the tariff on the finished article. My hon. friend from Rosetown, of course, is very emphatic in his objection to an increase in the tariff. I would invite his attention briefly to the facts in connection with this case. He very properly said: There is a principle involved.	That is true; there is
a principle involved.	It is one of the main
principles that we in the Conservative party contend for in our attitude towards the tariff.
Let me say, first, that our attitude towards the tariff, is that it is an instrument in the hands of parliament that may and should be so used as to build up and assist in the establishment and upbuilding of Canadian industry. It may be said that this is a small industry, but the industrial life of a nation is made up of its aggregate industries, small and large. There is a considerable quantity of crayons and such like used in Canada. There are some twenty or thirty or more establishments in the United States manufacturing them. I will read a couple of paragraphs from page 17 of this tariff advisory board report, and then I want to direct the attention of hon. gentlemen and of the minister to one or two observations that I wish to make in regard to it. It is headed, "Retention of the Present Selling Price," and reads:
In view of the fact that school crayons, which are the largest line of production, have to be sold retail at 10 cents per package for high grade crayons and 5 cents per package for low grade crayons, in order to allow the retailer and wholesaler the necessary margin of profit, prices cannot ibe raised except to such an extent that the packages would have to be retailed for 10 cents and 15 cents respectively. This raise would then put the Canadian prices considerably above the American prices even with an adequate protection.
He goes on to say:
The company is prepared to undertake that selling prices will not be advanced under a higher rate _ of protection. If an adequate tariff rate is applied to these products, we would suggest a reinvestigation of such selling prices by the advisory tariff board in tiwo years time to prove that this tariff has not affected prices to the consumer. The beneficial result of such a tariff would harm no one and result in the establishment of a new Canadian industry which most certainly needs assistance.
The point is this: There are 'Certain articles, and this is a typical one, where a package must be sold for a Tound figure like five or ten cents. No doubt many hon. members will remember doing as I have often done at Christmas and other times, buying a little 
package of crayons in a carton for five or ten cents. If there was an increase in the tariff this company would have a larger share of the Canadian market. It would extend its operations, increase its output and lower its cost of production. It would thus secure a larger share of the Canadian trade without raising the price to the consumer one iota. My hon. friend from Rosetown shakes his head. Undoubtedly he is under the impression that the manufacturer would increase his price because of the advance in the tariff. That is not necessarily the case at all. We have contended, and I would urge on the minister now that the suggestion 'contained in the paragraph which I have just read is a good one, namely, that the tariff advisory board not only should consider these cases and make findings, but should observe the effect of any changes that are made, and if an industry is found to be abusing any added protection that is given to it, then the remedy is in the hands of parliament and of the government This concern undoubtedly 'asked for an increase of protection to give it a larger share of the Canadian market. The minister replies by giving them a reduction on one article, stearic acid, which is only a small portion of the raw materials that enter into the manufacture; for instance, there are also colours, pigments, refined paraffin wax, paper cartons, chalk, and so on. I understand they- say that this reduction will make a difference of only $40 a year. Indeed it is so small that it does not amount to anything. On the other hand, if the minister and the tariff board had responded favourably to the application for an increased tariff on the finished article, and safeguarded themselves by this pledge, they might have given some stimulus to a Canadian industry and at the same time there would have been no increase in price to the consumer.
Now the minister has returned to me this marked brief. It is in connection with the point of controversy regarding Mr. Sparks appearing before the board. It will be remembered that last night the minister read a memorandum in which it was indicated that Mr. Sparks was opposing the application. Really it is a small matter, but I do not think it is fair continually to single out Mr. Sparks for attack in this house in the way it has been done. Mr. Wilson is giving evidence before the board, and Mr. Sparks says:
Before the board adjourns, may I suggest that after hearing the application it appears that the applicants do not ask for protection on all classes of chalk. I am further informed by Mr. Wilson that certain classes of chalk used

Ways and Means-Customs Tariff
in the clothing trade are not made by them, are not made in Canada, and that they have no immediate intention of making them. In the tariff item which you suggested to them, and they may suggest to you, we would ask that these classes of goods which they are not interested in should be left as they-are. We have no opinion to express on the merits of this particular case, because it does not touch chalks in which the clothing industry is interested.
Mr. Darby: Would it not affect the chalks in which you are interested?
Mr. Sparks: No, in view of the fact that they tell me the quantities used in Canada would not be large enough to justify them or anyone else manufacturing them.
Mr. Darby proceeds:
Surely it would be assisting an infant industry.
Apparently he is a bit sarcastic.
Mr. Sparks: They say not.
Mr. Darby: It would be a very small infant then.
Mr. Sparks: I do not want to enter into any general argument on the question now. I was here at one time and was willing to enter into a general argument.
Mr. Darby: I am not making any general argument at all. I am referring to these specific articles.
Mr. Sparks: All I suggest is this: that in any change that the board might contemplate they might provide that tailors' chalks should be in a separate item. I think that is in agreement with the views of the applicant.
Mr. Racine: That no changes be made if they are not producing tailors' chalks and have no intention of doing so in the immediate future?
Mr. Sparks: That is my understanding.
I think that is all there is to say about it.
Now I come back, Mr. Chairman, to what I said a moment ago. I invite the minister to give us his opinion on the concluding paragraph which I have read and in which it appears that this industry is asking for an increase in order that it might get a larger share of the Canadian market, and giving an undertaking that the consumer will not be called upon to pay any higher price for the product.


I hope, Mr. Chairman, my
hon. friend will agree that there was no thought of doing any injustice to Mr. Sparks. His name appeared on the memorandum that came up. The evidence clearly goes to show that Mr. Sparks, who has been urging increased protection in other lines, went before the tariff board to make sure there was no increased protection on material which the clothing trade required.


And which material could not economically be made in Canada. That is the answer.


We will admit that.


Very well.


As soon as Mr. Sparks discovered that their application for an increase of the duty to 40 per cent did not cover these chalks, very naturally he withdrew. Now, this particular industry was established in Peterborough in 1927. Its promoters knew at the time that the duty on their finished product was 17J per cent. Before they had been going one year they applied to the Minister of Finance for an increase of the tariff to 40 per cent, and their application was referred to the tariff board. The tariff board instituted an inquiry. That inquiry is involved in some other inquiries which have not yet been concluded. But we did give them this concession on stearic acid. They say they cannot carry on, and they hold out the threat that they are going to pack up their machinery and leave Canada. Yet on their own statement, after operating only one year they had 40 per cent of the business. They came to Canada knowing their protection was 17| per cent. They have had a fair hearing before the tariff board, and I may say that there are other people interested. There were two ways of helping this concern:	Either to increase the duty or to
give them relief in their raw materials. We are attempting here to give them relief on certain of their raw materials. As to the balance, the inquiry has not yet been completed by the tariff board.


How much will this
relief amount to?


They say it will not be
sufficient.


Is it not true that the
basis upon which they asked for an increased tariff was the alleged fact that Americans were dumping their product into the Canadian market at a lower price than they were charging for it in the United States?


There is nothing original in
that allegation; we have heard it for many years.


Is 215a a new item?


Yes.


I notice in the Trade
of Canada at page 437 two items: acids, stearic, n.o.p.-which appears to be 215- and acids, stearic, when employed by manufacturers of candles for use in their own factories, free. Under what authority was this stearic acid, amounting in value to $19,000, allowed to enter free in 1927?


Under item 777. I gave that, information to my hon. friend last night.


Item agreed to.
Ways and Means-Customs Tariff
Customs tariff-246a. Zirconium oxide: British preferential tariff, free; intermediate tariff, 5 per cent; general tariff, 7J per cent.
I desire to repeat to the Minister of Finance the suggestion that I made to him last session. At the time he said he would be glad to pass