That the Auditor General's report be referred to the public accounts committee.


My recollection is that that
report was referred to the committee some weeks ago.


That is my memory of
it.

Agriculture and Colonization


I was not aware of that fact, and I will ask permission of the house to withdraw my motion.
Motion withdrawn.


During the last few weeks we have been discussing the budget, and at the outset of the debate I introduced a motion to the effect that discussion on the budget should have precedence over all other business save routine. The spirit of that motion, if not the letter, was to the effect that no debate on some new subject should be precipitated into the middle of the debate on the budget. A motion was brought in yesterday to have the house concur in the third report of the select standing committee on agriculture and colonization, and it is apparent that a debate has arisen out of that motion which may be of considerable length, and, as I gather from the different views offered in respect of the matter, it may be contentious in its character. It would be rather unfortunate if the conclusion of the debate on the budget were to be prolonged indefinitely as a consequence of a debate on some other subject intervening. It is I believe, the hope of members of the house pretty generally that the debate on the budget may be concluded before the Easter adjournment. The government does not wish to restrain in any way the right of any hon. member to speak on the budget or on any other matter, but I would suggest that having discussed the budget at the length we have it might be advisable if the matter can be effected by arrangement, to try to conclude that debate before the Easter adjournment. The government does not for a moment ask that the debate on the motion brought in yesterday should be discontinued, but only suggests that the debate on the budget be first concluded and then that it be understood this motion should be considered the next order of business. If any hon. member is going to be prejudiced as to his position in the matter, because of the fact that one member has already spoken, I presume there is nothing to do but to allow the debate on yesterday's motion to continue. But I believe I am expressing the general wish of the house that the debate in that particular be shortened as much as possible so as to permit if possible completion of the budget debate before the Easter recess.

I gathered that the purpose of yesterday's motion was nothing more than to give to the committee wider powers than it now possesses so that when its report comes back 10 the house many of the questions which would arise in the course of the debate would be anticipated, and the hon. members would be in a better position intelligently to discuss the final report. It may be that some arrangement could be arrived at whereby the committee could obtain that increased power and some of the debate on the question be avoided thereby at this stage. May I say again that it is not the wish of the government to shut off any debate on any question, but it is part of the duty of whoever has the responsibility of leading the house to endeavour so to arrange matters that its business may be conducted in the most expeditious manner. I believe the house feels that having been discussing the budget for two or three weeks, it is advisable to conclude that debate before entering upon one pertaining to another subject.


In the main I am wholly in
accord with the observations of the Prime Minister. There is no doubt, however, that the motion that was adopted by the house according precedence to the budget debate excepted questions and motions, so that technically the motion of yesterday was wholly in order.


Not motions.


I think there is no question about the fact that neither questions nor motions were included.


Notices of
motions. Routine motions remain, but not motions which are debatable.


The debate yesterday
arose out of a routine motion.


By standing order No.
38. a motion for concurrence in the report of a standing committee is debatable.


That is what I regard
as a routine motion. That being so, yesterday, when the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Malcolm) asked for an adjournment of the debate, I imagine, that he might be enabled to get his papers for the purpose of making such defence as he saw fit with respect to an official of the department under his supervision, and probably because he might desire to make his reply to-day, in which event I gather one of my hon. friends to my left would desire to proceed with the discus-

Grading of Grain-Mr. Malcolm
sion, it occurred to me that he might adjourn the debate so that no time would be lost and we would proceed with the budget. But that is wholly in the hands of the group led by the hon. member for Acadia (Mr. Gardiner) and not a matter in which I can assist the Prime Minister. I fully agree that it is desirable that a debate of this character should be terminated without too much interruption, but we all know in parliamentary life interruptions will occur even in connection with commonplace motions such as a motion for concurrence in a report. We accept that as being so, but if the matter can be carried out in the way I suggest, that would meet the situation.


The house has made great progress since we first met. We took only a very short time in debating the address in reply to the speech from the throne and we saved1 the house a good deal of time in that regard. At that time hon. members did not take the opportunity of discussing problems of importance to the constituencies they represent. The Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has suggested that it is desirable that we should try to conclude the budget debate before the house adjourns on Friday night. I should like to assist him as far as possible, but at the same [DOT] time there are in this corner of the house many members who wish to debate the budget thoroughly in view of the fact that they did not take the opportunity of debating the address. I would regret it very much if any influence were used for the purpose of curbing debate at this time.
Coming to the question more presently before the house, namely, the motion to concur in the third report of the committee on agriculture, I should like to point out that this question as affecting western Canada, and, I believe, eastern Canada also, is one of the most important that will come before the house this session. Of that I am convinced.
I know of no other question that has stirred the farmers and producers in western Canada to such an extent as has the administration of the Canada Grain Act. In view of the fact that the debate proceeded for some time yesterday afternoon, and remembering also that the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Malcolm) desired to adjourn the debate primarily for the purpose of securing his papers so that he would be able to take part in the discussion, it would be improper if we were now to curb the debate in any way. I hope, however, that the debate on this question will not continue to any great extent, but I would not suggest to my colleagues
that if they have anything important to say on the matter, they should curtail their remarks in any way.


I presume the next order is to proceed with this discussion ; but may I suggest to hon. gentlemen that what the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) has just put forward as a means of trying to meet all parties concerned, is something that should appeal very strongly to everyone, and I hope will appeal to my hon. friends, namely, that it be distinctly understood that there is to be no curbing of the debate on this particular question, but that one of each group address himself to it, and that the debate be then adjourned, to be taken up, when the debate on the budget is concluded, and to be then taken up at any length and with due regard to its great importance.


I might say, speaking for a number in this section of the house, that certainly more than one would expect to speak in this debate, and it would therefore be impossible to come to any such arrangement.


The suggestion was not to limit the number to one from each group, but rather that the minister might make his defence to-day with respect to the official concerned in his department, and then one of my hon. friends to my left could make his speech and adjourn the debate so that tomorrow another speech could be made and the budget debate finished. It was not my suggestion to curb the debate.


The most important thing for us to understand is that the house will deliberate on this question and come to some definite action in good time this session. If this guarantee is given, I do not think we need worry much about the hour.


The house resumed, from Tuesday, March 19, consideration of the motion of Mr. Kay for concurrence in the third report of the select standing committee on agriculture and colonization.
Mr. Speaker, the
problems arising out of the administration of the Canada Grain Act are, as the hon. member for Acadia (Mr. Gardiner) says, of

Grading of Grain-Mr. Malcolm
such magnitude that one naturally hesitates to comment thereon except after one has been very thoroughly and fully informed on every phase of the subject. Personally I do not think much will be gained by debate in the house at this time, but if the house would grant the request of the chairman of the committee on agriculture for an enlargement of the reference, these matters which are contentious could be investigated before the committee by calling witnesses and taking evidence. The committee would then be assisted in making recommendations to the government and to parliament for changes in the Canada Grain Act which would correct the evils complained of if they were found to exist.
Early in the session I consulted with various western members of parliament on both sides of the house, and learned of the seriousness and the variety of complaints that were lodged against the Board of Grain Commissioners and the Board of Standards in regard to the administration of the act. I told all of those members-and they agreed with me- that the government would grant a reference to a committee so that all these matters might be thoroughly gone into and reported upon to parliament. Most of the members with whom I consulted felt satisfied that if the reference were broad enough, nothing would be gained^ by discussion in the house, until the committee had reported, and I had hoped that the request of the chairman of the committee on agriculture for an enlargement of the reference would be granted by the house so that the committee could proceed with its work. The reference which is before the committee arose out of a resolution by the hon. member for Qu Appelle (Mr. Millar) stating that proteins should be considered a factor in the grading of grain.
But there are on the order paper two other resolutions, one by the hon. member fcr Willow Bunch (Mr. Donnelly) contending that the mixing of grain is an evil and that mixing should be eliminated, and another resolution which stands in the name of the hon. member for Rosetown (Mr. Evans), criticizing the action of the Board of Grain Commissioners in permitting the use of a certain ticket which contained additional words-words which weTe not prescribed in the actual ticket given in the Canada Grain Act. Under these circumstances I do not feel that the chairman of .the committee on agriculture and the members of that committee could have done anything else but ask for an enlargement of their reference, so that the whole three resolutions, which I chink cover the major points of criticism, 
might be dealt, with and fully reported upo-n. To endeavour to discuss any one of these points at the present moment before the evidence is heard is in my opinion futile. To discuss charges against the Board of Grain Commissioners when the board have not had an opportunity to give evidence as to why they ruled or failed to rule in a certain way, I think is unfair. So far as I am concerned, I have found the Board of Grain Commissioners at all times anxious to assist in the administration of the act in the interests of the producer. Whether they have made mistakes of judgment or not will be brought out in the evidence produced before the committee. Mr. Boyd has been acting as chairman of the Board of Grain Commissioners since March of 1917. I have had no reason to criticize Mr. Boyd, and I do not propose to pass judgment until evidence is adduced and he has had a chance to reply. Therefore it seems to me. Mr. Speaker, that it would be very much out of place for me as a minister of the crown to join in any comment on a public servant, nor do I think that anything can be gained by this debate. I think I am quite right in saying to the house that much evidence will likely be adduced in the committee, and the report [DOT] of the committee can, and no douibt will be fully discussed in the house. I think this matter can be very much 'better handled by having the discussion take place in the tight of the evidence which will be taken before the committee. I can therefore only recommend to the house that this debate be as short as possible, that the chairman of the agriculture committee be granted this reference, and that the discussion when the committee's report comes before the house be as full and as free as parliament may wish.


Mr. Speaker, I agree with those who have preceded me in one remark, and that is as to the importance of the question that is before the house at this moment. When hon. members take into consideration the fact that the greatest single wealth-producing commodity in all Canada is wheat, they will begin to realize what it means. When they consider further that it involves annually hundreds of millions of dollars of real new wealth created by the producers out of the soil of the country, they will begin to realize something of its importance. When they further consider the fact that there is not a single financial institution, not a single manufacturing institution, and hardly an individual in the Dominion that is not interested directly or indirectly not only in the proper handling of wheat but

Grading of Grain-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
in the price received by the producer for it, the importance of this question will be realized.
The Canada Grain Act came into existence in 1900 as a result of widespread agitation among the farmers of western Canada, who at that time were suffering under serious injustices at the hands of the organized grain trade and the railways of Canada. In 1912 it was found necessary to place the administration of the act in the hands of a board of grain commissioners. That board was supposed to be an independent board, an efficient board, one above reproach and criticism, and in order to be sure that it should be that kind of board, we provided that the chairman should receive a salary of $10,000 a year, together with many perquisites in regard to such matters as stenographic assistance, office buildings, office fittings, a special car for travelling, and much else. The two assistant commissioners receive the sum of $8,000 a year, and also participate in these perquisites.
We believed at that time, those of us who were here and interested in the trade, that this was a splendid step forward and would protect the interests of the farmer. After all, what was the object in the appointment of the board? The primary object was to administer the act so that the rights of the farmers would be preserved and protected at all times. Let me emphasize that. Professor Patton, in his well-known work on the " Growth of Grain Cooperative Marketing System," says:
The first grain commissioner-
Referring to the chairman of the commission:
-is the attorney general for the grain growers.
He is the man at all times expected to prosecute any offenders against the act, any men or companies who violate the rights or privileges of the farmers under the act. The Turgeon report also recognizes the importance of this body. At page 154 of the report of the royal grain inquiry commission, headed by Chief Justice Turgeon, which was filed in the house in 1925, these words are found:
The Canada Grain Act, 1912, created the Board of Grain Commissioners to administer the act. The importance of the proper exercise of its functions can scarcely be overestimated. It is of vital concern to Canada.
Chief Justice Turgeon, chairman of the royal grain inquiry commision, was satisfied of the transcendent importance of the proper administration of the act and the proper discharge of the functions of the board.
Let us examine the situation as we have it to-day. In the year that has just passed we have had more dissatisfaction in western 78594-71
Canada than at any other time since I have been there. We have had a more pronounced uprising of definite antagonistic opinion against the board than ever before and if the remarks of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) in criticism of the Board of Railway Commissioners were justified, then I say to this house that a condemnation more damning than any ever pronounced by him would be justified as applied to the Board of Grain Commissioners. The Board of Grain Commissioners has utterly and completely lost the confidence of those whom it is supposed to protect in western Canada. Of that there is no question. All one has to do, if he seeks evidence of that, is to study the hearings of the royal commission which was appointed by the Saskatchewan government last year, and which has been travelling during the entire grain-moving season through the province of Saskatchewan, and which I understand is about to hold sittings in the province of Alberta. At the most minute rural points, places through which one could pass and find only a round dozen or so of individuals, in the most outlying country districts you would find the hall jammed with two, three, four or five hundred disgruntled, irritated, antagonistic farmers. Something was behind all this dissatisfaction; there was something wrong. This government surely must have known that there was something wrong. The Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Malcolm) should have been apprised of the seriousness of the situation, and I am going to say this much: So far as I know, the moment his attention was called, towards the beginning of this session of parliament, to the need' for action in a certain direction, he took action. I will come to that in a moment.
I say that so far as the producers are concerned, the board apparently has failed to function satisfactorily and has lost their confidence. Now I ask this question: Is there any use under heaven in this government persisting in continuing the personnel of a board, irrespective of how worthy they may be, if they have utterly lost the confidence of those whom they are supposed to serve? I do not wish to criticize the individual members of the board, and I have nothing of a personal character against a single member of the commission. Let me further state at this stage, for fear I may forget to do so later, that so far as I am concerned, and I think I am speaking for those in the group around me, there is no intention at any time to attempt to make political capital out of this situation. It is too serious a matter for

1122	COMMONS
Grading of Grain-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
politics to be permitted to enter into it. I think the western members as a whole, whether they sit in the ranks of the Liberals opposite, or in the group around me, or the odd one or two in the ranks of the Conservative party to my right, are satisfied that some solution must be found of the difficulties facing the grain growers in the west, and that some settlement of the differences that have arisen between themselves and the board and other concerns must be found if we are to attempt at all to remedy the deplorable situation which now confronts us. When you come to a point where a question arises which may involve the loss, not of a million or two, but of tens of millions of dollars to the wheat growers in Canada, the people who produce from the soil real wealth, then surely it is time that the Department of Trade and Commerce, in fact the government itself, take recognition of the situation that has arisen and courageously cope with it.
The board has utterly failed to function. I make that definite pronouncement, Mr. Speaker, fully realizing the seriousness of the Statement. The board has failed to function because it has not recognized several factors. These are: first, the immense increase in area of wheat growing since 1912. Why, at that time we never thought of producing wheat in large quantities in the Peace river country; we never dreamt of the western movement via Vancouver of grain to the proportions which it has reached to-day, with new and extensive problems involving terminals, inspection of cargo shipments and all the other diverse problems affecting the trade. At that time we did not dream-we did dream, it iis true, but we had not immediately in front of us the problem of a northern outlet, which is another phase now to come under the attention of the commission. The production of wheat has more than doubled in that period. The capacity of elevator space in country houses and terminals has more than doubled in that period.
The problems have also increased almost proportionately during that period, and in latter years an added and very distinct problem has arisen. As long as the handling of wheat continued in the old channels it is true there were difficulties, but those difficulties have been enormously emphasized lately by the institution of the growers' own marketing system. This has brought an entirely new factor into the handling of wheat. The Turgeon commission even as far back as 1925 recognized that the commission itself must be assisted to function more efficiently, and it reported definitely:

We do strongly recommend that the board should be supplied with sufficient expert technical and clerical assistance to enable it to accomplish its routine duties and at the same time to have opportunity to give a large part of its attention to its general functions of supervision, discipline and control over the grain trade.
The Turgeon commission was satisfied that the grain commissioners were not giving proper supervision, were not exercising proper control, were not properly disciplining the trade at that time; and the commission's report recommended definitely that steps should be taken to supply the board with all possible necessary assistance.
Why did the Turgeon commission do that instead of recommending an increase in the personnel of the board? Because the Board of Grain Commissioners themselves have consistently and persistently resisted any proposal to increase their number; and so this way out was discovered and proposed.
Now, since 1925 I must presume that the Board of Grain Commissioners have been supplied by the Department of Trade and Commerce with all the technical assistance, all the technical stenographic and clerical help that they required to function properly. If not, somebody else will be held to account. But we must presume that this has been done, for we are paying the bills. The other taxpayers of Canada are not called upon to pay one dollar in connection with the administration of the Grain Act. We pay for it utterly and completely out of the proceeds of the grain we ourselves sell. Therefore, the Turgeon commission having made this recommendation, we must presume that the government recognized the situation and supplied the board with all the necessary facilities. Yet, Mr. Speaker, during the past year, when as never before at almost every point in western Canada disturbances in connection with the Grain Act had arisen, when as never before the farmers were protesting against the injustices they were suffering at the hands of the country elevator operators, at the hands of the organized trade itself established at Winnipeg, at the hands of the terminal elevators, there was not a single investigation undertaken by the Board of Grain Commissioners until more than 80 per cent of the grain crop had moved. In spite of the fact that affidavit after affidavit had gone into the board at Fort William, in spite of the fact that hundreds of appeals-not -ten, not a dozen, but hundreds-had been made to the board for an adjustment of differences as between the farmers and the trade, the board failed to hold one single investigation
MARCH 20, 1929	H23
Grading of Grain-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
in western Canada until late in January of this year after 80 per cent of the crop had moved.
Now, Mr. Speaker, is that functioning? In all the years that have passed by ever since this board was established there has not been one single check-off by the board of country houses. There is not a grain-growing farmer in this house who does not understand some of the abuses that take place there. There is not a farmer who does not know that mixing is practised in country houses. The evidence before the Brown commission in Saskatchewan brought out clearly again and again that mixing is practised in the bins of the country elevators. Why, sir, there is evidence to show that elevator agents at country points, having, say, ten bins at their disposal for special bin purposes, have actually had as many as thirteen, fourteen and fifteen farmers hauling grain to special bins and only ten to put them in.
These are the things that have cropped up. I will give another illustration. We find in the little town of De Winton a Chevrolet truck being used to haul wheat-an isolated instance perhaps, but it may be found in other places also. This Chevrolet truck is weighed empty every day after the wheat has been hauled, and there is a variation of over 900 pounds in the weight of that empty track during thirteen days of hauling; and there has not been a drop of rain in the country in the meantime. Nine hundred pounds variation in the weight of an empty Chevrolet truck in the town of De Winton. I have all the facts in connection with this case and I believe sworn to in an affidavit. An appeal was made to the Board of Grain Commissioners to adjust the discrepancy. What do you think the board did? Did the board send out an inspector at once to check off the scales secretly and quietly? No, the board refused to act and wrote to the complainant: If you will send in an affidavit we will consider the matter. What is the result? The company is notified that Mr. Tom Jones, of De Winton, filed an affidavit with the board to-day that the scales must be out of order, that there is a deficiency of about 900 pounds. The company writes back to the board: We have had a report from our agent that this is not true. The Board of Grain Commissioners having supplied the brass band to warn the elevator agent, now sends an inspector to investigate. Do you think the elevator agent is going to leave his scales untouched? The board defends itself solely on the ground that a clause in the act provides that an investigation shall take place if an affidavit be filed. But in no section of
78594-71^
the act does it say that the board has not power to check off at country elevators. As a matter of fact the Turgeon commission in its report says this:
The board has the power to license elevators and to revoke licenses.
And will the house kindly note this:
We believe that there follows from this power the obligations to exercise some measure of inspection of the way in which the operators of elevators and other licenses deal with the grain producers.
The Turgeon commission further recommended that there should be surprise checkoffs at country elevators, otherwise they never can check up on those problems or difficulties, they never can find out what the elevator agent is doing. If you are going to compel the farmer to send in an affidavit with every complaint, and if the correspondence with the farmer is to be made open to the companies before any investigation is held, you might as well not have the grain act at all for any good it is going to do. If you warn the company beforehand of the action about to be taken, they are certain to safeguard their own interests.


Was that an isolated case
or was it an habitual thing? Because a variation of 15 bushels in a load could not often happen without something being heard of it.


I have
stated there was a variation of 900 pounds in the weight of the empty truck.


Could it not have been for
once a mistake? We have all seen that happen in country elevators.


I presume
the board could, have found it out had they been interested enough to inquire, but apparently they were not. Let me mention this case. A gentleman named Morrison, down in the constituency of the hon. member for Macleod (Mr. Coote), sends in a complaint to the board in writing. The board does not even bother to reply to the complaint; it has not even the courtesy to reply. Mr. Morrison takes the matter up with the member for Macleod. The member for Macleod is quite surprised to find that twenty-nine days have elapsed since the letter was sent and so he wires to the board. The board sends the hon. member a reply by wire but no reply to the man himself, so that the hon. member suggests that the board might have the courtesy to reply directly to the farmer who made the complaint; whereupon the board replies, thirty days after receipt of the com-
I124	COMMONS
Grading of Grain-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
plaint in writing from the farmer. Now is that an efficient functioning? Is that an efficient administration of the grain act? Is that acting as attorney for the grain growers? Is it acting in the capacity of protector of their interests and their rights? A board of this character, Mr. Speaker, is of no value whatever unless it keeps in close personal touch with the growers all the time. A board stationed in Fort William is useless, even though it be a good board, even though it be able to perform efficiently its routine functions. To be effective the board must be itinerant at least during 'the grain moving season. That was recommended also by the Turgeon commission; it was recommended in most emphatic terms. The Board of Grain Commissioners has always resisted the idea of itinerancy of the character suggested by Commissioner Turgeon. I will not mention any names, but one of the commissioners will make the statement to you, "I have travelled thirty thousand miles during the last year." Yes; but I submit that they do not travel to many of the points where they are required. They do not visit the points where controversy is arising. I say to the government, therefore, that if they wish to have the act efficiently administered it will be necessary for them to allow the board-indeed, to compel the board-to be itinerant, to move from point to point throughout the prairie provinces during the grainrfnoving season, so that at any time when a little cancer spot appears they can administer the proper remedy, and administer it speedily. I am satisfied that there are hundreds of complaints that have been really of minor importance and that could have been readily disposed of through personal attention on the part of the board. But instead of that, these complaints have been allowed to rankle, to canker, to grow and spread into the whole community until a situation has arisen such as I stated at the outset, namely, that the board has utterly lost the confidence of the farmers of western Canada.
There are many other points which one feels called upon to discuss in connection with this particular matter, but I come now to the most important factor in arousing the ire of the farmers of the west during the last year. I refer to the question of the so-called hybrid ticket. It Is not necessary for me to go into the whole history of the question. It is sufficient to say that obviously it was the will of the committee of parliament and of parliament itself that- the grower of wheat should have the right to determine the destin-

ation of his wheat after he had grown it. No one disputes that to-day. No one disputes that it was undoubtedly the will of parliament, and the wish Of the pool through whom the grower handles a good deal of his wheat today, that he should have the right to determine where it Should go. After the act is amended the grower gets the right to determine the destination of his grain, and then somebody does something with the schedules to the act. The old ticket is submitted for change, not to parliament but to the governor in council, and a change is brought about by order in council, taking out of the act almost all of clause 150.


On whose recommendation?


On the
recommendation of the board-and it is inserted into the ticket itself. As Mr. Milliken, the legal counsel for the Saskatchewan pool, has said, where five words would have sufficed-


My hon. friend has mads the statement that on the recommendation of. the board there was passed an order in council which takes out of the act practically all of section 150. What does he mean by that?


I did not
say that. At least, I should have said they copied out of the act on to the new ticket almost all of section 150, and left certain other words. So far as that particular change was concerned, although much of it was unnecessary, five words would have sufficed, as Mr. Milliken said; but instead of that forty words odd are transferred from the act, having the effect, as they appear on the ticket, if not of abolishing the rights of the grower, at any rate of permitting the abuse of the ticket. The Minister of Railways (Mr. Dunning) shakes his head. Well, I say this to him definitely. While the wording provided for by the order in council would in itself have caused no harm, if the wording of tne ticket as authorized by the order in council had not been such as it was, the addition of the other words would not either have caused any harm. In his evidence before the committee the other day Mr. Milliken so stated There is no necessity-


Does my hon. friend mean to say that taking a section of an act which embodies a contract and putting that into the form of the contract makes it possible to break the contract which the act provides for?

Grading of Grain-Mr. Garland (Bow River)


When additional words are inserted.


Additional words were
not put in by the order in council, as my hon. friend knows.


The minister is setting up straw men to have the pleasure of punching their noses, and that does not do any good because the hon. gentleman heard me clearly. I have made myself clear in the matter. I have stated definitely that the wording of the act copied into the ticket did not of itself create a situation which would result in a violation of the grower's rights.


The previous ticket was copied from the act. Did not the board do the proper thing when they asked that the ticket be reprinted so as to bring it into conformity with the act as amended at the last session of parliament?


No; and I will tell you why. To have properly recognized the intention of parliament, they should have taken into consideration other clauses in the act as well as that particular one, and instead of putting in the words, " the grain is deliverable to the person on whose account it is taken in the store," the intention would have been more clearly indicated had they said that the grain should be deliverable to the person who owns the grain-the owner of the grain.


My hon. friend surely does not imply that the board should recommend putting into the ticket something which is not in the act. The act provides distinctly that the ticket shall indicate what the act itself states.


The minister says that this question of ownership is settled in the act. There is no question about that, and if that were recognized by everyone else, if everybody understood the act as the Minister of Trade and Commerce understands it, no problem would have arisen. But unfortunately the organized grain trade took advantage of the situation and added certain other words, the effect of which-and, I presume, the deliberate effect-was to take away from the pool men their rights under the grain act so far as the destination of the grain was concerned.
Now, note this point. In October, 1927, the pools asked the board to stop the use of this ticket, stating that it was not prescribed by the act. I make the further assertion that
at no time, either by order in council, by act of this parliament or by any other legal method was this hybrid ticket legalized in any shape or form.


That is right.


That is quite right, yet the Board of Grain Commissioners recognize it as an ordinary ticket for handling purposes; the Board of Grain Commissioners not only permit its use but use the wording of the ticket to compel farmers to accept the diversion of their grain by private grain companies. Can I make my words stronger that that? The Board of Grain Commissioners, knowing all that was meant by the addition of those words and seeing the effect in actual operation, permitted the use of an absolutely illegal ticket which only had the result of taking away from the farmer his right to name the destination of his own grain. Hon. gentlemen may raise the question of contracts until they are black in the face; they may cite the pool contract with the trade; they may cite the grower's agreement with the pool, but that has nothing whatever to do with the Board of Grain Commissioners or the administration of the grain act, and no one recognized that fact more clearly or more distinctly than the Minister of Trade and Commerce when his attention was called to it.
Just at this point I would like to quote to the house the position taken by the minister in this matter. A dispute had arisen between the firm of Thompson Brothers and the Home Grain Company in the little town of Rowley, which resulted in an investigation being held towards the end of January of this year. After the hearing had been completed Mr. Boyd, chairman of the board, decided that since this involved an interpretation of the contract he was not in a position to give any ruling on the facts, and suggested that a court case be started. It was not Mr. Boyd's business to suggest that; his business was ten administer the act and to say, "We rule that in order to give the farmer justice under this act you must divert his grain to the terminal of his own choice." He did not say so, however; he said "We must have the court's interpretation before we can give a ruling." This decision was communicated to the Minister of Trade and Commerce, and in giving the house his reply I ask hon. members to notice how clearly the minister recognized the-situation and how willing he was to meet it. I have no blame to attach to the minister at this time; my attack is entirely on the Board of Grain Commissioners because of their fail-
1126	COMMONS
Grading of Grain-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
ure to function. I quote the telegram sent by Mr. Malcolm to Mr. Boyd under date of January 28, 1929:
Further replying your message from Calgary twenty-fourth instant re pool contracts. Parliament amended law to assure producer's right to determine destination of his own grain. Board should take position that no contract between pool and grain trade should deprive producer of that right. Government approves board's recommendation that board bear expense of court action to sustain grain act in this regard.
That was the position taken by the Minister of Trade and Commerce and I applaud him for it, but why hiave not the Board of Grain Commissioners taken that identical position ior the last two years? There is only one obvious answer; either they are stupid to the point of idiocy or they have turned their sympathies directly to the trade instead of to the producer. There is no other possible explanation of their actions. I have before me the entire correspondence which passed between the Board of Grain Commissioners and the farmers of Alberta, and in case after case the board have used the hybrid ticket and the acceptance of this hybrid ticket by the farmer even though unwittingly or even under protest as an excuse by which they can suggest to him that he is in a difficult position and had better abide by the situation. What an amazing thing! In some cases they have succeeded in " coaxing," as Mr. Miliiken said, the grain trade to recognize the situation and to give the farmer his right; they have succeeded in doing so by coaxing, but in no case that I know of have they attempted to enforce the provisions of the act under the powers given them. They have the necessary power; there is no special need for them to come to parliament and say they have not this power. It is true that the enforcement might create a momentary difficulty or some local dissatisfaction, but one or two cases of the exercise of their powers would quickly bring the trade to terms and compel1 them to recognize the rulings of the board.
Why, Mr. Speaker, I have heard one of the commissioners stand before a convention of several hundred farmers and farm women and tell that convention in eloquent language that he had no more power and the Board of Grain Commissioners had no more power to enforce the act than any delegate present at the convention. Just imagine a situation of that kind. Speaking at the convention of the United Farmers of Alberta, at Edmonton, Mr. Robinson said:
.... something evidently overlooked by the U.F.A. board or the spokesman for the board, and that is the Board of Grain Commissioners has no more authority to carry out any of the

provisions of this act than any delegate in this room. They have unlimited scope as to making regulations but they have no authority to enforce them.
As a matter of fact, they have the authority to revoke the Licenses of the companies; they can close up the warehouses, but as I said a moment ago that might create a temporary difficulty especially to the producers of wheat. This is just an illustration in passing. Note the delicacy of the situation; here are the members of the Board of Grain Commissioners, appointed at handsome salaries and pretty handsome perquisites, to administer the grain act. That board has been in existence since 1912; all the present members have not been on it long but it has been in existence since then. In all the years that have passed these problems have been arising, and if you ask them they will frankly admit that during those years they have made rulings at times which have been utterly ignored by those against whom the rulings were made. Yet in all those years I do not know of a single case in which they have come back to this parliament and said, "We cannot enforce the act; we have no power to enforce it." So they have waited until the year 1928, when a situation has arisen which threatens utterly to overthrow them and dismiss them from office; now they turn around and tell the farmers at a meeting attended by hundreds of the organized group of the province of Alberta that they have no power to enforce the act and that in effect they have been receiving money under false pretences since their appointment to office. What an amazing situation; what a criminal situation, to find any board accepting handsome salaries annually to administer an act when the rulings which they may have to make as a result of that administration have no weight and they have no power to enforce them! Have they ever asked for power from parliament at any time? I know only too well that a few years ago parliament readily would have agreed to any enlargement of powers the board might have requested; we would have given them the necessary policing powers if they had sought them. I do not think there is any doubt but that this parliament is as anxious to do what is right for the growers of wheat and to see that the act is justly administered as are any of the growers in western Canada.
Here is another peculiar situation. Apparently this year, when a serious matter arose, the Board of Grain Commissioners would not undertake any investigation unless affidavits were sent in. I know of many cases in which

Grading of Grain-Mr. Vallance
such affidavits were sent in; as a matter of fact I helped prepare one for Thompson Brothers in Rawley. What did the Board of Grain Commissioners do? They dropped a little note to the grain company concerned and said, "Here, we have this complaint from Thompson Brothers; make a reply to it." The only reply sent in by the company was an ordinary statement not made under oath and not conforming in any way to the rigid regulations enforced by the board with respect to the growers. That is absolutely unfair, and I am informed that cases have arisen in which the board have called up the company on the telephone and said, "We have this complaint against your company; kindly pay attention to it." They deal with the trade on the one hand by accepting ordinary documents, letters signed by a general manager or by a solicitor for the company, but a farmer must file a sworn affidavit. I have no complaint to make with regard to that except that in many cases it is an unnecessarily rigid and stupid regulation and prevents the proper functioning of the board and the proper administration of the act. The Board of Grain Commissioners should be intelligent enough to know they should not enforce that peculiar affidavit form of filing complaints in all cases. It is quite true it does apply to some cases, but it was passed upon by the board and used by them as a means of delaying rather than assisting in clearing up any difficulties which might arise.
There is much more to be said on this subject, but I am sure others will follow me, and in closing I simply wish to say this: that the organized farmers of my province at annual convention assembled, and after full consideration of this situation and having heard a member of the commission in his own defence and in defence of the board, passed a resolution, with one dissenting vote, in which they asked for the dismissal of the present board and the appointment of a board consisting of five members, one of whom should be a resident of Alberta and one of Saskatchewan. I suppose the residence of the other members would depend upon the will of the members from other parts of Canada. We specifically asked for that in order that there might be a personal contact between the grower and the representative of the commission. It is not fair to us to have a board, the principal work of which is done in Winnipeg or Fort William, operating so closely with the trade and practically never coming in touch with the growers. I would ask the government to take into consideration the dismissal of the present board of grain commissioners.


Is the hon. member in favour of or opposed to the motion before the house?


I am in
favour of widening the scope of this resolution. As it reads at present it does not include the term "administration of the Grain Act." If that term were included in the resolution so as to make a full investigation possible, it would relieve my mind of a great deal of worry.


Mr. Speaker, I have listened with a great deal of interest to the hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Garland), and it is quite easy for those of us who have some knowledge of marketing conditions and farming in general to follow him. Until quite recently there was a resolution upon the order paper standing in the name of the hon. member for Rose town (Mr. Evans), and I had been a little afraid that we would not reach that resolution (because I realized that it would have caused considerable discussion and probably argument. I agree with all the hon. member has said, but I think we should have a short resume of what happened prior to this last year and the conditions which prevail to-day. This would assist the hon. members who come from other parts of Canada and who may not be acquainted with the conditions prevailing.
For a number of years the farmers of western Canada were obliged to market their grain through the Northwestern Grain Dealers' Association. It was the common practice for the farmer to ship his wheat through a line elevator to the commission house he desired to deal with. The farmer believed, rightly or wrongly, that he had that privilege up until 1924-25, and then he suddenly realized that he did not have that right. At that time we had created one of the greatest cooperative marketing organizations which this world has ever seen, and in order to make that a success it was absolutely necessary that we should have physical control of as much of our crop as possible. At that time the pool did not have the local facilities with which to handle their wheat; they were forced to depend upon the facilities belonging to the Northwest Grain Dealers' Association, and if we had not the right to designate the terminal to which our wheat should go we were going to lose a great deal of the benefit from that cooperative organization. In the session of 1925-26 this house passed what is commonly called the Campbell amendment, but owing to the dissolution of the house it did not find a place on the statute book. During 1926 we again considered this matter and the amendment passed. We had the right to put our grain

Grading oj Grain-Mr. Vallance
through any line elevator and ship it to the pool terminal. Those of us who were privileged to be in the house at that time well remember the lobby which was put on by the Northwest Grain Dealers' Association in opposition to this amendment. They realized that if this great cooperative organization obtained the right of designating the terminal, they would then lose the whip-hand over the farmer. However, it went through and, as we thought, we had that right.
In 1927 the pool still found that they had not facilities to t