Mr. CAMERON R. McINTOSH (North Battleford) presented the second report of the select standing committee on industrial and international relations as follows:
Wednesday, May 1st, 1929.
The select standing committee on industrial and international relations beg leave to present the following as their second report:
\our committee has had under consideration ,Allon adopted by the house on February 14th, 1929, as follows:
That the committee on industrial and international relations be authorized to investigate and report on insurance against unemployment, sickness and invalidity.
The following witnesses appeared before your committee to give evidence on the subject matter ot investigation:
A.	Grant Fleming, M.D., Professor of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Montreal: J.
G.	Fitzgerald, Professor of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, University of Toronto; Gerald H. Brown, Assistant Deputy Minister of Labour, Ottawa; R. A. Rigg, Director of Employment Service of Canada, Ottawa; Andrew
D.	Watson, Dominion Department of Insurance, Ottawa; W. Stewart Edwards, Deputy Minister of Justice, Ottawa; Robert H. Coats, Dominion Statistician, Ottawa.

Industrial Relations Committee
Dr. Grant Fleming and Dr. Fitzgerald gave evidence dealing specially with sickness insurance.	.
1.	Your committee would reaffirm the position taken in the final report adopted on June 6th of last session, namely:
That your committee accept and endorse the principle of unemployment insurance, based on compulsory contributions derived from the state, employer and employees.	,
2.	Your committee recognizes that, while it is highly desirable that such legislation should be uniform in all the provinces, and while social insurance has a federal aspect, nevertheless, according to the Department of Justice, under our constitution legislative jurisdiction in relation to the establishment of a compulsory system of unemployment insurance is vested exclusively in the provincial legislatures.
3.	Your committee finds that the provinces, on being consulted by the Department of Labour with regard to their attitude towards the establishment of a general scheme, do not appear to be prepared to take immediate action.
4.	Under these circumstances, your committee submits the following recommendations:
(a)	That with regard to sickness insurance, the Department of Pensions and National Health be requested to initiate a comprehensive survey of the field of public health, with special reference to a national health program. In this, it is believed that it would be possible to secure the cooperation of the provincial and municipal health departments, as well as the organized medical profession.
(b)	That in the forthcoming census, provision should be made for the securing of the fullest possible data regarding the extent of unemployment and sickness, and that this should be compiled and published at as early a date as possible.	.
(c)	That the federal government be requested to bring the subject matter of this reference before the next federal-provincial conference; and your committee suggests, when the agenda for such a conference is being arranged that the provincial governments be invited to send representatives of the employer and employee to discuss the subject matter of this report.
Your committee further recommends that 750 copies in English and 200 copies in French of this report, and the evidence upon which it is based, be printed in blue book form, and that standing order No. 64 be suspended in relation thereto.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
(Sgd.) Cameron R. McIntosh, Chairman.
May I ask a question arising out of the report? When will the chairman of the committee move its adoption?


I intend to ask the house on Friday to adopt the report. Notice of motion will be given to-morrow.


PAPERS TABLED RESPECTING VARIOUS: POSTMASTERSHIPS
I beg to lay on the table the reports asked for by the hon. member for Royal (Mr. Jones) with reference to posbmasterships at Shanklin, Forks, Jemseg, and Jordan Mountain, N.B.


I wish to table copies of documents in possession of the Civil Service Commission relating to the postmastership at Hawkesbury,. Ontario. Concerning this report I may say that it is the last of the files requested by hon.. members on the other side to complete the files already tabled by the Postmaster General (Mr. Yeniot) with reference to certain postmasterships. In certain cases the Civil Service Commission have pointed out that the files tabled were already complete and that they had no documents to add thereto.


The house resumed, from Thursday, April 25, consideration of the motion of Mr. Parent for concurrence in the second report of the select standing committee on public accounts.
On Thursday last a report was presented to this house by the hon. member for Quebec West (Mr. Parent) from the public accounts committee, in which it was asked that the powers of the committee be enlarged in order to include certain items which are not contained in the Auditor General's report for the year 1928. I may say that the only matter before the public accounts committee at the present moment is the Auditor General's report which was referred to it on motion of the Minister of Finance in February of this year.
In the course of the discussion in the public accounts committee it was found desirable to investigate certain items, not in the current Auditor's General's report, and inasmuch as we felt that we did not have the power to grant this request it was thought advisable to refer the matter to this house, which is the creator of the public accounts committee, in order that the house might give us the necessary instructions. There seems to have been a protracted debate on this question, as I note by Hansard, all parties agreeing that
Reports of Committees

these items should be investigated, with some thinking it was unnecessary and others believing it advisable to obtain authority from this house in view of the fact that a precedent was being created. There seemed to be a general consensus of opinion that if an item appearing in the report of this year which related to previous years could be traced back, it could be investigated and discussed, and that being the case we agreed to accept this suggestion of the house, which was very helpful to us and which put an end to our difficulty. However, there appear to be certain items in the Auditor General's report for the year 1927 which I understand are not related to anything in the report of this year; consequently we thought it would be advisable to obtain authority to investigate these particular items. Although only certain items were asked for, the committee, in its desire to give the inquisitors, if I may use the term, the fullest latitude, thought it well to request that the entire report of the Auditor General for last year too be brought down in order that we might have it before us. Hon. gentlemen *opposite asked for only two or three items, but we felt that it would not be fair to those *who are conducting the inquisition to limit them to those items; we felt that that would not be enough. They asked for one little loaf and one little fish but we are willing to multiply that by the five thousand items in the report so that every hungry member on the other side may be satisfied.
That being the case, Mr. Speaker, I ask that the report presented on March 24 by the hon. member for Quebec South be adopted.
Motion (Mr. Parent), agreed to.


Mr. PAUL MERCIER (St. Henri) for Mr. Morin (Saint Hyacinthe-Rouville) moved:
That the third and fourth reports of the select standing committee on standing orders, which were presented to the house on the 23rd of April, as set forth at page 290 of the votes and proceedings, be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	How many boys under eighteen years of age detained in penitentiaries of Canada are first offenders?
2.	What were the offences for which they were punished by penitentiary confinement?
3.	How many came from institutions of detention under provincial control?

Mr. Lapointe:
1.	40.
2.
Manslaughter	 3
Breaking, entering and	theft	 17
Theft	 5
Indecent assault	 1
False pretences	 1
Forgery and uttering	 1
Robbery with violence	 2
Theft from mails and	burglary.. ..	1
Theft of automobile	 2
Sending letters of threats	 1
Robbery from person	 1
Shopbreaking and theft	 2
Breaking, entering, stealing and burglary	 2
Shopbreaking, theft of auto, garagebreaking and theft	 1
3.	26.
NATIONAL DEFENCE-EXPENDITURE	.


What was the estimated expenditure for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1914, for national defence?


1.	How many malting plants are operated in Ontario?
2.	What licenses or fees were paid by malting plants in Ontario for the calendar year 1928?
3.	How many malting plants are operated in Canada?
4.	What licenses or fees were paid by malting plants in Canada for the calendar year 1928?
5.	What customs duties were collected for the calendar year 1928, on barley or other grains to be used for malting purposes?
6.	What was the total amount of excise tax collected from the malting industry for the calendar year 1928?
7.	What was the total amount of sales tax collected from the malting industry for the calendar year 1928?


1.	Two.
2.	$400.
3.	Eight.
4.	$1,450.	_
5.	Figures are not available of duties collected on grains imported for malting purposes as distinguished from grains imported for other purposes.
6.	The excise duty collected on malt entered for consumption by maltsters during the year 1928 = $2,437,329.03.
7.	$8.93.


1.	Did a fire occur on the property generally known as the Russell house after the government had arranged to purchase the property:
2.	If so, to whom was insurance paid, if any ?
3.	If insurance was paid, what was the amount?


1.	Yes.
2.	To the Russell Company and by them transferred to Federal District Commission.
3.	$13,498.90.


1.	What are the names of the officials of the
Department of Health in the inside service and their respective salaries?	,
2.	Haw many physicians are employed in: (a) the inside service; (b) the outside service?
3.	What is the total number of persons employed by the Department of Health?


1.
Dr. J. A. Amyot	$8,000
Dr. J. J. Heagerty	 4,620
F.	H. Brown	
3,480G.	Heidman	
3,480Maurice Morisset	
3,420Henry O'Brien	
1,680Miss M.	I. Hickson	
1,680Miss G.	Drouin	
1,680Miss E.	Slater	
1,680Miss K.	E. Brownrigg	
1,680A.	M. Dare	
1,680Miss Lucille Roy	
1,200Miss M.	M. Smiles	
1,200Miss D.	M. Maginnes	
1,140C.	G. Morgan	
1,500W. J. Reilly	
1.380Miss R. F. Stringer	
1,020E.	A. Parson	
540J.	Gale	
2,400G. L. Morse	
1.620Miss L. O'Brien	
1,380A. E. Bennett	
1,080
Questions
A. H. F. Ross	$1,020
W. J. Tanner	 1,020
H.	M. Lancaster	 5,220
A. LeMoine	 3,540
W. Y. Kitto	 3,300
F.	C. Collier	 2,700
L. E. Johnson	 2,700
R. D. Whitmore	 2,700
James Dick	 2,700
Miss S. E. Wright	 2,700
A. L. Davidson	 2,460
F. E. Artlett	 2,340
A. Wright	 2,160
D.	J. Potter	 1,260
Jos. Ladouceur	 1,480
E.	Pilon	 1,440
Miss M. A. Brouse	 1.140
Miss V. Clement	 1,380
Miss M. F. Lembert	 1,140
L. P. Teevens	 3,420
Miss V. M.	Argue	
1,620Mrs. M. L.	Proulx	
1,380Miss M. B.	Lavell	
1,380Miss A. H.	Gavin	
1,320Miss B. Trepanier	
780C. H. L. Sharman	
3,300K.	C. Hossick	
2,520F.	T. Wall	
1,920W. E. Caswell	
1.680Miss E. M.	Durack	
1.380Miss M. E.	O'Brien	
1,380Miss M. E.	Jamieson	
1,140Miss M. O.	Fitzgerald	
960Miss R. M. Crilly	
720J.	Anderson	
3,600A.	T. Allen	
2,700J. F. Shaw	
2,400J. Y. Noonan	
1.920John Lynch	
1,680W. A. Buchanan	
1,440Miss K. M. Dunbar	
1,680H.	C. Quevillon	
1,380Miss Margaret E. Hill	
1,380Miss Lola BeMiveau	
1,380Dr. J. D. Page	
5,300G.	H. Parry	
2,880Miss Mary E. Hill	
1,680Miss E. E. Washington.. ..	1,500Miss H. A. Kemmis	
1,080Dr. Helen MacMurchy	
4,500Miss W. O'Connor	
1,680Miss M. J. Cassidy	
1,320Miss H. Finley	
1,020Miss E. C. Gourley	
1,380Dr. N. M. Harris	
5,120Dr. F. W. Ward	
4,140Jas. Gibbard	
2,940C. W. Chapman	
2,820B.	W. Culyer	
2,160
Questions

L. Farrell	SI ,200
F. R. Browning	 1,020
E. S. Meston	 780
J. M. Lee	 780
Miss G. Leyden	 600
Miss M. A. Lallier	 1,620
W. J. Henry	 1,320
B.	Evan-Parry	 3,420
Aubrey Fraser	 1,080
C.	E. Campbell	 1,080
Ernest D. Haines	 1,080
C.	A. Skuce	 720
Miss Rose Levitin	 1,080
Miss M. T. D'Aoust	 1,080
Miss M, L. Devlin	 1,080
Miss E. McKay	 1,080
Miss M. I. Stewart	 720
R. Pelland	 720
M.	S. Hunt	 420
J. Naubert	 1,140
Miss G. Racicot	 720
2.	(a) Inside service:
Full time	 5
(b) Outside service:
Full	time	
44Part	time	on	salary....	62
Part time on basis of fees for services rendered .. 45
3.
Full	time	307Part	time	on	salary....	68
Part time on basis of fees for services rendered .. 45
These figures do not include the various collectors of national revenue who act for the department in the collection of sick mariners' dues under the provisions of part V of the Canada Shipping Act, R.S. 1927.


What were the importations of butter, cheese, eggs, mutton and beef from:	(a) Australia;
(b) New Zealand, during the first three months of 1929 into Canada?


Canada's Imports of Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Mutton and Beef from (a) Australia; (b) New Zealand (Three months ended March 31, 1929)
Commodity	Unit of Quantity	Imports from Australia	Imports from New Zealand	Quantity	Value	Quantity	ValueButter	Pound Pound Dozen Pound Pound Pound Pound	78,400	$ 33,371	17,518,302 195,886	$ 6,179,980 37,059Cheese	Eggs in the shell	Eggs, n.o.p	Mutton and lamb, fresh, chilled or frozen... Beef, fresh, chilled or frozen	2,304,335 876,425	296,906 72,597	19,469 287,383	2,941 25,909Beef, pickled, in barrels	
Note:-Impossible to segregate imports of mutton from "mutton and Iamb."


1 * In reference to the government contracts supervision committee, in what years were reports issued To the government or to parliament since this committee was set up with a staff under Colonel L. It. LaFleche?
2.	If no reports have been issued by the staff responsible for the work of the government contracts supervision committee, why has this not been done?


Regular month to month reports of all purchases, sales and transfers are made to the Minister of Finance.
IMr. J. H. King.]


1.	Who was medical inspector of Indians on the Swan lake, Manitoba, reserve from 1917 to 1922?
2.	Who was medical inspector on said reserve from 1922 to 1926?
3.	Who has been medical inspector from 1926 to the present date?
4.	When changes of medical inspector of Indians on the Swan lake, Manitoba, reserve took place, what were the reasons for the changes, and upon whose recommendation were they made?

Questions


1.	Dr. G. Pennefather, Holland, Man., 1917-
Sept. 1922.	,
2.	Dr. G. H. Johnston, Swan Lake, Man., Sept. 1922-Aug. 17, 1926.
3.	August 17th, 1926, to July 12, 1927, Dr.
G.	Pennefather, Holland, Man., July 12th, 1927, to date Dr. G. H. Johnston, Swan Lake, Man.
4.	In 1926 it was decided to change from the call system to salaried medical attendant for the Swan Lake Indians. The position was advertised by the Civil Service Commission and Dr. Pennefather of Holland was appointed. It was found that the Indians could not receive as good service from Holland, a distance of 14 miles from the reserve, as from Swan lake, a distance of 4 miles from the reserve where Dr. Johnston was located, and the call system was reverted to in July, 1927, and Dr. Johnston appointed by the Department of Indian Affairs.


1 What is the position and salary of Russell
K.	Odell in the Department of the Interior?
2.	Did he have any technical or professional
training before appointment to this position, other than mere office work?	.
3.	Does he hold any degree from a university
or school of science?	.
4.	What is the justification for paying this man such a large salary and placing him over the head of technical and professional men m the same department?


1.	Assistant Director, Natural Resources Intelligence Service, $4,620 per annum.
2.	Yes.
3.	Equivalent qualifications satisfactory to the department and Civil Service Commission.
4.	His ability to perform the duties of the position to the complete satisfaction of the department.


1.	What is the position and salary of George P. Mackenzie in the Department of the Interior?
2.	Did he have any technical or professional training before being appointed to this position. other than mere office work?
3.	Does he hold any degree from a university or school of science?
4.	Has he a seaman's certificate?
5.	What is the justification for paying this man such a large salary and placing him over the head of technical and professional men in the same department?


1.	Exploration and development officer, Canadian Arctic, $5,120, and $3,000 living allowance per annum.
2.	Equivalent qualifications satisfactory to department and Civil Service Commission.
3.	No.
4.	No.
5.	His ability to perform the duties of the position to the complete satisfaction of the department.


1.	Has the Department of the Interior finished its experimental work at the Alfred peat bogs, and, if so, what conclusion has the department arrived at with regard to the feasibility of producing and marketing peat fuel upon a commercial basis?
2.	Is the plant which has been assembled at Alfred now completely efficient for the recovery of peat fuel and is it an adequate commercial unit for economical operation? If not, what remains to be done, and what alterations or additions does it require, and what will be the cost of necessary additions?
3.	Will the government operate the Alfred peat plant this year?
4.	If so, what tonnage of commercial fuel is
expected to be recovered from the seasons s operations?	.	,
5.	Has the peat bog plant at Alfred been transferred by the Department to Peat Fuels Limited? If so, at what date and under what terms and conditions of lease, sale, operation or otherwise ?
0.	Is it the intention of the government to merchandise and market the production of said plant or *null the same be handled as prior to 1927 or by Peat Fuels Limited?
7. Has the government considered the policy of paying a bounty based upon tonnage to be payable to producers who might embark in the industry?


1 and 2. The Department of Mines, and not the Department of the Interior, is responsible for the experimental work done at the Alfred peat bog.
The operations in 1928 indicated that additional power was necessary for operation of the plant at full capacity. A complete commercial demonstration is contingent upon the installation of this power.
The marketing problem has not been specially investigated by the Department of Mines, but is believed to be mainly a question of advertising and salesmanship. _
3 and 4. The government considers it inadvisable to answer these questions at present.
5.	No.	_
6 The government considers it inadvisable to answer this question at present.
7. Consideration has not been given.
Questions


1.	How many typewriters are in use in the stenographic branch of the House of Commons?
2.	What makes are they?
3.	How many years have they been in use in this branch?
4.	How long were they in use before being taken to this branch, and in what departments?
5.	How many new machines, if any, were bought in each of the last ten years?
6.	What is the longest time any of the machines in this branch have been in use?
7.	Were any of the machines now in use salvaged from the fire?


1. 80.
2.	Underwood, Remington, L. C. Smith, Monarch and Royal.
3.	From 1 to 16 years.
4.	No information.
5.	2.
6.	16 years.
7.	Yes.


1.	How many preventive officers are there in the county of Inverness?
2.	Who are they?
3.	What is the salary of each?
4.	How much did each receive for wages and for expenses during the year 1928?


1.	The preventive service is a mobile force and officers are appointed for the whole province and not for any particular county or district.
There are four officers with headquarters at Cheticamp, Inverness, Mabou and Port Hood.
2 and 3.
Salary $1,320
A.	Burns	it '	per annum uA.	J. Campbell	it	aR.	D. MacDonald	(t	aJ.	S. MacLean	tt	aSalary	ExpensesA.	Burns	$1,230	$16.25A.	J. Campbell.	1,290	28.30R.	D. MacDonald	1,230	3.30J.	S. MacLean	1,260	54.901926	1927 1928Not in employ	A.	Burns	in 1926	6 4A.	J. Campbell	it	10 11R.	D. MacDonald	tt	J.	S. MacLean	it	7 1


1.	Who were the Commissioners of Internal Economy of the House of Commons for the years 1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929?
2.	How many meetings of thi9 committee have been held in each of these four years and on what dates were they held?


1.	1926-Hon. Messrs. J. H. King, W. R Motherwell, E. M. MacDonald and George
H.	Boivin.
1926-27-Hon. Messrs. W. R. Motherwell, J H. King, J. C. Elliott and Fernand Rin-fret.
1928-	Hon. Messrs. W. R. Motherwell, J.
H.	King, J. C. Elliott and Fernand Rinfret.
1929-	Hon. Messrs. W. R. Motherwell, J. H. King, J. C. Elliott and Fernand Rinfret.
2.	(a) 1926-4.
1926-27-2.
1928-	1.
1929-	1.
(b) 1926-1st of February, 1926.
15th of February, 1926.
22nd of February, 1926.
25th of March, 1926.
1926-27-14th of December, 1926.
9th of March, 1927.
1928-	8th of May, 1928.
1929-	16th of April, 1929.


What are the names and salaries of members of the civil service in each department who devote full or part time to the duty of public purchases and correlative duties connected therewith, and including the names and salaries of stenographers, typists and other clerical assistance?


What are the names of the departments or branches of the public service which support establishments and equipment for:	(a) precise levelling; (b) topographical maps; (c) surveying work; (d) multigraphing, mimeographing and duplicating service; (e) photostat, blue printing, photo-lithographic and photographic service; (f) book bindery work?


1.	How many civil servants in the past year were deputed by the government to represent it in various foreign countries at conventions or for other purposes, or were sent abroad by the government for research work of a scientific character?

Trade Relations with Russia
2.	What are the names of the said civil servants, in what department are they employed, and were their expenses paid by the government?	,
3.	If the government paid all expenses, what was the total of said same?
4.	What was the specific purpose of such visits to said foreign countries, and did each civil servant make a report to the government?
5.	Is it the intention of the government to discontinue the practice of giving members of the civil service a trip abroad as mentioned above, at the public expense?


In connection with this
question I would like to point out to the hon. gentleman that the government should not be asked to reply to the fifth paragraph, which concerns the intentions of the government.
It is not customary to disclose the intentions of the government in advance, and further I submit that the question is more ;n the nature of a demand rather than a request for information. With that reservation this might stand as an order for return.


1.	Items in the customs tariff which are free under British preference?
2.	Items which have British preferential duties.
3.	How many of these have been put on since 1921.


Mr. BLACK (Halifax, for Mr. Cahanl:
For a copy of all correspondence and other documents relating to the dismissal of C. H. Couture of St. Bernard, county of Dorchester, province of Quebec, from his office as inspector of weights and measures, in or about February, 1927, and the appointment of a successor to that office.
For a copy of all letters, telegrams, correspondence and documents, of whatsoever kind, including therein correspondence of and with the Civil Service Commission, relating to applications for the position of customs officer at Mahone bay, in the county of Lunenburg, and the appointment of Francis Hollaway to that office.


For a copy of all correspondence and telegrams as between the members of the provincial government of British Columbia, or any resident of that province, and the Department of Public Works, concerning the construction of a trail or road along the Duncan river, as provided for in a vote of $7,500 at the last session of this parliament.


For a copy of all correspondence and documents necessary to complete the file as contained in return No. 163 tabled by order of the house at the last session of this parliament, and relating to the appointment and dismissal of the postmaster at Renata, British Columbia.


For a copy of all papers, letters, correspondence and other documents relating to the dismissal of Mrs. Tupper as postmistress at Brazil Lake, in the County of Yarmouth, in or about the year 1927.
DISTRIBUTION OF HANSARD Mr. J. ARTHUR DENIS (St. Denis) (Translation):	Three weeks ago, I requested
that the French speaking members be placed on the same footing as their English speaking colleagues in regard to the distribution of Hansard, I mean that Hansard should be delivered to us at 11 a.m.
Notwithstanding the assurance given to us, Sir, we do not yet receive it at that hour.
I again request that we be placed on the same footing as the English speaking members, and, if nothing further is done, I shall be forced to demand the dismissal of the official in charge of the distribution of Hansard.


The French and English versions?


Both.


Instructions will be given to that effect.


On the orders of the day:
I
would like to ask the right hon the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) if the government is willing that trade delegations from Rusia should be established in Canada along similar lines to those already established in England, Australia, South Africa and the United States, and whether the government is willing to vise the passports of the trade delegates?


I am sorry that I am not
wholly familiar with the manner in which Russian trade delegations are established in the United States, Great Britain and other parts of the empire, but possibly I can give the hon. member the information which he desires.
Civil Service-Promotions

When the trade agreement between Canada and Russia was terminated it was made plain that the government had no desire to discourage trade between Russia and Canada and that we did not intend to embarrass bona fide trading between the two countries. The agreement terminated certain quasi-diplomatic privileges which the Russian agency in Montreal possessed at the time. I understand that it is customary for buying and selling commissions from Russia, to visit the United States, Great Britain and other parts of the empire and that they have been permitted to come into these different countries freely for the purpose of trading transactions. This country has always been prepared to grant similar privileges to these trading commissions.


And to vise the passports?


In order to
get into the country the passports may have to be vised.


On the orders of the day:
I
desire to call the attention of the house to a return tabled on April 26 by the Secretary of State (Mr. Rinfret) on behalf of the Civil Service Commission. The return had reference to a question which I placed on the order paper early in the month of April and which was passed as an order for return on April 10. The first part of my question read as follows:
In cases of promotion within the departments, is it customary for the Civil Service Commission to hold examinations when a candidate has: (a) received from the department the highest rating; (b) has had the longest term of service; (c) has been recommended for promotion by the commission's own board of examiners?
The answer received from the commission was as follows:
The commission holds written examinations in connection with cases of promotion only when there is sufficient closeness between the rating of the leading candidates to justify such a course being taken, or when it appears necessary to obtain further evidence of the qualifications of the candidates by means of a written test.
The second question is not material. The third question was as follows:

Since June, 1925, in how many eases, when all the elements favourable to an applicant as outlined in question No. 1 appear on the record, has the ordinary procedure been disregarded and examinations ordered?
That appears to me to be a pretty plain question, but it is answered by the Civil Service Commission as follows:
Answered by question No. 1.
I would ask the Secretary of State to instruct the commission that when questions are asked and passed by this house to the commission, proper answers should be given. I would ask the Secretary of State so to instruct the Civil Service Commission in order that I may obtain a proper answer to my question.


I will bring the matter to the attention of the commission. In submitting replies from the commission, which is an independent body, I do not, of course, accept responsibility for the replies.


On the orders of the day:
Would the right hon. the Prime Minister advise whether a new gentleman's agreement has been entered into with Japan regarding the entry of Japanese into Canada, as was suggested by his remarks of last session, and if so, will he give the house the particulars regarding same?


I gave the house last
session particulars of the revision of the agreement which we had restricting and limiting the number of Japanese immigrants entering Canada. The new arrangement contemplates the admission of not more than 150 per year, which includes women and children as well as men. It was contended by Japan that the old agreement contained no limitation with respect to women and children, but the new provision limits the total immigration to 150 per year.


I understood that
there were to be further negotiations.


The arrangement was fully consummated at the time. Advantage was taken of the arrangement whereby each country was to appoint a minister to the country of the other, by providing that the passports of Japanese immigrants coming to Canada would be vised by the Canadian minister residing in Tokyo, or by some member of his staff, and that the provisions would go into full effect as soon as the Canadian legation was opened in Japan.

Administration of Post Office Department


Hon. J. A. ROBB (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
['The hon. gentleman is taking the year 1926, and he has shown there was a surplus of $524,778.48, and that during the years following, 1927 and 1928, there were deficits ranging from $1,629,000 to $1,S50,000. He should have remembered that in 1926 the reduction from three cents to two cents was made in postage; that with one stroke of the pen the receipts of the Post Office Department, had there been no increase in volume of business, would have been reduced by $6,000,000, but the volume of business has so increased since 1926 that we have almost brought that deficit down to a negligible amount. As to the estimated deficit reported for the fiscal year ended March 31 1929, it is true that deficit is estimated at approximately $2,500,000. I am dealing now with round figures. That is not surprising when it is considered that we have opened many new rural routes during last year and the year before; that we have extended the air mail service; that it cost last year somewhere in the vicinity of $400,000 or $500,000 more than we expended in the past; that under the Civil Service Act there have been statutory increases in the salaries of the employees of the postal department, and many more increases which I can explan as each item is taken up. For instance, in the item under discussion, there is an increase in salaries and allowances of $339,530. The total estimate for salaries and allowances for the fiscal year 1929-1930 is the amount provided for the fiscal year 1928-1929, plus $339,530, which is made up as follows: 1878 statutory increases which could not be avoided, and which are granted after the approval of the Civil Service Commission, amounting to $206,202 ; 235 additional positions required, owing to the increased volume of mail and to provide for the new and improved postal facilities afforded the public, $132,310-\nProgress reported.\nTHE ROYAL AiSSENT']
Mr. Speaker, some days ago, on a similar motion,
I moved an amendment which was in the nature of a vote of censure upon the Postmaster General (Mr. Veniot). It was based upon his action in connection with the appointment by the Civil Service Commission of a postmaster at the town of Simcoe and the rejection of that appointment by the Postmaster General. That amendment was defeated. In the debate however many facts which were not known to me when the motion was launched, were brought out, and in the discussion that has taken place during the last few days in committee of the whole on the estimates of the Postmaster General, further information has come to the attention of the house. Had that information been available when I moved the first motion, I would have made it more general in character, and I propose to-day to move another motion. The facts that have been disclosed during the past few days must, I feel sure, have startled the house, the press and the people of Canada. The discussion has not at all been completed; only a comparatively small number of the files that have been brought down have been examined, but sufficient has been disclosed, as I have said, to startle the people of Canada. The background, of course, of all this discussion, is the Civil Service Commission and the attitude of the Postmaster General toward that commission. I do not propose to take up very much time in reviewing the result of the discussion of the past few days, and, indeed, I do not think it is necessary to do so, because the house is thoroughly familiar with what has occurred. As the Postmaster General desires to go to Great Britain as Canada's representative at the postal congress-


Please do not let that interfere with the accomplishment of your duties.


-and as under the rules of the house there would be no other opportunity of making a motion such as I have been proposing to make for several days, it appears desirable that the opinion of the house should be at this time crystallized. Therefore, I propose to move an amendment. As I have said, the background of all this is the Civil Service Commission and the attitude of the Postmaster General toward it.
Let me review some of the facts that have been disclosed in the last few days. In thirty-two instances the Postmaster General rejected the appointments of the Civil Service Commission. Some of the files have 'been examined, but the examination is not completed. I am told by some hon. gentlemen, who are particularly interested in these files and who have examined them, that in some cases returned soldiers have been rejected in favour of civilians. In at least one case, that of Spruce Lake, there were two rejections in succession. In the case of Picton, the Postmaster General rejected the appointment of the Civil Service Commission although that appointment followed the recommendation of his own inspector. A gentleman who had been assistant postmaster for many years was passed over, and another gentleman who had been instrumental in formulating charges against the postmaster, who was dismissed really on a suspicion, was appointed to the office. We have therefore the example of one man being dismissed for partisanship and another appointed for the same reason. I asked for some information regarding the number of appointments made by the Civil Service Commission where dismissals of postmasters had been made, and I refer to sessional paper No. 211, brought down by the Postmaster General. It reads:
Memorandum
On Friday the nineteenth instant Mr. Stewart (Leeds) referring to the number of postmasters dismissed from the 1st October, 1926, to the 1st February, 1928 (421), asked how many of these were appointees of the Civil Service Commission.
The answer is 98.	,	,,,00
The answer is 98 up to 1st February, 1928, date mentioned by the hon. member for Leeds, but since February, 1928, to April, 1929, there were eight more-making 106 in all to date.
Sixty-three of these were appointed previously to 1922, but these officers were made departmental appointments on recommendation of the commission which exempted all offices beiow $400 annual revenue. This leaves 43 dismissals in offices under Civil Service Commission at time of dismissals.
iSo we have this record of rejections and dismissals which is without a parallel, I think, in the history of Canada-


Nonsense.


-under similar circumstances. Since the establishment of the Civil Service Commission with authority over these offices, I challenge the Minister of Railways, who seems to say, "Oh, no," or any other hon. gentleman to point to anything approaching it.
2128	COMMONS
Administration of Post Office Department


My hon. friend did not
introduce his qualification until I called attention to the nonsensical nature of his statement.


I said: Under
similar circumstances.


The hon. member did
not say it until after I made my interjection.


I want to pass on to the action of the Postmaster General in endeavouring to justify the dismissals and in quoting the opinion of the Department of Justice. Let me point out that he quoted only a portion of that opinion, and that when he was asked to lay it upon the table, it was found that it was only a partial opinion. Later on, when the full opinion was brought down, it was perfectly clear that a very relevant and important part had been left out. I wish to point out that in many instances files laid on the table in answer to orders of the house, were found, upon examination to be incomplete, although we had the assurance of the Postmaster General that they were complete, and he has had on different occasions to supplement these files. In some instances the Postmaster General justified the dismissals of postmasters on the ground that there were shortages, and I think he referred to the shortages in those cases as instances of stealing. In some of these cases the amount was very trifling, but notwithstanding that, the unfortunate postmaster or postmistress was dismissed. We had disclosed to us yesterday in connection with the St. John post office an instance in which an inspector had appropriated to his own use moneys that had been paid to him, and had made inaccurate and misleading statements in connection with the receipt of those moneys, all of which came to the knowledge of the Postmaster General, but notwithstanding that knowledge, and against the recommendation of the inspector, he ordered the salary of this man to be increased and appointed him to a position of superior responsibility. Apparently it is a crime for a postmaster in a small office to be a little short in his accounts when an inspector calls, but it is a matter of merit for an inspector himself to withhold and misappropriate public moneys. The one case calls for condemnation, the other calls for commendation.
The Civil Service Commission was established in an honest and serious attempt by the Canadian people to get rid of the undoubted evils of patronage that existed, and 
it has in a large measure accomplished the desired result. The action of the Postmaster General and his record in reference to the Civil Service Commission is one of utter disregard, one of defiance, and I would say one of contempt. He has done a great deal to impair the efficiency of the Civil Service Commission and to render its work impossible. I may say to him that if you leave out the patronage-mongers and the camp-followers, the Civil Service Commission occupies a very high place in the esteem of the Canadian people, and they are determined, Mr. Speaker, that that commission shall have the chance to function. They are determined on that course in the interests of the people at large, for the security of the public service and for the permanence and efficiency of the service as a whole. The Postmaster General is the champion political executioner of Canada, and I want to tell him that the people of Canada are not yet ready to accept the decision of a dictator in any department of the government of Canada. We do not want a Mussolini in this country, and we expect that the Postmaster General shall follow and have regard for the statutes.
I realize, Mr. Speaker, the serious nature of the amendment which I am about to move because under our rules it may be, and I believe is, treated as a motion of want of confidence in the government; but results more serious than the defeat of this government or the defeat of any government may happen in Canada, and I cannot think of anything that could be more detrimental than that ministers of the crown should openly defy and disregard the statutes of this country.
I am reminded of the old maxim, fiat justitia, ruat coelum-let justice be done though the heavens fall. The Postmaster General has brought upon himself any criticism that may have been offered in this house. He has brought that criticism upon himself by his own action and by his attitude in this house and in relation to the criticisms that have been offered. I therefore submit for the approval of this house an amendment which I think will commend itself to the judgment of hon. members, and I hope that notwithstanding political exigencies many of the members on the other side may feel justified in supporting it because it is based upon the facts that have been disclosed here, and it is mild and moderate in its terms. I can only say, Mr. Speaker, that if this amendment is rejected here, we must carry it in

Administration oj Post Office Department
appeal to the great jury of the people of this country. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Victoria (Mr. Stinson): That all the words after "that" be struck out and the following substituted therefor:
In the opinion of this house, after consideration in the committee of supply of the estimates of the Post Office Department, it is apparent the administration of that department by the present Postmaster General has been characterized by inefficiency, disregard of the provisions of the Civil Service Act, the Post Office Act and other statutory authority, and merits the disapproval of this house.


Mr. Speaker, in rising to reply to the argument advanced by the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Stewart), may I be allowed to point out to the house that while in his amendment he has contented himself with certain general statements with regard to the Postmaster General, his inefficiency, his disregard of the provisions of the Civil Service Act, the Post Office Act and other statutory authority-I wonder if there is any other statute he could have quoted-he states that for the reasons thus given my administration merits the disapproval of the house.
The hon. gentleman has not undertaken to enlighten this house as to the way in which my administration of the department has been inefficient. He has taken very good care not to point out in what particular I have violated the provisions of the Civil Service Act or of the Post Office Act. During the debate that took place while my estimates were before the committee of the whole house, we dealt with certain phases of the amendment which has just been moved, and it is not my intention to repeat or to deal at all with the arguments I then advanced on the points at issue in an attempt to defend my course as Postmaster General.
But there are one or two points which I think I should bring out. I have been told, and it has often been repeated here-in fact, the hon. member for Leeds referred to it in passing this afternoon-that in many cases I disregarded the certificates issued by the Civil Service Commission. I have rejected, Mr. Speaker, for very valid reasons thirty-two certificates issued by the Civil Service Commission since I have been at the head of the Post Office Department of Canada. Being at the head of the department I found that, owing to the unworkable system under which the qualification of applicants was attempted to be ascertained, persons were being appointed to the department over which I had the control and administration who, I became convinced, were not able efficiently to carry
on the duties of the positions to which they had been appointed. Being in possession of that knowledge it was, and is, my duty not only to myself, not only to the department for the administration of which I am responsible to the people of Canada, but also to the mail service throughout the Dominion that I should reject such appointments. I am not disregarding the Civil Service Act when I do that because the government in 1919 when they amended the old Civil Service Act provided distinctly-placing the authority, it is true, in the hands of the deputy minister -that for sufficient reasons the deputy could reject any appointment made by the commission. It goes as a matter of course that the deputy will not reject unless he has consultation with his minister, and it goes also as a matter of course that the minister is not going to take upon himself the responsibility of rejection unless he is in a position to know what he is doing, so that the responsibility can be accepted1 and1 the action defended by him on the floor of parliament. I have authority therefore under the act to exercise the power that was conferred on the Post Office Department-or any other department of the government-to reject a certificate of the Civil Service Commission if I am satisfied, and my deputy is satisfied, that the acceptance of such certificate would not inure to the efficiency of the postal service of the Dominion.
Now, among those thirty-two rejections there were sixteen returned soldiers. And because I had to reject sixteen returned soldiers' certificates I have been accused of being uncharitable. Some of the newspapers said I had a hard heart, others attempted to show that by my actions towards the returned soldiers I have displayed a certain amount of disloyalty to Canada. Mr. Speaker, I need not repeat it, because the other day when I attempted to show what sympathy was in my heart for our returned soldiers, the retort was hurled across the floor of the house that I had spoken only of myself and my family. I considered that retort from the leader of the opposition unworthy of a gentleman occupying the high position that he occupies in this house. I did not refer to personal matters on that occasion for the purpose of lauding my family before the Dominion. There was no need of doing it, Mr. Speaker. The record stands out there before the people of Canada, and they know it, and they know that the Veniot family takes second place to none in its loyalty to British institutions and to the Canadian constitution. Let me say
2130	COMMONS
Administration oj Post Office Department
right here to our friends that the loyalty that is in the breasts of the Acadians is firmer and more firmly grounded than the loyalty that is to-day to be found in and is expounded by our English-speaking people.


Oh, oh.


Why do I make that statement? It is this.


Cheap.


No, there is no shame in this.


Cheap.


No, it is not cheap. You English-speaking people of British descent-


What has that got to do with it?


Order.


Will the hon. gentleman please keep silence. I did not interrupt anybody on the opposite side when he was speaking. But a reflection has been cast on my loyalty in connection with the administration of the Post Office Department, and I have a perfect right to defend my record.


There is no reflection on any Acadian.


I am an Acadian-


That is only a coincidence.


-and I am proud of it. The loyalty-I was going on to say, sir,- which I claim is in the heart of the Acadian must be stronger than that in the heart of the British-born because of the following fact. You of British descent, you who came from the shadows of the old flag to Canada to make your home, are descended from British people, and are loyal by nature. But we Acadians who had to suffer as history shows were a conquered people. After the years rolled! by we found that under the British flag we were given rights and privileges, and we became loyal by gratitude; we became loyal because we were grateful to the British crown for the way they treated a conquered people; and I say that a naan who becomes loyal through gratitude is firmer in his loyalty than a man who by descent is a British subject.


Will the hon. minister permit me?


Order.


Order.


Mr. Speaker-


Order.


Is it a question of order or of privilege?


It is a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker.


A question of privilege?


Yes. The question of privilege is this. The interpretation placed on the words of the Postmaster General now will be that members of the opposition accuse the Acadian race in this country of disloyalty.


Order.


I object to that.


Mr. Speaker, I regret very
much to see that the hon. gentleman has put a misinterpretation upon my language.


I have put no misinterpretation on the hon. minister's language.


I certainly did not intend
for a moment to show that hon. gentlemen on the opposite side, or the Tory party, were attempting anything of the kind. I was merely defending my own course, and dealing with certain statements made-


That is not called in question at all.


-that because of my conduct toward the returned soldiers I was not as loyal as I should be to the empire. Why, what does the statement of the Toronto Globe mean? It threw out this taunt: "What has this man Veniot or his family ever done for the British Empire?"
Now, Mr. Speaker, coming down to the cases of the returned soldiers, let me go over a few of them. First, I will take the Hawkes-bury case. When I reached Ottawa at the call of the Prime Minister, he conferred upon me the honour of a seat in his cabinet, that of Postmaster General. After being in office a very few months I was informed by my officials that there were several cases left undecided in connection with post office appointments. One of the first brought to my attention was the Hawkesbury case. That is 