Bill No. 50, respecting a certain patent application of Thomas Bernard Bourke and George Percival Setter-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 51, respecting a certain patent application of Hairy Barrington Bonney-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 52, to incorporate the Merchants' and Employers' Insurance Company-Mr. Merrier (Laurier-Outremont).
First report of the joint committee of both houses on the printing of parliament-Mr. Marcil.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
L What work is the Soldier Settlement Board performing?
2.	Has a report been recently made on the Soldier Settlement Board?
3.	If so, has not the work been satisfactorily performed by the present staff?
4.	How long has the present staff been employed ?
5.	Is it the intention of the government to retain the services of the present staff?
6.	Is it the intention of the government during the present session to place the employees of that board on the same basis as permanent members of the civil service and to provide for them the benefits of the Civil Service Act?

Mr. STEWART (Edmonton) for Minister of National Defence:
1.	The Soldier Settlement Board is administering the Soldier Settlement Act; the 3,000 British family settlement scheme; the 500 New Brunswick family settlement scheme, and gives aftercare to certain classes of assisted migrants and does such other colonization work as called upon by the Department of Immigration and Colonization.
2.	Yes-by the Audit Board of Canada.
3.	Yes.
4.	The majority of staff from 10 to 12 years.
5.	As long as may be necessary.
6.	Under consideration.


1.	What are the qualifications necessary for appointment to position of safety engineer, on the Canadian National Railways?
2.	Was Mr. LeBer appointed to the position of safety engineer, central region, headquarters, Toronto, Ontario?
3.	If so, what were his qualifications for the position?
4.	What position did he previously hold?
5.	Who was responsible for the appointment?
6.	Why was the assistant safety engineer not appointed to fill this position?


It is not considered to be
in the interests of the Canadian National Railways, nor in the public interest, to bring down information of this character. Questions of fitness for appointment to the railway service, and of qualification for promotion within the service, are matters for the consideration of the railway management, and are required to be dealt with by the responsible officers of the company, subject only to the recognized right of appeal to the higher authorities of the railway and to the recognized representatives of any employees affected.


Hon. CHARLES STEWART (Acting Minister of Agriculture) moved that the house go into committee to-morrow to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to provide for the better organization and development of the maple sugar industry, to prevent adulteration, to authorize regulations, and to provide for the payment of fees for registration, analysis and licences.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.

Inquiries for Returns
On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, some two years ago I brought to the attention of the house somewhat critically the fact that the Toronto Daily Star radio station CFCA had received a licence for the exclusive use of a certain wave-length. I have received from a constituent an editorial from the Toronto Telegram quoting and commenting on an editorial published by the Toronto Star which latter reads in part as follows:
As a pioneer in the radio field, with its station CFCA-which, if radio remains in public hands, will have a powerful new station.
My correspondent takes that to be a declaration on the part of the Toronto Daily Star that they have the assurance of the renewal of their present licence, and authorization for a more powerful station. Will the hon. Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Cardin) be good enough to inform the house if the department has given an assurance to this newspaper that, in the event of broadcasting not being nationalized, its licence will be renewed with provision for an increase in power, and if similar assurances have been given to other radio stations?


No such assurance has been given.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to inquire of the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Cardin) when I may expect an answer to my question regarding the number of vessels in the Canadian Government Merchant Marine employed in trade between Canada and Australia and between Canada and New Zealand.


If the hon. member's question relates to the merchant marine, it should be directed to the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Crerar).


It is question No. 3 on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, referring to page 1090 of Hansard, I would like to correct a reply I gave to a question of the hon. member for South Wellington (Mr. Guthrie). The hon. member asked a question regarding
a ruling which had been made with reference to the territory under discussion, and I stated:
They are assumed to be British subjects. As my hon. friend knows, we have taken over the control of the territory, which control has not been disputed in any particular except with respect to one small portion. The Danish government have presented a claim based upon the explorations made by Otto Sverdrup, and at the present time we are endeavouring to settle that claim.
I should have stated that it was the Norwegian government which was making the claim. The same correction should be made on page 1101, it should be the Norwegian government instead of the Danish government.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, my question regarding the immigration expenditures since 1922 was passed as an order for return on March 5, and I would like to ask the minister when this return will be brought down.


I will bring the matter to the
attention of the officials of the department and ask them to bring down the return as
soon as possible.


I would like to ask the Postmaster
General when the answer to my question which was passed as an order for return in regard to the Post Office Department will be brought down?


If I knew to what particular question the hon. gentleman referred I could answer now. However, I shall have officials of the Post Office Department look into the matter.


I would like to ask the Prime
Minister whether he cannot bring down in the next ten days the return, either wholly or partly prepared, which was ordered at the last session of the house, with respect to Imperial treaties and statutes which affect Canada.


I shall be pleased to inquire at once as to what condition the return is in and to do my utmost to have the request of my hon. friend met.

Unemployment-Mr. McIntosh


On the 10th March, an order of the house was passed for a return in connection with rural mail routes in Canada. I should like to know from the Postmaster General when that return will be brought down.


I gave the answer yesterday. So far as I can find out it will be ready for Monday. I am trying to have it ready for to-morrow, but it will be ready not later than Monday. It is quite a voluminous piece of work and it requires a great deal of extra time to prepare it.


On the orders of the day:
Is it the
intention of the government to renew the $5,000 grant to the Jack Miner bird sanctuary this year?


I am sorry I cannot give
my hon. friend an answer at the moment. I would wish to confer first with the Minister of Finance.


The house resumed from Wednesday, April 2, consideration of the motion of Mr. Mackenzie King for committee of supply, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Heaps.
Mr. CAMERON R. McINTOSH (North Battleford):	Mr. Speaker, when the house
adjourned last night at six o'clock, I was discussing in a general way the attitude of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) with respect to his helping to frame two reports on unemployment insurance, one during the session of 1928, and the other during the session of 1929, and the attitude that he is taking now in contradistinction thereto, with regard to the discussion at present going on in the house on the question. As I pointed out yesterday, the hon. member did a great deal of hard work in the committee, but when, on two occasions, this matter came up for discussion in the house, and after the report of the committee had been adopted and endorsed by this chamber, if his attitude had been slightly different, it might have been better for organized industry and organized labour alike in this country. That, however, is a matter for the hon. mem-iMr. Mackenzie King.]
ber himself to decide, and later on I may deal with one phase of the problem, namely, that of legislative power or competency of jurisdiction that concerns my hon. friend and with reference to which he has taken his present attitude.
The hon. member for Toronto-Scarbor-ough (Mr. Harris), when dealing with this question, touched practically all the points of the compass. One would think the house was engaged in a debate on the budget rather than on the question of unemployment insurance. The hon. member for Pictou (Mr. Cantley) also dealt in a very general way with the question, but he tried to make out that the unemployment situation was largely due to the fiscal policy of the government. That is not so, because we have had unemployment in Canada from decade to diecade and from one administration to another.
The hon. member for Fort William (Mr. Manion) waxed eloquent yesterday-and I like to hear him speak in this chamber- with respect to the unemployment problem. He tried to present to the house an argument to the effect that if we were to go back to the good old national policy days, we would have no unemployment. I think my hon. friend must forget the years prior to the time when the national policy was given a decisive setback. I refer to 1896 when the national policy was not endorsed by the electorate of Canada.
The national policy was
not an issue then; my hon. friend is talking about the Manitoba schools.


That is not so. At
that time the Liberal party came into power and Canada experienced an era of development such as had never been known in its history. We recall that prior to 1896 industry in Canada was stagnant; commerce was not by any means active; unemployment was rife and deficit after deficit was presented to the house by the administration espousing the national policy. So we cannot accept the national policy as a solution for any unemployment problem affecting Canada at the present time. The hon. member for Fort William spoke about getting joint action. I believe if we start in the right way we can get joint action, at least in some stage of the problem. If we would confine our attention to the point where we can really make a start and look for combined action later on, there is no reason why that action should not be secured.
The hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Garland) reviewing the problem, put forward

Unemployment-Mr. Mclntosh
some commendable ideas in connection with the causes which underlie this question. He felt, however, that all the provinces should act at once.


That is
the very thing I did not do. I pointed out that it was hopeless to expect unanimity at the beginning.


I am reading from a
report in this morning's Ottawa Citizen of the hon. gentleman's speech in the House of Commons yesterday. I had not time to read his speech word for word.


Read it in Hansard.


I am only too pleased
if he did not make that contention. Another point the hon. member put forward was that we should have an economic survey made of the whole country. We have had enough of economic surveys and it is about time we looked to a certain quarter in Canada for action, that is to the provinces to whom this problem belongs, and1 let them provide any further economic survey that we may need.
Regarding the report for 1928 on this question of unemployment insurance, the house decided on March 21, 1928, to refer to the committee on industrial and international relations the resolution dealing with unemployment. After two months' investigation the committee reported. Before that committee we had as many witnesses as possible to deal with every side of the problem. We had organized industry and organized labour represented before the committee. The two representatives of organized industry who were called to give evidence were the president and the secretary of the international relations committee of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association of Canada. We thought if we could get the Canadian Manufacturers' Association on record as to any such departure we would have some valuable evidence. These two gentlemen in their sworn evidence stated that the question of unemployment insurance had not been taken up by their association at all, that they had given no attention to it nationally, that they had given no attention to it provincially, that they had given no attention to it in any way; and consequently, it was impossible for the committee to get any authorized point of view on this problem from the two witnesses who appeared before it representing the Canadian Manufacturers' Association. I merely draw attention to that fact because I believe that before we ask the federal government to jump into a proposition of this kind we had
better get a thoroughly organized body of public opinion, both in industry and in the provinces, in favour of it.
We also had before the committee the representatives of organized labour. Mr. Tom Moore appeared, representing the trades and labour congress of Canada. The all-Canadian labour congress, represented by Mr. Mosher, also gave its point of view to the committee. These two gentlemen went on record to the effect that unemployment insurance belonged entirely to the industrial interests of Canada, and not to the employees, nor ito any provincial or national government, but wholly and entirely to the industrial interests of Canada. That w'as the labour point of view. I have already shown that so far as industry is concerned, the Canadian Manufacturers' Association had not discussed the problem at all.
We moreover took evidence from other quarters, and after all the evidence had been heard, we brought in a report. I believe it is worth while for me to deal briefly with the first clause of that report of 1928. Here is what the committee recommended with respect to the compulsory aspect of this problem, and let me say that this was endorsed unanimously by the house in 1928. I wish to stress the idea of unanimity as strongly as possible because we had a debate last year, and we are having another this year on this same question. and the public business of the country is thereby being held up. The first clause of that report reads:
We accept and endorse the principle of unemployment insurance, based on compulsory contributions derived from the state, the employer and the employee. In this connection, wo would point out that a somewhat similar decision was arrived at by a royal commission on industrial relations, which dealt with this subject in 1919.


Would it not be well to finish reading thait report?


I have not time to finish reading it. I wish to deal with only one or two important points in it.


Perhaps it is just as well for the hon. gentleman not to finish reading fit.


That same principle
with respect to compulsory contributions was incorporated in the report of 1929, and the house again endorsed that principle last year. There was no division in the committee on the compulsory aspect of unemployment insurance. The committee was unanimously of the opinion that that was the course to take, that it was the pathway along which the provinces and the Dominion, if they wanted to take

Unemployment-Mr. McIntosh
action, should travel. That phase of compulsory contributions was discussed at great length. The committee based its recommendations in that regard largely on certain clauses in the report of the Blanesburgh committee which was appointed in Great Britain to look into the matter of unemployment insurance in 1925, and upon the report of which committee legislative action was taken in 1927.
In Great Britain the National Insurance Act was passed in 1911. A new act was brought into force in 1920, and amendments were made to it in 1921, 1922, 1923, 1924, 1925, 1926 and 1927. The report of this committee was the foundation of the legislative action that was taken in 1927. Our committee based its action to a large extent on the recommendations of this committee whose report read in part as follows:
(1)	The worker's contribution must be moderate in amount. It should never normally exceed 5d. a week, and, supplemented by the contribution of his employer and the state, should secure him an insurance sufficient in the great majority of cases to save him, during inevitable unemployment, from recourse to public assistance.
(2)	The scheme must not, by the extent of benefit promised, tempt the insured contributor to improvidence when in receipt of good pay.
(3)	It should provide benefits definitely less in amount than the general labourer's rate of wage, so that there may be no temptation to prefer benefit to work.
(4)	It must not interfere unduly with the mobility of labour in this country.
(5)	It must not deter from emigration those who would be benefited by a life overseas.
That report, upon which legislative action was taken by the British parliament, stressed this important fact, that there would be a tendency to abuses in any system of unemployment insurance, and the whole effort of parliament, whether it be the imperial parliament, this parliament or any other, should be to safeguard against those abuses, and to make the act as watertight and effective as possible, to make any policy of unemployment insurance as solid legislatively as it could possibly be made, so that when it was in operation there would be a minimum of abuses, and it would operate as effectively as possible on behalf of the workers, organized industry, and the country generally.
Our committee considered the same resolution in 1929, and after deliberating for a considerable time reported to the house, and that report was adopted on an amendment by 92 to 18. There was an acrimonious debate when the report came before the house last year, and it was largely over oue point of policy in the report, the question of jurisdiction.
Now what about this question of jurisdiction? That is where my hon. friend from North Winnipeg (Mr. Heaps) has had some difficulty. Although he is very anxious to see this problem solved, I am inclined to think that he is making a mountain out of a mole hill, and that with a little more time and patience, and with public opinion developed in the provinces and in organized industry to the point of giving a lead in this matter, we will get action from the provinces, and when that action is taken the Dominion government will consider the whole proposition and deal with the provinces in an equitable manner. Turning to the report of the industrial and international relations committee of 1929, it will be noted that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) discussed before that committee the same constitutional aspect of the problem that he brought before this house a few days ago. Mr. Stuart Edwards, Deputy Minister of Justice was giving evidence, and he was asked this question by the hon. member:
May I ask a question in that connection? I understand that during the session of 1920, parliament had placed before it privy council order No. 2722, dealing with the report from the Minister of Justice in reference to a number of draft conventions and recommendations adopted by the International Labour Conference (League of Nations) at its first annual meeting, held at Washington, D.C., October-November, 1919. Amongst these were two of particular application to the present inquiry, concerning which the order in council says:
Recommendation dealing with unemployment insurance:	The minister observes that the
experience of other countries had demonstrated that a system of unemployment insurance, in order to be effective and successful, must be merely ancillary or complementary to a system of labour exchanges, the whole being adapted to the principal function of finding work for unemployed insured workmen. In this view, unemployment insurance has a pronounced federal aspect, and on the whole, the minister thinks the establishment of a system of unemployment insurance is competent to the Dominion in the existence of its residuary legislative power with relation to the peace, order and good government of Canada.
Then the hon. member said:
That was the opinion of the Minister of Justice in 1921.
And he put this further question to Mr. Edwards:
Has the opinion of the department altered since that time, or how can you explain that opinion?
To which Mr. Edwards answered:
That opinion was given mainly in connection with the international aspect of the subject.

Unemployment-Mr. McIntosh
I believe that is where my hon. friend is floundering. Mr. Edwards proceeded:
As I explained to the committee last year, in so far as we are under any obligation by way of treaty, the legislative power rests with the parliament of Canada. I understand that the particular convention to which reference was made in that opinion was not a treaty within the meaning of the act, but it was a draft convention which was submitted to the several governments constituting the League of Nations, with a view to the proposals contained in that convention being placed before the proper controlling body for consideration, and, in dealing with that, the minister pointed out that where the scheme called for by the convention was international in its character he would be prepared to submit that to parliament. It would follow that if such a scheme were submitted to parliament, parliament would have power to carry out the provisions of that treaty. But a moment ago I was speaking about the matter from a domestic point of view.
In short, the ruling of the law officers of the crown is that only the international aspect of this problem of unemployment-in relation to treaties to which the Dominion is a party -is a federal matter; every other phase is provincial. Consequently the stand taken by this house on the report formulated by the committee on industrial and international relations is absolutely constitutional; that is, that the whole problem falls, within the jurisdiction of the provinces. This being the case, we may well be at a loss to understand just why after the debate on this question last session on the amendment which the hon. member (Mr. Heaps) moved to the report, we should this session have another protracted discussion along practically the same lines; for there is no possibility in the world of the decision, then reached being changed. The proposition before the house and the country is simply that the unemployment problem comes within the jurisdiction of the provinces and not of the Dominion. Shovdd the Dominion see fit in its discretionary power to take action to supplement any action the provinces might take, well and good; but the two reports adopted by this house last session and the session before put the proposition squarely up to the provinces. If the provinces decline to take action, then it seems to me that those who are concerned in this matter on behalf of organized industry and organized labour, ought to stir up the public provincially and so get the provinces to enact the necessary legislative measures. If organized industry and organized labour succeed in arousing public opinion throughout the provinces, I do not think it would be long before the various provincial governments took the necessary
steps to bring about a solution of the difficulty, which would enure to the benefit not only of organized industry but of all labouring classes. . I believe this problem will be solved in the near future. It is an important problem. It is national in some aspects and it is provincial in others, but under our constitution legislative action must be taken by the provinces, and when they do take action I think the interests of agriculture ought to be safeguarded. In the main, Mr. Speaker, this problem concerns our industrial employees, not our agricultural employees. That being the case, and I do not think anyone will dispute it, as a member from an agricultural constituency in western Canada, I would ask that the interests of agriculture be safeguarded in any legislation that may be enacted. Agriculture should be safeguarded absolutely.
Mr. W00DSW0RTH: What has the hon. gentleman in mind when he speaks about safeguarding the industry of agriculture?


The primary interest in connection with this problem is that of our industrial employees, the employees in our large centres, those who are working in our factories, on our railways, and so forth, and if agriculture is to be included in any legislation that may be enacted to deal with the problem, I think agriculture should be given an opportunity of expressing its views on the whole question before such legislation is passed. I believe that that is only right.
Now, as my time is fast passing, may I draw the attention of the house to the stand taken by my hon. friend from North Winnipeg with regard to this matter last year. He listened to all the evidence before the committee on industrial and international relations, he was given that privilege from meeting to meeting, and last session he brought in an amendment to the report when it was presented to the house. It was an amazing amendment, being in fact nothing short of an attempt to amend the constitution. Let me quote the amendment so that hon. members may appreciate its full effect:
That the said report of the select standing committee on industrial and international relations be not now concurred in. but that it be referred back to the select standing committee on industrial and international relations with instructions that they have power to amend the same by adding thereto a clause recommending that all the provinces of the Dominion be requested to pass legislation under which the jurisdiction in relation to legislation providing for unemployment, sickness and invalidity insurance based on compulsory contributions and which is now claimed to be within or subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the provinces be vested in the Dominion government.

Unemployment-Mr. McIntosh
It will be seen that the hon. member finds it difficult to realize that this is a provincial problem. I think that is his difficulty and the difficulty of his friends.


Hear, hear.


For his and their benefit let me quote this passage from the Scriptures: Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free. I believe the truth alone will make the hon. gentleman free in this case; in other words he must get the facts.


Would not that biblical quotation apply equally to the hon. gentleman?


Yes, but mainly to my hon. friend. Now, as I have said, the hon. member for North Winnipeg moved that amendment last session. When the matter came before the house the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) and the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan) exposed the fallacy of the amendment. They showed it was impossible for the provinces to delegate any of itheir powers to the Dominion, and vice versa; and so the amendment failed, and the report of the committee was adopted by a large majority.


Might I ask the hon. member: Is that not exactly what parliament did with respect to the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act?


That was thoroughly discussed last year in this house, Mr. Speaker. I have not time to go into it now, and I think the hon. member knows the facts. I can add nothing to it by taking up the time of the house at the present moment.


You could
answer yes or no.


You cannot
answer that to all questions.


What does the amendment amount to that my hon. friend has this year placed before the house? A blockade amendment like that of last year. It has held up the business of the house and has delayed the business of the country. After the committee's report of 1929 was adopted and endorsed, and after the matter was passed on to the provinces for their action. When we consider that phase of the matter, why should we debate this question indefinitely? Why not accept the decision of the house and the committee? Why do not hon. members accept this decision? I would say that all further amendments just postpone the day of

action and deprive the provinces of the opportunity they should have to outline to all Canada their stand on a matter of this nature.
My hon. friend from North Winnipeg is quoted in Hansard at page 2775. Hansard at that page simply records the answers given to my hon. friend by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) and other members of the house. I do not think I should take up the time of the house in dealing with them. But I wish to read the words of my hon. friend as they are recorded at page 119 in the 1928 report of the select standing committee on industrial and international relations. I think the report clears up the difficulty rather definitely. On the occasion to which I refer the Deputy Minister of Justice was giving evidence before the committee. It was our intention at that time to get the question of legality and jurisdiction cleared up once and for all, and it was for that reason we called the deputy minister as a witness. The question by the hon. member for North Winnipeg appears as follows:
If I understand the statements here this morning correctly, I would interpret your remarks to mean that the federal government has not authority to impose Dominion-wide legislation, or has not the authority to impose compulsory unemployment insurance, or sickness insurance.
The answer by the deputy minister to that question was clear and concise. It is simply:
Yes, that is correct.
The hon. member for North Winnipeg did not have any more questions, and he accepted that answer as final. Yet, after accepting the report of that committee as final, and accepting that as a final statement, we have the spectacle of the hon. member coming before this house on two occasions. The first time was in 1928, on which occasion he moved an amendment that was hopelessly beaten. He has repeated the amendment in the 1930 session, and it also will be beaten.
It seems to me that the hon. member for North Winnipeg and every other hon. member of this house, should be devoting their energies especially to an acceleration of public opinion in this province and other provinces in the hope that one province, or a group of provinces will take the initiative and, in cooperation with the Dominion government, as our Prime Minister has advised, seek to work out a uniform plan-something that will be satisfactory to all concerned. That is what all parties should be doing, apart from political prestige or political

Unemployment-Mr. Mackenzie King
fortune, if they consider the problem of unemployment to be one that affects closely the lives of thousands of working people in Canada.


Does not
the hon. member think that the greatest possible impetus that could be given to this particular thing of which he speaks would be by initiatory action of the federal government?


I do not believe there
is any great impetus to anything, when it is illegal and when it is unconstitutional, and when it is not demanded in that sense. We ought to go at it in a correct way, and by doing that we will arrive at a more satisfactory solution.


We are
not asking for anything that is illegal.


I take the hon. member's statement and I am looking at it in the light of the action of this house last year. I am looking at it in that light, and in t.he light of what this house will certainly do this year. From this viewpoint I think I am correct in estimating that the hon. member's question has an illegal or unconstitutional ring to it.


What did this house do in regard to the liquor question last year?


That is in reality a
budget question, and does not affect this one.
I therefore think it is the duty of this house to defeat the amendment. I am going to vote against it, so that we may uphold the record of the house in its responsible committee activities for the years 1928 and 1929. Then in no uncertain voice I am going to ask the Prime Minister to impress upon the house the fact that it is the privilege of the provinces to take action under the constitution which belongs to them. Once they take that action the cooperation of the Dominion government and the financial cooperation of this house can be given them. There is no question about it that if we can do it in that way, legally and constitutionally, public opinion may be massed on this vital question from one province to another, clear across Canada. Once we get that, I am satisfied hon. members of this house will repeat the action taken in other years, in view of what was done by the committee on international and industrial relations in 1928 and again in 1929. The action of the committee on those occasions was upheld by this house, and I am sure the
action of the committee and this house last year will be repeated this year, and that action thus will be found to be a distinct contribution to the solution of the problem, in a way that will redound to the complete and permanent satisfaction of the people throughout Canada.


Mr. Speaker, on Monday
last, on behalf of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning), I moved that the house go into committee to consider supply, I did so in the hope of having supply voted for the Department of External Affairs. The hon. member for North Winnipeg (Mr. Heaps) moved an amendment that all the words after the word "that" be struck out and the following substituted therefor:
In the opinion of this house the government should take immediate action to deal with the question of unemployment.
For a period of three days since, the house has been discussing the subject of unemployment. I have tried to follow the debate closely, with a view to seeing what was most in the minds of hon. members. After listening to the addresses from all sides, I must confess I have come to the conclusion that some appear to have one objective and others another. The house is far from united in its understanding of what the hon. member who moved the amendment had in mind when he asked that the house should immediately consider the question of unemployment.
There is a certain aspect of the problem of unemployment which all members have sought to emphasize; that is that the problem of unemployment is a national one.. I observed that many hon. members stressed strongly the view that the unemployment problem was a national problem. I do not think we can question that for a moment. What significance attaches to this depends entirely upon what inferences are to be drawn therefrom. If it is meant that the unemployment problem is a national problem to the exclusion of being a provincial problem or to the exclusion of being also a municipal problem or, to take a step in the other direction, to the exclusion of being an empire problem, or to the exclusion of being a world problem, then in that sense I cannot admit it to be a national problem. Once we admit that the problem of unemployment is something which far exceeds being any merely municipal or any purely provincial problem; that it is larger by far than any merely national problem; that it is again wider than an empire problem and that it is in fact a world problem, then at once I am pre-
1222	COMMONS
Unemployment-Mr. Mackenzie King
pared to agree that in this meaning of the term and in this relationship it is a national problem:
Admitting that, what inference is to be drawn? The inference, I think is clear; it is that in the endeavour to meet or to solve this problem, there must be as much in the way of combined effort as may be possible, and there must be very much in the way of division of labour. Each part must do what in its particular sphere and within its own jurisdiction it finds it possible to do. The League of Nations, representing most if not all of the nations of the world, may do something towards the solution of the problem of unemployment, but with regard to this problem the part taken by the League of Nations, will be very different from the part taken by a municipality, the question will not be solved by either one attempting to deal with it to the exclusion of the other.
Because it has been conceded that unemployment is a national problem, some hon. members have sought to draw the inference that at the present time there is throughout Canada an emergent situation demanding immediate action on the part of the federal government. Other hon. members have not stressed so much the emergent condition; indeed, they have dropped it altogether and have devoted their attention-and I think very wisely-to the larger question of whether or not the problem of unemplojunent can be solved, at least in part through the introduction of some system of social insurance, some particular form of unemployment insurance The discussion in this particular has centred around the question as to whether or not this federal government should take the initiative in seeking to bring about the adoption of a system of that kind by the provinces of the Dominion.
Having regard to the obligation of the League of Nations, one would hardly feel that because the League is concerned with the problem of unemployment it should therefore immediately set out to assess all the countries of the world with a view to meeting an unemployment problem as it may arise in anjr one particular country. The League of Nations, moreover would not feel it a part of its obligation to attempt to force upon the different countries of the world a system of unemployment insurance. I do think, however, that it would be and is an all-important part of the work of the League of Nations to endeavour to draw to the attention of all nations the magnitude of this problem, its many intricate phases and, so far as may be possible, by educational efforts and propaganda of different kinds, to supply the different countries of the world with the information

needed to enable them, so far as may be possible, one with the other, to adopt some system or systems of unemployment insurance that in the course of time will be uniform throughout the world. I think also it might be reasonably argued to be a part of the obligation of the League of Nations that, if a very serious situation should arise in any one country, where there was great distress, the League might well appeal to all other countries to enable some fund to be raised whereby immediate assistance could be given to the particular country affected.
Almost the same thing might be said with regard to unemployment within the British Empire. I do not think for a moment that any one here would say that the problem of unemployment where serious in any part of the British Empire does not affect all parts of the empire. I believe that to-day this Dominion is being very vitally affected by the serious unemployment problem which exists in Great Britain, but because that is the case it does not follow that Great Britain is called upon to expect all parts of the empire to contribute to some fund to be made available to the particular part of the empire in which distress exists to-day. Nor do I think it follows that Great Britain would feel for a moment that it was a part of her obligation to say that a system of social insurance or unemployment insurance was something which necessarily must be adopted by all the dominions whether or not they wished to have such a system, merely from the fact that she herself has a system which has been thought appropriate for the British Isles. I say it does not follow that she should seek to oblige all the dominions to adopt a similar method of dealing with this question. I do believe, however, that there is imposed upon Great Britain and upon the component parts of the British Empire the obligation to do what they can to have established uniform standards of living, standards of health, and standards of working conditions in industry throughout all parts of the Empire. I do not believe any part of the world has gone as far as the British Empire has gone in that direction; I think in this matter the British Empire as a whole stands as an example to the world.
When it comes to our own Dominion and more particularly to the work of this federal government, I feel that we are in a comparable position to that which I have described with regard to the obligations of the League of Nations or the obligation of the British Empire as a whole. Recognizing that the unemployment problem is as vast as it is, there is a real obligation upon this federal government, in

Unemployment-Mr. Mackenzie King
accordance with the powers which are given to it and having regard to the entirety of its obligations, particularly in relation to the obligations assigned to the provinces, to do what it can in what it believes to be an effective way to help solve this very great problem. I do not feel however, that for that reason this federal government is called upon to ask the taxpayers of all parts of this Dominion to permit it to assess them by way of additional taxation in order that it may take money out of the federal treasury, not to be used for federal purposes as such but to be distributed to certain of the provinces, not necessarily to all provinces, and possibly not even to the provinces but only to certain municipalities.
Let me repeat that statement. I can see nothing arising out of a recognition of this problem as a national problem which obliges this federal government, having regard to our constitution and the division of powers under it, to collect taxes from the people generally in order to meet a situation which affects only a certain group of people in some municipalities in this country, but which does not adversely affect the country as a whole. I am not saying we could not do such a thing; I am not saving that this federal parliament cannot vote money for any purposes for which it mav desire so to do, but I am trying to make it clear that under our constitution I do not think it was ever intended that this federal government should become the agency through which problems which are primarily municipal and provincial should be dealt with.
I might go a step further. In connection with this auestion of unemployment, as hon. gentlemen more particular!}' of the Labour group have dealt with it, we have heard only of the unemployed who happen to be in the favoured, or if they wish to so construe it, in the unfavoured position of belonging to certain trades which may or may not be allied with organized labour. Their reference primarily was to groups of citizens of this country who are engaged more or less in certain of the trades of the country.


We did not narrow it in any such way.


I am glad to accept my hon. friend's explanation. I would ask the house and the country this question: What consideration has been given in this debate to members of the professions? There are large numbers of young men and women in Canada who have gone into the so called learned professions-physicians, lawyers, ministers, members of the teaching profession, professors, teachers and others. I do not think my hon. friend will deny that those people are perfoming a useful service and function in the state and that they are entitled to consideration. I would like to ask my hon. friend if he has ever stopped to consider that manv a young man, seeking to get a start in his chosen profession, whether law or medicine or other calling, has to wait, not one or two months during the winter, but sometimes month after month, and I might almost say year after year, before he begins to receive any remuneration worth speaking of in his own business. These persons and their families are part of the taxpayers of this country, they constitute a portion of those who are paying the taxes which my hon. friend desires to take from the treasury and send to the municipalities to be dealt with in the manner he has described.
In connection with the professions, may I mention the journalists as being also an important branch? Those who are engaged in literary work in its many forms do not have continuous occupation every day of every month of every year. Consider also those who are engaged in commercial and financial enterprises and the number of persons employed by them. Has my hon. friend given special consideration to those people as respects their periods of unemployment? What about those engaged in wholesale and retail trades and the thousands of men and women employed as clerks in the shops and stores and hotels and other places of business? During periods of depression employer after employer, whether at the head of a shop or of a large industrial or financial enterprise, is obliged to eliminate a certain number of employees. Is this money which is to go out of the federal treasury to the municipalities to go to those who are being thus eliminated?


Certainly.


I wish we had heard a little more of it, because we now begin to see the scope of what my hon. friends are suggesting. Consider the farming community of which the hon. member who has just spoken (Mr. Spencer) is a member. During several months of the year it is impossible to carry on certain farm operations. Those who are engaged in farming are aware of that and during the time that there is an opportunity to work, they take that factor into account. Have they been asking this federal parliament to take the taxes of the people and dole them out for the purposes of meeting their temporary periods of unemployment? I
1224	COMMONS
Unemployment-Mr. Mackenzie King
have yet to hear of a single deputation coming to this parliament from any agricultural district in this country to ask that federal moneys should be used in the way here proposed. Mr. Speaker, I submit that the agricultural element in this country is entitled to every possible consideration.


May I
interrupt the right hon. gentleman? The farmer members in the Alberta legislature, who are themselves farmers, voted in favour of the adoption of some system of unemployment insurance.


My hon. friend has just directed our attention to farmer members; I am speaking of the farmers themselves.


Those members are themselves farmers.


We all understand why a member of parliament or of a legislature may make a particular appeal such as my hon. friend is making, but what I wish to bring home to those who are so lightly suggesting that we should dip into the federal treasury for these purposes-


Not lightly.


I do not say that my hon. friend is treating it in that manner, but there are some who are.


May I-


I do not think that I interrupted my hon. friend, and I would ask hon. gentlemen kindly to allow me to make my speech without interruption. I think by actual count there were 146 interruptions yesterday during the speech of the hon. Minister of Labour (Mr. Heenan).


The minister invited them.


I am not inviting them, and I should like to be permitted to make my statement with as few interruptions as possible.
Every man, woman and child in this country who directly pays taxes or on whose behalf any taxation is levied, is interested in what is done with the moneys received. They are equally interested in sharing in the benefits which are to come out of the expenditure of public moneys for the purposes mentioned.
I believe it was for that very reason that the fathers of confederation when they framed the constitution of our country very wisely saw that there were some matters which best could be dealt with by the federal government as a whole, and other matters which it would be infinitely preferable to assign to the .
provinces. A perusal of the British North America Act fails to disclose any powers of legislation assigned exclusively to the federal government with reference to that class of enactments best described as social legislation. That may have been a mistake upon the part of the framers of the constitution, and as time goes on it may have to be changed, but I am pointing out the position of the constitution at the present time. I am seeking to give what I believe to have been one reason why the fathers of confederation found it advisable to define as they did the respective powers of the Dominion and the provinces. Section 92 of the British North America Act which deals with the exclusive powers of provincial legislatures reads as follows:
In each province the legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to matters coming within the classes of subjects next hereinafter enumerated; that is to say,-
Clause No. 7 reads:
The establishment, maintenance and management of hospitals, asylums, charities and eleemosynary institutions in and for the province, other than marine hospitals.
In reading that clause one might well be led to believe that the fathers of confederation saw that there would be cases of hardship and distress, and that institutions would be essential for the care of individuals suffering the handicaps indicated, and they felt that it was advisable that the unit of government which would be more immediately associated with the localities and persons interested should be the one to deal exclusively with '.hat class of subjects in matters of legislation. Clause No. 8 reads:
Municipal institutions in the province.
This question of unemployment has come up almost exclusively from the point of view of the aid to* be given to municipalities, and I submit, Mr. Speaker, that when municipal institutions in the