I have the honour to inform the house that during the recess I received communications from several members, notifying me that the following vacancies had occurred in the representation, viz:
Of the Hon. James Alexander Robb, member for the electoral district of Chateauguay-Huntingdon, by decease.
Of Georges Doreze Morin, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Bagot, by decease.
Of the Hon. Robert Forke, member for the electoral district of Brandon, consequent upon the acceptance of an office of emolument under the crown.
I accordingly issued my warrants to the Chief Electoral Officer to make out new writs of election for the said electoral districts respectively 2419-1


I have also the honour
to inform the house that, during the recess, the Clerk of the House has received from the Chief Electoral Officer certificates of the election and return of the following members, viz:
Of William Spankie, Esquire, for the electoral district of Frontenac-Addington.
Of Vincent Dupuis, Esquire, for the electoral district of Laprairie-Napierville.
Of William Samuel Murphy, Esquire, for the electoral district of Lanark.
Of Elie Oscar Bertrand, Esquire, for the electoral district of Prescott.
Of Lawrence Alexander Wilson, Esquire, for the electoral district of Vaudreuil-Soulanges.
Of Cyrille Dumaine, Esquire, for the electoral district of Bagot.
Of Dennis James O'Connor, Esquire, for the electoral district of Chateauguay-Hunting-don.
Of the Hon. Thomas Alexander Crerar, for the electoral district of Brandon.


Thomas Alexander Crerar, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Brandon, introduced by Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King and Hon. Ernest Lapointe.
Vincent Dupuis, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Laprairie-Napierville, introduced by Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King and Hon. P. J. A. Cardin.
William Spankie, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Frontenac-Addingtan, introduced by Hon. R. B. Bennett and Hon. Hugh Guthrie.
Elie Oscar Bertrand, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Prescott, introduced by Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King and Hon. J. C. Elliott.
William Samuel Murphy, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Lanark, introduced by Hon. R. B. Bennett and Hon. Hugh Guthrie.
Governor General's Speech
Lawrence Alexander Wilson, Esquire, member for tike electoral district of Vaudreuil-Soulanges, introduced by Right Horn. W. L. Mackenzie King and Hon. P. J. A. Cardin.
Cyrille Dumaine, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Bagot, introduced by Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King and Hon. Fernand Rinfret.
Dennis James O'Connor, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Chateauguay-Hiuntingdon, introduced by Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King and Hon. Fernand Rinfret.
Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING (Prime Minister) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 1, respecting the administration of oaths of office.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
That the speech of His Excellency the Governor General to both houses of parliament be taken into consideration on Monday next, and that this order have precedence over all other business, except the introduction of bills, until disposed of.


Motion agreed to.
2419-1J
That a special committee be appointed to prepare and report, with all convenient speed, lists of members to compose the select standing committees of this house, under standing order 63, said committee to be composed of Messrs. King (Kootenay), Stewart (Edmonton), Casgrain, Hanson and Stewart (Leeds).


Motion agreed to.
Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING (Prime Minister) presented the following message from His Excellency the Governor General:
The Governor General transmits to the House of Commons a certified copy of an approved minute of council appointing the Honourable W. R. Motherwell, Minister of Agriculture, the Honourable J. H. King, Minister of Pensions and National Health, the Honourable J. C. Elliott, Minister of Public Works, and the Honourable Fernand Rinfret, Secretary of State, to act with the Speaker of the House of Commons as commissioners for the purposes and under the provisions of chapter 145 of the revised statutes of Canada, 1927, intituled An Act respecting the House of Commons.
Mr. Speaker, the happiness which we experience at the commencement of a session in renewing acquaintances, greeting old friends, and welcoming, as we have to-day, mew members to the House of Commons, is all too frequently clouded by the thought that some there are whom we shall never see again, whose kindly presence in our midst will be felt no more, and whose voices will be heard only in memory.
You, Mr. Speaker, have just drawn the attention of hon. members of this house to the vacancies which have arisen in its membership since we went our several ways at the close of the bst session of parliament. Of the number of these vacancies, two have been occasioned by death. Before we enter actively upon the work of the session, may I be permitted to speak of the loss which our country, as well as parliament, has sustained in the death of the two members of this house to whom you have referred.


In previous sessions of this parliament, there was, I believe, no personality more generally beloved than the Hon. James Alexander Robb,
Tributes to Deceased Members
who had been a member of the present administration since its formation in 1921, and who, for a period of over four years, after the retirement of Hon. Mr. Fielding from public life, held the portfolio of Minister of Finance. For the two years preceding, Mr. Robb had been acting Minister of Finance, owing to the illness of his distinguished predecessor.
When parliament prorogued in the month of June I doubt if amy of us believed it would be the last time in which we should see Mr. Robb in his accustomed seat. It was generally recognized that, in his case, the years were beginning to exact their toll, and that his endurance, especially in the last two sessions, was far from what it had been in former years; yet, when on the 11th of November last the country learned of his death, there was almost as much surprise at the announcement that he had completed the three-score years and ten as there was general and genuine sorrow that one so universally trusted and esteemed had passed away.
It is of this universal trust and esteem that I should like to speak. It is that which constitutes the real and abiding tribute to Mr. Robb's memory. It has in it the highest of incentives to us all, and is in the nature of a priceless legacy to the youth of our land.
It is not of vast inheritances or possessions; nor of the favours of fortune by way of exceptional gifts and endowments; nor of great genius, that we think in recalling the circumstances of Mr. Robb's career, and of the place of highest honour in the nation's life to which he attained. Rather is it of the comparatively humble nature of his environment from earliest days, and of the great humility of the man himself.
Mr. Robb represented in this parliament the constituency of Chateauguay-Huntingdon in the Province of Quebec. It was with this constituency, first as Huntingdon, and after 1917, as Chateauguay-Huntingdon, that his entire life was identified. If you search in any biographical work for the details of his life, you will be struck by the simplicity of the narration. He was born on a farm near Huntingdon on August 10, 1859. He had an elementary education at the district school and later on at the little academy nearby. Though deservedly honoured in later life by the degree of Doctor of Laws from one of our leading universities, he was granted none of tlie advantages of a college or university training. His brief school days over, while still quite young, he went to learn the milling business in the mill of his uncle, at Valleyfield, and on the death of his uncle, carried on a business which flourished considerably in succeeding years. In 1906 he responded to a
rMr. Mackenzie King.]
public petition to become mayor of the city of Valleyfield, which position he held until 1910. During these years he succeeded in putting the finances of the corporation on a sound basis. In 190S in the Liberal interests he successfully contested the constituency which formerly had had Conservative representation in this parliament. He was equally successful in the five following general elections, as well as in the by-elections of 1921 and 1926. At the time of his death, he had represented the constituency for more than twenty years. It was in the little cemetery at Valleyfield, three days after his death in Toronto on November 11th, that his remains were laid to rest, in the presence of those who had known him from his childhood days, or whom he had known from the days of their own childhood.
There is something very fine in all this. To be born, and after an active life of seventy years, to be buried in the community with which one's private and public interests have been continuously identified, and to be as greatly mourned at the close as one has been greatly trusted throughout, is a testimony to character than which there can be none more emphatic. This testimony is all the more impressive when it is remembered that Mr. Robb, himself of Scotch parentage and an elder of the Presbyterian church, and later of the United Church, was by race and religion, of the minority in the constituency and in the province which he represented in parliament.
That confidence, bred of dharacter, was not confined to the community in which Mr. Robb lived, or to the province of which it ;s a part. It was to be found in every circle of activity in which he moved. It was strongest in those with whom he was brought into closest touch. It was the secret of his achievement in this parliament, and of the place he held in the regard of his fellow-countrymen. It was that which led to his being selected as the chief whip of his party during its last years in opposition, and to his becoming a minister of the crown. It was that which has given his name, in association with the portfolio of Finance, a place second to none in the roll of the very distinguished men who have held that high office in Canada. Those of us who were his associates in the cabinet knew perhaps better than any others how well-deserved was his reputation for industry, intelligence and integrity, and I perhaps, even more than all others, had reason to know how specially deserved was his reputation for loyalty. A more loyal colleague never breathed, nor a man with a higher sense of honour. James Robb was incapable,

Tributes to Deceased Members
in thought, or word, or deed, of any act which could bring discredit to his name, or lessen the lustre of any circle in which he moved.
I need not make more than a passing allusion to Mr. Robb's public services. They are well known to all present and to the country. He held successively in the present administration the portfolios of Trade and Commerce, of Immigration and Colonization, and of Finance. As head of these departments he gave many evidences of his executive capacity, shrewd insight into affairs, and deep knowledge and understanding of human nature. Entering upon his duties as a minister of the crown at a time of great political uncertainty and instability, and of widespread industrial depression, Mr. Robb lived to see his name become a proverb, almost a synonym for prosperity. As Minister of Finance he directed his attention more especially to the problems of debt and taxation, and was able for the period during which he held office, to point to substantial reductions in both. Making due allowance for any difference of view which members of this house may have, it may, I think, be said of the several budgets which he introduced, that while they may have occasioned controversy at the time, and may continue to occasion controversy, they will always bear in the mind of the public an association with his name alike welcome and worthy.
In debate in this house, Mr. Robb gave, and I believe also received, moire perhaps in the way of consideration than almost any other member. This was due to his essential kindliness of nature and a certain lovableness, which all who knew him will always be glad to recall. "Jim" Robb, as we called him, was both liked and respected by members of all political parties, and the fact that to-day, because he is no longer with us, there will be sorrow as genuine and almost as great, in the hearts of honourable members opposite, as there is in the breasts of those who sit on this side, is perhaps the highest tribute that could be paid to his memory.
As I think of my late devoted friend and colleague, one who was a friend of all who are here present, of his life lived so quietly and unostentatiously, and yet so full of meaning and power in the affairs of our country, and ask myself what were the attributes of character which made him so highly and universally esteemed, there come to my mind those beautiful lines in Wordsworth's "Ode to Duty":
G-ive unto me, made lowly-wise
The spirit of self-sacrifice:
The confidence of reason give:
And in the light of truth thy Bondman let me live!
James Alexander Robb was "benignly vested with humility". It lent to his every act, and to his faith, the note of simplicity. It was the spirit of self-sacrifice which caused him, in service and fortune alike, to give his all to the community and to the country he loved.
Of him, it might, always have been said that he wa£ one
Whose armour is His honest thought,
And simple truth His utmost skill.
It was his loyalty in every relationship of life that endeared him to the hearts of all. These are great qualities, but they remain the simple and homely virtues. Of what they may mean to other lives and to our country, his life and his memory, will continue to speak.
In the presence of death we are prone to think of our own loss. There is one, however, the irreparableness of whose loss is, I am sure, very much in the minds of all. Mrs. Robb has been, indeed, greatly ,bereaved. To her our hearts go out in feelings of profound sympathy. May I ask, Mr. Speaker, that expression of the sympathy of the House of Commons be conveyed by yourself to Mrs. Robb on our behalf.
In the thought that something has been spared of the infirmity which comes with years, there is much in the way of consolation where death comes to one, who with health and faculties unimpaired, has passed the threescore years and ten. There is, however, less of consolation and more of mystery where a young life, full of promise, and just at the threshold of years of public service, is snatched away, seemingly without warning and with but little apparent cause. Such, Mr. Speaker, were the circumstances of the death of the other hon. member, the late Georges Doreze Morin, who has been taken away since the last session of parliament, and whose loss is more particularly mourned by those who sit on this side of the house.
Mr. Morin was the member for Bagot, also in the province of Quebec. He was born at St. Hyacinthe on December 2, 1884, and had just completed his 45th year when he died at St. Pie de Bagot, on December 24 of last year. Mr. Morin was by profession, a notary public, and during the time he was practising his profession, had been called upon to fill more than one important public position, the duties of which he had performed most acceptably.	[DOT]
Tributes tu Deceased Members
When the constituency of Bagot became vacant before the first and only session of the last parliament, through the death of the member-elect, J. E. Marcile, the Liberals of that constituency selected Mr. Morin to be their standard-bearer in the by-election which took place prior to the assembling of parliament. It was in more respects than one a bitter contest, but Mr. Morin carried his banner to victorj' against an opponent who had been Solicitor General in a previous Conservative administration. Mr. Morin was obliged, within nine months of the time of his election, to contest the constituency again in the general election of 1926. Again he won a substantial victory. He had, therefore, been in this house as a member during the three sessions of the present parliament and the single session of the previous parliament.
Being comparatively young in years and without parliamentary experience, and of a retiring disposition, Mr. Morin did not take much part in the debates of the House, but he followed its proceedings with the keenest interest, and was most faithful in his attendance, and in the discharge of his parliamentary duties. Like the late Mr. Robb, who during the first five years of his membership of parliament, took little part in debate, Mr. Morin spent his time familiarizing himself with public questions rather than speaking upon them, and in watching the interests of the constituency which had returned him as its member. Outside of parliament, however, he devoted considerable time to public speaking, and the suddenness and untimely nature of his death will be realized when I mention that on the day which immediately preceded it, he had addressed a public meeting of his constituents and only a few days before had entered upon his 46th year.
The selection of Mr. Morin by his party as a candidate in a by-election which was recognized as one of exceptional significance, the success which attended his candidature at that time, and in the general elections which followed, were evidence of his ability and capacity for public affairs; evidence which was unmistakable to those who, in this house, enjoyed the pleasure of his acquaintance and shared with him the responsibilities of its membership.
I am sure all honourable members will join with me in expressing our high regard for the character and worth of the late member for Bagot, and our deep regret at his untimely death, and will be grateful to you, Mr. Speaker, if you will convey on our behalf, to Madame Morin and her two children, the expression of our profound sympathy in their bereavement. [DOT]
rMr. Mackenzie King.]
Mr. Speaker, my first duty is
to convey to the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and his colleagues and associates an expression of the deep sympathy of those who sit to the left of the Speaker it) the great loss which they have sustained through the passing of the former Minister of Finance and the member who represented the constituency of Bagot.
Mr. Robb, of course, was much better known than his colleague from Bagot by reason of the great office which he filled. Sometimes it is difficult to determine the causes which operate to enable one man to exercise great influence and power. In the case of Mr. Robb it would 'be very difficult, I take it, for any of us to determine why he exercised so commanding a place in this house and so great an influence in this country, but if I were asked to answer that question I would do so in a single word: character. The late James Robb was a man of character, and all the factors which go to make a strong human character were present in his case. In his domestic life, of which the Prime Minister has so feelingly spoken, he was indeed the devoted husband and the loving father, and those of us who have heard him speak of his home will realize how great indeed has been the shock to Mrs. Robb and how grievous has been the loss that she has sustained. We desire to associate ourselves with what the right hon. Prime Minister has said in expressing the hope that you, Mr. Speaker, will convey to the widow an expression of the loss that we of all shades of politics in this house have sustained by the passing of her husband-.
In his private business Mr. Robb was the soul of integrity and made for himself a position as a business man predicated largely on his qualities of integrity and sincerity. Of his public life we who sit to the left of the Speaker will entirely agree with what has been said by the right hon. Prime Minister except with respect to those matters that are controversial and concerning which we cannot say that we now have a true perspective. There are differences of opinion and there will be very keen differences of opinion with respect to some of those matters, but as to the purity of his motives, the sincerity of his purpose, his devotion to duty and his sincere desire to serve the country he loved so well, there can be no question, no controversy and no doubt.
May I venture to say in the words of a great poet that he was one

Tributes to Deceased Members
Who served no private end,
Who gain'd no title, and who lost no friend;
Ennobled by himself, by all approv'd and prais'd.
I think higher praise than that we cannot give to the memory of James Robb. To most of us he was a friend; he never forgot, when he spoke in this house or on the public platform, the high responsibilities of his great office, and in the discharge of his very onerous duties his sincerity of purpose was always so apparent that he gained for himself a reputation in this country which it is not easy for any public man to attain. I will not endeavour to do more than say how fully we appreciate the observations that have been made by the Prime Minister as to his long public career and the example it is to the youth of this country, showing as it does how from the humble surroundings of a small village community he made for himself a great place in the public life of Canada, He will 'be long remembered by men and women who knew him only by reputation; he will be sincerely mourned by those who knew him in this house and who will always remember *him as a warm-hearted, kindly and sincere gentleman whose epitaph might well be that of a great American president:
Life's race well run,
Life's work well done,
Life's crown well won;
Now comes rest.
The hon. member for Bagot was less well known to those of us who sit to the left of the Speaker. We knew him as a genial member of this house, of kindly disposition and regular in his attendance, who indicated by every standard by which judgment could be arrived at that he was deeply interested in all problems affecting this country as they were debated in parliament. He took little or no part in those proceedings except to follow them with great care. The office which he held in his community, that of notary, is of course one of the oldest known to the law, and it presents great opportunities to come closely in contact with many people; for the office of notary is one in which great confidence is reposed in civil law communities. I am informed that our former friend had the confidence of the people with whom he was associated, and indeed, as the Prime Minister has said, his election successes indicate that he held to a peculiar degree not only the confidence but the affection and regard of those amongst whom he lived. We mourn his passing because he was on the threshold of what seemed to be a promising career. As we come here to-day and meet old friends
and associates and see vacant chairs taken bv new members, we are reminded that in the midst of life we are in death. Of that fact we are constantly reminded as we come and go in this parliament, and that, I believe, is in the minds of all of us who are gathered here to-day to pay a final tribute to two of our colleagues who have passed to the great beyond.


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately at the commencement of almost every session we have to regret the passing of members of this house who had been associated with us. In the passing of Mr. Robb I am sure that we all desire to be associated with the remarks of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) in expressing a tribute to his memory and also in extending our sympathy to Mrs. Robb in her bereavement. I think there is no doubt in the minds of hon. members of this house that the duties of the office which Mr. Robb occupied, taking up as they did a tremendous amount of his time and energy, contributed largely to his demise. When we in the west who are not so closely associated with the east learned of Mr. Robb's illness we earnestly hoped that he would survive, but such was not the case, and the citizens of his community and the members of this house regret his passing. While Mr. Robb was Minister of Finance he devoted his time and energy to the duties of his position, and we believe that he *performed those duties well. Canada mourns the death of a splendid executive officer, and the members of the House of Commons mourn the death of a good friend.
With regard to the late Mr. Morin, in common with the leader of the opposition we on this side of the house were not so well acquainted with him, but we remember that he was of a happy disposition and that he earned the respect and esteem of all members.
We in this corner of the house desire to join in expressing our regret to the relatives of these two deceased members.
On motion of Mr. Mackenzie King the house adjourned at 4.37 p.m. until Monday, February 24.
Monday, February 24, 1930


On the orders of the day:
In view, Mr. Speaker, of the Prime Minister's statement to the house last session,
The Address-Mr. Gray

does the government propose to bring in legislation to relieve parliament of the duty of adjudicating on divorce cases,-


My hon. friend will be notified in due course.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to bring to the attention of the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Malcolm) that certain millers have been assuming the right to obtain samples at the same time that the grain cars are sampled by the government inspectors at Saskatoon. Have they a legal right to do that? Also, I wish to draw to his attention the fact that certain cars have been diverted to Saskatoon and opened there, although the bills of lading were marked for Winnipeg inspection only.


This will stand as a notice of motion.


The house proceeded to the consideration of the speech delivered by His Excellency the Governor General at the opening of the session.
Mr. Speaker, fully
relying that the good will of the house will be graciously extended to me, I rise to fulfil the task the government has entrusted to me. In this matter, I suspect that the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie

The Address-Mr. Dupuis
King) and his colleagues, while highly honouring my compatriots, wished, at the same time, to pay a mark of respect to the memory of one who, during more than a quarter of a century, was able to retain the esteem of his own people and so worthily represent them in this house. My constituents and all those who were acquainted with the late Roch Lanctot will recall that his predominating traits were, among all, an unwavering determination, a sincerity without evasion and a frankness devoid of affectation. I feel rather reticent to speak about my humble person, nevertheless I have a sacred duty to fulfil:	that of
acknowledging the truth bj- stating that Roch Lanctot was for me, both a benefactor and a true friend. For three years, I had been going from door to door hoping to get sufficient influence in order that I might secure a position which would permit me to attain the goal that I had conceived of life, and during all the while I met but with rebuke or disdainful indifference from those to whom I appealed. It was then that my thoughts turned to Roch Lanctot who, immediately and without the slightest hesitation, came to Ottawa and obtained, in the Laurier government, from the Postmaster General, the present Speaker of this House, the so much sought post which afforded me the chance of completing my law studies at McGill University.
Ever since that day, I realized what was liberalism, that liberalism which affords to all citizens, regardless of their humble, ignored or poor circumstances, the opportunity of advancement in life and of seeking their legitimate share of the rights inherent to the title of citizen in a democratic country like ours.
The distinguished leader of the Liberal party had, therefore, reasons to state, when on the 31st of May last the hon. members of this house spoke in praise of my late predecessor, that he was a patriot and champion of the people's rights, especially those of the farming classes to which he w-as so much attached. How could it be otherwise, when it is known that he came from that small corner of the country which I have the honour- of representing. No doubt the whole of Canada is a land of predilection, where the most noble attributes of the soul expand as if by enchantment, however, it seems to me that nowhere else in Canada are there to be found more favourable conditions than in my part of the country for the bringing up that type of citizen which from the cradle grows up, lives and dies with but one vision before

his eyes and in his heart but one aim: the vision of a greater, more prosperous and more united country; and the aim of serving it in such a w-ay so as to give his fellow citizens a little more happiness and contentment. I need no further proof, Mr. Speaker, than your own example. It is most gratifying to your friends of Laprairie and Napierville to cherish the thought-though illusive as it may be-that if fame has spread to all parts your high reputation, if you preside with so much tact, distinction and judgment over the meetings of this house, you owe it to some degree to your maternal ties by which you are so closely connected with the old parish of Laprairie; perhaps you may also ow-e it somewhat to the fact that you passed some of your happiest childhood days in the quiet and peaceful surroundings in the midst of the good folks of St. Edouard. Knowing that I grew up in such favourable surroundings, you will not be astonished, if when I am called upon to champion the interests of my constituents and especially those of the farming classes, I appear to be tenacious to the point of seeming at times uncompromising. It will be twenty years on May the 6th next I w-as employed by a general merchant in a small American village close to our frontier, when the sad news of the death of Edward the VII reached us. I must confess that never had the burden of exile weighed so heavily upon me than at that moment, never was I so deeply wounded than when I witnessed the indifference of those with whom I was living, never had I so much longed to return to my country and find there people with whom I might sympathize and unite in prayer to beseech God to grant everlasting peace to one who had made himself the apostle of universal peace and who has since been so justly called the peacemaker King. As much as my soul w-as depressed at the time, as much to-day our hearts rejoice having the assurance that our gracious Sovereign has at last recovered his health. Allow me, Sir, to be the interpreter of his loyal subjects in this house and in Canada, by expressing the sincere wish that Providence may watch over him so that he may still preside with as much dignity during numerous years, over the destinies of his vast Empire, because to us the Crown is not only the emblem of sovereign authority; but also the safeguard of our nation still in its youth.
We were much distressed at the news of the demise of the late Hon. James A. Robb, who had shown himself so generous a neighbour towards the people of my county and especially to me. We also deplore the death

The Address-Mr. Dupuis
of the distinguished member, the late Georges Doreze Morin, who unrelenting destiny so prematurely took away. I therefore wish to associate myself with the hon. members of this house who so eloquently expressed their sympathies to the bereaved families. We must, however, console ourselves at the thought that the people and the government have chosen representatives who will be able to continue the work of their predecessors and fulfil their task with honour and distinction. I shall always look back with legitimate pride to the happy event which has led to my being introduced to the house on the same occasion as the hon. Minister of Railways (Mr. Crerar), who has returned among us, sacrificing his personal interests in order to devote his time to public affairs.
Prosperity, sir, which has manifested itself ever since the coming into power of the Liberal party is for us an excellent reason to have faith in the future. The ratepayers of this country are aware that since that advent, deficits have made way to surpluses; that the latter have gradually increased; that our revenues have unceasingly grown, thus affording the government an opportunity of lightening the burden which weighs on the shoulders of the people, by reducing taxation and decreasing the public debt by more than S125,000,000. The same is true in other fields of national activity; and this advantageous situation is certainly well known to our opponents.
With reference to the international aspect, the progress made has not been less marked, and in numerous cases we shall have to legislate to make laws harmonize with one another so as to place us on the same level which this new international situation demands. With this aim in view the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) last autumn, represented Canada at a conference held in London. I must here add, sir, we feel highly flattered at the honour reflected on us through the hon. Minister of Justice each time his colleagues entrust him with a mission to the British government or a foreign country.
The optional clause of the statute of the Permanent Court, having been signed by our representatives, will be submitted to the house. The numerous evolutions which have taken place since-I should add as a consequence of-the war infallibly lead us further and further on the path of our international freedom. When, for instance, causes of conflict do arise with foreign countries or disputes with other members of the British Commonwealth, we shall be at liberty to submit these disputes to the Permanent Court of the
League of Nations or to a similar tribunal in order to obtain redress according to the principles of international law.
I wish to put forth, here, views which are entirely personal. I am of the opinion that the last word has not been said with reference to the dispute between Canada and Newfoundland in regard to Labrador. It being understood that the judicial committee of the privy council was but requested to pass an opinion on this matter and owing to our present status which entitles us to international independence with regard to the other dominions or colonies in the British commonwealth, I have my doubts whether this judicial committee is qualified in cases where an international question arises; I fear therefore, that it is not the proper tribunal in this matter. I am led to believe that the only tribunal having the necessary authority is truly this Permanent Court or a similar tribunal which we shall be called upon to recognize. I leave to our legal lights the (*are of looking into this question which deserves to be studied, not only with regard to Labrador, but for every dispute which might arise between the dominions, as I feel confident that, in this house as well as throughout the country, one would not wish that the judgment just handed down should serve as a precedent in other cases which might arise.
Thanks to the interpretation that the judicial committee has just given of the law, women have now the same right as men to be represented in both Houses of Parliament. We must congratulate the government on the appointment they have just made to the Senate, and at the same time pay our respects to the incumbent who, previous to being called upon to perform her new functions, had accomplished-we must highly proclaim it-the most sacred state duty, being the mother of eight children and bringing them up as our Canadian mothers know so well. We must not be too greatly alarmed of that new departure for the Canadian mother has always recalled to mind this elementary truth that the family is the' foundation of society, that she fulfils a noble duty when she gives birth even to only one child and forms its character. When I thus express myself, I am not losing sight of the fact that it is well to bear in mind the notable exception of those who sacrifice themselves by remaining single in life-and this house furnishes us with noble examples.
The success of our domestic and foreign policy affords us no doubt cause for rejoicing; however our country will certainly not
The Address-Mr. Dupuis

reach its high destinies if our legislators concern themselves only with the material side of the nation, because, above the social body and more important than its functions, there is the national soul. No one to-day can deny the existence of a national soul in Canada, for its attributes are easily discernible. Indeed, we have a national conscience, we have a national pride and we also have the veneration of historical memories, and the days no more exist when we could be taxed with being a nation without a history.
The collective soul which Canadians possess is a hardy and vigorous one, having its own attributes and a unique character in the world, it will moreover be found that the Canadian soul, owing to these special and unique qualifications which it possesses, is sufficiently powerful to rise into those spheres where one's vision is not obscured by parochial considerations or by prejudices inherent to our race, but where we are able to embrace all our fellow citizens, regardless of the race or religion they may belong to, and to also include in a single glance all the beauties and wealth of our vast national patrimony ad mari usque ad mare. And since our soul can harmonize with the national soul, it is .possible for us to draw from our glorious past the lessons and strength which will guide us with certainty towards the .future which a-waits us. Endowed with this mentality which takes its roots deep in the Canadian soil, we are equally proud of-our discoveries, pioneers and toilers of the land, whatever may be their race. We love to praise the courage and, valour of those 60,000 Canadians of French origin which comprised the whole population at the time of the conquest, likewise we love to praise the dauntlessness and devotion to the British crown of those loyalists who forsook what they cherished most in the thirteen colonies so as to settle in Canada at the time of the American revolution. With equal pride do we laud the fame of the companions of Wolfe and Montcalm, whose immortality was sealed on the stone of a common monument erected to their memory near the old Quebec citadel.
To continue my argument forgive me, sir, if I appeal to the living patriotism of the citizen rather than to the legitimate sentiment of the bereaved father-to continue my argument, I say, that when we recall the victories won and heroic struggles engaged in during the last war, it is with sublime pride and loftiness of mind that we say, in speaking of those who fell on the battlefields and who now sleep their last glorious sleep on French soil: Our Canadians were there; they fell it is true,

but they fell in order that freedom might survive and remain erect such as they had dreamed of it.
We moreover admire the courage and determination of those w'ho cherishing an ideal of liberty and desirous of improving their lot, forsake their native country to come to Canada and contribute, together with us, to the building of the national edifice. May I here make a digression to state that if it were possible to choose those who cherish such an ideal the problem of immigration would thereby be solved. I avail myself of this opportunity to state how much the true Canadians admire the self-made man, the type of person I have just been referring to and to whom the right lion. Prime Minister has just entrusted the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning). His life will always be for us and for future generations a lesson and symbol.
Having thus risen, our soul has acquired such a freedom of action that not only can it develop the virtues and culture belonging to one race but it easily and without effort, so to speak, acquires the virtues and culture of the other race, convinced that these various traits coordinate and complete themselves to form that special and unique type, the Canadian citizen such as Providence has willed it and in whom I have faith. As for those to whom this duality of character is burdensome owing to the fact that they are forced to learn another language than their own, why should they not allow themselves to be convinced by this charming legend, that destiny decreed that we were in need of the most beautiful languages in the world to laud the beauties of our enchanting nature and the heroic deeds of our ancestors? These, sir, are the feelings which inspire the majority of Canadians in this country; that is the goal towards which we are inevitably moving, willingly or not.
I recall in the history of the United States that ^ymlbolic picture which an American patriot distributed to stimulate enlistment, and which represented a serpent whose body had been sectioned off in thirteen parts; and below these words inscribed on stone: "Unite or die". We also know by experience that we must unite, for God expects much from us. It is not without a purpose that He has willed that the descendants of two great races must develop this country. Destiny .points out the path to follow. "Blind, who fails to see it, and guilty who seeing fails to follow it."
No doubt, we shall always have extremists who will unceasingly advocate contrary doctrines, who will always seek to spread trouble

The Address-Mr_ Dupuis
and dissension among the people. Instead of wishing to destroy them, we must protect them, even love them, because they are the tools of an eternal law which exists in ethics as well as in nature, and by which it is possible for us to harness and direct the flow of energies-which otherwise would be lost,- and of no benefit to our fellow creatures. Nations of old and our ancestors well understood and often applied this law, when instead of allowing the stream to flow uselessly, they harnessed it with the purpose of putting its waters in motion towards their mill wheels; and are not the students of engineering in these modern days vying with one another to obtain water power rights, and build dams so as to multiply indefinitely nature's forces, thereby contributing to the full development of the natural resources and to the progress of industry. And in the moral sphere for twenty centuries Christianity has been teaching us its application: "Love your enemies"; " And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other"; "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled"; and, again:	" Blessed are they which are persecuted". I therefore maintain that if the extremists, to whatever school or race they may belong to, play a deplorable part, we must admit that it is a necessary one, unconsciously obeying that law, the application of which I have just explained. For, indeed, when they rouse the prejudices of a part of the population against the other, when they persist in persecuting their fellow-citizen, they unwillingly build up a dam behind which our revolted feelings keep watch and form what the poet has so well described as the "eternal vigilance which is the price of liberty."
Just as the old British lion who, looking down from Westminster lends an indifferent or benevolent ear to so-called revolutionists clamouring on the public squares of London, likewise we must not be too much alarmed at the tactics of these extremists; we fully know that, our vigilance being always on the alert, there will always be found citizens right-minded enough and in sufficient numbers to turn, at the critical moment, the scales on the side of imperishable justice.
The study, sir, of political history during the last fifty years, personal experience of twenty years during which we have been privileged to follow and take part in political movements which have agitated public opinion, have firmly convinced me that the Liberal party is the best intermediary by which it is possible for us to attain this ideal of Canadian nationship such as I understand it. And if I had the right to add to it an
element of faith, I would state that I truly believe that Providence has always made use of the Liberal party to revive hope in the hearts of the people and prosperity in the country, and that Laurier was right when, in 1908, at a meeting held at Laprairie, to his opponents who charged him of attributing to the Liberal party a prosperity which they said was due to Providence, he answered by this sally which has been handed down in history: " Am I to be blamed if Providence favours us and frowns on them." This study of history and personal experience have also convinced me that the men who succeeded one another as leaders of the Liberal party were endowed with those essential principles necessary to the statesman. I could not better illustrate the character of our Liberal leaders than by giving you a description written by a great philosopher and thinker of what he considered to be a true statesman. The following is the description which he wrote:
"A politician proves his genius for statecraft by so gently guiding public sentimemt that he seems to follow i.t; by so yielding doubtful points that he can be firm without seeming obstinate in essential ones; and thus gain the advantages of compromise without the weakness of concession; by so instinctively comprehending the temper and prejudices of a people as to make them gradually conscious of the superior wisdom of his freedom from temper and prejudices-it is by quality such as these that a magistrate shows himself to be chief in a commonwealth of freemen."
That is why, sir, being convinced that in the material as well as that of the intellectual and moral spheres, the Liberal party governs with wisdom; being moreover confident that the legislation embodied in the speech from the throne will bring us somewhat nearer to our ultimate destinies, I have much pleasure in seconding the motion which my hon. friend from West Lambton (Mr. Gray) has so eloquently moved.


Mr. Speaker, my first words
must be words of congratulation to the hon. gentlemen who have moved and seconded the reply to the speech from the throne.
The hon. member for West Lamibton (Mr. Gray) discharged his duty in a manner in keeping with the traditions which attach to that obligation, and his speech indicated a knowledge of Canadian conditions which although somewdiat partisan could have been gained only through considerable study.
The hon. gentleman (Mr. Dupuis) who has succeeded to the position held by one of the oldest, most distinguished' members of the house, Mr. Lanctot, has discharged his duty in just the manner that one would expec1' I have
The Address-Mr. Bennett

often said that the young men of Quebec show a knowledge of political history unrivalled by the other young men of this country. The hon. gentleman has indicated his widie knowledge, his intellectual powers, and his disciplined mental processes, and I am sure his speech met with the approval -of all members of tliis house.
But when I say that of the speeches which have been delivered, I have said all that can be reasonably expected, because the mover and seconder of the address had a most difficult task to perform. I venture to say that in the many years which have elapsed since Confederation it will be somewhat difficult to find a speech from the throne so vague, so filled with generalities, and so lacking in the promise of useful -legislation. It might indeed be said that instead of being a prospectus, as all speeches from the throne are supposed to be, indicating something of the intention of the administration with respect to the future, it was a record of the past, a record of the days that are no more. When the speech from the throne undertakes to rejoice in a prosperity which has passed it is not serving its purpose; as I understand it, the purpose of the speech from the throne is to give an idea of how the government proposes to deal with the problems which have oom-e upon the country. It is not sufficient to say that in 1929 the country enjoyed -a prosperity which we do not at the present moment enjoy; what we expected to -h-a-ve from the government, and what we should have had was some indication as to how ithe problems now before the country w-ould be dealt with, and what its intentions were with regard to them. Perhaps the -absence of our old friend the late Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb), to whose untimely passing we referred the other day, had something to do with the sparse bill of fare. The sagacious mind -and great wisdom of that distinguished gentleman perhaps would -have given this house something better to deal with than it has now.
This affords me the opportunity, perhaps, to congratulate -the hon. gentleman (Mr. Dunning) who now fills the office of Minister of Finance. I trust that he may emulate his predecessor in regard to his public declarations. In every instance in which the late Mr. Roibb had occasion to deal with public affairs, he never engaged in claptrap oratory for the purpose of appealing to the mob.
May I venture further to congratulate the Minister of Railways (Mr. Crerar) upon his recession to the cabinet. "Oh what a fall was there, my countrymen!" As the hon. gentleman looks upon those who sit opposite to

him he will see the faces of some of -those with whom he was once -a colleague, and -as he looks to his right upon the benign countenance of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) he must recall the scathing remarks he made about the administration -of which he was on-ee a member. He must -recall those days, and those gl-ib phrases which slipped so easily from -the mouth o-f the Minister of Justice.
I can readily understand why the Minister of Railways the other day made t