Bill No. 32, respecting the Interprcvincial and James Bay Railway Company.-Mr. Parent.
Bill No. 33, respecting The Algoma Central and Hudson Bay Railway Company.-Mr. Bradette.
Bill No. 34, to amend an act to incorporate the Canadian Bible Society auxiliary to the British and Foreign Bible Society.-Mr. Evans.
Mr. Speaker, with the
consent of the house I should like to make the following motion, with the understanding that if there is any objection it may stand aa a notice. The motion is:
That on and after Monday, March 24 next, and all subsequent Mondays and Wednesdays until the end of the session, government notices of motion and government orders shall have precedence over all other business except questions and notices of motions for the production of papers and private bills on Monday.


I had not understood the right hon. Prime Minister to say that his motion would include both days. I thought it was intended only to take Mondays and to leave Wednesdays for the time being.


I may say, Mr. Speaker, that during the last three years the average time allowed to private members has been ten days. One year it was eight days; another year it was ten days and in the third year it was eleven days. This motion would allow ten full days to private members.
Perhaps I should add that there is this year an even stronger reason why this motion should be carried than was the case in previous years. Up to the present time the government has had only two days for its business since the house opened. If we except the time taken for the discussion on the speech from the throne which took but one day or two we have had only two days devoted to government business. After all the government is entitled to some place in parliament in the matter of its legislation.


But may I say, Mr. Speaker, that in the old days, as I remember it, there were always two motions in connection with this taking away of the days of private members. The first motion, if my memory serves me right, would be for Wednesdays, and a couple of weeks later a motion would be made with regard to Mondays. It seems rather hard for the members who have notices of motion on the order paper to be entirely shut off after this week. I should like to suggest that the Prime Minister look up the precedents, and I think he will find that this was the customary procedure.


I have looked up these points, and as a matter of fact probably notice should have been given a fortnight ago with regard to this motion, but I think my hon. friend will find that what is being proposed for this year is quite the customary average. However, this might stand is a notice for the present.


I should like lo direct the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that this year we took just a little over one day to dispose of the debate on the address in reply to the speech from the throne which, in my own recollection, often has taken a period of three weeks. I think the government certainly is trying to shut off private members' days much too early in the session. I certainly think this should stand as notice and that private members should be allowed further days.
Insurance Act


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


As the Prime Minister indicated, unless it is consented to unanimously it will have to stand as notice.


Stands as notice of motion.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 35, to amend the Insurance Act.
Explain.


The object of the bill is to make three amendments, not of a very important character, to the Insurance Act. The first amendment provides for the release of securities by the superintendent of insurance to a liquidator, under court order. The second amendment has to do with a difficulty which has arisen in permitting companies to declare a dividend when in any particular year they did not comply literally with the provisions of the act with respect to surplus and accumulated reserves, and the third amendment is designed to permit the issuance of shares by fire and casualty companies of a lesser par value than $100.
I may say that it is my intention to ask the house to refer the bill to the committee on banking and commerce following second reading, in order that a thorough examination of its provisions may be made.


May I ask the Minister of Finance if there is any provision in this bill for limiting the investments of any insurance companies in common stock?


No.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. P. J. A. CARDIN (Minister of Marine and Fisheries) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 36, to amend the Government Harbours and Piers Act.
Explain.


The object of the bill is to provide that the Government Harbours and Piers Act shall apply to Pictou harbour.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
|Mr. Coote.]


Mr. H. J. BARBER (Fraser Valley) asked leave under standing order 31 to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, the necessity for immediate action to be taken by the government to prevent the dumping of eggs from the United States and other countries upon the Canadian market.
And leave having been granted:
Mr. Speaker, I move the house do adjourn.
As briefly as possible I will undertake to place before the house and the government the serious condition which exists in relation to one of our branches of agriculture; I refer to the poultry industry. This industry has developed into a very valuable one, giving employment to a large number of our people. I believe that some 250,000 Canadians are employed at the present time in this industry. Statistics supplied by the Department of Trade and Commerce show that in 1928 we had over 34,000,000 producing hens with a total production of 269,000,000 dozen eggs, valued at $84,000,000. In 1921 the total production was valued at $40,000,000 and to-day that production is valued at $84,000,000, which is proof that this industry has developed very rapidly during the last few years. The minister has drawn our attention to the fact that the per capita consumption of eggs in Canada has shown a marked increase, the domestic consumption exceeding that of any other country. This can be taken as a tribute to the high quality of the Canadian egg. Some credit for this result belongs rightly to the department, but a great deal must be given to those engaged in the industry. Through careful selection and breeding we are told that the production per hen has increased in seven years from 78 to 95 eggs and through better grading and marketing the average price received during that time has increased from 25 cents to 31 cents per dozen. According to the Bureau of Statistics, our exports last year exceeded our imports, which would lead us to believe that we are now producing sufficient eggs to supply the domestic market. This is a very important industry, one employing a large number of people; an industry producing a product of the highest quality and in sufficient quantity to supply the domestic market. This industry should receive every consideration and assistance at the hands of the government.

Importation of Eggs-Mr. Barber
I have before me a telegram received from the president of the Canadian poultry pool, but before referring to it I would like to say something regarding the organization itself. This pool came into being during May of last year, its object being to organize the poultry industry of Canada for the purpose of placing it upon a sound basis, insuring the producer, on the one hand, an adequate return for his investment and labour, and insuring to the consumer, on the other hand, a continuous and wholesome supply of eggs and egg products at reasonable cost. This organization encourages the producers to take up cooperative marketing. It also aims at the standardization of the product and the supervision of packing and marketing. It has spread to the four western provinces, and numbers within its membership provincial poultry associations in British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba representing a membership of 40,000 producers and
2,000	merchant members. I would consider that organization to be sufficiently representative of the poultry industry. I am advised that a similar telegram to that which I shall read was despatched to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell) and to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning). This telegram reads as follows:
Would invite your attention to present import of American eggs which are now flooding our Montreal, Toronto and prairie markets. Canadian production of eggs increasing rapidly and in our opinion is now sufficient to meet consumptive demand in Canada. Further import into Canada at this time will result in the demoralization of our market to an extent that Canadian producers will not receive sufficient for their eggs to cover cost of production. Request your government to immediately take such steps as may be necessary to prevent further depression of our egg market.
That telegram was dated February 28, and was signed by Alister Forbes, the president of the Canadian poultry pood. The telegram was followed by a letter dated March 8, 1930, confirming the wire and reading as follows:
About 20,000 cases of American eggs were imported into the Montreal and Toronto markets during January and I believe a similar quantity during February. Our advices are that large quantities are still being imported. These foreign eggs now entering Canada are of the lower grades but, nevertheless, they affect very adversely the price at which our high grade Canadian eggs can be marketed. These low grade eggs have a very demoralizing effect upon our markets and are especially demoralizing at the present time, when the packing house trade is endeavouring to set the price for this season's storage pack.
It is unnecessary for me to point out to you that it is not only the actual importation of these eggs that has a demoralizing effect upon
our markets, but the threat of import is almost as demoralizing as the actual accomplishment of the fact.
I have also a statement from the same organization relating to the marketing situation:
During 1928 egg prices in Canada and the United States ruled generally firm. Prices f.o.b. western Canada were on a basis of approximately 30 cents per dozen, and the Chicago market was on a similar basis. Due to a particularly mild fall and an early winter there was a considerable increase in winter production in both Canada and the United States, and the American distributors found their stocks unduly heavy and took steps to unload. Their storage market continued very weak and tremendous losses were taken by holders of storage eggs, due to the over supply. Our Canadian market immediately reflected the situation in the United States. We did not have too many eggs in store. Our prices were not too high for Canadian consumption, but due to the fact that American eggs could be imported from Chicago to our eastern markets at a cost, including duty, of approximately 4J cents a dozen, holders of Canadian storage eggs were obliged to compete with the Chicago market with the result that eggs, which had cost our Canadian distributors 40 cents in store, had to be sold for as low as 27 cents for extras, and. in some cases later in the season, eggs which "were put away as extras were cleared at 23 cents Montreal.
These distributors refused in 1929 to buy eggs on a basis of the 1928 season claiming that they must buy eggs at a price which would show them a profit against importations of American eggs. We feel they are justified in adopting this attitude under the present tariff. It is unreasonable to expect that they will cooperate to build up a profitable market to the egg producers of Canada, if they are going to be subject to the competition of American exporters who see fit to market their eggs in Canada at prices far under their cost to themselves. It is impossible for the Canadian distributors to stay in business if they have to market eggs which cost them 40 cents for 27 cents to meet American competition.
The figures of the Bureau of Statistics show that the importation of eggs for the calendar year of 1928 amounted to 996,880 dozen in shell, and 3,029,733 pounds n.o.p. In 1929 the importation of eggs in shell amounted to 713,290 dozen, and eggs, n.o.p., 560,061 pounds. I would like to refer to the following which appears on page 11 of the 1929 report of the Minister of Agriculture:
The steady growth which has characterized the poultry industry in Canada during the past few years was continued in 1928. The increased interest displayed throughout the Dominion, and in foreign countries too, is attributed in a large measure to the recent world's poultry congress. As a result of the greater demand for stock the hatching industry is in a flourishing condition. Prices held up very well on the average although the influx of eggs from British Columbia has had a tendency to break the market in eastern
Importation oj Eggs-Mr. Barber


I do not wish to interrupt the hon. gentleman, but may I rise to a point of order? My hon. friend has been talking for a long time and as yet he has not said a word about an egg. This motion was to discuss a matter of urgent public importance. There will be an opportunity for a debate on the budget when it is brought down.


I accept the reproof of the
Prime Minister. I started on the eggs and I will lead up to eggs again if my right hon. friend will allow me to continue for a few minutes. We must keep these eggs out of the country. We must keep other things out of the country. One question is bound up with the other. This government is seeing what Belshazzar saw. We are" trying to succeed in Canada. We are trying to produce eggs and to do things for the benefit of the whole of this country. Just look at the value of the agricultural products that are brought into Canada, and those agricultural products include eggs, of course. We are an agricultural country, and the government should be willing to assist agriculture in every way possible, but at the present time we are importing far more agricultural products from our neighbours than we are exporting to them. Is that right? It is the quintessence of folly. No government can do it and remain in power, and we are going to see, when this government takes its seat to your left, Mr. Speaker, that these conditions are remedied, and the people of Canada will thank us for it. We have a wonderful country, and why should we allow this agricultural produce from other countries to flood our market to the consternation of the people in this country who are trying to earn a living? In my district there are hundreds of returned men who have gone on the land under the soldier settlement scheme, and about the only possible thing they can do on that land is to raise poultry; and faced with the present conditions they cannot succeed. What is going to happen to them? They paid too much for their land under the prices which prevailed at that time, and I repeat, if they cannot succeed in the business of raising poultry, they cannot succeed at all. No wonder that consternation prevails among them.
I would have given figures, but as I said in my opening remarks the mover has dealt in figures so exhaustively that I feel it is not necessary for me to give any more. In conclusion, I press upon the government to take
648	COMMONS
Importation oj Eggs-Mr. McQuarrie
immediate action in the best interest of Canada and in the best interest of the poultry men.


I wish to support the resolution. I come from a constituency where a great many returned men have gone into the poultry business, and may I say that they did so with the approval of the government, the poultry business being one branch of farming that was approved for them. Conditions in British Columbia favour the production of eggs when they cannot be satisfactorily produced in eastern Canada. We feel that as Canadians we should be entitled to the Canadian market in preference to the people of the United States. I feel very keenly on this subject because I have seen how the situation is working out. The returned men are doing their very best to make good, but are having a very difficult time of it, and I must say that this government is doing nothing at all to assist them. On the contrary, if a returned man does not pay the money which is due to the government on account of his land or stock, including poultry, his land is taken away from him. I submit that the returned men should at least be given a fair chance to make good, and they are not going to make good in the poultry business if the government refuses to take action in a situation like this. There is no doubt whatever that our market is being flooded with American eggs; I am not going into details because they have already been put on record. I submit that the government should have taken action in the matter before this. The government is to blame for the present situation having arisen. On the fourth of this month I called the attention of the government to the situation and tried to ascertain what they intended to do, but my question was ruled out of order, or, at least, I was told to put it on the order paper in the usual way, and we all know what that means. It means that it is side-tracked, and that the government will not take any immediate action. What the present situation requires is prompt action on the part of the government.
I submit that we can look at this subject from another standpoint, and that is from the standpoint of unemployment. Notwithstanding the remarks that have been made from time to time by the Prime Minister and his cabinet, there is a great deal of unemployment in this country at this time. I was present recently with a delegation that waited on the Prime Minister and the cabinet, and the matter of unemployment was then discussed.
I say that unemployment to some extent is 
due to the fact that this government does not take any action at all in circumstances like these. It is a government of inaction, not a government of action. It is time, I submit, that the government should do something, and unless something is done, and done right away, a very serious situation is going to arise. I have much pleasure in supporting the resolution.


I wish to support the resolution with reference to the egg and poultry industry. This is a very important industry, fully fifty per cent of the people of this Dominion being interested in it in one way or another. Almost every farmer in this country keeps a certain number of fowl, and sells eggs and poultry. The people of the west also sell a goodl deal of poultry to Ontario and Quebec around the Christmas season, and I think therefore that the. western members should be very much interested in this question. Tiie hon. member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill), speaking a year or two ago, stated that there were fully 250,000 people in the Dominion who made their Diving from the egg and poultry industry. Whether that figure is correct or not, I do not know, but I do know that a large number of people are interested in the production of eggs and poultry. Travelling on the railway you will notice that it is not only the farmers who are producing eggs and raising poultry, but also a large number of people in the villages and smaller towns. When you consider that the people of Canada consume more eggs per capita than any other nation in the world, you will understand how important an industry it is for this country. Only the other day I read that we consume per capita about twenty-nine to thirty dozen eggs per year, far greater number than in any other country. We can produce poultry and eggs in Canada the equal of any produced anywhere else in the world. Canadian farmers and egg and poultry producers, are quite capable of supplying the demand in this country, and one of the first things we should do is to conserve so far as possible the home market for the Canadian producer. The Canadian producer will supply that market if the prices are such as to give him a fair profit. The marketing of our domestic eggs in this country is done at present under great difficulties on account of the large importations from the United States and other parts of the world, eggs in the shell, in particular, being largely imported from the United States.
I was rather surprised to hear the statement that in the months of January and

Importation oj Eggs-Mr. Anderson (Halton)
February of this year as many eggs were imported from the United States as during the whole of the preceding two years. It shows that these importations are increasing at a tremendous rate. I noticed particularly a statement made by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture in a letter sent out to the farmers of this province, and presumably to those of the Dominion, on the 28th of February, to the effect that we had ceased to export eggs. He wanted to know the reason for this state of affairs. The explanation is that the egg producer in Canada has been driven out of the market by reason of the dumping of eggs into this country from the United States.
I think every hon. member will understand that it costs the Canadian egg producers more to produce a dozen eggs than it costs his competitor in the United States, due, of course, to our climatic conditions. Our hens are very sensitive to cold weather and stop laying. In order to ensure egg production during the winter months the hens must be comfortably housed in properly ventilated structures. There is a ventilating system manufactured in the United States which is very effective, but it costs a farmer here almost $1,000 to purchase the equipment.
During 1928 the returns from our poultry industry amounted to $106,500,000, which is a good deal more than the value of our fisheries, and represents a return to the average farmer greater than he gets from some of his coarse grains. In a word, it is an important industry and should be properly protected. In 1928 a large number of people came to Ottawa to see the government with regard to the imposition of the anti-dumping clause on imported fruits and vegetables, and also eggs. The late Mr. Robb then contended -and he brought a man from Prince Edward Island in confirmation of his statement'

that the imposition of the anti-dumping clause in 1926 and 1927 did not increase the price of eggs on the Canadian market. I think that is so. I doubt very much if the anti-dumping clause in its operation would increase the price of eggs to the Canadian consumer. But it would do this: it would protect the home market for the Canadian producer of eggs. That is the one point we want to stress. Our egg producers are asking for some redress against the dumping of eggs on their home market by their competitors in the United States. I think the former Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Dunning) made the statement that the egg producer in Canada got nothing whatever for his culls. That is simply in line with what a farmer told me when I was home last week. Under the present system of grading he had brought eggs
to the retailer in his home town, and a certain number of his eggs were rejected as culls; but he was given nothing for them. He asked me whether or not he was entitled to those culled eggs. I told him that he was, and the retailer should either hand over the culls to him or pay for them. That is a condition that should not be allowed to continue. Of course, I am not blaming the government at all for it, because I think the grading of eggs has been a good thing for the average consumer, for although it has increased the price somewhat, it has also improved the quality of the eggs. It is a question whether or not grading has increased egg production in this country; I think it has. Certainly it has given satisfaction not ony to the consumer but to the producer.
I do not want to labour the question. I think the government should take it into their serious consideration with a view to giving a little protection to this very important industry that is found and*-under normal conditions-flourishes from the Atlantic to the Pacific.


Mr. Speaker, I am not from British Columbia, but coming from an industrial centre as I do and being connected with the business world, I have some knowledge of the condition of the egg industry. I was on the Toronto market last Saturday. Let me say at once that I am not dealing in eggs, but I know those who are in touch with the egg business. To-day that business is in a deplorable condition, due to the dumping of eggs from the United States, and I heartily endorse all that has been said by the hon. member for Fraser Valley (Mr. Barber). The egg industry is just like every industry since the government came into power-it is sliding through to ruination. I could name the industries adversely affected if you wished, but you know them all. I know many people who ventured into the poultry business, and this year they are having a very hard time and not even meeting the cost of production from the sale of their eggs. I would not wait a day to apply the anti-dumping clause. An embargo should be put on the importation of eggs-not to-moiTow, but to-day. Give the Americans a dose of the medicine they gave us a few years ago, when after they had got all of our potatoes that they required they put an embargo on further importations and stuck us with hundreds of carloads of potatoes in transit to the border. I repeat, let us give them a bit of their own medicine and stop their eggs even in transit. This would not be any more unfair to them than the way they have used us in the past.
650	COMMONS
Importation of Eggs-Mr. Stirling	.


Mr. Speaker, I noticed when the hon. member for Fraser Valley (Mr. Barber) rose to propose this motion a smile spread over the faces of supporters of the government, and I took that to mean that in the opinion of many hon. members on the other side this is not a very important matter.


Hear, hear.


I would suggest that
possibly in the constituency of Pontiac there are not very many Canadian women who work and are interested in the production of Eggs, but I would think that in every other constituency of Canada, the Canadian woman who works is intensely interested in her hens and in the eggs which they lay. Not only on the poultry farms, but on the mixed farms, on the allotments, in the villages surrounding the towns, and even in the suburbs of our large cities eggs are produced in enormous quantities and anything which affects that industry touches the pockets of those egg producers. The industry is spread all over Canada, but of course in some parts it has developed to a greater extent than in others. In my own province of British Columbia it would appear that climatically and for other reasons it is like southern Ontario in being particularly adapted to the poultry industry, and anything which prejudicially affects the whole situation in the Dominion is first reflected there. In the last week or so of February a carload of eggs a day was shipped from British Columbia into the markets of Toronto and Montreal-


Did those
importations from British Columbia to eastern markets have the effect of lowering the price of eggs in eastern Canada?


Here, Mr. Speaker, we
have another instance of somebody who is imbued with the view of whoever wrote the annual report of the Department of Agriculture. He seems to be under the impression, as is the writer of that report, that British Columbia is not a part of Canada.
Towards the end of February, the prices dropped three times in one week; not that these American eggs coming into the province of British Columbia break the market there, for the market in British Columbia is, to a considerable degree, protected by the British Columbia provincial Egg Marks Act, but eggs coming from outside enter the markets of Canada and reduce the price. The shipments from British Columbia to Canadian markets

fell off, the British Columbia eggs remained at home and down came the price to the producer.


Did the importation of American eggs have an effect on the price here?


In the opinion of a very great number of people, who do not live at Weyburn, they certainly did. A half-hearted attempt was made by the government, in 1927, to deal with this question. Following the lead given by the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Stevens) when the Conservatives were in power for those few months, the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Euler)) of this government issued an appraiser's bulletin in the end of January, 1927, providing for the current value for duty on eggs. That was followed, some few months later, by the current value for frozen eggs being also proclaimed. That had a most beneficial effect on the egg industry in Canada. Hope once more was raised and increased production took place, for this is one of those industries, a part of the great agricultural industry, in which it has been demonstrated over and over again that Canada is second to none in production, in quality, and that this industry can be fostered with reasonable assistance. The government, in 1928, saw fit for reasons, which they have proclaimed, to remove that which they had given, under their own minister, in January, 1927, and although those reasons may be sufficient to the government they have never appeared to be sufficient to those concerned in the egg industry in Canada, because we have the testimony of the chief of the poultry division, that the protection given on that occasion on Canadian eggs did not raise the price to the consumer. I quote from a memorandum prepared by that gentleman in April, 1927, as follows:
The invoking of the dumping duty has in no vra,v affected the Canadian consumer, who was required to pay no more for his eggs than heretofore. The retail prices of eggs following the invoking of the duty were, in fact, in many instances lower than the average of the past three years. On the other hand, the duty has been of the utmost advantage to producers in that it has wiped out many of the violent market fluctuations caused by seasonal and other conditions and has given them a steady, satisfactory and remunerative outlet for their nro-duct in 1927.
The egg industry had a taste, for a short time, of what reasonable assistance to their industry would produce, and it was with a great falling of heart that the producers noticed the government had removed that assistance. Since then the government has not seen fit to give them assistance. It seems to

Importation oj Eggs-Mr. Garland (Carleton)
me that because of its effect on the whole agricultural industry of this country it is a matter of most serious importance.


Mr. Speaker, I am heartily in accord with the motion brought down by the hon. member for Fraser Valley (Mr. Barber). I think it is apparent to every person in this country that a grave injustice is being done to the poultry industry in Canada. As the member for Fraser Valley has said, the imports for January, 1929, amounted to 12,063 dozen. In January, 1930, they amounted to 536,848 dozen; for February, 1929, 74,730 dozen, and for February, 1930, 1,448,220 dozen. The total imports for the whole of the year 1929 amounted to 713,290 dozen. In other words, there were practically twice as many eggs imported in the month of February this year as there were for the whole of the year 1929. The duty, as we are aware, is 3 cents a dozen on eggs coming from the United States into Canada, and 8 cents a dozen on Canadian eggs going into the United States. If we take the difference between 3 cents and 8 cents, and take the imports for the month of February of this year, it amounts to approximately $75,000. Why should the Canadian poultry producer be under such a handicap? I do not want to quote figures at this time, Mr. Speaker, because the member for Fraser Valley has already quoted them. The member for Halt-on (Mr. Anderson) has said that the egg production of Canada is the highest per capita of any country in the world. In the year 1927 it was 29.20 dozen per hen.
The point I want to make is this, Mr. Speaker, that if the Canadian producer of eggs can supply eggs of such a quality that practically every man, woman and child in this country eats one egg a day, why should we not be sending those eggs to other countries? We should not be importing any eggs at all, but rather should we be exporting them. As one of the members for Toronto has said, if I had my way I would prohibit, or put an embargo on eggs coming in at all. The Canadian poultry producer can supply the eggs, as has been shown, in a proper condition to be marketed. Why should we have to import eggs from other countries? We get eggs from Hong Kong, China, in a frozen state, which has a detrimental effect on the egg industry of this country.
I want to mention just one other point, Mr. Speaker. The Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has said that we must talk on the egg question, but I am going to say a few words on the baby chick question, I db not see how I can get a baby chick without
getting an egg, so that I think I am perfectly in order in speaking about baby chicks. Last year we imported from the United States 883,095 baby chicks. To my mind, Mr. Speaker, the eggs for those baby chicks should have been produced in this country. That means that there were practically twice that many American eggs required to produce that many chicks. Therefore, if we had produced those eggs, approximately a million and three-quarters, it would have helped the consumption here, and it would have meant employment for those engaged in the industry in this country. I notice in an issue of an American poultry journal where they are advertising baby chicks at 7i cents, 8 cents, 10 cents and 11 cents. None of those chicks should be allowed into this country at all. They are coming from the southern states, bringing disease into the country, white diarrhoea and everything that possibly can be brought in, and all the time our own department, here is doing everything possible to stamp out disease in our own products. It is not fair to allow them to be brought in. I claim that good money can be made in the poultry business if only we can get some proper protection. We are not getting protection; we are getting everything else but that. At the world's poultry congress which was held at Ottawa and at the two preceding congresses, the standard of the Canadian poultry was as high as that of any other country in the world. This year, when the congress takes place in the old country, I venture to prophesy that Canadian poultry will be head and shoulders over anything else shown there. Why do we not protect such an industry in every possible way?
I am very much in accord with this resolution, and I really believe the Prime Minister, since he is to a certain extent in the poultry business himself, should take this matter to heart and see that the other poor poultrymen get some protection.


Mr. Speaker, I have listened to this debate with some interest, and I have tried to get the idea in the backs of the heads of hon. gentlemen opposite. As I understand it, shipments of eggs from British Columbia to the Toronto market have no effect on that market, while importations of eggs from the United States to the Toronto market have a depressing effect. I cannot quite determine what is the difference between a British Columbia egg and an American egg.
652	COMMONS
Importation oj Eggs-Mr. Young (Weyburn)


One is Canadian and the other is American.


Apparently the American egg must have some quality which is not possessed by the Canadian egg, when it can force down the market, which the British Columbia egg cannot do.


They are probably stale.


Which do you mean? I also gathered from the argument that these American eggs coming in lower the price of eggs to our consumers, but we are told that if we shut them out the price will not go up. That is the argument of hon. gentlemen opposite. In that case I do not know why they wish a dumping duty to be iput on, if it is not going to increase the price they will receive. The people of this country would still get their eggs at the market price.


What about holding their own market?


They have no difficulty in selling the eggs now, and if a dumping duty is applied it will not raise the price according to hon. gentlemen opposite.
The hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Garland) said he would assist the egg producers by raising the price of baby chicks. We all know that the poultry industry, iike every other industry, is becoming highly specialized, and many egg producers do not raise their own chicks. They find it more profitable to buy the baby chicks than to raise them, and my hon. friend from Carleton would assist these people in their business by increasing the price of baby chicks in order to make hens cost more. That is rather a peculiar remedy, I should think.
We have been told that the heaviest importations were in the month of March, and that in the months of January and February about 20,000 cases of American eggs were imported. I recall during January and February of this year watching the reports of the egg market in Montreal, and reading statements to this effect: "Eggs exhausted; telegraphic orders had to be sent to Chicago to relieve the situation." The people of this country were not able to get eggs, and they were very glad to get some importations from the United States.
I want to tell you something else. In the constituency represented by the Minister of Finance a beautiful new public market with many stalls was opened last fall. In January of this year, or to be exact on the 18th day of January, I went into that market in Regina

and saw these stalls filled with fresh, crisp fruits and vegetables selling at reasonable prices. The highest priced article in that market was eggs, which were selling at 70 cents per dozen. On that same day I was in a small town about sixty miles from Regina and spoke to a farmer who had brought strictly ' fresh eggs into the market that day. I asked, "What did you get for your eggs?" He said, "Oh, he gave me 40 cents for them, but he told me no.t to bring any more, for there was no sale for them." There you find a spread of 30 cents a dozen in the price of eggs between two points only sixty miles apart.
What was the difficulty? Both these dealers were operating in a restricted market. The man in Regina who was asking 70 cents per dozen for eggs, which the people of that city could ill afford to pay, was confined to a restricted district from which he could get his eggs. The man selling eggs out in the small country place was confined to a very narrow market in which to sell them.


May I ask the hon. gentleman if he seriously tells this house that that is the usual spread between the price to the producer and the retail price? That is absurd.


That was the
spread during the month of January; it extended into February as well, and I am explaining the reason for it. As I said, both these men were operating in restricted markets. Had conditions been such that the surplus eggs in the country could have flowed freely to the city, that spread would have been narrowed.


Nothing to hinder it.


Yes, there was.


There are four trains a day to Regina from the town you mention.


My hon. friend does not know what town I have in mind.
Mr. STE\ ENS: My hon. friend means his town town, I am sure. It is about sixty miles from Regina.


My hon. friend is mistaken. However, here is the point: Wherever you operate in a restricted market you are subject to violent fluctuations in price. The wider the market the less violent will be the fluctuation, and all these efforts to restrict the market to certain individuals, certain classes of people, certain districts or oertain countries only tend to accentuate these fluctuations.

Importation of Eggs-Mr. Young (Weyburn)
Some one said that an application to the tariff board hase been made by the poultry producers to have a dumping duty, or a seasonal duty, put back on eggs; they want the tariff so adjusted that eggs may be Shut out whenever our own dealers so desire, or at certain seasons of the year. It is true that such an application was made in the narne^ of the Manitoba poultry pool. That application is opposed by the organized farmers in Manitoba.


Is the consumers' league
suporting it?


The consumers' league is opposing the application. I want to tell the house about that. The hearing was 6et for many months ago, but the pool did not appear, or at least When they did appear they asked for an adjournment, which was granted until a certain date. When that date arrived they appeared again and asked for a further adjournment, which was also granted to them. When the third date arrived Mr. Darby, who represents the Canadian Council of Agriculture before the tariff board, made a special trip from Winnipeg all the way to Ottawa to oppose that application, and when he got here he found that our friends the poultry pool had sent a telegram asking for a further adjournment. That application also was granted. Those aTe the tactics, Mr. Speaker, adopted before the tariff board by same of these applicants for these seasonal duties. They are trying to wear down the apposition of those who do not take the same view, by having the cases adjourned from time to time until some occasion may come along when we are not there to state the other side of the -case.


May I ask the hon. gentleman if it is not a fact that approximately
26,000	egg producers in the three prairie provinces have petitioned the government for a dumping duty. They are farmers, are they not?


I would not say that that is a fact.


The Canadian egg pool?


The Canadian
egg pool, it is true, has made such a petition, but that .petition was orginated by Mr. Land-reth and some of the officials of the pool. The rank and file of the egg producers are not behind the petition at all. That was clearly brought oult at the convention of the Manitoba farmers held in Winnipeg during the present winter.


Is it not a fact that the
Saskatchewan Co-operative Egg Producing Association passed that resolution in Regina last October? I say that 'because I happened to be there on other business.


I do not say
that the egg producers' association did not pass that, but what I do say is that that association does not represent the voice of the farmers.


Are they not farmers?


As anyone knows, it is a very simple matter for the heads of those associations to put resolutions through the conventions which are not a .clear index of the voice of the farmers whom they are supposed to represent.


Do not the farmers understand what they are voting?


Do you consider 45 cents per dozen a fair price for eggs in tihe middle of January?


I said that eggs were sold in Regina at 70 cents per dozen.


Do you consider 45 cents a propeT price?
Mir. YO'UNG (Weyburn): It depends upon circumstances. I am not here to dictate the price of eggs; I have sold eggs in January at 45 cents per dozen, and I have sold them for less than that.


And more.


I am not asking anyone to help me increase the price. The egg is the most wholesome food we have and I do not know of any food which is more used in the sick room than eggs. When you deny to the people the opportunity of using fresh eggs in the sick room, by putting the price up beyond reach, you do something which is not conducive to the public health.
Perhaps a few cents per dozen for eggs would not make any difference to the hon. member for Vancouver Centre (Mr. Stevens) but there are lots of people in this conutoy to whom a few .cents per dozen would be a very large item.


I am laughing at the hon. member when he puts this great question of the egg industry upon the basis of denying to sick people something which they require. That is a .monstrosity and an absurdity.


It is no more
ridiculous than the resolution which is before the house.
654	COMMONS
Importation of Eggs-Mr. Hepburn
I ibeliave it was the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. MoQuarrie) who mentioned unemployment in connection with this industry. It would seem that the hens are still busy but that the men who are raising eggs are unemployed. I suppose they do not bother to gather the eggs when they cannot sell them. Where are the unemployed of this country located? They are in the cities. It is proposed to increase the price of eggs to these unemployed, to increase the -cost of living as a means of helping unemployment; the thing is absurd.
Mr. M.cQUARRIE: If a poultry producer out in the country is forced to go out of business and has no other business to turn to, will he not be unemployed?


No man is going to be put out of business by the egg importation into this country, because we import less than one third of one per cent of the eggs consumed.
Why does the price of eggs drop at this time of the year? The trouble is to be found in the habits of the hen. She begins to increase production about February. More eggs are put on the market and the price begins to decline. A dealer will buy eggs today at, we will say, 50 cents per dozen. He finds that to-morrow the production is greater but he tries to hold up the price so that he can make profit on the eggs he bought yesterday. He does not lower the price, and what is the result? Consumption does not increase as fast as production and he tries to hold up the price and as a consequence his floor is piled high with eggs, and then the market breaks. That would happen irrespective of whether or not we had a tariff, for the habits of the hen are the same on both sides of the line.
What is the remedy? The only remedy for the glut of eggs upon the market during the spring is to lower the price. The housewife will increase the consumption of eggs just as soon as they get cheaper, and not before.


What does the hon. gentleman propose to do in order to change the habits of the hen?


That is up to
the hon. gentleman opposite.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to place on Hansard a few figures relating to the question under discussion. Of course we all realize that we should not take a too serious view of this matter, which is only another gesture made by hon. gentlemen opposite-along the lines

of butter protection-to lead the farmers up a blind alley. It is proposed to give the farmer something which will permit the manufacturers' association further to exploit him.
In 1913, under the Borden government, the importation of eggs into Canada amounted to 13,000,000 dozens at an average price of 21 cents per dozen. I do not think there was one word of complaint made at that time by the Tory party, then in office. In 1921, under the famous Union government, the importation of eggs amounted to 9,637,000 dozen at an average price of 30 cents per dozen, and still as far as I can find there was not a cackle out of the Tory party. Then the Liberals came into office and put into effect a system of egg grading. The quality improved, the consumption increased, and in 1928, strange as it may' seem, even under a Liberal government, importation of eggs dropped to approximately 1,000,000 dozen at an average price of 471 cents per dozen. During the same y'ear we exported about 500,000 dozen of eggs, so the net importation during that year amounted to about 500,000 dozen. Let us figure that upon the basis of consumption. We consume in Canada approximately 275,000,000 dozens of eggs annually, so figured upon that basis one egg in 550 was an imported egg. If considered upon the basis of the entire population of Canada, only one-half egg per capita per year was imported. Is it not a terrible thing to think that a great national party has to resort to tactics of this kind in order to obtain some publicity for themselves The Canadian hen controls 99-S per cent of the market, and if any newspaper controlled that percentage of the circulation in any one city it would feel that it ruled the roost. In this particular case the Canadian hen does rule the roost. Just think, if the Canadian hen laid one egg more in eight years, then she would supply the entire Canadian market. That she does not do that is the complaint which comes from across the floor of the house.
Let us come down to the year 1929. There has been a favourable progression in the egg business under the Liberal government. In the fiscal year ending March, 1929, we imported 1,128,000 dozens of eggs, and we exported 919.000 dozens, a net importation of only 209,000 dozens. We imported only one egg in 1,256 eggs consumed, and our Conservative friends ask us to stand like Horatius at the bridge defending this country from the onslaught of one egg in 1,256 consumed. The manufacturers' association has been sitting on the doorstep for a long time awaiting the advent of a Conservative administration, and there has been already sixty applications before the tariff board for an increased

Importation oj Eggs-Mr. Neill
tariff. They are hoping to get the farmer to subscribe to a policy where he will trade his protection on one-quarter of one per cent of the egg production of Canada in order to give the manufacturers the right to exploit him.
I think my hon. friends opposite are headed in the wrong direction in this particular case, just as they were with the butter question. This egg 'business is somewhat of a joke throughout the country, as they did not appear before the tariff board in order to prove their case. I think that is evidence enough. I do not think the time of the house should be wasted any more in discussing silly things of this kind.


I cannot agree with the last speaker if he suggests that the egg industry, at least in British Columbia, in any way savours of a joke. People go into the egg business there on a very much larger scale than in any other part of Canada.


I had reference to the resolution an