I have the honour to
inform the house that I have received the following letter:
That the honourable Messieurs Aylesworth (Sir Allen), Buchanan, Cliapais, Donnelly, Farrell, Green, Hatfield, Horsey, Legris, Lewis, McDonald, McLean, McLennan, Pope, Raymond, Robertson, Sharpe, Taylor, Todd, White (In-kerman), and White (Pembroke), have been appointed a committee to superintend the printing of the Senate during the present session, and to act on behalf of the Senate as members of a joint committee of both houses on the subject of the printing of parliament.
Dear Mr. Lemieux:
As the Speaker of the House of Commons and the good friend of my husband, will you please convey to the Prime Minister and to the Bouse of Commons my sincere appreciation of their motion of condolence which you forwarded to me.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth W. Robb.
Also the following letter:
(Translation)
Hon. Rodolphe Lemieux,
Speaker of the House of Commons,
Ottawa.
I beg of you to accept our very sincere thanks for the tribute paid to the memory of our late and dear member, whose demise has created among us an irreparable loss.
Madame G. D. Morin and her eons Guy and Marc. St. Pie, February 24, 1930.


I have the honour to inform the house that a message has been received from the Senate informing this house:
That the honourable the Speaker, the honourable Messieurs Aylesworth (Sir Allen), Beaubien, Chapais, Gillis, Gordon, Griesbach, Hatfield, Laird, Lewis. Logan, McDougald. McLennan, Poirier, Taylor, Turriff and Wilson (Rockcliffe) have been appointed a committee to assist the honourable the Speaker in the direction of the Library of Parliament, so far as the interests of the Senate are concerned, and to act on behalf of the Senate as members of a joint committee of both houses on the said library.


I have the honour to
inform the house that a message has been received from the Senate informing this house:
That the honourable the Speaker, the honourable Messieurs Hardy, Logan, McMeans, Sharpe, Tanner, and Taylor have been appointed a committee to assist the honourable the Speaker in the direction of the restaurant of parliament, so far as the interests of the Senate are concerned, and to act on behalf of the Senate as members of a joint committee of both houses on the said restaurant.


A message from His Excellency the Governor General transmitting estimates for the financial year ending March 31, 1931, was presented by Hon. Charles A. Dunning (Minister of Finance), read by Mr. Speaker to the house, and referred to the committee of supply.
Hon. LUCIEN CANNON (Solicitor General) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 13, to amend the Representation Act.
Explain.


The purpose of this bill, Mr. Speaker, is to combine in a single electoral district the Yukon territory and the Northwest territories, the latter not now being included in any electoral district.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. FERNAND RINFRET (Secretary of State) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 14, to amend the Patent Act.
He said: There are two amendments in this bill, the first of which deals with the length of time within which a patent already filed in a foreign country which has an agreement with Canada may be filed in Canada. The other amendment allows the production as evidence of a certified copy of the foreign patent in order to save time and expenditure. I may say that both these amendments have been suggested by the judges of the Exchequer court.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
I have the honour to inform the house that a message has been received from the Senate informing this house: [Mr. Speaker.l
IMMIGRATION FOR 1928-1929 Mr. SPENCER:
1.	How many immigrants came to Canada during each of the years 1928 and 1929?

Questions
2.	What were these people iby nationality, occupation and religion?
3.	In what provinces were they distributed according to the three categories mentioned above?


Questions


1.	How many applications have been made for loans under the Canadian Farm Loan Act up to December 31, 1929, by each of the provinces taking advantage of the act?
2.	How many of these applications were successful, by provinces?
3.	What was the total amount of loans made
in each province?


1.	British Columbia	 809
Alberta	 2,646
Manitoba	 Ill
Quebec	 1,530
New Brunswick	 495
Nova Scotia	 221
2.	The following applications had been approved as of December 31, 1929:
British Columbia	 238
Alberta	 781
Manitoba	 16
Quebec	 92
New Brunswick	 255
Nova Scotia	 82
3.	Loans were granted in the following amounts as of December 31, 1929:
British Columbia	$	697,900
Alberta	 1,543,100
Manitoba	 ' 48,800
Quebec	   218,100
New Brunswick	 396,550
Nova Scotia	 121,600


1.	Since the organization of the board, how many applications for farm loans have been received from British Columbia?
2.	How many applications have been granted?


1.	879.
2.	266. .


1.	Is the government considering the acquisition of an old shop building at Middleton, Annapolis county, Nova Scotia, to be used for a post office and public building?
2.	In the event of the government acquiring such shop building, what disposition will be made of the lot of land at Middleton acquired some years ago as a site for a public building?


1 and 2. The suggestion has been made that the government dispose of the property acquired a few years ago as a site for a public building, and purchase the property known as the Elliott building. No decision has been made, and the matter is still under consideration.


1.	What has been the total expenditure to
date on the following harbours:	(a) Fort
Churchill; (b) Port Nelson?
2.	What has been the total cost of construction of the Hudson Bay railway to date?
3.	What has been the total cost of equipment for the Hudson Bay railway to date?
4.	What has been the total expenditure to date on (a) Air reconnaissances relating to navigation in the Hudson bay; (b) All other investigations relating to navigation in the Hudson bay?


1.	How many Chinese and how many Japanese of each sex were admitted to Canada in each year since March 31, 1924?
2.	To what provinces of Canada were each destined on entry and how many of each?
VANCOUVER HARBOUR COMMISSION On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I would ask the
government whether lor not there is any truth in the report now being circulated in Victoria and Vancouver that the Vancouver harbour commissioners are turning over their harbour development work as it concerns design, construction and engineering, to a contracting firm on a cost plus basis rather than to handle it by tender as heretofore. Apparently this matter is of considerable interest and should be brought to the attention of the house.


The Minister of Marine
and Fisheries (Mr. Cardin) unfortunately is not in the house at the moment, but I am sure he will be pleased to give my hon. friend a reply as soon as he returns.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker in view of the
statement of the Prime Minister regarding unemployment insurance, which he made yesterday to a western delegation, will the federal government take the initiative in calling a special conference to consider this problem?


Perhaps the hon. member
would intimate what that statement was.


As I understand the statement, it was to the effect that the federal

War Pensions-Mr. Church
government was very much concerned in the matter of unemployment and believed that one of the solution's was a system of unemployment insurance and that the government would be willing to take any steps possible towards bringing about an understanding between the provinces and the federal government. I want to know if the government will be willing to undertake the calling of a special conference so that this matter can be expedited.


My recollection is that a special committee of this house considered this question last session and brought to the house a report to the effect that unemployment insurance was necessarily a matter with which provincial governments rather than the federal government would have to deal. I think I expressed the view yesterday that in my opinion a system of unemployment insurance would be a constructive way to deal with the unemployment problem, to which system not only the employer and the governments concerned would contribute but the worker also. If the provinces make a move in this matter and it appears that the federal government can be of assistance in helping to bring about uniformity as between the provinces of any plan proposed, or can cooperate in other ways in any discussion on the subject, we shall bo glad upon invitation to take the matter under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. R. K. AINtDEIRSON (Halton): Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Postmaster General if he has decided permanently to close the post office at Port Nelson, and if so, why?
This matter was brought to my attention this morning by means of a report received from the district superintendent. The nearest post office to Port Nelson, one which is of greater importance, is only one mile away, and it is reported that prior to the closing of the post office at Port Nelson a number of people had obtained postal boxes at the other office. The report intimated that it might not be in the interests of the service to keep this office open, but I will ask for a further report on the matter. Difficulties arose at Port Nelson in connection with the administration of the office and the postmaster was requested to hand in his resignation, but the closing was only temporary.


Would the
minister let me have a copy of the report which was sent in?


I have no objection to
letting the hon. member see the report, but I do not think it should be made public, as it is of a confidential nature.


The 'house resumed from Wednesday, February 26, consideration of the motion of Mr. Peter McGibbon (Muskoka-Ontario):
That, in the opinion of this house, any exsoldier who has served in any theatre of war, who applies for a pension or an increase of pension and submits evidence or an opinion from any reputable physician or surgeon in Canada, stating that his disability is directly or indirectly attributable to war services, the onus of disproof shall be upon the Board of Pension Commissioners and that unless the same be disproved a pension shall be granted to the said applicant in accordance with the schedule at present in force under the regulations of the Board of Pension Commissioners.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Muskoka-Ontario (Mr. McGibbon) brought before this house a most important question, one which 'has been before the house since the great war of fifteen years ago. Fifteen years now separate us from the great catastrophe, that is a long time in the life of an individual. During such a time memories fade. We have forgotten all about the returned soldier. I am very sorry to see that this country treats the returned men who fought the battles of civilization in such a shameful manner.
On the border df the city of Toronto, are the York townships and in my own constituency, is the Christie Street hospital, and I have never seen before such conditions as exist in Toronto among returned men. Every day I meet seven or eight of these returned men who have been before the pension board, that magnificent board which has treated the soldiers in such a shabby way. In my opinion, this board has failed all along the line. I recall one man who was before the board a short time ago, who came to me and told me that he had' 'been to his family physician a doctor who had treated the family for three generations and who knew what was the matter with him. Several of the family had died of the same trouble.
When this man was accepted into the army in 1915 his record shows that he was physically fit. When the pension board say that he was

War Pensions-Mr. Church
a pre-war disability from a chest affection, what were the doctors doing away 'back in 1915 when they accepted him? Now, after fifteen years their memories have failed and the family doctor is dead. These physicians on the pension board, when a man comes before them, try to do him out of a 'pension on technicalities. This man has done no work for three or four years. He has a wife and some small children. I was in his house a short time ago and there was not a chair in it; the bailiff had come in and taken everything away. The man appealed to me and after a good deal of trouble I got him a position as an hotel elevator man. Niow be writes me that he has to quit work next month because his state of health is such that he cannot work further at that job. The bailiff will be called in again and his wife and children will be thrown out on the street. I have never in my life heard of such a condition of affaire in a country like Canada. Fifty years from now the people of this country will be ashamed of a record such as 'this. I could name hundreds of similar cases and there are thousands of cases where pensions have been refused.
Yesterday the debate on this question was conducted on a high plane. The house is proud of the gallant returned soldiers and medical doctors who took part in it. Public opinion is at last coming to the point where it will compel an issue on this problem. In 1923-24 the opposition proposed in committee to give the pension board wider latitude in dealing with these claims, the same latitude as any arbitrator would have, but the government of the day would not listen to the proposition. I believe the country now wants a drastic change in connection with the letter and the spirit of the Pension Act. The Minister of Pensions wants this resolution referred to a committee. The government are very fond of shunting responsibility on to committees and commissions. I remember two years ago how the opposition protested about the change in the Department of Soldiers Civil Reestablishment when the government were taking soldiers' pensions away from that department and linking that branch up as a sub branch with the Department of Health, giving it the magnificent, high-sounding name of Department of National Health and Pensions. The government's idea was to tack it on as an appendix to some other department. If there is any problem that should have a separate department, it is the care and treatment of these disability cases. According to the report brought down yesterday, the figures are as follows, as of the 31st March 1929:

Disability	 54,620
Dependent	 20.002
Total	 70,622
The total pension liability amounted to S37,185,000 as against $35,583,000 the previous year. Not satisfied with that, the government closed up the employment bureau. There are thousands of these men walking the streets in Toronto, and in my opinion the lucky people are those who are dead and buried in France rather than those who have survived and have to put up with present economic conditions.
In his London speech the Prime Minister, speaking of soldiers' pensions, said:
If the situation is not adequately met we must go over it again until we meet the situation in a way that will be considered fair by the majority of the people.
General Sir Arthur Currie commented on this speech in Montreal and I agree with what he said. This is what Sir Arthur Currie said the following day:
I know the Prime Minister is sincere in his sympathetic attitude toward the returned soldiers' plea for a change in the letter as well as the spirit of the Pensions Act. I believe his remarks will receive widespread endorsement and approval. It will be the duty of the returned soldier organizations to lay an intelligent appreciation of the situation before the Department of Pensions and to indicate the manner in which the Pensions Act might be revised.
If that is so, why not adopt this resolution, because it covers about 30 per cent of the whole story? Hundreds of pension appeals are pending. Put this resolution into the form of a bill and make it an act of parliament to-morrow if necessary. In the meantime, give the board an interim appropriation to work on. That is the quickest way to deal with the matter, instead of waiting for two or three months for something to be done.
I believe the hon. member for Vancouver-Burrard (Mr. Clark) suggested a joint committee of both houses to deal with the problem. The time to take care of these disability cases is now, and not next May, June or September when the minister will probably be away in the country. I do not blame the ministers, but they have a habit of being like Caesar's army: during the recess they are on the march over Europe and all the rest of the globe. The people who cannot get any relief in the dog days are the returned soldiers. I endeavoured to get in touch with the Minister of Pensions last summer, but he was away at the coast. What is everybody's business is nobody's business.
It is disgraceful that we should leave the care and treatment of the returned soldiers

War Pensions-Mr. Church
to poppy day funds and to tag days. Last fall in Toronto they had a tag day for the returned men and $29,000' was collected; a second appeal yielded another $25,000. The people are sick and tired of raising those funds for charity for men who fought for their country. This is an advertisement that appeared in a Toronto paper on the 22nd December last, appealing for clothes for men who had had their cases dismissed by the pension board.
Poppy Fund Appeal
Again there is found to be urgent need of clothing to assist many war veterans and their families through the winter. Wanted particularly are:
Shoes.
Suits.
Rubbers.
Overcoats (men's and children's).
Underwear.
Any who have any of these to donate are asked to communicate with the Poppy Fund, 15 Queen's Park, telephone Kingsdale 8721.
All I can say is that it is a disgraceful situation that advertisements like that should appear in the daily press of the largest soldier city in Canada. I have seen this clothing coming in and some of it is in a very unsanitary condition. The returned men and their wives and families should not have to put up with such a state of affairs. These soldiers whose claims for disability pensions have been dismissed are in the absence of action by parliament hunting for work. I know some of the local doctors and they have been before the board. Some of these doctors waste hours upon hours of their time appearing before the board. The hearing before the pension board is almost like a meeting of the county court or the general sessions of the peace or the assizes, when you consider the way in which the pension board conduct the case. The culprit is brought before them and the family doctor is there. You would think he was just a third-year medical student to hear the way he is talked at by the men on this pension board.
The pension commissioners have a nice cushy job here in Ottawa while they deal out these decisions against the returned men, and they are only guessing in the majority of these disability cases. It would be far better to abolish the board altogether. There will have to be a housecleaning soon because the soldier organizations and the public generally are demanding it. In my opinion, the board should be abolished and their duties transferred to the county court judges. In that way the veterans' organizations and citizens' committees would be able to come forward and give evidence at local centres and get evidence. Manj' doctors do not understand how a great
many of these soldiers ever got into the army, but the men were told that they were all right and were sent overseas, where their disabilities were aggravated, and now 15 years after the war the pension board in its majesty declares that these men did not get their disabilities through war service. Many of these disabled men are physically unable to work, and they should be taken off the labour market altogether and given a pension equal to that paid some of the civilians.
Talk about a returned soldier getting a job-he is given a petty job in the post office at Christmas, and if he is over twenty-five years of age he cannot get a job. Did you ever hear of a soldier being appointed to the Senate or to the Supreme court? No, the returned men get the pick and shovel jobs, and you do not need to cast your eyes very far around this building to see the rotten treatment some of the returned men are getting. That was shown by a file that was brought down for my hon. friend from Kingston City (Mr. Ross), showing that the returned men are in the priority in this building.
The time has come for a change. There has been more talk about a lady entering the Senate since the session began than has been heard of the treatment of Canada's hundred thousand soldiers. If you want to do something for the returned men or for their dependents, why not appoint to the Senate the Silver Cross women or the widow of a soldier who fell in the war, or a mother who lost three or four sons in the war, and we have many of them in Earlscourt in Toronto. Why was not a woman of that type summoned to the Senate? No, the soldiers are summoned to a pick and shovel job; that is all they would be summoned for.
The duty of the returned soldier organizations now, I suppose, is to come to Ottawa and lay their cases before the committee. How can soldiers appeal now to the pension board and how can they get the money to pay their travelling expenses and hotel bills? I do not know. How can a returned soldier who is out of a job get forty or fifty dollars to come to Ottawa and hang around here for two or three days while his case is waiting to be heard? He might stay here till doomsday before he got justice done in the matter of a pension. There was a case in St. Thomas of a young man called Tom Payne. Tom Payne is dead now, and he was given a large funeral at St. Thomas, but the pension board are still alive. Many of the reputable doctors in the county of Elgin knew the man, knew he was an honest and decent fellow, as fine a soldier as ever went to the front. His case was in all the western Ontario newspapers,

War Pensions-Mr. Church
and in spite of the fact that many reputable doctors testified in his behalf, Tom Payne died practically in the poorhouse. Tom Payne may be dead, but the doctors who gave the decision in his case are alive, and it is the duty of this house to deal with them when the act is revised.
Talk about a tag day for the returned men! You do not have a tag day for Vincent Massey, to raise funds to pay his salary and the expenses of his embassy. You do not have a tag day for Mr. Marler-excuse me-for His Excellency our Envoy Extraordinary to Japan, Rt. Hon. Mr. Marler. He was a former member of this house, and as chairman of the *pensions committee he ruled out of order the motion which was proposed a few years ago for amending the Pension Act to make it more elastic. I cited case after case, and I have had hundreds of cases in the Toronto district of men who have been done out of a pension. Mr. Marler said that if the amendment went through it would cost the country millions and millions of dollars. We can spend millions and millions of dollars on breakwaters, but not enough dollars on the returned soldier. We do not have to have a tag day to pay the salary of Mr. Massey or Mr. Marler, but the soldiers have to have a tag day to raise sufficient funds to put an advertisement in the newspapers asking for clothing for soldiers and their families and to get underwear. I am surprised the health officer in the city of Toronto does not stop it. The conditions are not generally known because some of these local organizations are stuffed with a few Liberals at the top, and they are trying to protect the government all the time. There will not have to be a tag day when the cabinet departs for Europe this fall. You talk about maritime rights. The government does not think any more about maritime rights than it does about soldier rights. I have already brought to the attention of the house the case of fifteen disabled men who were out in a storm on the great lakes, and who had to be rescued by American boats. These returned men were working on a grain boat bringing the grain down the lake on its way to the seaboard, and it was upon American sirens and American boats that they had to depend for saving their lives. But for the Americans they would have gone to the bottom of the sea. That is what Canada's status on the great lakes amounts to.
Then there was the case of those returned soldiers who were over in China. They did not get any pension. The matter was brought up in this house, and the government was asked what it was going to do for the protection of these men. All the government did

was to send a cable to the Prime Minister of Great Britain pointing out that these Canadian subjects had been seized by the revolutionaries in China and were going to be put to death. The result was that they were released immediately. Such is status.
To my mind it is disgraceful that we should have to have tag days and voluntary campaigns to help the war veterans, especially after all the promises that were made to these men when they enlisted. They have never received from the federal government the consideration which they deserve. I believe the citizens of this country should be taxed to help the returned soldiers and the families of those who did not return. They should be given work and their lives and that of their families should be made comfortable.
There was the case of a Scotch woman with six children in York county. They went hungry and cold all through November. This soldier had the month before been turned down by the pension board, although his family doctor said that his sickness was due to war service. Here is a typical story of a distressed veteran:
Clad only in a pair of overalls and a dilapidated pair of boots, a man walked into the office of the Poppy Day fund yesterday and told a story to an official of the organization that helps the distressed.
Many stories are poured into the ears of sympathetic workers, tales of poverty and hunger, of absolute want, but the story that came slowly from the lips of this man was one which brought the machinery of charity into instant motion.
The story was of a sick wdfe and six children, the oldest 12 years old and the youngest three months, who at night sleep on the bare boards of empty rooms because there are no beds.
They shiver in the cold of raw November nights because there are no blankets.
They go hungry because food has not entered that little flat on Burleigh avenue in York township for many weeks.
Harry Evans, a war veteran without a job, was the man who in desperation went into Toronto to ask aid of the Poppy Day fund. He had previously gone to East York township council he said, and had been told that no aid would be given to any destitute families before December 1.
"I suppose they thought we could fast that long," said Evans.
There is not a stick of furniture in the Evans home, if home it can be called. There are four walls and a roof, nothing more.
Several months ago Mrs. Evans went into the hospital. There was no one to look after the young children, so Evans went to the neighbours and succeeded in getting them to look after several of them. The home was broken-up. The little pieces of furniture were stored away in a warehouse. Then Evans lost his job.
When his wife, still weak, came out from the hospital several weeks ago, she found bare walls and destitution in place of the home she had left.


War Pensions-Mr. Speakman
Unable to satisfy the claim of the warehouse company for storage money the family lost its possessions.
The youngest child, the three-months-old baby has been fed mainly on sugar and water for several weeks. Mrs. Evans and the other children have had to depend on what the neighbours can afford to give them in the way of food.
There is only one small case that the Poppy Day fund has to look after until the country wakes up and treats its veterans properly. If this man were one hundred per cent fit he could get a position, but no employer wants him. I have tried, in hundreds of cases to get some of them work, and I know that employers of labour will not take returned men suffering from war disability; they want younger men, men physically fit, of course there are many many exceptions. I see my good friend from Parkdale (Mr. Spence) in his seat. He has a lot of these cases; the returned soldiers appeal to his good nature.
In my opinion our duty is to back this resolution first of all and then bring in a bill to give effect to it, and so start the Board of Pension Commisisoners at work. I admit that this is not a local problem. I am talking of the condition of our returned soldiers from the day the war closed. The time is ripe for action, and I hope this resolution. will be adopted to-night or to-morrow. Indeed, I think this house can be engaged in no better work for the next two or three days than along the lines of the resolution. If necessary we should be prepared to sit here for a week and adopt the resolution of the hon. member for Muskoka (Mr. McGibbon), and put it in effect at once so that some action may be taken to alleviate the distress of our returned men. We have had pension committees before. These committees are appointed every session, they bring in a report in the dying days of the session, and in the meantime our soldiers suffer. We have had fifteen years of this talk, and the soldiers cannot live any longer on honeyed words. From what I can see of the cases before the board the disabled soldier's own family doctor in effect is not to be trusted as to a soldier's condition although he alone understands the case.
I represent a soldier city and have spent a great deal of time on these cases. I think the returned soldier has been used in a disgraceful manner. I can take you to fifty or sixty houses in Toronto where you can see this state of affairs with your own eyes; and seeing is believing. Having seen these cases by night and by day, by winter and by summer, having noted the intolerable condition of the houses, the ill-clad children, the half starved struggling wives, all I can say is,
I am not any too proud of the way Canada has used its soldiers. The people do not expect Canada to adopt the attitude of "a dead beat" towards these men. They made a contract with the government of Canada, and that contract should be carried out in its entirety.


Mr. Speaker, there is perhaps no more opportune resolution than the one now before the house presented by my hon. friend for Muskoka (Mr. McGibbon), dealing as it does with what is perhaps the greatest problem which confronts this country and this parliament in its relation to our returned men; the problem of those men who, incapacitated at the present time, are unable definitely to prove the attributability or the continuity of disability which is called for under our present pension legislation.
This problem has been growing upon us year after year, and those of us who have been following this work rather closely have recognized, I think, that the peak of our pension expenditures has not yet been reached. We are discussing to-day the man who was discharged Al, sometimes because he was in good health, and. frequently, as has been said by others, because in his overwhelming desire to get out of uniform and return home he waived the physical examination which was his right and left the army to return to civilian life. What do we find ten or eleven years after? During the interval those men have been trying to carry on, they have been fighting a losing battle against increasing ill health, against the approach of premature old age. As I have viewed the cases which I have met personally, and as I have reviewed the history of the returned men of this country, my opinion has grown and strengthened that that premature old age is just as definitely a war disability as an amputation case, a gunshot wound case or a shellshock case.
The question has airways been, what can we do for them? Two years ago, Mr. Speaker, during the session of 1928, a resolution was placed upon the order paper recognizing the same problem as is recognized to-day by my friend for Muskoka (Mr. McGibbon), and intending to meet the condition in a somewhat similar method, although differing in some cases. This resolution leaving out the preamble, simply stated:
Therefore be it resolved that this house is of the opinion that the government should consider the advisability of introducing during this session of parliament-


I put that resolution upon the order paper myself, but unfortunately owing to there 'being no more private members' days the resolution itself was not dealt with. It was brought up and discussed, however, in the committee which de-ailt with those matters, as it will deal with those matters again.
I was pointing out, Mr. Speaker, that this problem is one which we have recognized for some years as a growing and increasing problem, and at that time I, in my own way, as is the hon. member for Muskoka in his way, was endeavouring to give recognition to the problem. The hon. member for Muskoka is now suggesting some method by which he might meet it and solve it. We find those men during those ten years, as I have said, fighting a losing battle, with growing i'll health, with increasing disability, with lessened capacity for finding employment possibly upon the labour market of the country. We find them attempting then, under those handicaps, not only to maintain themselves but to maintain their wives and their little ones, and today many of them have to recognize, as we are recognizing, that the time has come when they can do this no longer, and when they have reached that point, as they are reaching it, and when they 'appear before the pension commission in an endeavour to be relieved under the provisions of our Pension Act, they find themselves confronted with what is an almost insuperable obstacle, that is, the difficulty after a lapse of ten or twelve years of proving beyond the shadow of a doubt that their present condition is a direct result of their war service, of proving that continuity of ill health, that continuity of disability which is demanded at the present time. Many of 'those oases I have known personally. I presume that every member in the house has met with them, cases that would rend one's heart, cases of men who are lying on their beds of pain, incapable of moving hand or foot sometimes, and yet unpensionable. We are not speaking to-day for the man who is pensioned.
I think that Canada has dealt fairly, and has dealt generously, in her pension provisions for those who may come under the provisions of that act. But we are speaking of those who are outside of the Pension Act and who

cannot at the present time be brought in. Those men then, having reached the end of their tet'her, being unable to carry on any longer, come and present their case, and as I have already stated, and as we all know, they fail to prove their case under the statute as we have it to-day.
As I understand it, this resolution is an endeavour to put into effect what has always been the intent of parliament, that in such cases where a doubt exists the man himself shall have the benefit of that doubt. Personally, Mr. Speaker, I doubt whether any resolution can so change the administration, can so deal with administration, as to ensure any such thing. So long as discretion is left with any board that board must be, and will inevitably be, in a position to use that discretion; and it may be used for the men or it may be used against them. So I think what we are endeavouring to do now is to frame the statute in such wide and liberal terms that under the provisions of that statute those cases of which we have spoken may be dealt with. Most of us who have had some experience in dealing with the problems of our returned men have come, I believe, to this opinion, a firm, unshakeable opinion, that very few men who saw service throughout the length of the war, or who saw fighting service in the active areas of war, came home without leaving something behind them. They may have left a limb; they may have left, in some tangible form, some part of themselves, and they can be dealt with and have been dealt with. But they came home leaving behind them something else, something intangible, something that no doctor can lay his finger on, and yet which we know was there and is now gone. They left behind them their youth; they left behind them their fighting energy, their nerve forces, partially at least, and as time goes on that vanished youth results in premature old age. I meet myself to-day younger men than I but who as far as all active purpose is concerned, as far as efficiency is concerned, physical strength, initiative, nerve force, are old men. What can we do for them? Nothing under the Pension Act as it stands to-day. We find- and again I am stating my own opinion, but I think it is the opinion of every member of the house who has come in contact with those cases-that in coming through that grim furnace of war something has been burned out, and it is because of that that we speak now of the burned out man. That is, his experience, his privations, the exposure, the suffering, the nerve strain have removed something from him, have taken away from him the power to resist disease, and have made

TFor Pensions-Mr. Speakman
him more susceptible not only to premature old age but to any disease to which civilians themselves are susceptible.
It is my opinion-and I think again I am voicing the opinion of every side of the house 

that so long as one of those men is unable to maintain himself, seeing his family suffer privations around him, then the debt which this country owes has not been paid. That is accepted. I think that that is the general opinion of every member here and, I am certain, of the overwhelming majority of the citizens of this country. And now we approach the task, having come to this point, having recognized the problem, having accepted the obligation, of seeking about for some method by which we may discharge that debt. We are seeking now for the best possible method of dealing with those cases without simply throwing the gates open and saying to everybody, come in, we will pension you because of service and not because of disability which you have incurred. And, Mr. Speaker, to my mind, we have got to be careful at that point. We are not attempting to reward men for the service which they rendered. The service was incalculable, it is beyond reward, and, under the terms of our Pension Act we are making no such attempt. We are attempting to make up to them the losses-the physical losses, the lack of ability to earn their own living; we are trying to make up to them, in some way, for the losses which they sustained and not for the service they rendered.
Right here, Mr. Speaker, I see some danger in the resolution as framed, for under the terms of the resolution the pension commission itself ceases to exist as such, as a registering body. I am simply giving my interpretation. The resolution states that on receipt of a statement from any reputable physician or surgeon who expresses the opinion that the disability under which the man is at present suffering is the result of his war service, a pension should be granted.


Unless it is disproved
by the Board of Pension Commissioners.


I am coming to that.
In other words, prima facie the opinion of any surgeon or physician is sufficient to give any man a pension. Then, as the hon. member for Muskoka rightly states, this shall be done subject to the proviso that if the Board of Pension Commissioners, after a lapse of perhaps ten, twelve, fifteen or even twenty years can disprove the case beyond the shadow of a doubt, then of course no pension shall be paid. In my opinion it will be just as difficult and impossible to disprove a case 2418-s
as it is at present to prove it, and as a matter of fact, in actual practice I think in nine cases out of ten it will simply substitute the physician or surgeon for the Board of Pension Commissioners, and pensions will be granted upon the statements of doctors.
I am not prepared to say that that is altogether a bad thing, but I do say it is going further than I think parliament is desirous of going at present, and sympathetic though I believe myself to be towards returned men it goes further than I am prepared to go at this time. I hardly think we should wipe out all restrictions and leave the matter simply to the judgment of any doctor with regard to the attributability of the disability to war service.
The principle expressed in this resolution is absolutely sound. The benefit of the doubt and the presumption should be in favour of the returned man; he should not be called upon to prove what cannot be proved; he should not be asked to show continuity during this lapse of years, when the very nature of the matter and the fact that he has been carrying on under his own steam without appealing to the pension board makes that impossible to prove. The very thing which we honour in him brings up the insuperable obstacle. The man who has appealed to the pension board year after year, who has camped on the door-step and pressed his claim in and out of season, establishes the continuity which is demanded under our present statute, but the man whom we are trying to reach now; the man above all others for whom we should care and help; the man who did what he could as long as he could do it, leaves that gap and the continuity breaks down. I am satisfied that we must change our statute in that respect; we will have to bring in ordinary common sense when we consider the possibility of a man establishing his claim. I would go even further than that; I would go as far as I was prepared to go in 1928. I would be prepared to say that when a returned man is incapacitated and perhaps financially bankrupt, with neither means nor physical strength remaining, he should be pensioned without any further question being asked.
I have no intention of speaking at any length upon this subject. We have considered it, we have talked about it, and I think the time has come when we should get down to brass tacks and see what we can do about it. There are two obvious lines which we must follow, I think; there are two weaknesses which we must do away with. One of these weaknesses is brought up in this



War Pensions-Mr. Speakman
resolution. We must make it possible for the men who deserve pensions and who are now unable to prove their cases to be looked after, and we must provide for hospitalization and medical treatment for those who need it. It has been suggested that in going as far as we are suggesting we will throw upon the communities a great and intolerable burden. Well, quite apart from the moral aspect of the case, we will do nothing of the kind. If a man is unable to earn his livelihood while he is lying there helpless, his wife and children without a bread-winner, what happens? The municipality, the province, the neighbours, the community must take care of those people. We are not establishing a new burden; we are simply designating the proper authority that shall take care of these cases more efficiently, more fully, and more decently than they can be taken care of at present. In addition, what is perhaps of equal importance, in placing the onus directly upon this parliament we are removing from the man the stigma of charity which rests upon him when he has to appeal to the municipality or the province for relief, and we are giving him and his dependents what he is morally entitled to, recompense for his sufferings and assistance in his incapacity.
The main thing, as I see it now, is that in this resolution and in all that has been said during this debate, we are giving recognition to the problem. That is the first step. We must see that there is a problem; we are accepting the obligation; we are seeking for the method by which we can discharge our debt, and we are definitely setting ourselves to tlbe task of meeting that obligation. I believe-and again I am merely expressing my own opinion-that it would foe better if this resolution, having been discussed, went to the committee without a vote. My reason for that statement is this:	Sound though
the principle may be, in some ways there will have to be some modification of this resolution for the sake of the men themselves and for the proper functioning of the act. For example, the resolution states that not only applications for pensions but also applications for increased pensions dh&ll be dealt with in this way. Now can a surgeon or a physician deal with an application for increased pension unless, as I suggest, the Board of Pension Commissioners is simply wiped out and its place taken by these medical men? These weaknesses seem apparent, and I believe that the resolution could be put into effect, better by a discussion in the committee which is to be formed and which I hope will foe 'composed of sympathetic men who are 'trying to do the right 'thing, as has been the case in the past.

I have worked on that committee, not so long as my friend from Muskoka but as long as I have been in parliament, and I desire to say just a word about it. Over the doors of that committee room, metaphorically speaking, we have written these words: "Abandon politics all ye who enter here." During the years I have worked on that committee I think every member lived up to that motto, and from any word spoken or any action taken in that committee room I should not have known to what parity any member belonged. I believe that is one of tihe finest tributes which could be paid to the committee. Therefore with such men looking into 'this question, I think the hon. member for Muskoka could trust them as I trusted1 them two years ago to deal fairly with the problem, to strengthen these weaknesses, and to put into effect the principle which is desired, and I think more good would foe done the men themselves than if we simply voted on the matter here in the house. I am heartily in support of the principle, and certainly if I am on the committee I will do my best to see that the principle is very fully embodied in legislation.
I do not think it is necessary for me to say any more; I have outlined the problems as I see them and have suggested ways of meeting them, and having done so, I simply leave it to the good sense of the house to act as they will.


Mr. Speaker, I do not propose to detain the house at any length, but I rise to speak because I have ihe same fault to find with the resolution as proposed by the hon. member for Muskoka-Ontario (Mr. McGibbon) as has the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Speakman).
The principle of the resolution is sound, but unfortunately some of the phraseology is not such as will commend itself to the majority of the members of the house, and before I resume my seat I propose to move an amendment in the following terms:
That all words after the word "house" in the second line be deleted and the following substituted therefor:
"in all applications for pension where disability or death is proved such disability or death shall be presumed to have resulted from and to he attributable to military service unless and until the contrary be proved.
I am prompted to move this amendment by the discussion which has taken place during yesterday afternoon and to-day, and 'by a consideration of the temper of the house in dealing with this question of the returned man, more particularly the returned man who is entitled to a pension. I am not approaching this question in a spirit of politics, tot be-

War Pensions-Mr. Ernst
cause I feel, as does the speaker who has just taken his seat, that we are not doing justice to the man who is entitled to a pension. The principles which underlie the pension law were very admirably stated yesterday by the hon. member for Winnipeg South Centre (Mr. Thorson), and I am going to venture to restate some of the propositions which he cited. But before I do this, and in order to make my amendment a little clearer to the house, I want to read the definition of ''pension" as given by the act. This definition reads as follows:
(m) "pension" means pension on account of the death or disability of a member of the forces and includes addition to pension, temporary pension, additional payment, final payment or any other payment made by the commission to or in respect of any member of the forces;
We approach the problem of proving a claim for a pension in exactly the same manner as we approach the problem of proving any other claim. In order to be entitled to pension a man has to prove, first, military service; second, the disability; and, third, to connect that disability with his military service -the burden of proof is upon him. The purpose of the amendment is to place that burden of proof upon the pension authorities, they must prove that such disability did not result from military service. Yesterday the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Bourassa) said that this was a new and startling principle, but it is not new either in common law or to the parliament of this country. In common law we have what are known as presumptions of fact-we have had them from time immemorial-and in this parliament we have what are known as presumptions of fact created by acts of this parliament. One example in that regard is the Customs Act. Under the provisions of that act relating to smuggling, if liquor or any other smuggled commodity is found in a person's possession, the burden of proving that that commodity was not smuggled and that it was lawfully imported falls upon the person accused. That is an act of the parliament of this country, and that provision is equally as drastic as anything proposed in the present amendment. Consequently in