(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)	.
1.	What firms and persons imported butter from, (a) New Zealand, and (b) Australia, in May, June and July, 1930?
2.	What quantity was imported by each firm and person?


It is not customary to
give the names of firms who import goods into this country. This has never been done; it has always been held as something that should not be done inasmuch as it is private business. In making this answer, I am but following the practice which has heretofore obtained in all departments.


I am always satisfied with the answers of the right hon. gentleman, provided he says something.
Question dropped.


1.	Was a contract recently awarded to the Pacific Salvage Company by the Vancouver board of harbour commissioners for dredging in the vicinity of Lapointe pier, Vancouver?
2.	Were tenders called for?
3.	Did the contract go to the lowest tenderer?
4.	Were the fair wage clause and the hours of labour clause observed in connection with this work?


The following answers have been furnished by the Vancouver harbour commissioners:
1.	Yes.

2.	Bids were invited
3.	The lowest bid accepted.
4.	Fair wage clause in contract


1.	Has the government received a request from the government of British Columbia in regard to taxing Indians employed in industry in that province?
2.	Have any protests been received?
3.	Will the government see that the rights of Indians as the wards of the parliament of Canada are safeguarded?


1.	No.
2.	Yes.
3.	Yes.


1.	On what dates did the Department of Agriculture start to submit cattle to the tuberculin test: (a) in the township of Cambridge, county of Russell, (b) in the township of Russell, county of Russell?
2.	On what dates, in each of these townships, was the test interrupted or started again, and at whose request?
3.	For what reasons was said test interrupted?
4.	Did Mr. C. A. Seguin, member of the legislative assembly, ask the department to discontinue said test, and what reasons did he give for the interruption or discontinuance of same?
5.	How many residents of these two townships submitted their cattle to the test, and how many of them refused to submit them to the test?
6.	What is the cost to date of the test in each one of these two townships, and how much did the test cost in the township of Clarence, and the township of Cumberland?
7.	Is the department aware that some of the residents who refused to submit their cattle to the test are now supplying milk for the use of pupils at the provincial government school of Embrun?
8.	Did the department give instructions to have the test completed by the inspection of all cattle (subject to be tested) of these two townships, in compliance with the regulations regarding the establishment of reserve zones?
9.	If not, why?
10.	Will the department require, according to the rules governing the establishment of reserve zones, that the cattle of these two townships be submitted to the test?
11.	If so, when will the department complete this work?


1.	(a) January 22, 1931; (b) October 16, 1930.
2.	October 16, 1930, testing started in Russell township; November 5, 1930, testing started south of Castor river in Russell township; November 12, 1930, testing stopped south of

Questions
Castor river in Russell township; December 16, 1930, testing started in vicinity of Embrun in Russell township; January 22, 1931, testing started south and east of Nation river in Cambridge township; February 18, 1931, testing started in Cambridge township in vicinity of Limoges. Action was taken alt the request of cattle owners made in some cases by petitions, in others through verbal representations.
3.	At the request of cattle owners in the townships concerned.
4.	Mr. Seguin introduced to the Minister of Agriculture a number of delegations from the affected townships, some of which were opposed to the carrying on of the test, and some of which were in favour of the test being proceeded with at once. Mr. Goulet, M.P., also accompanied a delegation to the department in this connection.
5.	Russell township: 320 herds tested, 42 owners refused test; Cambridge township: 286 herds tested, 4 owners east of South Nation river refused test. No information with respect to balance of township.
6.	Russell township: compensation awarded
to daite, $33,133; Cambridge township: compensation awarded to date, SL.612; Clarence towmship:	compensation awarded to date,
$22,864; Cumberland township: compensation awarded to date, $17,843.
7.	No information.
8.	No.	_
9.	Not considered advisable in view of the opposition of a number of cattle owners.
10.	The matter is Still under consideration.
11.	Answered by No. 10.


1.	Were tenders called for for supplying drugs to the mounted police, Prince Albert, during the present year?
2.	If so, who sent in tenders and what was the amount of the tender in each case?
3.	Were all the tenders sent in within the specified time?
4.	Who received the contract?


1.	Yes, under the following restrictions: For the supply of standard drugs and prescriptions, tenders are to be used on cost, plus a percentage for handling. For the dispensing of prescriptions, tenders were requested on a basis of a fixed price for each of the following quantities: -J-, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 16 ounces, irrespective of what ingredients are contained in the various prescriptions.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
2.	Two tenders received as follows: Duncan's drug store, rate on drugs and medicines 10 per cent on cost; Mitchell's drug store, rate on drugs and medicines 10 per cent on cost.
3.	No. As the total consideration during the year 1930 only amounted to approximately $300, it was decided to ask another drug store to tender, with the view of distributing the business.
4.	The offer of Mitchell's drug store was accepted.


1.	What were the net earnings and profits of the two Toronto fairs?
2.	What were the net earnings and profits of the class A fairs in Canada?
3.	What were the net earnings and profits of the class B fairs in Canada?
4.	What grants are the Toronto fairs now receiving?
5.	What grants are the A class and B class fairs receiving?
6.	Where are the A class and B class fairs situated?


1.	No information.
2.	No information.
3.	No information.
4.	'Canadian National exhibition, $5,000; Royal Agricultural Winter Fair, $60,000.
5.	"A" class fairs (each), $5,000, regular grant, plus special building grants as follow: Quebec exhibition, $3,000; Ottawa exhibition, $3,500; "B" class fairs (each), $1,500, regular grant.
6.	British Columbia:	"A" Victoria, "A"
Vancouver, "B" Armstrong, "B" Chilliwack; Alberta: "A" Calgary, "A" Edmonton, "B' Camrose, "B" Lethbridge, "B" Red Deer, "B" Vegreville, "B" Vermilion, "B" Stettler; Saskatchewan: "A" Saskatoon, "A" Regina, "B" Lloydminster, "B" Assiniboia, "B" Melfort, "B" North Battleford, "B" Prince Albert, "B" Weyburn, "B" Yorkton, "B" Estevan; Manitoba: "A" Brandon, "B" Portage la Prairie, "B" Dauphin, "B" Carman; Ontario: "A" London, "A" Ottawa, "A" Canadian National Exhibition, Toronto, "B" Peterboro; Quebec: "A" Sherbrooke, "A" Quebec, "A" Three Rivers, "A" Valleyfield, "B" St. Scholastique, "B" Waterloo, "B" Lachute; New Brunswick: "A" Saint John and Fredericton receive each one-half of the aggregate of an "A" grant of $5,000 and a "B" grant of $1,500, "B" Woodstock, "B" Chatham; Nova Scotia, "A" Halifax; Prince Edward Island, "A" Charlottetown.
Note: These grants apply to the fiscal year 1930-31, as no fairs have received grants for the current fiscal year.
Questions


1.	In what papers in the province of Quebec are the various calls for tenders of mail contracts advertised by the Post Office Department in said province?
2.	By whom were these papers recommended to the Post Office Department?
3.	What were the papers in which these various calls for tenders by the Post Office Department were published last year up to July 28th?


1.	Le Courrier, Berthierville; The Gleaner, Huntingdon; L'Etoile du Nord, Joliette; I'Echo de Frontenac, Lac Megantic; The Gazette, Louiseville; The Watchman, Lachute; Le Peuple, Montmagny, The Monitor, Montreal; Le Devoir, Montreal; The Gazette, Montreal; The Star, Montreal; Le Petit Journal, Montreal; Le Bulletin des Agricul-teurs, Montreal; L'lllustration, Montreal; The Bulletin, Ormstown; La Semaine Com-merciale, Quebec; Le Franc Parlor, Quebec; Le Journal, Quebec; L'Action Criholique, Quebec; The Chronicle-Telegraph, Quebec; Le Saint-Laurent, Riviere du Loup; The Equity, Shawville; Le Courrier de St. Hya-cinthe, St. Hyacipthe; La Terre de Chez Nous, St. Jerome; Le Guide, Ste. Marie Beauce; Le Canadien, Thetford Mines; Le Drapeau, Trois Rivieres.
2.	By order of the Postmaster General.
3.	The Watchman, Lachute; L'Eclaireur, Beauceville Est; L'Avenir, Beauceville Est.; The Spotlight, Beauceville Est.; Le Progres, Valleyfield; The South Shore Press, St. Lambert; L'Opinion Publique, Grand Mere; The Bulletin, Ormstown; The Gleaner, Huntingdon; Le Courrier du Nord, La Malbaie; Le Progres du Saguenay, Chicoutimi; L'Echo de Frontenac, Lac Megantic; Le Colon, Roberval; LTJnion des Cantons de l'Est, Arthabaska; The Spokeman, Drummond-ville East; Pulp & Paper Magazine, Garden-vale; Journal of Commerce, Gardenvale; Canadian Mining Journal, Gardenvale; L'Action Populaire, Joliette; L'Etoile du Nord, Joliette; Le Quotidien, Levis; L'Hebdomodaire, Levis; La Gazette du Nord, Levis; Le Canadien, Thetford Mines; Le Megantic, Thetford Mines; Le Courrier-Sentinelle, Montmagny; Le Canada, Montreal; Le Moniteur de Commerce, Montreal; La Patrie, Montreal; Le Petit Journal, Montreal; La Presse, Montreal; Golf, Montreal; Le Bulletin, Montreal; The Daily Star, Montreal; The Gazette, Montreal; Le Devoir Montreal; The Herald, Montreal; Le Mederic, Montreal; Le Quartier Latin, Montreal; II Cittadino, Montreal; The Mining News,

Montreal; Canadian Mining Reporter, Montreal; Le Mirroir, Montreal; The Montreal Beacon, Montreal; Canada News, Montreal; Der Kamf, Montreal; The West End News, Westmount; Rouyn News, Rouyn; The Twin City Star, Rouyn; Le Soleil, Quebec; La Semaine Commerciale, Quebec; l'Evenement, Quebec; Le Bulletin de la Ferine, Quebec; Le Beret, Quebec; Le Cri de Quebec, Quebec; The Chronicle-Telegraph, Quebec; Au Grand Air, Lac Edouard; La Courrier de Sorel, Sorel; La Vie Paroissiale, Mont Joli; Le Clairon, St. Hyacinthe; Le Courrier de St. Hyacin-the, St. Hyacinthe; Le Canada Frantjais, St. Jean; Le Journal de Waterloo, Waterloo; Le Revue de Granby, Granby; La Tribune, Sherbrooke ; Daily Record, Sherbrooke; Le Saint-Laurent, Riviere du Loup; L'avenir du Nord, St. Jerome; La Terre de Chez Nous, St. Jerome; L'Echo de St. Maurice, Shawinigan Falls; Le Nouvelliste, Trois Rivieres; The St. Maurice Valley Chronicle, Trois Rivieres; La Gazette de Maniwaki, Maniwaki; La Voix des Bois Francs, St. Justin; L'Etoile de L'Est, Coaticook.


1.	Have instructions been given that the buoy service at Port LaTour, Shelburne county, is to be taken over by Lewis Crowell on the 2nd July next?
2.	If so, on whose recommendation were such instructions given?
3.	Is it not the custom to put such services up for tender ?
4.	Was this practice followed in this case?
5.	At what rate of pay is Lewis Crowell to perform the service?
6.	Has he entered into any contract; if so, will a copy of the contract be produced with the answer to this question?


Questions

term of this contract desires to consider a call made by the said department for new tenders.
(10)	The contractor shall transfer as directed at the termination of the contract the entire number of buoys, their moorings and fittings in good condition, or make good any loss or deficiency.
(10a) Should the contractor not transfer at the termination of the contract all the wooden buoys and their moorings in good condition the cost of supplying, renewing or repairing any of such buoys or their moorings then missing or unfit for service will be deducted from any portion of the contract price due the contractor.
(11)	The said Minister shall have the option of renewing the contract for a further term of three years at the contract rate.
(12)	The acceptance of this tender by the said department will constitute a contract for the faithful performance of the work.
In witness whereof the contractor hath set his hand:
(Contractor sign here in the presence of a witness.)
(Sgd) Lewis Crowell
P.O. address:
Port La Tour
Witness's signature:
(Sgd) J. H. Nickerson
Dated May 13th, 1931.
(Do not write in this space).
Accepted on behalf of the Department of Marine, Canada.
(.Sped) J. G. Macphail, Commissioner of Lights.
Witness's signature:
(Sgd) C. Macdonald
Ottawa, Canada.
fred Roger Latour, Hector Richer, Allan McGregor, Sam Grant, Wm. Stanley Smith, James Morgan Lewis; four other returned soldiers tried the examinations, but 'two secured employment elsewhere and were unable to accept enumerator's positions, and two failed on the examinations; (b) Ten of the returned soldiers employed were without work of any kind; one had prospects of temporary employment after enumeration.
4.	Fdfity-ithree.
5.	Thirty-one.
6.	(a) Four widows are employed as enumerators, two with families and two supporting themselves:	Mrs. Mary Rurns, Mrs. Ada
Flawes, Mrs. Mabel McKibbon, Mrs. Florence McMullen; (b) dependent children.
7.	Six married women are enumerators whose husbands are out of work. Forty single men and women with dependents are enumerating.


1.	Did Mr. Gagnon, advocate, of Rimouski,
hold an investigation into the Kempt Road Hill post office, Bonaventure county, Quebec, and what was the result?	,
2.	If the postmaster has been dismissed, who was appointed in his stead, and on whose recommendation ?


1.	No.
2.	See answer to No. 1.


1.	Who appointed the census enumerators for the city of Ottawa?
2.	U.pon whose recommendation were they so appointed?
3.	How many of the appointees a.re returned soldiers, and: (a) what are their names; and (b) how many were out of work at the time of such appointment?
4.	How many of the men appointees were civilians out of work at the time of their appointment?
5.	How many are married men with dependents and in need of said work?
6.	How many among the women appointed are widows with dependents, and (a) what are their names: (b) what is the relationship between those dependents and the appointee in each case?
7.	How many are married women whose husbands are living and out of work?


1 and 2. The hon. the Minister of Trade and Commerce, upon written examination of applicants.
3.	Eleven, as follows:	(a) Strachan F.
Wright, Walter Gilliis, W. I. Thrope, Jerrold Leonard Avard, Norman Eldred Cahoon, Wil-


1.	To whom was the contract for the carrying of the mail between Escuminae and Escuminac North, Bonaventure county, Quebec, granted, and at what price?
2.	Who were the tenderers, and what was the amount of each tender?


1.	Abraham Flanagan at S255 per annum.
2.	John MoNeil, S255 per annum; Abraham Flanagan, $256 per annum; John Forbes, $275 per annum.


1.	When were the last soundings taken at the northeast end of the wharf at Riviere du Loup, Quebec?
2.	Were those soundings taken before or after dredging ivas done there in the fall of 1929?


1.	October 30, 1929.
2.	After.

Questions as Orders for Returns


1.	What salary is paid to Felix Tardif as postmaster of a post office on the 8th and 9th back settlement of the township of Viger, in the county of Temiseouata?
2.	What is the name of that post office?


1.	$109.
2.	Grandlbois.


1.	What was the original amount of tender sent by each tenderer to the Department of Public Works in 1930 for works: (a) at Mont Louis, Quebec; (b) at Ruisseau-a-la-Loutre, Quebec; and (c) at St. Iloch des Aulnaies, Quebec?
2.	What tender was accepted in each case?


1. (a)-
Total as per unit prices quoted in form of
tender
John J. Leblanc and Capt. J.
A- Allard	
$27,049	60Dumont & Damours, Enrg..	..	28,590	40Ludger Lemieux Limitee	
28,590	40J. J. Lederc	
30,987	20Charles H. Nadeau	
31,072	80J. Antonio Landry	
31,672	00Arthur Nadeau	
32,442	40Lewis Maloney & Alfred Maloney.	35,010 40J. E. Dussault & A. Guay	$11,277	50J. A. Landry	
13,352	56Bouchard & Rouleau	
13,538	00Dumont & Damours Enrg..	..	13,583	00J. J. Leclerc	
13'66S	35John J. Leblanc	
13,938	99Ludger Lemieux, Limitee	
14,390	09
(c)-
J- H. Laberge	
$5,789	30Dumont & Damours, Enrg..	..	6,169	80Cloutier & Gaudreau	
6,459	45Onesime & Jos. Poliquin	
6,587	40J. N. Beaulieu & Adrien Journeault	
6,767	54Leclerc & Dube	
7,928	75Caron & Belanger	
7,818	00A. Lizotte	
9,416	34Lebeuf & Dore	
9,894	75La Compagnie de Laiterie..	..	12,104	452.	The lowest in each case.


1. Were the men employed on the Riviere du Loup wharf as foremen, carpenters, and labourers, in 1930, driven to their work?
. 2. If so: (a) by what means of transportation; (bj who drove them?
3.	What bill was presented to the Department of Public Works each month by each one of those who drove the said employees?
4.	What were the taxi, automobile or other conveyance bills approved by the foreman, Mr. Ovide Nadeau?
Mr. STEWART (Leeds);
1.	No information.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	No accounts for transportation of men received or paid by the Department of Public Works.
4.	None.


1.	What are the names of all employees on the payroll of the Vancouver harbour commission during the month of May, 1930, and what was the salary paid each one, either on a weekly, monthly or yearly basis?
2.	What are the names of all employees on the payroll of the Vancouver harbour commission during the month of May, 1931, and wffiat is the salary paid each one, either on a weekly monthly or a yearly basis?


1.	What are the names of the census enumerators appointed for the various places in the counties of Montmorency, Charlevoix, Saguenay and the north shore of the St. Lawrence river?
2.	By whom were they recommended?


I or a return showing the names, nomenclature of duties and salary of those appointed to Department of Agriculture in years 1929


[DOT]
For a copy of all correspondence, report of investigation commissioner, with evidence taken, and all other documents, in connection with the dismissal of Hollis Richardson, preventive officer at Castalia, Grand Manan, Charlotte county, New Brunswick.

Unopposed Motions jor Papers


For a. copy of all documents in connection with the charge of political partisanship against Absolou Nolet, postmaster at Barre, in the county of Dorchester, and the inquiry which was held in this case.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, correspondence, affidavits, investigations, documents and reports received and answered either directly or indirectly by the Minister of Agriculture or any of his officials, or on departmental files before the present Minister of Agriculture assumed responsibility for the department over which he presides, with regard to any recommendation made or conclusion arrived at in connection with the establishment of an agricultural illustration station in the northwestern part of the North Battle-ford federal constituency, either north or south of the Beaver river.


Mr. VEiNIOT:
For a copy of all correspondence, reports and evidence in connection with the dismissal of Roy Muerhead, postmaster at Khedive, Saskatchewan.
For a copy of all letters, copies of letters and communications written by Thomas McCabe, formerly employed on the Trent canal system at Peterborough, and between officers of the Department of Railways and Canals, during the year 1931.


Mr. MicKENZIE (Assiniboia):
For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the Post Office Department and any person or persons since July 28, 1930, with reference to the post office at Carlyle, Saskatchewan.
For a copy of all correspondence between any member of the government and Colonel Webb, mayor of Winnipeg, since July. 1930, regarding the construction of the trans-Canada highway.


For a copy of order in council P.C. 2370, October 8, 1930, regarding orders for addition to station at Levis, Quebec.
[Mr. Veniot.l


For a copy of all reports of the fishery inspector of the south district of Magdalen islands, Mr. William Arseneau, regarding prices on seawolves, during the season of 1930, and also a copy of all letters, recommendations, affidavits, and other documents, regarding claim of Frederic Yigneau of Magdalen islands, in connection with bounty on seawolves, during the said season of 1930.


Mr. MaoLEAN:
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, and requests in any form, passing between the Department of Fisheries or any other department of government, since July 26, 1930, relating to wages of men employed on the steamer Amla, owned by a man named Nordin who is now demanding compensation from the Department of Fisheries.
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and documents of all kinds, exchanged between any person or persons and the Department of Public Works, relating to the sale of the Telegraph building in Peace River, in 1930.


For a return showing the names of all election officials in the Peace River constituency in the general elections of: (a) 1925; (b) 1926; (c) 1930.


For a return showing the names, positions held and salaries paid, of all engineers, superintendents, foremen, assistant foremen, inspectors, assistant inspectors, timekeepers, timeeheckers, clerks, storekeepers, assistant storekeepers and watchmen, dismissed by the Quebec harbour commissioners, or by the Northern Construction Company, at the request of the harbour commissioners, during the period from September 1, 1930, to January 1, 1931, together with the names, former occupation and salaries of the persons appointed to the positions made vacant by these dismissals.


Mr. Speaker, in dealing
with a motion such as tihiis one regard will have to be given to the fact that the government is not itself in possession of the information asked for anid to obtain the papers asked for it would be necessary to secure them from the commission itself. We can only consent to the motion passing on the understanding that we would be making such a request and the extent to which it may be complied with would be the extent to which

Motions jor Papers
we will be able to meeit the requirements of the motion.


Motion agreed to.
For a copy of all briefs, representations, correspondence and memoranda submitted to the government since July 28, 1930, in regard to tariffs affecting Canadian and foreign publications,


Mr. Speaker, I intimated the other day that it has not been the practice to bring down papers that are confidential in their character or to deal with the internal operation of enterprises and that principle will have to be adhered to as far as this motion is concerned. So far as it does not contravene that rule there is no reason why it should not be carried.


I think the motion is out of order.


Motion agreed to.
For a copy of all correspondence and other documents in the possession of the authorities charged with the administration of farm loans, with regard to applications for loans made by virtue of the Farm Loan Act, in the counties of Montmorency, Charlevoix and Saguenay.


This motion is covered
by my observations a few days ago with respect to a similar matter. Obviously the motion is an improper one and should be stricken out.


The hon. member is absent.


The hon. gentleman was here the other day when the others were dropped. This one might as well be stricken out.
Motion dropped.


For a copy of all correspondence and other documents, report or reports made by the chief regional engineer of the Canadian National Railways, regarding certain improvement works to be done on the shores of Riviere-du-Gouffre, at Baie St. Paul, in the county of Charlevoix, for the protection of bridge piers, the property of the Canadian National Railways.


I mentioned the other
day that this motion would have to stand until the hon. member wTas present.
Motion stands.
With reference to motions numbers 9 to 42 inclusive and No. 44:


Mr. Speaker,
with regard to the motions standing in the name of the hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Casgrain), these will have to stand until the hon. member is in his place. No dates are mentioned in the motions and I feel that perhaps he might, limit the amount of work involved by stating a date beyond which he does not desire the department. to go in the production of these papers.
Motions numbers 9 to 42 inclusive stand.
Motion number 44 stands.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask
the hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens) a question based upon a headline in this morning's press to the effect that a new pact with Australia has been concluded. My question is this:	Is that information
correct and if so when may we expect the terms of the new treaty to be divulged to the house.


Mr. Speaker, all official
statements in connection with the Australian treaty will be made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) in the course of a few days.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. THOMAS F. DONNELLY (Willow Bunch):	Mr. Speaker, arising out of a telegram which I hold in my hand, I would like to ask the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) or the Minister of Immigration (Mr. Gordon) a question. The telegram reads as follows:
Work suspended Canadian Pacific Railway Vanguard-Meyronne to-night after two days work outfit moving out. In desperate need of relief. Do what you can have this work continued. All local hell) employed to date which has been beneficial to us in relieving local distress.
H. L. Allingham.
I might say that this was a railroad which was being constructed under the relief measures. The Canadian Pacific Railway have suspended this work and it is entailing a lot of distress among the inhabitants. Will the minister look into this matter with a view to having this work continued?
Imperial Conference
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Willow Bunch (Mr. Donnelly) is hardly correct when he says that this railroad is being built under the unemployment relief scheme. I understand this is a piece of work in which the government pays only the interest on any money which the company is expending and which it otherwise would not expend until probably next year. However, the matter in the form in which it has been presented or in any other form has not come officially to the notice of the Department of Labour. I will inquire into it during the course of this afternoon and to-morrow and probably will have something further to say.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Friday last I was asked a question by the hon. member for Medicine Hat (Mr. Gershaw) as to the proposed method to be used in connection with the collection of the sales tax, and I now desire to make the following statement. A large number of communications have been received from merchants and others respecting the new method of collection. The officials of the department were and still are of the opinion that the method proposed in the resolution will be more effective than that now in use. However, the government is most anxious that the increased sales tax, as to the amount of which not a single complaint has been received, should foe collected with as little inconvenience as possible to the business community. Therefore, when the resolutions are in committee the government will propose an amendment to restore the old method of collecting this sales tax. As this does not affect the amount involved, no difficulty will be experienced in the meantime.


Sinoe Monday last has the new method been in effect?


It is only a question of method and not of amount.


The question is: Has the new method been in effect sinoe the delivery of the budget speech last Monday?


I understand so.
Wr. Donnelly.]


On the orders of the day:
I have under my hand a statutory declaration from the president and general manager of Mercury Service Limited of Osihawa, Ontario, stating, among other things, that on the 16th May, 1931, the Imperial Oil, Limited, refused to sell or supply gasoline to the said company, and gave as a reason for such refusal that Mercury Service Limited were selling gas at cut prices. In view of the fact that the Imperial Oil, Limited, is apparently taking advantage of the protection given by the legislation of last session, will the government now remove the tariff then placed on gasoline?


Assertions do not constitute facts.
The hon. member should know, and I think
he does, that this is a matter which lies entirely within the jurisdiction of the provinces. Whether or not any company or any individual owning anything shall or shall not sell to any person who desires to buy, is not a matter over which we have jurisdiction except with respelot to interprovinicial matters covered by the Combines Aict and other legislation of that character. If the hon. gentleman is as desirous of ascertaining what the jurisdiction is as he apparently is of making political capital, I think there will be no difficulty.


Order.


I am just as much in
order as the hon. gentleman was.


On the orders of the day:
Is the Prime Minister in a position to make to the house an official declaration with regard to the reported postponement of the Imperial conference?


I had intended, before the orders of the day were called, to make the following statement: In accordance with the resolution of the Imperial conference held at London in 1930, that the economic section of the conference be adjourned to meet at Ottawa on a date within the next twelve months to be

Trans-Canada Highway
mutually agreed upon, in order to resume examination of the various means by which interimperial trade may best be maintained and extended, the Canadian government some time ago proposed that the conference should meet at Ottawa in August of this year. This date was found generally acceptable.. The government of the Commonwealth of Australia have now informed us that in view of the uncertain position in Australia, and considering at the same time the importance of the conference and the desirability of full representation, they would therefore request postponement until next year. The government of New Zealand had previously indicated that in view of the fact that its parliament would be in session in August and of the possibility of general elections towards the end of the year, it was unlikely that New Zealand could be represented by a minister of the crown at a conference to be held in August or, in fact, before 1932. We have therefore brought this situation to the attention of His Majesty's governments in the United Kingdom, the Union of South Africa, the Irish Free State and Newfoundland, as well as the government of India, which had all previously indicated their readiness to attend in August. In reply they have agreed to accept the proposal that the conference should foe postponed until 1932. The conference will therefore be postponed accordingly. At the same time the government avails itself of this opportunity to reaffirm its unquestionable belief in the soundness of the proposals made and the position taken at the conference in London last fall.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens). I have under my hand a letter from the west stating that large numbers of men, according to the letter, hundreds if not thousands, are tramping the highways out there and riding on freight trains in search of work. These men have no fixed abode. I would like to ask my hon. friend whether any provision is being made, in taking the census, for enumerating these men.


I do not think this is a question that should be asked on the orders of the day; it should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
As reported in the Northern Tribune
of Kapuskasing of June 5, 1931, a statement was made by the Hon. William Finlayson, Minister of Lands and Forests of Ontario, at Kapuskasing on Tuesday of last week to the effect that an arrangement had been arrived at between the Ontario provincial government and the federal government that three survey parties would go over the ground this season to study the routing of the trans-Canada highway in northern Ontario. Will the Prime Minister corroborate this statement?


This is not in order. Questions asked on the orders of the day should be matters of urgent public importance. This question should be put on the order paper.


On a question of privilege, I say that this is a very important matter in northern Ontario.


Order.


If I cannot get an
answer to my question, I will move the adjournment of the house.


With the unanimous consent of the house, the hon. member may have his question answered on the orders of the day, but in my judgment this is a question that should be put on the order paper.


That is exactly what I
was going to observe when you anticipated me.


I move the adjournment of the house. I believe I am entitled to an answer from the Prime Minister.


A motion to
adjourn the house is not debatable unless notice is given that it is for a special purpose.


It is to discuss a question of national importance.


A motion to
adjourn the house is not debatable unless notice has been given that the motion is to be made for a special purpose. Therefore the hon. member must have the unanimous consent of the house unless he wants a vote.
Trans-Canada Highway


The motion is not debatable, but it is before the house.


It is not seconded.


I second it as a protest.


I was paired with the hon. member for North Bruce (Mr. Malcolm). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.

Interim Supply Bill


I was paired with the hon. member for Nipissing (Mr. Hurtubise). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Athabaska (Mr. Buckley). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon member for Norfolk-Elgin (Mr. Taylor). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Jacques Cartier (Mr. Laurin), Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Robitaille). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. Mary (Mr. Deslauriers). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the bon. member for East Essex (Mr. Morand). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. Ann (Mr. Sullivan). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Hastings-Peterborough (Mr. Embury). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Stanstead (Mr. Hackett). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with	the	hon.	member for	Nicolet	(Mr. Dubois). Had I voted I would have voted
against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for North Wellington (Mr. Blair). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with	the	hon.	member for	Russell	(Mr. Goulet). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. Henri (Mr. Mercier). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Casgrain). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Laprairie-Napierville (Mr. Dupuis). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Kamouraska (Mr. Bouchard). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Richelieu (Mr. Cardin). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Boulanger). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for l'Assomption-Mont-calm (Mr. Seguin). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Joliette (Mr. Ferland). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


On the orders of the day:
Early in the session I asked
the following question:
What were the principal items and the total cost of the official delegation to Halifax to welcome the Governor General?
On April 29 this question was passed as an order for return. I would ask the hon. Secretary of State when we may expect the papers to be brought down.


We have asked the Canadian National Railways to send in an account of their charges. Up until last Thursday, the last date on which I made inquiry, we had not obtained the accounts from the Canadian National Railways. As soon as they are obtained the return will be brought down.


Mr. Speaker, by uanimous consent we were to pass an interim supply bill to-day, and I move that you do now leave the chair for the purpose of the house resolving itself
Trans-Canada Highway

into committee of supply to pass the resolutions leading to the bill.
The resolutions cover one-twelfth of the amount as mentioned in the main estimates, and one-fourth with respect to the Interior department items and the unemployment relief item in the Pensions department; in other words, one-twelfth being $20,099,732.71, and one-fourth of the amount to be voted under civil government, Department of the Interior, topographical surveys, geodetic surveys, dominion lands and parks, and unemployment relief, as set forth in the main estimates, being $1,054,091.25; and one-twelfth of the amount provided for in the estimates for Canadian National Steamships and maritime freight rates, as set forth in the main estimates for the liscal year ending March 31, 1932.
The only reason one-fourth is asked for with respect to the Interior department is that large numbers of the staff of that department are still on full pay under their retirement right, and therefore it is necessary to provide for one-fourth of the amount mentioned in the estimates, or there would not be sufficient to meet these demands until the end of this month. This will enable us to carry on for another month.


As the Prime Minister has intimated, speaking on behalf of the official opposition, I agreed with him that there would not be opposition to voting one-twelfth of the supply once the house was moved into committee for that purpose. I assume, of course, that the regular motion will be made for the house to go into committee of supply.


Oh, yes, I moved that motion.


It is also understood that the same reservations are made which have been customary as to the full right of any member of the house to discuss any item and as regards other particulars.


Quite so.


Mr. JOSEPH A. BRADETTE (North Timiskaming): Before you leave the chair, Mr. Speaker, I want again to direct the attention of the house to a question of national importance, as I believe the Prime Minister will agree when I put the matter before him. Only last week I brought up a discussion of this question in the house, and not a single member can accuse me of having been a 
partisan. To-day there is a situation in northern Ontario which must be faced. Had the Prime Minister understood the question that I put before the house a few momenta ago, I believe he would have answered it. I want to place it again before the house. I refer to a statement made by the Hon. William Finlayson, Minister of Lands and Forests in the Ontario provincial government, at a meeting at Kapuskasing on Tuesday of last week, as reported in the Northern Tribune of Kapuskasing, of June 5, 1931. He made a statement to the effect that an arrangement had been arrived at between the Ontario provincial government and the federal government that three survey parties would go over the ground this season to study the routing of the trans-Canada highway in northern Ontario. Not only the citizens of northern Ontario but those of the whole of Canada are directly interested in the important matter which I have brought to the attention of the house. Again I ask the Prime Minister if really there has been anything done in cooperation with the Ontario government with a view to the construction of the transdUanada highway in northern Ontario. I believe my question is a fair one. I do not wish to delay the business o'f the house; I believe there is no hon. member on either side who will accuse me, either this session or in previous sessions, when I was sitting on the government benches, of taking up too much time. I repeat, however, that because of the unemployment situation in northern Ontario and the necessity of beginning the work this year, my right hon. friend should answer a question which to my mind is absolutely logical and fair.
I am sure the Prime Minister is
not deliberately withholding information from thie House of Commons. If the statement was made by the Minister of Lands and Forests for Ontario to the effect that three survey parties have been sent out, surely hon. members should have such information before them. The people of northern Ontario, irrespective of their political affiliations, are very much interested in the construction of the highway. During the last regular session of parliament the representation was made, when hon. members were discussing the resolution made by Mr. Kellner, that if the government would contribute something toward the construction of the highway thousands of men would receive work immediately and the unemployment situation would be appreciably .relieved. That statement was made by some

Trans-Canada Highway
hon. members of the presenlt government who last year were in opposition. One evening during the last week the present Minister of Railways and Oana-ls (Mr. Manion) stood in his place and said that the matter was still under consideration and that he had nothing definite to say in connection with it. Of course in his own way he endeavoured to ridicule my position. I wish to say to him and to his friends who may advise him that for the past twenty years my stand concerning the highway through northern Ontario has been well known and cannot be ridiculed by him or any other hon. member of the house. The position taken last year by members of the present government was that if the government would contribute money towards the building of a highway, hundreds, perhaps thousands, of men would be put to work during the winter. Yet only a few days ago the Minister of Railways and Canals admitted that there is unemployment in northern Ontario due in a large measure to conditions in the pulip and paper industry. I am not going to deliver a speech upon this question but when the Minister of Railways and Canals says the matter is under consideration and a minister of a provincial government, the Minister of Lands and Forests in Ontario, makes the statement that the dominion government has agreed, in cooperation with the provincial government to send out survey parties, I think an explanation should be made. If this government has agreed with the provincial government to survey three different routes, hon. members in the house want to know it and they have a right to know it. If such an arrangement has not been made we would like to know if Mr. Finlayson is up in northern Ontario telling them onie more of the poppycock stories he has been telling for many years. I am inclined to think that probably he is just telling another story. Every time he goes to northern Ontario he tells a different dtory with respect to intended procedure concerning the highway through that country During all this time there are hundreds and thousands of men unemployed through the northern section of Ontario.


Did my hon. friend say hundreds of thousands?


No, hundreds and thousands.


There is quite a difference.


Hon. members want to know what is being done. I would be inclined to move an amendment to the motion to go into supply in order to have an expression from the house in respect to this highway question. During the election campaign the present government stated that under their administration a national highway would be built. Mr. Ferguson made the statement that the building of such a highway was a national question and not one of provincial obligation. Mr. Finlayson said the question was national in obligation. However, at the present time we learn that although he is acting as if it is a provincial question and they are working in cooperation with the dominion government. With my hon friends from northern Ontario on this side of the house I want to know how long we are going to be kept in the position of playing politics in connection with the question of highways and byways through northern Ontario. An opportunity is now afforded the government to tell us whether or not they have an agreement with the provincial government to make surveys. If they have I would be quite agreeable; if a highway is going to be built through the efforts of the administration at Ottawa I would be satisfied. If it is to be built by contribution to the provincial government I would be satisfied. No matter what is going to be done, I would like to see some action taken. I do not however want to see one party saying the matter is under consideration and in the very next breath the minister of a provincial government saying there is an agreement to send out survey parties throughout northern Ontario.


I rise, Mr. Speaker, to put on record a report in the Ottawa Journal concerning a statement made by the Hon. William Finlayson:
The Ontario government through the Department of Lands and Forests will undertake^ a complete survey of the various alternative routes, with a view to determining the cost of construction and value from settlement and tourist standpoints.
Three Surveys
This will entail at least three reconnaissance surveys, one to examine the proposed location west of Sault Ste. Marie, along the shore of lake Superior, another to examine the proposed northern route, from Nipigon east to Hearst and a third to give its attention to the proposed "compromise" route. Reconnaissance parties are being organized at the present time and surveys will be proceeded with at the earliest possible date.
This announcement was made here to-night by Hon. William Finlayson, Minister of Lands and Forests in the Ontario government, at the close of his annual tour of the north country.
In the report contained in the Journal the Hon. William Finlayson does not mention the federal government whatsoever.
Returns Ordered-Not Tabled


I have mistaken what the hon. member-


The hon. member has already spoken.


Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata): Before you leave the chair, Mr. Speaker, I have a few words to say concerning orders for returns which have, been voted by the house and have not yet been answered. I have before me under date May 27, 1031, the following order:
By Mr. Pouliot: Order of the house for a copy of the letter, telegram or other document sent by the government to the Canadian National Railways to notify them that Department of Railways and Canals had refused to sanction the construction of a new station a-t Riviere du Loup.
This return involves the production of only one piece of paper, either in the form of a telegram, a letter or some other document. There are two other orders of the same day, to be found at page 251 of votes and proceedings, as follows:
By Mr. Pouliot:-Order of the house for a copy of (a) the application of the Canadian National for approval of the proposed new station at Riviere du Loup; (b) plans numbered P-1-12-179-2, 17105-1, 17105-2, and 17105-3, dated respectively January 31, 1930, July 15, 1930, and June 12, 1930, on file with the board under file No. 36455; (c) of the report and recommendation of the chief operating officer of the board as mentioned in Order No. 45205, dated August 9, 1930, of the Board of Railway Commissioners.
By Mr. Pouliot:-Order of the House for a copy of (a) Plan No. 17321-1, dated Moncton, March 31; (b) submissions filed on behalf of railway company, the board of trade of Riviere du Loup, the provincial hygiene service, and the city of Riviere du Loup; and (c) of report and recommendation of the chief officer of the board as mentioned in Order No. 46476. dated March 27, 1931, of the Board of Railway Commissioners.
At page 252 of votes and proceedings of the same day there are the following orders:
By Mr. Pouliot:-Order of the house for a copy of all correspondence exchanged between the Honourable Acting Minister of Railways and Canals, the deputy minister, their private secretaries and any other officer or employee of the department, Minister of Railways, and Mr. C. E. Dube and any other person, regarding the construction of a new Canadian National Railways station at Riviere du Loup, from August 7, 1930, to date.
This cannot be very long and would be very easy to answer.
By Mr. Pouliot:-Address to His Excellency the Governor General for a copy of the order in council appointing the Right Honourable Sir 
George Perley acting Minister of Railways and Canals, in October, 1930.
This is very short also.
i ^' I*oullot:-Address to His Excellency the Governor General for a copy of the order in council P.C. 2292, of September 30, 1930, by which the Honourable Minister of Labour was authorized to enter into an agreement with the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Canadian National Railways.
This order in council is referred to by the hon. Minister of Labour (Senator Robertson) in the report of the director of unemployment. It should be very easy to get this information. The order also is very short to answer.
Then on page 259 of votes and proceedings of Thursday, May 28, 1931-
All these matters have been dealt with by resolutions of which notice has been given by the hon. member; therefore they are not debatable on a motion to go into committee of supply-


I am not debating them,
Mr. Speaker.


-otherwise the house would be delayed unduly. My ruling is that 