Eleventh report of the select standing committee on banking and commerce.-Mr. Matthews.
Mr. MATTHEWS moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	In whose name and on what date was preemption entry made in respect to each of the following: (a) S.W. I section 13, township 33, range 20, W. 4th; (b) N.W. i section 13, township 33, range 20, W. 4th?
2.	Was patent ever issued on each of same, if not, why?
3.	What ultimate disposition was made of each parcel?


1.	(a) S.W. 1 13-33-20-W. 4th mer., preemption entry William J. Garland, 25th April, 1911; (b) N.W. i 13-33-20-W. 4th mer., preemption entry Edward J. Garland, 25th April, 1911.
2.	Patents not issued, entries having been abandoned and cancelled.
3.	S.W. 1 13-33-20-W. 4th mer., now included in ranch No. 15076 held under lease by Edward J. Garland.
N.W. i 13-33-20-W. 4th mer., now included in ranch No. 23352 held under lease by Edward J. Garland.


What is the number of immigrants who entered Canada during the months of May, June and July, 1931?


The immigration figures for the current month will not be available until some time in August. The following are the figures for May and June:
Ocean Ports
Prom
British Others U.S.A. Totals
May.	.	.	1,693	602	1,523	3,818June.	.	.	940	536	1,693	3,169Totals.	.	.	2,633	1,138	3,216	6,987
PRIVILEGE-Mr. DURANLEAU
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. I beg leave to correct the statement I made, a few days ago, in connection with the harbour of Three Rivers and which appears in Hansard, on July 20, at page 4226 (English version) and at page 4178 (French version). I stated:
"This undertaking will give work to the unemployed, because much filling will be required to be done by labourers in Three Rivers, in the same way as it was earned out the previous winter. At that time, instead of utilizing the material dredged to do the filling, we had earth brought from outside the city limits, thus giving work to the people of Three Rivers. The cost was somewhat higher than that contracted for by the company, however, under the circumstances we thought it proper to have the work done in this way in order to help the unemployed."
I wish to say that this statement was meant for the harbour of Chicoutimi instead of that of Three Rivers.
Criminal Code

The error happened owing to the fact that, last autumn, the Commissions of the harbours of Three Rivers and Chicoutimi wished to come to an understanding with the contractors performing the work in order that the filling of the wharves under construction could be carried out independently and without utilizing the dredging material. An agreement was arrived at for Chicoutimi which benefited throughout last winter by such an arrangement. So far as Three Rivers is concerned, the matter is still being considered by the commissioners and contractors; however, I hope that within a few days, the latter will come to a satisfactory agreement by which the Three Rivers labourers may immediately benefit as in the case of Chicoutimi.


COMMENCEMENT AND CONTINUATION OF FOUR o'clock CLOSING
If
the house prorogues on this coming Saturday, may I ask the right hon. the Prime Minister when the four o'clock closing in the civil service will be started, and after it is started, will it be continued through the month of September in compensation for the month of July?


The matter is under consideration and I trust I may be able to make a statement to the house to-morrow. The present intention is that the four o'clock closing will end in August.


That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting their honours that this house doth agree in all the amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 113, an act to amend the criminal code except in regard to the amendment to clause (d) of section 2 of the original bill which in the opinion of this house is not a desirable amendment and is unnecessary, having regard to the fact that a prosecution under the section cannot take place under the added section without a fiat of the attorney general of the province concerned.
The amendments made by the Senate to this bill are all very formal with the exception of two. Their honours have seen fit to amend the bill by striking out altogether section 15, which provided that:
Any judge of a superior court of criminal jurisdiction or of the court of appeal, may, if it seems fit, on the application of the appellant admit the appellant to bail pending determination of his appeal.

The other section to which I call attention is the one in regard to the nude parades. The bill provided that:
For the purposes of this subsection anyone shall be deemed to be nude wrho is so scantily clad as to offend against public decency or order.
Their honours have struck out the words "offend against public decency or order" and have inserted the words "expose the genital organs." I do not think we should concur in that amendment, and I have framed my motion accordingly, that we concur in all the amendments save that.


Motion agreed to.
The house resumed from Wednesday, July 29, consideration of the motion of the Right Hon. R. B. Bennett (Prime Minister) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to resolve itself into committee of the whole on the following resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to confer certain powers upon the governor in council in respect to unemployment and farm relief; and for the maintenance of peace, order and good government in all parts of Canada; and to authorize the governor in council to expend for the said purposes out of the consolidated revenue fund such sums as may from time to time be necessary.
Mr. JOSEPH A. BRADETTE (North Timiskaming):	In the few remarks I made
before the adjournment last night I brought to the attention of the house some of the anomalies that existed with respect to the wages paid in certain sections of northern Ontario in connection with unemployment relief. I cited that whereas the wages paid in certain districts for road work under the unemployment relief fund were $2.80 per day, in my section the men were paid only $2.40 per day, or a difference of 40 cents less. I would ask the government to make up that deficiency to the people involved in my section.
I 'also made an appeal on behalf of single men for work under the Northern Development Branch, and I hope that in any new work undertaken in the northern sections of the province such anomalies as I mentioned will not exist. I proved that single men in large numbers in that section of the country have been penalized. I am now going to bring to the attention of the house a local or regional matter, and I hope that my genial friend from Parkdale (Mr. Spence)

Farm and Unemployment Relief
will not say, as he said the other day, that I should stand behind a wailing wall. This is a very important matter to northern Ontario, and more particularly to the town with which I am more familiar, that of Cochrane. We have in that section of the country a situation which I believe is not experienced in any other part of Canada. This applies to Kapuskasing, Porcupine district, Kirkland Lake district and most particularly to the town of Cochrane. That is the reason I believe it is my duty as a representative of that section of the country to bring to the attention of this house, as I brought it to the attention of the Prime Minister, the very acute and serious situation with which we have to contend in the town of Cochrane.
I hope the house will be indulgent for a few moments so that I may tell of this very important matter. Already the Prime Minister is familiar with the present situation, and after listening to me very carefully he has promised that in conjunction with the authorities of the province of Ontario he will provide a remedy. I want the house to realize that that statement was made nearly a month ago by the Prime Minister. So far, no relief has been given to the unemployed in Cochrane district. Hon. members will appreciate the gravity of the situation when they know that the population of that town is only 3,000, and that at present we have to take care of about 1.500 transient unemployed. For the last six months we have had to do that. The town of Cochrane and municipality is practically keeping and feeding that additional population, and has been doing so for the past six months. That is one of the reasons why we in that section of the country think w'e have done our duty and that the responsibility now rests wholly, if not with the provincial authorities, at least with the federal government.
I believe some hon. members will be interested to listen to a statement of conditions among the unemployed in that section of the country. They do not look to the municipal authorities, but blame, simply and solely, the federal authorities. That is why it is important for this government to listen to my outline of the situation so that as soon as possible remedies may be effected. Perhaps some hon. members will ask, "How is it you have such a great number of transients in your section of the country?" The answer is that geographically speaking we are in the centre of Canada. Owing to the fact that at the present time developments are 'being carried on at Coral rapids, necessitating the employment of hundreds of men, and that the railway is being extended to Moose
Factory, that section of the country has been advertised in the newspapers for two years, with the result that Cochrane and district has been a drawing card for unemployed. That explains why we have so many people coming from all parts of Canada. True, many of them are there only for a short time, but a great many remain permanently.
That is my justification for appealing to the federal authorities to help remedy a situation for which the town of Cochrane is not, in a way, responsible. The situation is becoming worse, from day to day. We very much regret that the Minister of Labour did not find it possible, on his way back from the west, to go through our section of the country. We are at a loss to understand why he travelled through the southern section of northern Ontario; we do not know the reason. We were hoping that he would find it possible to come to Cochrane, speak to the unemployed and learn the facts of the situation with which we are faced.
Only last week the premier of the province of Ontario visited northern Ontario, but for some reason unknown to us in the northern section of the province he did not find it possible to come to Cochrane district, or to the northern section.
Now, so that the house may fully realize the situation in Cochrane I shall read to hon. members some articles appearing in local newspapers. The Cochrane Northland Post in its columns gives the northern viewpoint of the situation. I am no sob-sister artist, but I believe it my duty to make known the conditions we are facing and to point out to the authorities that unless attention is given to the matter immediately trouble will result. Last week, during one of the unemployed parades, one of the provincial constables was hurt. I shall quote from the Northland Post of May 14, 1931:
There seems to be no limit to the number of unemployed that the town of Cochrane can harbour, from the appearance of the streets these days. Last Monday evening when the National pulled out of town, Railway street and Sixth avenue looked as though they were out to put Yonge street in the shade. It seems a pity that the citizens of the town are forced to either step off the sidewalk or else be jostled till their teeth rattle in order to get to and from work.
Several storekeepers have complained that the entrance to their places of business have become the stamping ground of the hundreds of unemployed that wre nave in town. Many of these unfortunate men seem to monopolize the sidewalk with a bovine like indifference, making it almost impossible for women with baby carriages, to say nothing of the decidedly coarse type of talk that is all too frequently heard.
It is hoped that work will be resumed up north soon, before a series of robberies breaks
Farm, and Unemployment Relief
out, which is inevitable with the large number of men we have here with no means of eup-port. Already two or three have been reported.
Again, quoting from the Northland Post of June 12, 19-31, I find the following:
The unemployment situation in the north has now reached a stage where immediate action on the part of either, or both, provincial and federal government is absolutely imperative. During the past several months northern Ontario has been the mecca of literally thousands of unemployed drawn here by the overdone publicity given the construction work in progress. North Bay, Kirkland Lake, Timmins, Cochrane, Kapuskasing, all have the same story; of hundreds, even thousands, of men from all parts of Canada, arriving seeking work, where no work was to be had. These men are now stranded in these various centres with no chance of obtaining work, with little, if any money; the condition of many bordering on the desperate. These men have no_ claim, legal or moral, upon the municipalities, in which they are stranded. The municipalities in turn, absolutely cannot extend to these men relief of any kind whatsoever.
The situation at present is the most serious that has ever confronted the north. Though there is a large amount of unemployment throughout the country, that does not help to solve the problem in the north, wdiich by virtue of the unique conditions existing here, is much more acute than in the older and more densely populated sections. In referring to this allimportant question, wisdom and expediency preclude a reference to certain contingencies which will almost surely arise, unless action is taken in the very near future. There is a very real potential menace in the situation, recognized by many of the citizens, which cannot safely be ignored.
Now is the time for action, not when it is too late. Now is the time for statesmanship, not polities. The north is looking anxiously to the seats of government for action. More, it is demanding it, and it has the right to expect it.
On the 28th day of last month I spoke to between 700 and 900 unemployed in the town of Cochrane. I could see for myself that the situation was very serious. I promised those people that I would do everything within my power to bring matters to the attention of the house.
On July 1 the present Prime Minister told me he would get into communication with the premier of Ontario. So far, however, I am sorry to say that a solution of the problem has not been arrived at and there is more and more unemployment in the town of Cochrane. Only last week I gave the Prime Minister an article I had clipped from the Northland Post stating that a provincial constable had been assaulted and seriously wounded during a parade of the unemployed, and as a result was taken to the hospital. Again, the Prime Minister promised me he would do everything within his power to solve the difficulty. However, the problem is not

yet solved and as a result the town of Cochrane is, so to speak, divided into two camps, and the situation grows worse. The house will understand that for six months Cochrane has had from 1,000 to 1,500 transient unemployed. Following the assault upon the provincial constable we have the spectacle in that section of the country of the population being divided into two camps. The local population resent the action of the unemployed men, and assert that they had no right to assault the constable. On the other hand the unemployed take the opposite stand and claim that they have to eat and work.
The time is ripe to remedy the situation. A few days ago I read a report in a Toronto paper to the effect that the premier of Ontario, Mr. Henry, after making a tour of the northern section of the province had said that within two months work would be initiated on the trans-Canada highway. Two months will be too late. So far as I am concerned 1 wish to wash my hands of responsibility for anything which may happen in the future. Two months time will be too late to offer those men work so that they may get something to eat and put shelter over their heads. I make that appeal very sincerely to the right hon. Prime Minister, for the situation is so urgent that it must be dealt with immediately. I said a few minutes ago that on the 20th of June, when meeting a body of the unemployed, I came to the defence of the government. I told them that the government were trying to do everything within their power to remedy the situation, and that it was no time for playing politics. It was said at the meeting that some of the unemployed would break into private property and take what they wanted. I told those men that as citizens of this country they were entitled to food and clothing, but at the same time property owners were entitled to defend their property. The house will understand the seriousness of the situation in my constituency when the unemployed take the law into their own hands and break into houses to get food and clothing. I repeat the statement that I made to the unemployed on that occasion, that I have enough confidence in this government to feel that they will step right in and deal with this acute situation in the north, particularly in the town of Cochrane, and that within a week or two
1,000	or 1,500 men will be put to work. This grave situation must be dealt with not two month's hence or next winter, it must be dealt with immediately. As I have said, this question should be lifted out of politics. It may be parochial in some respects, but in

Farm and Unemployment Relief
others it is national. Hon. members ought to hear what some of the unemployed say. They put the blame for the present condition of affairs on the right hon. Prime Minister and this government, not on the local organizations, not on the premier of the province. Every spokesman for the unemployed put the blame solely on the right hon. Prime Minister. In order that the house may realize the seriousness of the situation and the urgency for remedial action, I am going to read an editorial which appeared in the Northland Post of Cochrane published on the 24th inst. It is as follows:
Little Improvement In The Unemployed Situation *
That the unemployed men receiving relief in Cochrane are transients has been amply born out during the past week. Each day numbers have left town, their places have been taken by others coming in from other points. Some idea of the way these men shift around can be gathered from the fact that as many as a hundred or more have been known to come to town on one train, while nearly as many have left at one time also. The number in receipt of relief, however, has remained fairly constant, from a low of about two hundred and eighty to over three hundred and fifty.
In addition to those in receipt of relief there is a large number of men who have not yet reached that stage in their finances, who are staying at the various rooming houses around town. Quite a number of these men are subsisting on only two, and in not a few cases, one meal a day, in order to husband their scanty savings. In some cases also, the boarding-house keepers have allowed men to run up accounts for both rooms and meals, though of course this is necessarily limited, as the proprietors of the boarding houses are not in a position to finance the men indefinitely. One such case was recently reported to have some three thousand dollars of book debts, but few of them could afford to let the figure run so high.
Many of the men coming here state that they were told to come here by the police and others in the town or city which they came from. This practice has quite evidently been followed in many of the places, and the fact that there i3 a construction job going on up north of Cochrane has aided these places in persuading the men to come here. One or two places have been particular offenders in this way and Cochrane's troubles at the present time arc due in no small measure to these two places, both of which are better able to take care of the men than is Cochrane.
The news of Premier Henry's proposed "Labour battalions" was received here last week with tempered enthusiasm. Most of the local citizens appear to be very much in favour of the idea, but feel that in the case of Cochrane, immediate steps should be taken by the government to remove these men from here, as there are no facilities for looking after them, and the problem is really none of the town's business. There is also a certain uneasiness that there will be a recurrence of the trouble which broke out a week ago last Monday, when Provincial Constable Crozier was injured. Though many individuals are convinced that
Buch will not be the case, this feeling is not shared by the majority and the uncertainty of the situation is having a very unsettling effect upon the community.
Since the trouble referred to, there is very little sympathy on the part of the townspeople generally for the men, resentment being general that they should come here uninvited from every part of Canada and repay kindness and good treatment in such a manner. The citizens of Cochrane are heartily fed up with the whole situation, and while willing to assume a just share of any burden shouldered by the country as a whole, they feel that the town has been imposed on long enough and that it has been called upon to harbour far too many in proportion to its population. There is an insistent demand on all sides for the removal of these men in the near future.
No definite date has so far been announced in regard to the formation of the labour battalions. One source has estimated it at about two months hence, which, if correct, will not be soon enough to relieve the local situation. It is likely, however, that it will be sooner than that, as the situation throughout the province is so serious that it will force the government to rush the arrangements. The announcement of the labour battalions brought forth protests from certain quarters, particularly in organized labour circles, but subsequent reassurances on the part of the government that the men would not be conscripted has done much to overcome this opposition. Regret is expressed here that Premier Henry was unable to pay a visit to this part of the north in addition to his visit to Sault Ste. Marie this week, as it is thought that a personal inspection of the local situation would have hastened governmental action here.
Carried.


I beg to inform hon.
members opposite that if some of them would come up to my- section of the country tomorrow they would be ready to plead my case with the right hon. Prime Minister, Last session when we mentioned the unemployment situation no one on the other side was treating our appeal very seriously. I do not take up very much of the time of the house, and I interrupt very few hon. members on the other side. Let me extend this invitation to hon. members opposite: If by "carried" they mean that the situation which I have described will be remedied within the next week, I will take my seat at once. But I am not going back to my constituents until I can tell them that the situation will be remedied. I am speaking for t'he unemployed in Cochrane and district, and so distressing is their situation that I am positive that if my hon. friends opposite could be brought face to face with those unhappy people they would fight by my side for immediate remedial action. I am not talking politics; this question is bigger than politics; but this is the time and place to discuss such a matter, and I would be derelict in my duty as representative of the riding if I

Farm and Unemployment Relief
failed to bring this critical condition before the attention of the 'house. Let me quote the statement made by the spokesman for the Cochrane unemployed delegation which recently waited on the council:
"You kuow very good what we want," was the answer of the spokesman for the unemployed delegation which waited on the council on Wednesday evening, when acting Mayor Penny invited him to come up to the council table and tell the council what was wanted. The spokesman went on to say that many men were sleeping in barns, sheds and out of doors, that they had no shoes, no clothes and no work, and were, in fact, living like dogs.
Now, this is not to be laughed at; it is too serious for mirth.
Mr. Penny assured the delegation that the council were doing all in their power to get action from the government and pointed out that they had been successful in obtaining some measure of relief. The delegation, nine in number, were told that though the council would continue their efforts to place before the government the condition of the men, the town was incapable of furnishing shelter for such a large number. The delegation left the meeting after being assured that the council would put their case up to the government again and urge measures of relief. The delegation spoke to a resolution, passed at a meeting of the unemployed, held on July 15th, which was, in its way, a masterpiece of misrepresentation, protesting as it did against police violence.
I believe, Mr. Speaker, that I have made out my case. It 'is not my intention to delay the house for any length of time, for I know it is not popular for any member to make a long speech at this late stage of the session; but I would be lacking in my duty to my constituents if I did not make it a point to bring this unfortunate and critical situation to the attention of the house with all the force at my command, and to appeal to the right hon. Prime Minister and the government-and I believe he and his colleagues are sympathetic -that to remedy this situation something be done, and done immediately. Surely it is within the power of the government to send a wire bo the mayor of Cochrane that they are going to take care of the situation at once. I am no "sob sister" artist and I am sure that my genial friend from Parkdale (Mr. Spence) if he would visit my section of the country would come back and give me his heartiest support in the appeal that I am now making to the government. I know the right hon. Prime Minister realizes the seriousness of the situation and I assure him I am making my appeal very seriously.
Last summer we were told that if the unemployment situation became a national problem it would be dealt with in a national way. That meant that it would be dealt with by the central authority, which is this parlia-

ment and this government. And again I appeal to the right hon. Prime Minister that before tlie day is over he send a message to the mayor of Cochrane that he will relieve the present unemployment situation in that town and district. So far we have heard of only one case of violence by the unemployed, so far they have kept within the law, but you cannot argue with men who are hungry and destitute, and need food, shelter and clothing. That is why I believe that hon. members will agree with me that a message should be sent to that section of the country that the government will deal with the situation in such a way that the town of Cochrane will be relieved of further responsibility for meeting a condition which has 'been forced upon them and with which during the last six months they have been trying to cope. Every institution and individual in that town has been doing its duty, but the stage has been reached where it is absolutely impossible for the town of Cochrane to cope with the situation further. It will be impossible for me to go back to my constituency unless I have a message to deliver to the people that authority will be taken by the government to deal with the situation, and that it will be remedied, and remedied at once.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to refer briefly
to two statements made by my right hon. friend the Prime Minister, the most astounding and the most timely statements he has made during the last thirteen months. His most astounding statement was, "I will end unemployment," made in Moncton during the last campaign; his most timely statement was made before a large audience of unemployed in Calgary, to the effect that it was the intention of this government to study the causes of unemployment. That is the first thing that should have been done. I remember very well that after the last election a committee was formed to inquire into that question, and one of the recommendations brought in was that immigration should be stopped. That recommendation has not been carried out; immigrants may still enter the country, and the government have only ceased advertising in order to bring them here.
It is most important, Mr. Speaker, that we get to the root of the evil in order to cure it, and I am very much surprised that there has been no meeting of the committee on industrial and international relations this session to study that question, which is of such great importance not only to Canada but to all the countries of the world. It is

Farm and Unemployment Relief
late, Mr. Speaker; the session is about to close, and we have now a resolution before us in connection with which I congratulate the government. They seem to be in earnest in trying to do something to relieve unemployment, but this is only a palliative. This will not cure the evil at all; it is like putting a plaster on a wooden leg. I think it is time for the government to appoint a commission composed of technicians, university and labour men and others of wide experience to study the question in all its details and make appropriate suggestions. Last fall and this spring, before the Minister of Labour undertook his trip to the west he said unemployment was diminishing all the time and that conditions were getting better. When he went to the west, with adding machines with which to count the number of unemployed, he was startled; he was astonished; he was dumbfounded, and he returned to tell the government what he had seen.
Conditions are very bad in the west; they are very bad in the east also, because the farmers cannot sell their products and the lumber industries are not doing the business they did previously. What is the reason? Is it because the people who have some money are discouraged and are keeping that money in the banks or in their pockets instead of spending it in improvements? They may be waiting for better times, so in that respect I think the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens) was doing the right thing when he preached hope for the future. But do we not all remember the campaign which followed the Winnipeg convention of 1927, during which hon. gentlemen opposite went about saying the country was in bad shape, when that was not true?
Following that people began to make money in the stock market; some people were getting rich, and others tried to do the same thing. Many people with small incomes put all their savings in the stock market, and everyone knows what happened. Some brokers were really thieves; they advertised certain stocks, saying they were good and were going up, in order to sell them. Then what happened? Those stocks came down; people lost their money, which was concentrated under the control of a few people. Those brokers became rich within a very short time by stealing money from people who had invested their small savings in securities of every kind. So I would make one suggestion:	In order to provide money
for unemployment relief works in this country would it not be fair to confiscate say three-quarters of the enormous gains made 22110-275
unlawfully by those brokers? That would be a step to which no one in this country except themselves would object; it would be only retribution for the evil done by those men.
That is one suggestion I desire to make; the other I made in beginning my speech. I believe the government are sincere in trying to relieve unemployment, and I ask them to be practical by going to the root of the evil and ascertaining the first causes of it. The matter has been studied by the League of Nations and by the keenest minds of Europe and America. Now it is time for this country to make a thorough inquiry into the question of unemployment in order to cure the evil and prevent it from happening again in the future.
Motion agreed to on division and the house went into committee, Mr. Tummon in the chair.


I am anxious that the
Prime Minister should introduce the bill at the earliest possible moment, so I will not delay the house at this stage but will reserve my remarks for the second reading of the bill. However, I do wish in all sincerity to make one appeal to. the Prime Minister; I appeal to him to eliminate from his resolution and from the bill any reference to the maintenance of law and order, coupled with unemployment relief.
I make this appeal because I have knowledge of the labour men of Canada. I know they are a sane body of men; I know that during the inactivity of governments in providing for unemployment relief, the working men of 'Canada have shared their work, their number of days of employment, with those who were less fortunate. If the Prime Minister will reconsider it he will realize that there are sufficient laws on the statute books to-day to cope with any situation. But to couple with a bill providing for unemployment relief a provision with regard to the maintenance of law and order will not, I think, be taken in the right spirit. I appeal to the Prime Minister to eliminate that feature from the legislation.


Ordinarily we
of the opposition would be inclined in committee to emphasize anew the points that were raised in the discussion of the resolution. But we realize that the house is anxious to conclude the business of the session and that, no matter what we may say, hon. gentlemen opposite have a majority, which enables them to do as they please. If, therefore, the Prime Minister is determined to pass the measure in its present form our discussion at this stage



Farm and Unemployment Relief
would possibly be regarded only as in the nature of obstruction. Nothing is further from our minds than a desire to obstruct in any way the granting of relief for unemployment and rural distress, and in view of these circumstances, having expressed our views on the main motion, we do not intend to discuss the resolution in committee.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Bennett thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 142, to confer certain powers upon the governor in council in respect to unemployment and farm relief, and the maintenance of peace, order and good government in Canada.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


When shall the bill be
read the second time?


With the consent of the house it might now be read the second time, and when the house is in committee on the bill my hon. friend from Kenora-Rainy River (Mr. Heenan) can make his observations and I shall be glad to answer any questions he may ask.


The Prime Minister is not going to move the second reading now?


I was going to.


If my right hon. friend would not press that we should be obliged. I should like to see the bill before the second reading. Possibly it would be better to delay the second reading.


In view of the lengthy discussion we had yesterday I had thought that, with the consent of the house, we might proceed now. However, the right hon. gentleman having expressed a desire to look over the terms of the bill, it will have to stand, because we can proceed only by consent. I had intended to dispose of this matter before going on with the report of the Beauhamois committee. In the circumstances, perhaps we had better take supply until later in the day. The minister who is to make the motion in that matter requested me not to proceed this afternoon. He says he will try to go on this evening if possible.


I would agree to go on immediately with the second reading of the bill were it not that it is possible we may wish to move an amendment on the second reading. This we cannot even consider
IMr. Mackenzie King.]
without seeing the bill itself. If the house were to proceed with supply now, this evening we might go on with the other subject.


So that my hon. friends,
when studying the bill, will be acquainted with its terms, I may say that we propose to add in the preamble the words, "so far as the legislative authority of parliament extends." That will make it clear that there is no endeavour to take from the provinces their powers, as suggested yesterday by an hon. gentleman. These are the words mentioned in one of the judicial decisions to which I had reference to-day. The bill itself expires on March 31, 1932, which I did not mention yesterday.	[DOT]


The house in committee of supply, Mr. Tummon in the chair.
London-salaries and expenses of the office of the High Commissioner for Canada, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Civil Service Act, or any of its amendments, including $2,000 additional salary for the High Commissioner to that authorized by chap. 92, R.S.C., $132,260.
Has my right hon. friend any figures which will indicate the allowances made in addition to the salary paid in connection with the London office?


There is an increase of $16,000 in the allowances.


How is that increase made up?


The living and entertaining allowances are increased by $16,000.


In connection with Washington, Paris and Tokyo, there are allowances made for house accommodation, and then there is something additional for other purposes. I would like to know if the London office is to be made to correspond with the other offices in these particulars. For example, what are the house allowances?


As my right hon. friend
knows, there is no residence at London such as there is at Washington. Having regard to the demands made upon the High Commissioner, the allowances made contemplate large individual resources. Studying the matter from every angle I am bound to say that I know of no other way by which the situation could be met except by increasing the allowances by at least $16,000. I think if justice were done the increase would be somewhat

Supply-External Affairs
larger because the demands at London are more than they are at any other point where we maintain representation. The amount has been increased from $25,000 to $40,000 and I fancy my right hon. friend will agree with me that that is a lesser sum than will be required for that purpose. The salary is $12,000; living allowance, $5,000; allowance in lieu of house and furnishings, $5,000, and then a car allowance which has been paid for some years.


Will my right hon. friend advise the committee whether festivities such as the dinner held on Dominion day are paid for by the people of Canada or by the High Commissioner? My right hon. friend will realize that it would be rather hard for those Canadians who are abused on these occasions by the High Commissioner because their views do not coincide with his to have to pay this cost.


I think my hon. friend is putting too constrained a construction upon the observations to which he directed attention the other day. I do not think there was any intention to abuse him or anyone else who entertains views at variance with those entertained by the High Commissioner. The High Commissioner is now en route on the sea, but as soon as an opportunity presents itself I shall make inquiries and then communicate with my hon. friend. These jocular observations which are made sometimes are seized upon by the press and we receive only the report of what has been said. I feel quite certain that no reflection was intended. I have found myself presiding at a meeting of the Canadian Bar Association, and in such capacity introducing my hon. friend, I have made some jocular observations as to our variance of views and I would be sorry to think that those remarks represented the considered views of the association of which I at the moment happened to be the head. I have no information as to what happened in London, but my information is that at such gatherings tickets are first bought and paid for.


That would be new.


I do not know of any place from which I could obtain this information, but the moment it is obtained my hon. friend will be advised.


I do not think I am over hyper-sensitive or that I have an exaggerated sense of my own dignity, but I
22110-275J
will admit that it is rather unpleasant to have our own representative in the centre of the empire refer to those who think otherwise than he does as men of low calibre. I read that in the official report of his speech, and there is no joke in that.


Item agreed to.
Washington-representation, including salaries and allowances for minister plenipotentiary, secretaries and staff, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Civil Service Act, or any of its amendments, $100,000.
There is no change in
this item.


My right hon. friend says that there is no change in this item. I am anxious to ascertain if there is any change in his point of view with respect to the legation at Washington. At the time the legation was opened, my right hon. friend may recall that he was somewhat critical of the establishment of legations by the government of Canada. Speaking in this house on April 13, 1927, as reported in Hansard, page 2472, my right hon. friend said:
I am wholly opposed to the establishment of this embassy at Washington. It is but the doctrine of separation, it is but the evidence in many minds of the end of our connection with the empire. For that is what it means. It means nothing else ultimately, because if we are a sovereign state we cannot belong to the British Empire.
I would ask my right hon. friend when he replies to say whether he still believes the legation at Washington and the underlying policy represent a doctrine of separation, and if the legation continues to be an evidence of the end of our connection with the empire. That view of my right hon. friend was expressed in 1927. In 1928 he seemed still to entertain the same view because in speaking at the Toronto Business Men's Conservative Club as reported in the Mail and Empire of June 15, 1928, my right hon. friend said:
I had hoped in my younger days, and I have not entirely lost my hope yet, that in maintaining the unity and solidarity of this commonwealth of nations we call the British Empire, we might attach Canadians, Australians, New Zealanders to the embassies abroad of the empire. It may come that some Canadian may be ambassador of the British Empire-just as much to be achieved by his ambition as if born within sound of Bow Bells.
I see no reason why that hope should be disturbed to-day. I see no reason why we should have separate embassies and legations, but rather embassies and legations should be of the united empire, and every part of the empire might find representation there when the moment of peril came, and they could speak with one voice, without divided authority.
Supply-External Affairs

That represents an attitude somewhat different from that on which this particular appropriation is founded. I should like my right hon. friend to say whether here also he has modified his views.
Then speaking at Oshawa on July 22, 1928, my right hon. friend, criticizing myself as the head of an administration which had opened the legation at Washington, is reported in the Ottawa Morning Journal of July 23, 1928, as follows:
What port is Mr. King bound for? Mr. Bennett asked, referring to recent declarations by the premier of Canada's equal status in the British Empire, and the establishment of embassies in foreign countries.
If he wants to make this an independent country, let him say so. Let us have a well-defined expression from Premier King as to where he is heading, what his chart is and what his port.
That is the report of his speech as it appeared in the Ottawa Morning Journal of July 23, 1928. It contains the same underlying idea that the legation at Washington was making for separation.
May I give one further quotation? I have innumerable quotations from his speeches on this subject, but I think these will be sufficient to indicate what his previous critical attitude was. Speaking at Halifax, on July 26, as reported in the Halifax Chronicle of July 27, 1928, my right hon. friend said:
What is meant by this talk of equality of status? Mr. Bennett asked. What do all these legations mean? There can't be two kings. This may not mean what it seems and it may seem what it is, but it serves to make this country an independent nation. I say, for myself and for the Conservative party, that we in Canada are not prepared as yet to separate our allegiance to the British Empire. If Mr. King is sincere he will answer this question: What port are you bound for?
If we are to be independent, Mr. Bennett said in conclusion, Mr. King should let us know, that the people might have a say before it is too late.
Just in order that I may not take up further time by referring to this subject after my right hon. friend replies, unless he says something that occasions a reply, may I in substantiation of the point of view taken by the Liberal administration when these legations were opened, give him the words of his own representative whom he has appointed as minister to Washington, at the time of presenting his letter of credence to the President of the United States. The letter of credence was presented along with a letter of recall of the previous minister on June 23rd of this year. In the letter of credence the minister set forth, and I assume that he was voicing the opinion of my right

hon. friend, his views as to what the legation had really meant in the course of the time it had been in existence, and he was quite explicit in saying that the legation had not only served a very useful purpose to Canada but that it had served, if anything, to bring the whole British Empire closer together. That is the fruit of experience as it is expressed in the words of my right hon. friend's minister to Washington on June 23 of this year. I quote from the Ottawa Morning Citizen of June 24, 1931, a despatch from Washington, D.C., dated June 23, It says:
The minister

	-
That is the present minister to Washington:
-expressed to the president the conviction that the establishment of diplomatic relations had assisted in promoting the harmonious relations existing between Canada and the United States and the empire of which Canada formed a part.
Major Herridge's address is set out at length, and I have in my hand the words which appear in the address as presented to the president. I have no doubt that my right hon. friend saw this address before it was presented. I assume that he would be familiar with the words of it. At any rate, the minister was representing the government and was speaking for the government of Canada and for my right hon. friend in particular. I think my right hon. friend will admit that. The address in part reads as follows:
It is the earnest wish of His Majesty's government in Canada that the harmonious relations which have long prevailed between the United States and Canada shall be maintained and strengthened. Mr. Massey in Washington expressed the confident hope that the establishment of a Canadian legation in Washington would serve to strengthen those cordial sentiments which exist between Canada and the United States as well as between the United States and the empire of which Canada is a part. I feel that I can say with conviction that this hope has been fulfilled during the four years which have passed since direct diplomatic relations were established between the United States and Canada.
Nothing could be more gratifying than that, I am sure, to the administration which established the legation and appointed Mr. Massey as minister to Washington, as well as with respect to the manner in which Mr. Massey discharged his duties as minister to Washington. The president of the United States in replying used the following words:
You have likewise delivered to me the letters of recall of your distinguished predecessor, the Hon. Y'ineent Massey, whose residence in this capital as the first minister of the Dominion government to this country is most happily remembered.

Supply-External Affairs
A little further on the president said:
I share your conviction that the establishment of direct diplomatic relations between Canada and the United States has served to strengthen the cordial sentiments which exist between our countries as well as between the United States and the empire of which Canada is a part.
There we have two entirely different points of view. The point of view of the Liberal administration which established the legations was that these legations would make for better relations between Canada and the countries to which the ministers were sent, and that they would also be a factor in making for closer relations between the British Empire as a whole and these countries. We took that view; it was in that belief we established legations. My hon. friend, as leader of the opposition at the time, criticized our action and said he believed it would lead to separation. After three or four years of the existence of the legations, however, my right hon. friend sends his own minister to Washington with a letter to the president. In that communication there is stated, in as concise and emphatic language as coidd be used in a diplomtic communication, the fact that the legation has made and is making for closer relations not only between Canada and the United States but between Canada and the British Empire as a whole.
Perhaps my right hon. friend will tell us frankly whether the views of his minister as expressed in his communication are my right hon. friend's views to-day, and if so, whether as a consequence of necessity he has altered his opinion as given at a time when 