Fifth report of the select standing committee on miscellaneous private bills.-Mr. Stinson.
Hon. ALFRED DURANLEAU (Minister of Marine) moved for leave to introduce bill 22110-169
No. 96, respecting the international convention for the safety of life at sea signed in London on the 3llst day of May, 1929, and the international convention respecting load lines signed in London on the 5th day of July, 1930.
Explain.


Mr. Speaker, this bill is intended to ratify two international conventions, the first of which was signed at London on May 31, 1929, having to do with the safety of lives at sea, and the second of which was signed on July 5, 1930, having to do with the load lines of vessels. Thirty countries were represented; Canada was represented by the deputy minister of Marine, Mr. Johnston. These conventions were signed by the representatives of all those countries, and this bill is designed to ratify the action of Canada's representative.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Bill No. 95, to incorporate The Soldiers' Aid Society.-Mr. Sullivan.
Bill No. 91, for the relief of Mary Ann Ventura.-Mr. Factor.
Bill No. 92, for the relief of Beatrice Marie Dumaresq.-Mr. Casselman.
On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) if he can inform us when he will be able to lay on the table of the house the report dealing with the surveys made by the Canadian Pacific Railway in connection with the Peace River outlet.


I have no authority as yet to lay the report upon the table of the house; it is a private report which was submitted to me. I may tell my hon. friend, however, that in the near future-I think within the next ten days-there is to be a meeting between Mr. Beatty, Sir Henry Thornton and myself at which the matter will be discussed. Perhaps then I may be able to find out when we may print and lay on the table of the house the report to which my hon. friend refers.



Importation of Russian Clothing
OLD AGE PENSIONS On the orders of the day:


I should like to ask the Prime Minister if it is the intention of the government to bring down legislation at this session to amend the Old Age Pension Act.


It has been intimated already that this will be done.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata) (Translation): Would the hon. Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau) kindly inform me as to when an answer can be expected to an order passed by the house on June 1, and which he promised yesterday to bring down without delay.
I told my hon. friend yesterday
that I thought there were two letters, one from my secretary and one from myself, and I gave instructions last week, when the order was passed by the house, to have copies prepared. I think these will be ready within two or three days.


I thank my hon. friend.
The minister is all right, but the officials are slow.
IMPORTATION OF RUSSIAN CLOTHING On the orders of the day:


Yesterday
I asked a question of the Prime Minister with regard to the importation of Russian clothing into Canada. I said:
If an effort is not made by the government to stop this, the population of this country will be dressed in Russian garb-we will have wolves in sheep's clothing.
Of course what I meant was that we would have sheep in wolves' clothing. I should like this change to be made, Mr. Speaker, so that future generations who dip into Hansard may see that my patriotism was unquestioned.


I promised the hon. gentleman I
would answer his question to-day. So far as the government is aware there is no warrant for the statement. No communications have been received in that regard.


Of course that shows that
in relying upon the Montreal Gazette I was leaning upon a broken reed.


The house resumed from Monday, June 15, consideration of the motion of the Right Hon. R. B. Bennett (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means, the amendment thereto of Mr. Ralston, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Spencer.
Mr. Speaker, I am indeed very happy to rise to thank the Right Honourable the Prime Minister for having included in his admirable budget provisions which will prove beneficial to Canada, to my province and to the people of the county of Dorchester whom I have the honour to represent. May I say, sir, that this budget reflects the conditions which prevail at the moment, and is an illustration of the commendable way in which our party keeps its pledges. It is an honour to the comprehensive and genial mind which drafted it, in order to assure the revival of prosperity throughout this great dominion.
Is it necessary, Mr. Speaker, for me to remind you that at the last election the Conservative party received from the electorate of the Dominion of Canada a definite mandate to take special steps to relieve unemployment, and also to provide a sound policy of protection for farmers and manufacturers. Since July 28 last our leaders have devoted long days and sleepless nights to the achieving of such purpose. It may be said that their legislation is not perfect; but, Mr. Speaker, it is as perfect as human effort can make it. This is the second session we have had within six months, and the wrongs perpetrated by the last administration have been relieved to a great extent. Immigration has been curtailed, and our steady progress towards autonomy has been gloriously recognized in Canada and in England. Our national debt has been partly converted, and a way has been found to balance our expenditures and revenues. Closed shops have been reopened; about one hundred new industries have been created, mostly in Quebec and Ontario, and thousands of existing manufacturing industries have been protected by a sound legislation. Public works and other undertakings involving an expenditure of almost one hundred million dollars have been carried out in all provinces, more than seven millions days' work have been provided for the unemployed in Canada, and, fact worth mentioning above all others, hundreds of the unemployed are leaving the

The Budget-Mr. Gagnon
cities every day to return to the land, which some of them ought never to have left.
May I not say in all humility that this is a marvellous record indeed for eight months of administration. We can go back to the people and point to that record with pride and confidence. The people know that this government which is now at the head of affairs is one that is prepared to keep its promises and to redeem its pledges. We are keeping our promises to the farmers and manufacturers. Need I say that agriculture is the basic industry of Canada. You will recall, Mr. Speaker, the truism of Sully, the great minister of Henry IV, King of France: "L'agriculbure et l'industrie sont les deux mamelles de la France." The Conservative party, having at heart the best interests of the people, has always devoted its energies towards the development of agriculture and industry. We have been called on this side of the house to achieve such a purpose and we will stay here until our task is fully accomplished.
The people of my province and county happily recognize that the Conservative party is still faithful to the protective policy of Cartier and Macdonald, the policy which has been so happily called the national policy- a policy which Sir Wilfrid Laurier adopted in 1896 and sustained until 1911.
I referred a moment ago to my beautiful county of Dorchester, and I owe it to my fellow countrymen of that county to state to this house my reasons for loving that part of our dominion and for being proud of it. The county of Dorchester, named to commemorate one of our greatest English governors, and a true friend indeed of the French race, Lord Dorchester, is situated on the south side of the St. Lawrence, sixteen miles from Quebec and fifteen miles from Levis, extending in a sofitherly direction towards the American border. Its territory is .both picturesque and fruitful-'beautiful rivers flow through fertile valleys tilled by a contented people. I think I can safely say that the county of Dorchester is a miniature of what the entire dominion ought to be. You will find both farmers and manufacturers there; but the population, comprising for the most part people of French origin, but with a population also of English, Scottish and Irish descent, devotes itself principally to agriculture. In many parishes the Englishspeaking population is numerous, but French and English are spoken equally by everyone. The French and English live harmoniously side by side, and the bonne entente is perfect. I am therefore proud to record my native
county as being a model to the whole Dominion of Canada.
The lumber trade during the last twenty years, except for the past two or three, has been good and has given work to a great number of saw mills and similar industries. And although our industries are not numerous,
I am happy to tell the house that the county of Dorchester was one of the first sections of Canada to encourage industry which has been prosperous for upwards of a hundred years.
In 1829, more than one hundred years ago, efforts were made to develop industry in that part of Canada, and in this regard I might say that J. Gautron dit Larochelle began the construction of a carding mill which was put into operation in 1830. In 1832, he added a sawmill to his establishment, adding also, in 1837, grinders to mow the grain of the farmers living in the vicinity. In the course of years this industry was further extended, and in 1852 we find it already prosperous, a foundry and a fulling mill having also been added to the establishments I have enumerated.
I feel, sir, I ought to mention here that the Larochelle family played an important part in the development of agriculture and industry in the counties of Dorchester, Beauce and Levis. The most prominent member of that family was the Hon. Louis Napoleon Larochelle, who was the builder of the Levis and Kennebec railway. Up to 1874 there had been no railway communication between the city of Levis and the city of Sherbrooke. The Levis and Kennebec railway was constructed to link the two cities, and on July 1, 1874, the first locomotive arrived at St. Anselme. By a happy coincidence, it bore the name of the Hon. J. G Blanchet, the first president of the railway company. The Hon. Mr. Blanchet was at that time Speaker of the House of Commons and Speaker of the legislature of Quebec. He is the grandfather of my friend the hon. Solicitor General for Canada (Mr. Dupre).
Industry became more prosperous in St. Anselme at that time. The Hon. L. N. Larochelle built a shop for the construction and repair of cars and the manufacture of roadway material. The industrial establishment at St. Anselme underwent many hardships. It was destroyed by fire, and carried away by the breaking-up of the Etchemin river. But it has always been rebuilt by its owners after such accidents. And now the St. Anselme foundry is flourishing under the able management of Mr. J. A. Begin, who has invented a grinder known as the Begin grinder, which
2660
The Budget-Mr. Gagnon

is the only available Canadian grinder of the hammer type in the prairie provinces and in other potential Canadian markets. Last year a well known firm of high standing, Messrs. Coekfield, Brown and Company, made a survey of the foundry's operations. I find in a memorandum they have prepared that there are sold on the Canadian market to-day, particularly to the prairie provinces, about 2,500 grinders, all of these having up to the present time been imported from the United States. Under the new tariff, I am proud to say that the foundry in St. Anselme will be able to furnish the people of the prairies with all the grinders necessary to meet their requirements. In the name of that flourishing industry in my constituency, I beg to thank the right hon. Prime Minister for having given it such tariff protection as will permit it to compete both in the home market and abroad.
Might I mention also another industry in my county which is flourishing at St. Maxime' of Scott, that of brick manufacturing. Until recently, for a period of twenty years, industry had been theTe very prosperous. The lumber business which had been the outstanding industry has declined. Lately a brick manufacturing plant was erected and owing to the clever management of Mr. J. A. Lortie and his colleagues, the directors of the said concern and the skill of its workmen it is now giving employment to more that fifty workmen, and will be able to meet all competitors. A moment ago I was speaking about the St. Anselme foundry. The company although enjoying high protection has never paid dividends to its shareholders but this year it has spent $10,000 out. of its reserve in order to provide work for the unemployed during the winter months.
In certain parishes of my county, such as St. Luc., St. Louis, St. Cyprien, Ste. Justine and St. Sabine, the farmers have been manufacturing charcoal. Under the regime of the last government they were unable to find a market for their product which was being manufactured at a loss, but to-day, because of the action taken by the Prime Minister in putting a duty of $7.50 per ton on charcoal, they are able to sell their product at a profit.
The hon. member for Shelburne-Yarmouth (Mr. Ralston), speaking officially for the opposition, has presented an amendment in which he expresses his regret that the budget does not contain any provision with regard to unemployment. I was amazed to hear such a statement and I am sure the whole country has judged it upon its merits. Everyone who is not blinded by party prejudice wall understand that if this

government protects industry in Canada by raising the tariff, the number of men employed will be increased, as well as the rate of wages. If the rate of wages is increased and the number of employees is increased the farmers will receive a benefit because they will find that they can sell their products at a more remunerative price, provided they are given such legislation as will protect them against competition from abroad. This proposition is not only a practical idea but it is true to facts. Since the special session of last September there has been established in the provinces of Quebec and Ontario a total of eighty-seven new industries. In the city of Quebec the population is very happy and thanks the Minister of Finance for having given tariff protection for the shoe manufacturing industry. Every hon. member knows that during the last regime, despite numerous letters of complaint which were received by the hon. members for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe) and Quebec South (Mr. Power), no effort was made to relieve the crippled state of that industry. I have received a memorandum informing me that prominent Liberals from Quebec who are. friends of the hon. member for Quebec East, for instance, Mr. A. E. Marois, who is at the head of the largest shoe manufacturing plant in eastern Canada, say that since the remedial legislation was passed last September the rate of production has been increased and a greater number of unemployed have received bread. I have received a memorandum stating that the John Ritchie Company Limited, and the Agnew Surpass, prominent shoe manufacturers, are satisfied with our tariff. Mr. Ludger Duehaine, who is a good Liberal, and Mr. Laureat Blondeau, proprietor and owner of the Children's Shoe Manufacturing Company, state that owing to the new tariff they have been rendered able to compete with shoes brought in from abroad. Might I mention also the Regina Shoe Company Limited, which has been established at Ste. Marie, in the county of Beauee, near the county of Dorchester and in which the hon. member for Beauee (Mr. Lacroix) is a shareholder. The other day the hon. member for Beauee, whom I respect greatly, stated to the house that the rural districts of his county would be ruined by the legislation of the Prime Minister. He did not mention the fact that this shoe *manufacturing company is prospering. Another shoe factory The Harmony Shoe has been organized at Ste-Marie and will also give employment to many wmrkmen. This legislation has rendered it possible for the shoe industry in the city and district of Quebec to

increase the number of employees and to continue manufacturing throughout the greater part of the year. May I mention another new industry which was established only a few days ago at St. Georges, the parish where the hon. member for Beauce lives. I have before me a clipping from the Montreal Star, outlining an interview by their special correspondent. This article mentions the St. George's Woollen Mills Limited and Henry Hamer and Sons Limited, and reads as follows:
With the impetus of the Bennett tariff the trail of textile industries locating in the province of Quebec is constantly extending and to-day there is much satisfaction here at the thought that work will be found for at least one hundred operatives at the St. George s Woollen Mills Limited ere long.
The article continues:
Key men will also be engaged in England, but work will be found for one hundred local operatives, more than half of whom will be women, it is stated.	,
This venture may not be the only one started by Hern-v Hamer and Sons Limited in Canada.
R. Prager, managing director of St. Georges Woollen Mills Limited and general manager of Henry Hamer and Sons Limited, told the etar that he has several other propositions m view and that something definite may materialize at a future date.
One of the shareholders of this industry is the hon. member for Beauce, who stated the other day that this legislation had been destructive of our economic system.
I cannot refrain from showing the fallacious attitude adopted by hon. members opposite with regard to unemployment. Last year a motion was moved by one of the hon. members on Your Honour's extreme left, which motion was supported by the hon. Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) and the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie). The Progressive and Conservative parties were asking the Liberal party to adopt effective means of relieving unemployment, but what was said in the house? We heard the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) state that what was contemplated by the Conservative party-that the federal government should contribute along with the provinces towards the relief of unemployment-was a "vicious principle." I have before me Hansard of the session of 1930, from which I should like to give a few quotations. Let me refer you, Mr. Speaker, to a speech by the present minister of railways which will be found at page 1200 of Hansard of 1930 and in which he was quoting a clipping from the Toronto Globe. He said:
The Toronto Globe says that the Prime Minister-
The Budget-Mr. Gagnon
The present leader of the opposition.
-took this attitude, and this is the day after the deputation waited upon him. Quoting the Prime Minister,-
The present leader of the opposition.

it gayg [DOT]
"I can't understand why you gentlemen are stirring up and exaggerating this unemployment situation"-
He was speaking to the delegation.
-said the Prime Minister, after listening to complaints for two hours. "If the situation is as deplorable as you try to picture, why is not eastern Canada represented? lhe answer is that, generally speaking, the employment situation in Canada is not abnormal. I have a telegram from the government of the province ot Quebec that conditions there are quite satisfactory. You advertise that there is unemploy* ment, and the relief is to be sought from the dominion government, and immediately there is a rush to the cities."
A few minutes later the right hon. leader of the opposition, the then Prime Minister, in laying down the policy of his party, said I am quoting from page 1226:
The government received from the premier of Quebec a telegram, not to the effect that there was an unemployment situation demanding federal assistance, but saying that there was no such situation and that his province did not want any assistance. I should like to ask my hon. friends: Do they suppose there is no unemployment in Quebec?
After carefully reviewing the situation in all the provinces, the right hon. gentleman stated in conclusion:
How can we have a national unemployment problem if so far as each and every province is concerned its government reports prosperous conditions within its boundaries?
But just before the right hon. gentleman had made this statement:
Let me repeat that statement. I can see nothing arising out of a recognition of this problem as a national problem which obliges this federal government, having regard to our constitution and the division of powers under it, to collect taxes from the people generally in order to meet a situation which attecta only a certain group of people in some municipalities in this country, but which does not adversely affect the country as a whole. I am not saying we could not do such a thing; I am not saying that this federal parliament cannot vote money for any purposes for which it may desire so to do, but I am trying to make it clear that under our constitution I do not think it was ever intended that this federal government should become the agency through which problems which are primarily municipal and provincial should be dealt with.


Hear, hear.


After hon. gentlemen
opposite have applauded that statement, how can they consistently support their amendment to the budget complaining that the gov-
The Budget-Mr. Gagnon

ernment is not doing anything to relieve unemployment?
I have quoted the words of the right hon. leader of the opposition to the effect that he had received a telegram from the premier of Quebec asserting in the most emphatic way that there was no unemployment in that province. Would you be surprised to learn, sir, that during the last session of the local legislature the hon. member for Hull, Mr. Guertin, asked premier Taschereau if it were true that he had sent such a telegram to the right hon. leader of the opposition, and that Mr. Taschereau stated that he had not? Now I respect the sentiments of hon. gentlemen opposite, but may I not reasonably ask, which of the two Liberal leaders is telling the truth?


Both.


I have great respect for
the hon. member for Shelburne-Yarmouth. He is a distinguished parliamentarian and he has a very fine war record. But when he says that the government has done nothing to relieve unemployment, I am astonished to think that he has not heard that in Nova Scotia since December 1, 1930, public works and other undertakings have been carried out involving an expenditure of $2,338,875. Let me add that according to an official record which was published in the press yesterday, and which I am pleased to put on Hansard, Nova Scotia has received substantial benefit under the legislation passed last August for the relief of unemployment, 31,908 individuals having been given employment, representing 445,221 man-days' work. Let me give the house the official record:
Province
Prince Edward Island	
Nova Scotia	
New Brunswick	
Quebec	
Ontario	
Manitoba	
Saskatchewan	
Saskatchewan (drought area). . . '
Alberta	 '
British Columbia	
Yukon	'.
Direct relief	 ' "
Grade crossing fund	 '
Canadian Pacific Railway. . | \ ' ) Canadian National Railways. . . . Dept, of the Interior (Parks branch)
Banking Nova Scotia coal	
Administration	
Total cost of public works and undertakings $ 200,000 2,338,875 1,449,375 10,064,850 15,555,946 2,563,761 2,900,157 1,014,545 2,839.232 3,447,794 20,000
2,445,312
11,514,000
14,119.403
37,000
150,000

The various provinces, railway companies and departments of the government, which are cooperating under the Unemployment Relief Act, 19.j0, have furnished statistics showing the actual volume of employment given to ' ' 1 -Y 31, 1931. Details for each province are as follows:
Locality, etc.
Nova Scotia	
Prince Edward Island. .
New Brunswick	
Quebec	
Ontario (2)	
Manitoba	
.Saskatchewan (3) . . . . ,
Alberta	
British Columbia	
Yukon	
Canadian Pacific Ry. Co. Canadian National Rys. .
Totals	
Number (1) Indi-	of
viduals	mangiven	days'
employ-	work
ment	given
31,908	445,221
1,752	13,917
18,500	235,000
79.838	994,638
43,000	2.384.000
27,030	284,031
22,349	524,602
21.452	353,246
31,627	641,923
150	2,096
8,309	247,806
5,820	146,748
291,735 6,273.228
Now, sir, let me give the number of families that have received assistance under
this legislation:
IndiFamilies	viduals
granted	granted
direct	direct
Province	relief	reliefNova Scotia	
2,763	____Prince	Edward	Island.... 496New-	Brunswick.	.	.	400	....Quebec (1)	
36.309	including 182,735Ontario (2) and (3) . 19,000	....Manitoba	
13,465	including 40,127Saskatchewan	
20 174Alberta	
6.254	and 18d)18British Columbia. . .	5,487	and 14,961
This record proves conclusively that the government has taken effectual measures to relieve unemployment. Hon. members no doubt read in to-day's papers that the hon. Minister of Labour (Senator Robertson), speaking yesterday in British Columbia, stated that before the conclusion of the present session other measures of relief will be brought down for the consideration of parliament.
Now, Mr. Speaker, our friends on the other side of the house are trying to create an impression throughout the province of Quebec that the people are wholly dissatisfied with the way in which the government is dealing with the unemployment situation. Let me quote extracts from some of the letters that have been received from the governments of the various provinces by the Department of Labour. Let me deal first of all with the communications received from the province of Nova Scotia. The Minister of Highways, writing on February 17-

The Budget-Mr. Gagnon


Addressed
to whom?


He writes:
We are pleased to know that our relations with your department in dealing with unemployment relief have been mutually satisfactory. We are very grateful to Hon. G. D. Robertson for the able manner in which he handled the whole problem, which was surrounded with many difficulties.
Further he said:
We wish to thank the minister, yourself and staff for the exceedingly satisfactory manner m which projects have been approved, agreements executed and accounts paid.
The other day I heard the distinguished member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill) state that the government had done nothing to relieve unemployment. I have here a letter from Vancouver, which reads as follows:
May I congratulate you on the businesslike manner in which the whole of the administration of this unusual and difficult undertaking has been handled and thank you for your constant cooperation, which has resulted without any disruption of the ordinary system ot accounting followed by this province.
That is signed by the chief engineer, Department of Public Works, British Columbia. Here is a letter from the Deputy Minister of Railways, Labour and Industries, Saskatchewan. It is dated Regina, February 14, 1931, and reads:
Let me assure you. however, that we highly appreciate your position and tile responsibility placed on you by the minister in the administration of the $20,000,000 voted by parliament. and we feel we have at all times received the very best of treatment from you. Let me also assure you of our desire to cooperate with you in the most sympathetic manner in the work you are carrying on.
Hon. gentlemen opposite may say that I am simply quoting from letters from Tory administrations, so let me quote now from a letter from the assistant deputy minister, Department of Public Works, of the government of Manitoba, which certainly is not a Tory government. He says:
It was very gratifying indeed to receive your courteous letter of tile 9th inst., expressing the thanks of your department for the cooperation the Manitoba government has given in dealing with unemployment relief matters.	.
You ask if there are any points in connection with our mutual transactions which are not being carried out in a satisfactory manner.^ I can only reply with a most emphatic "No. '
That is from a Progressive government. Now I will quote a voice from Toronto:
I am unable to point to anything in connection with our mutual transactions under the Unemployment Relief Act which^ is not being carried out in a manner which is satisfactory to us. On the other hand, everything of this nature is most satisfactory, and vour cooperation has enabled us to carry on the work in Ontario to the satisfaction of the various municipalities and, I believe, the general public.
Now a letter from Fredericton, New Brunswick, signed by the Minister of Public Works of the province himself:
I think the administration of this fund has been carried out with general satisfaction to the public. No doubt some mistakes were made by our field men who were charged with supervision of the funds, but circular letters were sent to our various district engineers, giving them explicit instructions as to who should be employed, cautioning them against the employment of men who did not need this work in order to provide the necessities ot life and they were particularly cautioned against discrimination between political parties.
I "have substantial reasons to believe that these instructions have heen adhered to.
The letter is signed by the Hon. D. A. Stewart, Minister of Public Works at Fredericton.


I rise to a point of order, Mr. Speaker. The hon. gentleman is reading a lot of letters and he has not given the signature or the date, nor has he stated to whom they are addressed.


I cannot see that there
is a point of order there.


I am pleased to satisfy
the hon. member. All these letters are dated February. 1931, and are addressed to Mr. Harry Hereford, director of unemployment relief, Department of Labour, Ottawa. I think the hon. gentleman did not wish me to read a letter coming from the province of Quebec, but I think the house will be interested to learn how the Quebec government appreciates the unemployment legislation that was put through by the Conservative administration. The following letter was addressed to Mr. Harry Hereford by the deputy director of unemployment relief, Department of Public Works, province of Quebec, Mr. M. L. Guimont. He says:
We appreciate your letter of February 9tli, wherein a closer cooperation is sought between the federal and provincial authorities in the administration of the unemployment funds. All misunderstandings having vanished since your visit here, we feel that our present friendly relations cannot be improved.
He says further:
Other difficulties concern mostly complaints about insufficient supply of employment, though no remedy can be found for this special ailment as it should be borne in mind that rural municipalities are loath to increase their indebtedness so as to supply employment. They prefer to shift the burden on to the governments.
That is how the government of the province of Quebec looks at this problem. The letter continues:

The Budget-Mr. Gagnon
Barring these few exceptions we have only to congratulate ourselves on our friendly relations and on the smoothness with which the present system is working.
I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, that my forty minutes are expiring, and that I cannot devote time to other problems on which I could, I respectfully submit, give some interesting data.
I should not fulfil an imperative duty if I concluded my humble remarks without expressing my heartfelt gratitude and the heartfelt gratitude of all Canadians speaking French toward the hon. member for Toronto Northeast (Mr. Baker) and thank him very warmly for the kind words which he has said about the French language. Addressing the house last week in the French language he gave a remai kable lesson in tolerance and fraternity to those who in other provinces deny any rights to the language of the first missionaries in Canada, the first discoverers, the first pioneers, the first martyrs. I was deeply moved by the delicate sentiments of the hon. member, and I can assure him that the Frenchspeaking Conservatives on this side of the house will never forget it.
May I also at this time be permitted to extend to His Excellency the Earl of Bess-borough my most sincere appreciation and gratitude for what he said last week about the usefulness and necessity of the French language, and about the teaching of French in Canada.
Need I say, further, Mr. Speaker, that Canadians speaking French do not claim special privileges which they have not been given by natural law and legislation. They have lived, and will continue to live, harmoniously with all other races in this'great dominion, true to their aspirations, customs and traditions, and to cooperate with their brothers of other languages and other creeds, to the happiness and prosperity of our common country.


Mr. Speaker, the presentation of the budget to parliament is always an event of interest. The budget which has been presented this year is a matter of very great and, may I say, exceptional interest for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is that the budget is presented at a time of vi 01 Id depression, a time when, not only in this country but in all countries of the world, there is a great deal of distress and of social unrest. The budget is also of exceptional interest at this time because it reflects as budgets ought the policies originated and initiated by the administration. It also reflects, to use another expression of my right

hon. friend the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett), the spmt and attitude of mind of the administration towards the problems which are e ore country at the present time.
There is a third reason why the budget is of more than ordinary interest, particularly to all who are members of this house. It is the first time in the history of Canada that a budget has been presented to parliament by one who holds both the high office of Prime Minister and that of Minister of Finance. That gives to the budget a unique interest to those of us who are assembled in this chamber at this time. I feel that my right hon. friend upon assuming the office of Minister of Finance and presenting his budget to parliament must have experienced some slight regret that we in this country did not use the terminology of the old land in designating the head of the treasury. I aim sure he would rather have had his name recorded in history as having presented a budget in the dual capacity of the Prime Minister of Canada and Chancellor of the Exchequer. As Chancellor of the Exchequer there would have been the association with the past; the association with the legal profession of which he is a very distinguished member and also an association with Westminster, all of which would have been most congenial. May I say to him that when he brings in his reforms with respect to the treasury, I for one would welcome a change in the title of the Minister of Finance to that of Chancellor of the Exchequer. Canada is becoming a great country with a history of her own and I think the time has come when without presumption the honoured term "Chancellor of the Exchequer" might well be used in the parliament of Canada as it is at Westminster.
I have no doubt that when my right hon. friend decided to assume the dual role of Minister of Finance and Prime Minister he had in mind a very illustrious example, that of the Right Hon. William Ewart Gladstone, who in the year 18S0 in the capacity of Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Exchequer presented the budget to parliament. May I say to my right hon. friend that in seeking to imitate Mr. Gladstone he was following an example than which there can be none more worthy. I wish however he had introduced a budget more along the lines of those which Mr. Gladstone introduced in the course of his long public career. May I add with all deference that when Mr. Gladstone presented his budget in the dual capacity referred to he had enjoyed a much wider experience in the affairs of Great Britain and was much better qualified to essay the dual

The Budget-Mr. Mackenzie King
task than is my right hon. friend. Before Mr. Gladstone assumed at one and the same time the duties of these two offices he had experienced a half a century, to be exact, forty-eight years of strenuous public life.


Yes, but he was an
ordinary man.


About twenty
years before, Mr. Gladstone had been Chancellor of the Exchequer in a previous ministry and had had a considerable experience in managing the finances of the country. When his budget was presented he was meeting the twelfth parliament with which he had been associated. In a previous administration he had been Prime Minister of the country for a period of five years and when he brought down the budget to which I have referred it was the first and only time, after that long period of years, in which he had essayed a task of the kind. My right hon. friend would have been wiser had he in this particular followed the example set by Mr. Gladstone and waited a little longer before assuming two such important offices along with others which he is holding. Undoubtedly my right hon. friend's present experience in the office of Prime Minister, coupled with his experience in other portfolios, will come in time to be of great advantage to him. The budget which he brought down discloses a lack of that experience of public affairs in a large way an experience which in the nature of things can come only to one who has held for a very considerable time the position either of Minister of Finance or of Prime Minister.
When Mr. Gladstone at a great age laid down the portfolio of Chancellor of the Exchequer he uttered words of wisdom which I commend to my right hon. friend for the good not only of his own health and reputation but as well for the advantage of the country. I quote from volume 3 of Morley's Life of Gladstone, page 99:
The basis of my action is not so much a desire to be relieved from labour, as an anxiety to give the country a much better finance minister than myself,-one whose eyes will be always ranging freely and vigilantly over the whole area of the great establishments, the public service, and the laws connected with his office, for the purposes of improvement and of good husbandry.
My right hon. friend followed his speech on the budget by a motion that the House go into committee of ways and means to consider the proposals contained in the budget for the raising of revenues and the proposals contained therein respecting the trade policies and customs tariffs of the country. To that
motion there has been moved by the opposition an amendment which expresses the views of the opposition in reference to the proposals contained in the budget. To the amendment moved by the opposition there has been presented to the house a subamendment, or amendment to the amendment, by certain of the hon. members who comprise the so-called independent group in the far corner of the house.
For the purposes of discussion and in order that hon. members may have before them the two amendments, may I be pardoned if I again place the amendments upon Hansard in order that my remarks by way of comparison and possible criticism of the amendment to the amendment may be the better understood.
The amendment moved by the Liberal opposition falls naturally into three parts. The first portion refers to the circumstances under which the budget is being introduced in this parliament and the circumstances in the light of which the opposition is reviewing at this time the action of the government. Hon. members will recall that the motion of the Prime Minister was:
That Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to resolve itself into committee of ways and means.
The Liberal amendment which was moved by the hon. member for Shelburne-Yarmouth (Mr. Ralston), and seconded by the hon. member for Vancouver Centre (Mr. Mackenzie) appears in the following terms:
That all the words after "that" be struck out and the following be substituted therefor: Whereas there exists throughout Canada grave depression accompanied by widespread unemployment and distress;
And whereas the depression has deepened and unemployment widened as a result of the fiscal policy of the government, set forth at the special session of 1930;
And whereas, as indicated by the fiscal measures now submitted, the government proposes to continue the policy then inaugurated; This house regrets that,
Then follows the second part of the amendment which is in the nature of a regret or a criticism of the action taken by the government. May I point out to hon. members that criticism or the expression of regret does not necessarily constitute a negative attitude on the part of the opposition. To prevent a wrong course is quite as much a contribution to the well-being of society as to point the way to a true course. We on this side of the house feel that in the circumstances of the present year the budget brought down indicates that the government in a number of directions is pursuing the wrong course, and
26G6

The Budget-Mr. Mackenzie King
therefore in the amendment we have expressed our regret in the fallowing words:
1.	The policies of the administration do not contain any provision for the relief of unemployment.
2.	The effect of the fiscal measures proposed
will be to intensify the stagnation of trade brought about largely by the disparity between the prices received by those who must sell their products in the world's markets and the prices which must be paid for goods and services in a highy protected market.	.
3.	The proposed increases in taxation, both direct and indirect, will fall most heavily on those least able to bear the burden thereof, whilst there are decreases proposed in taxation which will relieve those whose incomes render them most capable of paying a greater share of the expense of administration.
4.	The effect of increased customs tariffs and other restrictions and obstacles to trade will be to curtail consumption and the volume of exports upon which the buying power and prosperity of the country so largely depend.
5.	The legislation of the special session of 1930 which it is now proposed to supplement, deprives the elected representatives of the people of that direct and full measure of control of tariff and taxation which belongs to parliament.
Those are all pretty strong indictments, Mr Speaker, but I believe the justification for them will be borne out by an examination of the policies enunciated in the budget and the methods of taxation there proposed. That there may be no doubt in the minds of any as to the policies which the present opposition would advocate in the present condition of affairs of the country, the Liberal amendment goes on to express the views which we entertain as to the policies which would help most effectively to meet the situation as it exists in our country at this critical period:
And this house is of the opinion,
That the existing economic depression can only be overcome by policies which are of a character,
(a)	to relieve unemployment,
(b)	to restore to a condition of parity the
relation between the purchasing powers of all classes,	,	.
(c)	to bring about more equitable distribution of the burdens of taxation,
(d)	to encourage the expansion of the external trade of the country, and
(e)	restore to parliament its full authority over tariff and taxation.
That is the Liberal amendment, and, with the terms of that amendment most hon. members of the house are, I believe, in accord. Certainly a great many more than the official opposition are in entire agreement with it, and I should hope that most of my hon. friends of the independent group would sympathize with every line of it.
That being the case, Mr. Speaker, may I say I am somewhat surprised at the nature of the amendment to the amendment which has been moved, on the part of how many

I cannot say, but which has come from the so-called independent group. I shall read that amendment, in order that the comparison may be made clear. It is moved by the hon. member for Battle River (Mr. Spencer) and seconded by the hon. member for Southeast Grey (Miss Macphail):
That all the words after the word "whereas"-
That is practically the first word in our amendment.
-in the amendment be struck out and the following substituted therefor:
Then comes the first part of the amendment, which is in the nature of a review of the existing situation, very similar to that which appears in the official Liberal amendment, and which expresses its criticism of the government also in terms of regret wholly similar in two or three particulars to that expressed in the Liberal amendment:
This house recognizes that while _ certain commendable features are contained within the present budget, it is to be regretted that no provision has been made for unemployment relief and this house further regrets the proposed decrease in the income tax as applied to the larger incomes as a retrograde step and wholly unwarranted in the present state of the national exchequer and especially in view of the heavy additional taxation imposed upon the consumers of the country.
And whereas the general economic situation in the dominion as reflected in the financial statement contained in the present budget is extremely serious and indicates shrinking revenues consequent on business stagnation, and a tremendous decrease in commodity values accompanied by a corresponding decline in general purchasing power;	_	_
And whereas a further result of this condition is to greatly increase the burden of public and private indebtedness to a point where repayment would appear to be almost hopeless;
This house is of the opinion-
Then comes the second part of the amendment to the amendment, in which is set forth the opinions of the hon. members who are responsible for it, as to the matters of greatest concern at the moment. They are expressed in two particulars; one has reference to a matter of study and the other is more particularly in the nature of a concrete proposal, which will appear as I read it:
.... that the present economic conditions demand intelligent and intensive study and definite planning upon a national scale, with the view of substituting well defined cooperative principles in respect of production and distribution, together with the mobilization of our natural resources, technical equipment and financial machinery, in place of the highly competitive system under which we are suffering at the present time.
As it is apparent that these fundamental changes cannot be put into effect in the imme-

The Budget-Mr. Mackenzie King
diate future, and that the present situation requires some prompt action.
And as the present financial situation is in many respects similar to but more serious than that which prevailed in 1914 at which time extraordinary measures were taken by the government, including the suspension of the redemption of dominion notes in gold.
This house is of the opinion-
This is the one constructive proposal put forward primarily as such in the amendment to the amendment:
This house is of the opinion that it is expedient to again suspend redemption of dominion notes in gold in order that-
(a) Commodity price levels may be raised, thus increasing the purchasing power of those engaged in agriculture, mining, forestry, fishing and other primary industries and in this way promoting a corresponding increase in the volume of employment;
fb) That the burden of both public and private debts and the interest thereon may be lightened;
(c)	That the amount of currency and credit available for the purposes of trade and commerce within the country, may be increased;
(d)	That through the increased volume of trade thus secured there might result larger revenues without any increase in the rate of taxation.
May I say frankly, Mr. Speaker, that I find it impossible to support the amendment to the amendment, and this for very obvious reasons. In the first place, it moves to strike out all of the Liberal amendment, and I am not prepared that this step shall be taken unless something more worthy of the support of this house is proposed to take its place. I submit that in the amendment to the amendment we have nothing set forth which would better state the position that should be stated to the government at the present time with reference to the proposals they have brought down.
There is another reason why I cannot support the amendment to the amendment. It is this. Had my hon. friends who are responsible for the amendment not desired to place the official opposition in a position where it would be practically impossible for its members to support their amendment to the amendment, they would not have suggested striking out the whole of the Liberal amendment. They would have brought forward their constructive, concrete proposal as an addition to the amendment. My hon. friends in the far corner say a great deal about playing party politics. May I say to them that this amendment, as it is drafted, savours a good deal of party politics. It seems to me it has been framed deliberately so that the Liberal opposition will not be in a position to support it. We could not do so without voting against our own amendment in its entirety. Without this being understood it might appear to those
who are interested primarily in questions of currency and the like, that the Liberal opposition was not as sympathetic as it should be to their views. I do not wish to speak in any censorious way of an amendment of this kind, but- I do think this is a time when all parties in this house who feel and think alike at all might well seek to combine to as great an extent as may be possible in a common expression of view which in the public interest is so much needed at this time.
In analysing the amendment to the amendment, I may say that there are some features of it with which I am in entire accord. With the expression of regret that the budget contain