The house resumed from Monday, May 23, consideration of the motion of Mr. Young that the fourth report of the select standing
committee on banking and commerce, on the reference as to the price of gasoline, be concurred in.
In moving concurrence in the fourth report of the select standing committee on banking and commerce, I wish first of all to draw the attention of the house to the wording of the reference, which reads:
That, in the opinion of this house, the price of gasoline to the Canadian consumer has for some time past been too high and that this matter should be referred to the select standing committee on banking and commerce to investigate and report.
The question with which the committee had to deal was this: Are we in Canada paying too much for our gasoline, and, if we are, what is the reason? The committee reasoned that if we are paying too much for our gasoline it must be that somebody connected with the refining of gasoline or somebody connected with its distribution-or both -is getting too much for his services.
During the calendar year 1931 we imported 84,000,000 gallons of gasoline on which duty was paid, and during the same year we imported some 32,000,000 gallons on which no duty was paid. Now, all of that 32,000,000 gallons which came in duty free was imported by refiners. In order to prove that statement I would refer the house to section 272 of the customs tariff as amended at the short session in September, 1930. It reads:
Natural casinghead, compression or absorption gasoline, lighter than -6690 specific gravity at 60 degrees temperature, when imported by distillers of petroleum for blending with other gasolines distilled in Canada:	British preferential tariff, free; intermediate tariff, free; general tariff, free.
Let me explain what natural casinghead gasoline is: it is gasoline as it comes from the earth. In that state it is not suitable for use in engines; it vaporizes too easily. But it has been found that by mixing it with other gasoline it can be used quite satisfactorily. It is not the raw material of any manufacturing process; it is gasoline, and the only treatment it requires is to pour some other kind of gasoline in with it.
This section 272 provides that refiners of gasoline may import that form of gasoline duty free, but anybody else who is importing it must pay a duty of 2J cents per gallon, plus whatever dumping duties the government sees fit to impose. I should like hon. members to picture to themselves for a moment two distributors of gasoline located on opposite corners of the same street, one of them a branch of a refining company and the
Banking and Commerce

other an independent distributor. Both these distributors are selling identically the same product, namely, a mixture of Canadian refined gasoline, with casinghead gasoline imported from some other country. The government says to one of these distributors, "You may bring in your gasoline free of duty," and to the other it says, "For the same kind of gasoline you must pay a duty of 2i cents per gallon plus whatever dumping duty we see fit to impose."
I ask you to consider for a moment what the effect of that would be on an independent distributor. How can any independent distributor hope to survive and do business under such conditions when the government allows his competitor to bring in his gasoline duty free while it insists on the independent distributor paying a duty of anywhere from 2J to 5 cents a gallon? Yesterday the announcement appeared in the press that the price of gasoline had dropped 4 cents in New York, and the despatch reported that this was due to the competition of independent distributors. No such thing could happen in Canada because the government here has specifically said to the independent distributors, "We will not allow you to remain in business; at any rate, we will not allow you to bring in your product at the same rate as we allow the refiners to import the very same thing."
I contend, therefore, that I am justified in the statement that all of the 32,000,000 gallons of duty-free gasoline imported last year was imported by the refiners. Some 84,000,000 gallons of dutiable gasoline was brought in, and I presume it was brought in by the independents. That is only about one-eighth of the total consumption, so that seven-eighths of the consumption passes through the hands of the refiners. The committee reasoned, then, that since the refiners held such a large proportion of the market, they must look to that source to investigate whether or not we are paying too much for our gasoline.
The largest refiner in Canada is the Imperial Oil Company. They are such a large factor in the market that whatever they do the others must generally fall in line with, so that the committee decided that if they investigated the Imperial Oil Company first to find out how they were faring, they would have a pretty good idea as to what was happening with the others. They investigated, securing the services of a firm of chartered accountants, competent men who looked into the affairs of the company. I have here a summary of their findings, and I will give it to the house: (a) That the company has not been guilty of any cost-loading; (b) The
TMr. Young.]
company has been honestly and soundly financed; (c) That marketing costs in this country are too high; (d) Variations in price during the last three years are based not on refining costs but on variations in the price of crude oil and on increases in various forms of taxes, freight and exchange; (e) That lower prices of gasoline in the United States and Canada, which appear to arouse the wrath of our people, are due in large measure to tax evasions on the other side of the line; (f) That the zoning basis of establishing prices tends to favour districts remote from refineries rather than those that are close; (g) That in some districts the spread between the wholesale and retail price is entirely in the hands of the retailers; (h) That the average profits of the Imperial Oil Company after paying all refining and marketing costs is 1*01 cents per gallon; and, (i) That no further expense should be incurred in continuing the investigation.
Those are the findings of the committee and they are based on the evidence produced. That was as far as the committee could go in investigating. They found that the companies were not taking excessive profits; they were not dishonestly managed; that variations in prices were due not to variations in the cost of refining but to variations in the cost of crude oil and changes in freight rates, taxes and so forth. But there is one thing which the committee did not and could not investigate, nor could they be expected to investigate it, and that is the question whether the Canadian refineries are efficiently managed, or whether, on the other hand, the oil-refining industry is one that can be profitably carried on in Canada. The committee could not investigate this question because there is no one in Canada who could give evidence in that regard; the only persons in Canada who could give evidence as to the efficiency of the refineries are the refinery men themselves. No person in Canada is capable of informing us whether our refineries are as efficient as the refineries in other countries. The committee, therefore, could not investigate that phase of the situation.
But there is one infallible test which we can apply to determine whether or not our refineries are efficient, and it is this question: Can we buy gasoline cheaper anywhere else? If the refineries of other countries can sell gasoline cheaper to us than we can get it from our own refineries, then one of two things is true: Either they are more efficient than our refineries, or the refining of gasoline is better adapted to other countries than ours. The question is, Can we or can we not buy gasoline

Banking and Commerce
from somebody else cheaper than from our own refineries? In answer to that question I would refer the house to the evidence of Mr. O. B. Roger, of the Shell Oil Company. It will be found at page 411 of the evidence given before the committee. Mr. Donnelly is questioning Mr. Roger:
Q. You could buy from American concerns, as I have just said, for between 4 and 5 cents, and yet you are paying 6?-A. Yes; but then we would have been subject to dumping duty. The regulations provide that gasoline must be imported at the price in the bulletin.
Q. Instead of giving it to the government you give it to the American companies?-A. Yes.
What does that mean? It means that under the amendment to the Customs Act passed by this house in September, 1930, the government has power to fix the value for duty on gasoline. They did so. They fixed a certain value which they informed the importers they must pay for their gasoline, and if they did not pay that price they were subject to dumping duty. The Shell Oil Company was able to buy gasoline at 4 and 5 cents a gallon in the United States. That was lower than the price fixed in the bulletin, and the Customs department said to them, "If you buy at that price in the United States we will make you pay in the form of a dumping duty the difference between that and the bulletin price. But if you see fit to pay the extra price in the United States to the refiners over there you will be exempt from the dumping duty. We don't care whom you pay the extra price to, but we insist upon your paying it." Could further evidence be required that we are paying for our gasoline more than is necessary when the customs officials deliberately say to importers, "You must pay more and we don't care whether you pay it into the revenue or to the American manufacturer, but we insist on your paying it." The Shell Oil Company had to add that to the price they charged for their gasoline. Referring to page 413 of the evidence, I find the hon. member for Swift Current (Mr. Bothwell) examining Mr. Roger in connection with gasoline coming from the Dutch West Indies, as follows:
Q. What would your freight be on that from the Dutch West Indies to Montreal?-A. I should say nearly one cent a gallon, perhaps a fraction under a cent, but approximately a cent. I should say the freight, as far as my memory serves me, fluctuated somewhere in 1931 around 29 cents a barrel.
Q. At this price, that would bring it up to about 6-40 cents an Imperial gallon?-A. Excluding duty and sales tax.
Here again we have evidence that the same company could bring gasoline from the Dutch West Indies and lay it down in Montreal at 6-40 cents per gallon if it were not for the
duty. No further evidence should be required to prove that we are paying too much for our gasoline. If further evidence is required, I refer the house to the statement made by the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Rvck-man) when his estimates were going through to the effect that certain men from Montreal had come to him and stated that they wanted to bring gasoline in from Roumania. What answer did he give? He said: If this gasoline is being dumped, you cannot bring it in. What did he mean by dumping? Under the new definition of dumping as set out in 1930 by the minister, it means the selling in Canada of gasoline or of anything else at a price lower than that at which our own manufacturers are willing to sell for. Time and time again the government has deliberately insisted that the people of this country pay more for their gasoline than they want to pay.
I want to say a few words in defence of Imperial Oil Limited. This company has been criticized quite severely, and in my opinion unjustly for their action in curtailing production in the Turner valley oil field. The market in western Canada for gasoline has fallen off considerably during the last year or two and Imperial Oil Limited found it necessary to reduce its purchases in the valley by about half. For that they were very severely criticized; people said that they should use Canadian produced gasoline, that it should be shipped down to eastern Canada instead of importing similar gasoline from the United States. The company put out an explanation in its own defence. This was to be found in most of the filling stations in western Canada and I shall read in part from a copy I secured. It reads:
The cost of the Turner valley product, plus freight rates, are such that the product cannot compete with other gasolines except within a freight radius of Calgary. Turner valley gasolines laid down at the Sarnia refinery of Imperial oil, within reach of a large consuming market, would cost on the present basis of prices and freights $5.97 per barrel. Casinghead gasoline which is equivalent to the product of Turner valley, on the basis of prices existing in the mid-continent field and of established freight rates would cost $3.62 per barrel. It is obvious, therefore, that the amount of naphtha drawn from the Turner valley must depend entirely upon the consumption of gasoline within that area of the western provinces where favourable freight rates prevail.
I think that is a very fair and just statement of the case. The company states quite clearly that if they were to use Turner valley gasoline and ship it to the parts of Canada where there are markets for it, it would cost them $2.35 a barrel more than the United States product. Very properly they take the stand that they could not incur that extra
Banking and Commerce

cost and add it to the burden borne by the consumer in this country. I say that that is a very fair and proper attitude for that company to take. But I ask this question of the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) and I want an answer: If it is right, if it is fair, if it is in the public interest that Imperial Oil Limited should be allowed to buy its supplies where they can be bought the cheapest, why is it not right for the common people of this country to do the same thing? That is the question to which I should like an answer. I think I have proved that the price of gasoline in this country is too high and the cause of this high price is the duties and dumping duties imposed by the present government. The additional cost which we are paying is not going into the treasury, in many cases it is being paid to foreign manufacturers.
Mr. Speaker, I beg to move that the report be concurred in.
Moore (Ohateauguay-Huntingdon), Morand,
Murphy,
Myers,
Nicholson,
Peek,
Pettit,
Pickel,
Porteous,
Robinson,
Ross,
Ryckman,
Sanderson,
Sauve,
Shaver,
Short,
Simpson
(Simcoe North), Simpson
(Algoma West), Spankie,
Spence,
Sproule,
Stevens,
Stewart (Leeds), Stewart (Lethbridge), Stirling,
Stitt (Selkirk), Sutherland,
Tetreault,
Thompson
(Simcoe East), Thompson (Lanark), Totzke,
Tummon,
Turnbull,
W npcp
Weir (Melfort), White (London), White (MountRoyal), Willis,
Wilson,
Wright.-83.
++NAYS
Messrs:
Mr. R. TV. GRAY (West Lambton): Mr. Speaker, I move that the house do now proceed to the orders of the day.
Mr. \OUNG: Mr. Speaker, that motion is out of order; there is a motion before the chair.


A motion for reading the orders of the day has preference to any motion before the house.


Mr. Speaker, on a point of order; is the motion to proceed to orders of the day seconded?


It is seconded by Mr. McPhee.


I was paired with the hon. member for Rimouski (Sir Eugene Fiset). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Laprairie-Napierville (Mr. Dupuis). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for West Hamilton (Mr. Bell). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Rosetown (Mr. Loucks). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Brant (Mr. Smoke). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.

Radio Broadcasting


I was
paired with the hon. member for Berthier-Maskinonge (Mr. Barrette). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called, I might say to the Prime Minister that I have received a wire from one of the members of the local legislature of Saskatchewan stating with respect to the control of radio by a commission that the hon. member for Saskatoon (Mr. MacMillan) has wired to his city that one of the radio stations is to be located in Saskatoon. That, in the mind of the member who wired me, indicates that the decision will not be made by technical men, but will be actuated by political motives. I know nothing of the matter except the representation in the telegram, and I am sorry the hon. member for Saskatoon is not in his seat, because I should like first to have asked him if he personally sent the wire referred to. May I ask the Prime Minister, although I am sure it is not necessary to ask the question: Was the wire authorized in any way?


I assure the right hon. gentleman that no such telegram has been sent with my knowledge or consent, either direct or indirect, and I have no reason to believe that any determination of any question of this kind has ever been thought of by the administration. I can assure him further, although I have received large numbers of letters indicating that particular individuals should be appointed to certain positions, I have replied that this matter has not yet been considered; that the bill has not been finally passed in the house, and further that so far as employees were concerned, this matter would have to be decided by the commission itself.


I did not wish to raise a point of order while the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) was putting his question just now, because I knew in any event he would be able to get the leave of the house. But in view of the motion which has just been passed, we are in the orders of the day and therefore 41761-209
we cannot, as would usually be the case, submit questions before the orders of the day are called. I raise this point of order just so that a precedent will not be created, if Your Honour rules, as you should, that it is not now competent to raise questions on the orders of the day.


In my view, the motion just passed makes the next order of business the orders of the day. Out of deference to the leader of the opposition and the Prime Minister, I made no objection while they were both on their feet. A few minutes ago the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) would have spoken, but I stopped him and I think the next proceeding of the house is to read the orders of the day.


It was quite unwittingly
that I overstepped the rule, but I thank Your Honour and the hon. Minister of Finance for not having raised an objection, and for according me the privilege of bringing up the matter which, of course, might as well have been brought up when the radio broadcasting bill is further considered in committee as will I expect be the case a little later in the day.


Hon. C. H. CAHAN (Secretary of State) moved the third reading of Bill No. 99, to amend the Civil Service Act.
I move in amendment that the house do now revert to motions.


That is out of order.


If I may rise to a point
of order, obviously the motion of the hon. member for Weyburn is out of order; it is a negative of a motion which was decided by the house by vote just a moment ago.


There have been two orders of the day since then.


Mr. Speaker, with respect to the-


We have no idea
of what business is being transacted.


With respect to the third
reading of Bill No. 99, I desire to make just a few observations, because yesterday I attempted to get some information from the minister in charge of the measure and unfortunately we were not able before lunch to proceed with the bill in committee. Yesterday, while the bill was in committee, I endeavoured to ascertain the procedure that is

Civil Service Act

to be followed in connection with the appointments of postmasters to positions in offices that have a revenue of less than S3,000- I am not opposing the bill but what I wanted to be sure of at that time was that the preference for returned soldiers would be continued as it was prior to this enactment, and the reason I rise at this time is because the returned soldier preference in the constituency that I have the honour to represent is being entirely overlooked.
In 1920, a resolution passed the Ontario legislature unanimously, in effect, that in all cases returned soldiers were to get the preference in appointments to permanent positions within the jurisdiction of the government of Ontario. Only recently a sheriff has been appointed in Kenora by the Ontario government, and the occupant, while a very good citizen in every way, is not a returned soldier. I have received many letters from returned men in my district telling me that they had no knowledge whatever that that position was about to be filled, and further that it was filled on the recommendation of the executive of the Conservative association for the district. There were two other appointments. The office of registrar for the district was vacated twice, and while the position was filled in both cases by very good citizens the returned soldiers in the district did not get an opportunity of appointment to those two vacancies. Again only recently, about a month ago, the mayor of Kenora was appointed to a provincial government position, and he is not a returned soldier. Those positions were filled upon the recommendation of the executive of the Conservative association for that district. What [ wanted to say to the minister was this: If :ederal government positions are going to be filled in the same way, I think the minister will agree that I have reason to look askance at the protection that is afforded to the returned soldier in the matter of preference in appointments. How are the returned soldiers in that large district going to know where to apply? Are they to apply to the Postmaster General, to the member for the district or to the Conservative executive, and even if they know where to apply, what guarantee is there that the returned soldier preference will be maintained in appointments to these positions?
That is the only observation that I have to make, Mr. Speaker, and I am sorry that the bill was reported out of committee before I was given an opportunity of ascertaining beyond the shadow of a doubt that the returned soldiers in that district, and it is the only district that I have the right to speak for,

would get a square deal in federal government appointments.


I am opposed to the third reading of this bill, Mr. Speaker, because of two clauses that it contains. One of them I referred to when the discussion on the resolution was before the house, and at that time Your Honour will recollect that I moved to delete the clause referring to the exemption of revenue post offices up to $3,000. When the bill was before the house yesterday I disagreed with the administration in the amendment which was proposed by the Minister of Finance to modify section 11. It is not my intention at this time to prolong the debate unnecessarily. I simply wish to move, therefore:
That Bill No. 99, an Act to amend the Civil Service Act be not now read a third time but that it be referred back to the committee of the whole for the purpose of amending it by striking out section 10-and by striking out section 11, substituting for section 11 the wording of the section as contained in the first reading of the bill.
May I explain that section 10 is the one referring to the exemption of post offices with revenues -up to $3,000. Under the first reading of the bill hon. members will recall that section 11 carried out the unanimous desire of the committee, the unanimous desire of every civil service organization which appeared before that committee, and the desire of many other people. As it stood at the first reading of the bill section 11 took away from private secretaries to ministers the special privilege which had been accorded to them under the amendment to the act moved some years previously. My motion is therefore to restore section 11 as originally drafted in the amendment this year, and I sincerely trust that the house will see that the merit system, to the extent at least of the improper changes being made to this bill- and I use the word "improper" advisedly- be not interfered with.
Mr. E. R. E. CHEVRIF.R (Ottawa): Mr. Speaker, I shall have to vote for the motion now before the house so that the bill may be referred back to the committee. I will so vote in the hope that before the committee the section dealing with private secretaries may be brought back to its previous form, and at the same time in the hope that the committee will not alter the section with reference to postmasters as recommended by the special committee.


Mr. Speaker, I find myself in somewhat the same position in regard to my vote as the hon. member for

Civil Service Act
Ottawa. I should like the matter to be referred to the committee, however, in the hope that section 10 may be eliminated from the bill, and that the amendment to section 11 as introduced to the house yesterday may be confirmed. When section 10 was under discussion in committee I expressed my sentiments in regard to the purpose of that section. I should like to repeat my views however in regard to statements made yesterday concerning the possibility of retaining returned soldiers' preference. I think the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River (Mr. Heenan) has given a good illustration of how matters have worked out. We have seen how a similar pious wish has worked out in regard to appointments made by the legislature of Ontario. I am quite satisfied that no matter what regulations are framed, when it comes to actual operations the matter of returned soldiers' preference will work out in the present instance as it worked out in the province of Ontario, as described by the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River.


Mr. Speaker, I am exactly in the same position as my hon. friend from Lisgar. I cannot support the motion because I am opposed to deleting from the bill the amendment carried yesterday.


The same here.


Question.


Mr. Speaker, I am wondering if the minister in charge of the bill would take this opportunity to make a statement. He did not speak before, because already he had moved third reading. I do not wish to repeat my statements of yesterdaj' with regard to the assurance which should be given to returned soldiers, but as the house seems to be quieter than it was when I spoke previously I should like to repeat a few statements. May I point out that in the year 1920 a resolution was passed unanimously by the Ontario legislature to the effect that returned soldiers would receive the preference in all permanent positions. In the riding I have the honour to represent they are not getting it. I should like to pass over to the minister a letter which will indicate what is going on. I do not wish to make it public because in my opinion the condition it discloses is a disgrace. This letter from the Canadian Legion at Fort Frances indicates *what is going on. I am not blaming the government, because I feel sure neither the Prime Minister nor any other member of the government would tolerate what is happening among the ranks of their own followers. I should 41761-209J
like to pass this letter over to the minister so hat he may have an opportunity of reading it; it is not my desire to make it public at this moment, because the matter is altogether :oo disgraceful. I am convinced when the minister sees what is contained in it he will realize why I have taken this position. The resolution passed by the Ontario legislature was unanimous; and I regard it as an order of the house. Notwithstanding that fact the returned soldiers are not receiving preference in that district. It may be that in the town of Kenora the members of the legion are satisfied-I doubt it-but hon. members must bear in mind that the district of Kenora is very large, and positions may be .filled without returned soldiers in other parts of the district knowing anything about them or getting consideration.
The position of sheriff is a district position; the sheriff appointed is a very eminent citizen, notwithstanding the fact that he is a Conservative. He is not a returned soldier. The position of district registrar has been vacant twice, and is now filled by a gentleman who is not a returned soldier. The mayor of Kenora, the gentleman who has sent telegrams to the effect that I deliberately falsified facts, has only recently received his appointment. I regard that appointment as compensation for the telegrams he sent out saying that I was not telling the truth in eastern Canada with respect to such matters as I am now speaking about. He is not a returned soldier. So far as I can understand the persons who will make recommendations to the Postmaster General are those who are now recommending to the provincial government, the appointment of men who are not returned soldiers.
Yesterday the minister in charge of the bill took a very fair position. I think if the Conservative executive, the member for the district, or the defeated candidates are to make the recommendations with respect to the filling of positions the government ought to let that fact be known. Otherwise, 1 may have to vote that the bill go back into committee.


The letter which the hon. member has shown to me does not deal with federal affairs. I cannot deal with Ontario political affairs, because I am not responsible therefor in any way.


But the minister will see-


Therefore, the complaints made in this letter, which I am not allowed to read to the house, are complaints of which I cannot take cognizance.
With regard to the bill now before the house, it provides that the preference estab-
Civil Service Act


lished by section 29 of the Civil Service Act, that is, the preference granted in favour of the persons mentioned therein, shall be applied in respect of appointments to such positions. That preference is reaffirmed and reincorporated into the amending bill. I have not the slightest doubt that the members and officials of the government who will carry this measure into effect will give due consideration to the statutory enactment of the parliament of Canada, to which the ministers of the crown who administer the act are responsible. That is all I can say.
Weir (Melfort), White (London), Willis,
Wright.-77.
I was paired with the hon. member for Southeast Grey (Miss Mac-phail). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for South Waterloo (Mr. Edwards). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for Laurier-Outremont (Mr. Mer-cier). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for Toronto West Centre (Mr. Factor). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for South Huron (Mr. McMillan). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for West Hamilton (Mr. Bell). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. Boniface (Air. Howden). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.


I was paired with the hon. member for Laprairie-Napierville (Mr. Dupuis). Had I voted, I would have voted against the amendment.
Motion (Mr. Cahan) agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.


Mr. E. N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved the second reading of Bill No. 95, to amend the Customs Tariff.
Carried.


Mr. Speaker, I move that the house do now revert to motions.


The house has already by resolution proceeded from motions to orders of the day, and I do not think it can undo what it has done in that respect, at this sitting. The second reading of Bill No. 95 was carried.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second time.


I move, Mr. Speaker, that you do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee on Bill No. 95.

Special War Revenue Act


Motion agreed to, and the house went into committee, Mr. LaVergne in the chair.
Bill considered in committee, reported, read the third time and passed.
Hon. E. N. RHODES- (Minister of Finance) moved the second reading of Bill No. 93, to amend the Income War Tax Act.
Is this the bill that proposes the two per cent excise?


No, this is the income tax bill.


I beg your pardon; I had not heard the title.


Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, considered in committee, read the third time and passed.
Lion. E. N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved the second reading of Bill No. 102, to amend the Special War Revenue Act.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. LaVergne in the chair.
On section 1-Part III repealed and reenacted.
Mr. Chairman, I should
like to Tefer again to the matter of the taxation of net insurance premiums. I referred to this matter yesterday and the minister asked me to defer my remarks until the bill was before the committee. It seems to me that there is some injustice in taxing the net premiums of foreign companies doing business in Canada two per cent, while the net premiums of Canadian companies are taxed only one per cent. I can understand that the government may have in mind the fact that these foreign companies do considerable business in Canada, but I remind the minister that the premiums paid to foreign companies are paid by Canadian policyholders. This is actually a tax upon Canadian policyholders. I think the government had in mind the New England mutuals which do business on a small premium, perhaps the smallest of any company operating in that class, but I think these companies are to be commended for the splendid methods they have adopted in the carrying on of business. They endeavour not only to pay fire losses but to prevent fires. They have an organization of inspectors and expert engineers who are continually on the job doing what they can by way of advising factory owners how to improve their premises
and reduce fire hazards. I bring this matter to the attention of the minister because I think my previous remarks, I believe on the resolution, might have been misunderstood. These companies are called foreign companies, yet they are doing Canadian business just the same as the Canadian companies.


I do not think that this tax in actual practice will prove to be an unfair burden on the foreign companies because it must be borne in mind that these companies carry a select class of risks. In the main their premiums are very small and the yield of the two per cent tax will not be comparable to the yield of the one per cent tax in the case of Canadian companies. I point out to my hon. friend that if Canadian policyholders do not desire to pay the two per cent tax, they can insure in companies where they will have to pay only one per cent. Another argument in favour of this tax, and one which I think demonstrates that there is no discrimination against these companies, is the fact that they have no office staff, they support no taxpayers in the form of employees and pay no income tax whereas, on the other hand, the Canadian companies do all these things. I understand that the foreign companies have not taken any exception to this tax, and I think that is the best evidence that in their judgment they feel they have not been discriminated against. I have no recollection of any complaint coming in on this score so I must assume under these circumstances that there is a reasonable acceptance to the tax on the part of the companies in question.


Section agreed to.
Sections 2 to II inclusive agreed to.
On section 12-Excise tax of three per cent on duty paid value.
Under this
section the special excise tax of one per cent imposed by the act of last year is increased to three per cent. I wish to repeat what has been said frequently, that this tax really is an increase of duty, that there is in reality an increase of three per cent in the customs tariff on everything except a few articles enumerated in the schedule. In delivering his budget speech, the Minister of Finance took no little credit to himself and the government for not having imposed any increased duties *this session. Had he been in the chamber when I was delivering my speech I would have drawn his attention specifically, as in fact I mentioned particularly, that in that statement he was entirely mistaken, that, as a matter of fact, the government this session by increasing the excise tax, which is a
Special War Revenue Act

British Empire has a foundation that is impregnable so long as we firmly maintain, in connection with the affairs of each of the self-governing parts of the empire, the conception of fiscal autonomy, along with all other forms of autonomy which we now so completely enjoy. But to surrender something, however small, which will in the least restrict the freedom of the self-governing dominions in their trade negotiations with other countries, or which will occasion a sense of restraint as to the obligations which in a fiscal way are binding as between the different parts of the empire would, I fear, have the opposite effect from that desired by those who wish to see the British Empire continue to grow in unity and strength as the years go by. I will quote in connection with the opinion I have here expressed the words of one whose name in these matters should carry a good deal in the way of authority with hon. gentlemen opposite. I have here a quotation from Sir John Willison's Life of Sir Wilfrid Laurier. Referring to a statement which the late Mr. Joseph Chamberlain had made as to the only form of zollverein Mr. Chamberlain thought would be of any real service to the British Empire, the author gives his opinion, which may be regarded as expert opinion, of the effect of any zollverein upon the development of the British Empire. The statement of Mr. Joseph Chamberlain, to which Sir John Willison refers, is as follows:
I believe the only form thait would meet with the slightest favour would be an imperial zollverein, in which there would be free trade between the portions of the empire and duties as against strangers.
Sir John Willison at page 307 of his Life of Laurier says:
It is necessary to add, at the risk of misunderstanding, that it is not easy to conceive a zollverein arrangement that will not restrict the freedom of the colonies

Colonies they were called at that time, now dominions:
-and tend with changing circumstances to produce irritation and unrest; and that the trade relations between Great Britain and the colonies will probably be better controlled by concurrent legislation than by a joint tariff.
I submit that that paragraph is one deserving of very careful consideration by members of the ministry who will be representing Canada at the forthcoming Imperial economic conference. The conception of a zollverein that Joseph Chamberlain had was a tax that would operate as against foreign countries, but to be of any value it would have to be accompanied by complete free trade within the British Empire itself. I do not assume that the present ministry will consider at the forth-
coming conference any development of trade on the basis of free trade within the empire. They have said over and over again that they would not. On the other hand, I do think from the statements made by the Prime Minister in England, and made in this house since, that it is quite conceivable that what the government is not prepared to consider on a free trade basis they may have in mind seeking to bring about on a "Canada first" basis, on a protectionist basis instead of on a free trade basis. In other words, it is conceivable that they will seek to have the British Empire develop on the basis of each of its self-governing parts having protective tariffs so high as to make impossible the importation of goods that are produced or manufactured by itself, and that they will seek to exclude foreign goods by raising still higher the existing tariff against foreign countries. That would be an imperial zollverein on the basis of high protection. A policy of that kind I believe would be fatal not only to trade within the empire but fatal to the future development of the empire in other respects, and I think this is the best moment at which to give expression to that view.
I repeat again, I hope my hon. friend will to-day, on Empire day, make at least a gesture of an attitude which really means that the government desires to see trade within the British Empire furthered through the reduction of duties in a way which will permit of the flow of commodities into this country, to be accompanied by a similar flow from this country into all other parts of the empire. I hope the minister will give us some assurance that at least something of the kind is in the minds of the ministry, or, better still, that at the approaching conference they may have something of the kind to propose.


I am quite sure that the right hon. leader of the opposition will not misunderstand me if I do not at this stage of the session attempt to reply to him at length, or that on the other hand he will not take exception if my reply is quite brief.
I am at one with my right hon. friend when he expresses a desire for trade within the empire. I do not think he need have any misapprehension thait it is in the mind of the government to erect a wall, as it were, around the empire, for the exclusion of trade with the rest of the world. While I have always been a strong advocate personally of empire trade, and I believe much can be accomplished for the benefit of the different dominions through the stimulus of empire trade, I have never understood that that meant that we were to

Special War Revenue Act
trade exclusively within the empire and that it was to prevent us from trading with the world at large.
I have read the article by Sir Robert Had-field in the Dalhousie Review to which my right hon. friend referred, and I hasten to assure him that whatever merits or demerits may attach to the three per cent tax, it has no reference whatever to a revolving fund which is designed to be an adjunct to an empire zollverein. As a matter of fact, I think my right hon. friend has some misgiving upon the point. I beg to assure him there is nothing in the minds of the government with respect to the three per cent excise tax upon imports other than a desire to raise revenue. My right hon. friend has said the three per cent excise tax is a tax upon the people of this country; in great part, that is so. It does not always follow however, that the importer pays the tax. It is true that the importer goes to the customs house and takes out the goods; he goes through the physical act of paying money into the customs for the goods he takes out. It happens in many instances however that the tax is actually borne by the exporter. The mere fact that we have to apply the dump in certain instances is evidence of that fact.
May I point out to my right hon. friend, that whether this is a good or a bad tax the fact remains that the treasury of this country is in need of funds. We must raise revenue from some source, and if we do not raise it in this way we will raise it in some other way. In the last analysis the only money which comes into the treasury comes through taxation. That point therefore I do not think has any very marked bearing upon t'he argument. I can add very little, probably nothing, to what I said last night in reply to my right hon. friend with respect to the three per cent tax. Certainly I do not think it can be properly regarded as an added impost by way of customs when it is applicable to those commodities which are duty free. No one would suggest for a moment that a three per cent customs tariff would be any barrier worthy of consideration.


But it is added to the
tariff.


Yes; upon all goods in connection with which there exists an impost, and to which is added the excise tax, my right hon. friend's argument would have bearing. I would add, however, that it is applied to duty free goods. Furthermore I can add only what I said yesterday, namely that I do not think the other dominions within the empire
have regarded this impost other than as a revenue tax.
Arising from the remarks of my right hon. friend, only one other thought occurs to me, and that is to assure him that if we enter the Imperial economic conference, as I think we all ought to enter it, with a desire in our hearts not to drive a bargain but to enter into undertakings which will be mutually advantageous-


Hear, hear.


-we will be serving this country best. I think that is the attitude in which we are prepared to enter the conference. After conversations, if it is found that the three per cent tax requires further consideration I have not the slightest hesitation in saying to my right hon. friend that the government is not wedded to it, other than as a necessity of the moment, as a means of taxation.


I should like to have an explanation so that hon. members may know the meaning of the section. It says that there will be an excise tax of three per cent on the duty paid value. I presume that means that in the case of an article valued at S100 already bearing a tariff of 35 per cent the tax will be levied upon the $100 plus the $35, making it an equivalent to a four per cent tax on the invoice price of the goods. That seems to be the only construction which could be placed upon the wording. Does "duty paid value" mean the duty set forth in the Customs Act, and not dumping duties which may be added. I think we may very readily conceive that if the policy which has been put into force by this government is followed-that of raising duties by order in council, and levying dumping duties to such an extent that they exclude trade altogether-and the tax is paid on such goods, a very high tax may be the result.


The hon. member for Lisgar will find a definition of "duty paid value" if he will turn to section 85 of the Special War Revenue Act. At that place the definition is as follows:
"Duty paid value" shall mean the value of the article as it would be determined for the purpose of calculating an ad valorem duty upon the importation of such articles into Canada under the law's relating to the customs and the customs tariff w'hether such article be in fact subject to ad valorem or other duty or not, and in addition the amount of the custom duties, if any, payable thereon: Provided that in computing the "duty paid value" of tea purchased in bond in Great Britain-
And so on. I think that paragraph clearly defines the term about which the hon. member
Special War Revenue Act

has asked. I would say to him however that the three per cent excise tax upon imports is not applied to the valuation created by the dump.


I wish to direct a question to the minister with regard to the tax on telephone calls. As I understand it there is a general tax of six per cent. Does that apply to all calls, whether or not they are under twenty-five cents?


Yes.


Does that mean that on a twenty cent call there would be a tax of six per cent?


Yes.


And on a twenty-five cent call there would be a tax of five cents?


No; the tax of six per cent is applicable upon customers' accounts. That is to say, at the end of each month their long distance bill will be subject to a six per cent tax. The five cent tax applies to public pay stations, whether or not they have attendants, obviously at those places the sales tax would not be applied.


I take it, then, that on a local telephone call where connection with some other telephone company is necessary, and there is a charge of say, ten cents, there would be a six per cent levy thereon.


Yes; if that ten per cent charge is on a long distance call, there would be a tax of six cents on ten such calls.


I should like to urge upon the minister the fact that great hardship will be suffered by the people who are operating and patronizing local telephone stations. If there is to be a tax on calls on which the charges are only ten cents or fifteen cents, calls coming within the definition of "long distance calls" as described in the act, a great deal of bookkeeping will be necessary and very little revenue will be derived. The tax would be a nuisance to the people conducting telephone systems, and will constitute just that much more burden upon those who have to pay it. I am wondering if the minister would not consider eliminating taxes on telephone calls, unless the charges are over twenty-five cents, or even fifteen cents.


I may state to the committee with the utmost frankness that the method I had in mind in the first instance was to tax no message under 25 cents, and then make,it a graded tax. But the telephone companies themselves pointed out to me that
IMr. Rhodes.]
this would bring about unequal taxation and would cause them more difficulty than would be the case if we applied the straight 6 per cent tax to monthly accounts. That idea had not occurred to me; it arose from a decision arrived at during a convention in Winnipeg. The suggestion was made the other evening, in committee on the resolution, that even in the case of the 6 per cent tax it ought not to apply except to messages over a certain amount. The companies pointed out to me that to attempt to carry this out would double the cost of collection to the company, and they stated that the cheapest, the simplest and the most effective method was the one which they suggested, that is, the 6 per cent tax.
Of course all taxation is a burden, but there is this to be said, that in the case of a 25 cent call made by a subscriber his tax would foe li cents, which is not an excessive sum. On the other handj if you started out with a 5 cent tax on a 25 cent call the burden would be much more excessive. 1 admit that in the rural districts where conditions are not at all 