Second report of the select standing committee on banking and commerce.

Mr. Matthew's.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Has a contract been awarded to M. Werbenuk for carrying mail between Poplarfield post office, Manitoba, and railway station?
2.	If so, were public tenders called, if not, for what reason?
3.	What was the amount of contract?

Questions


1.	Yes.
2.	No. Cost under S200 per annum.
3.	$93.90 per annum.


1.	How many persons are at present detained in the St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary?
2.	Does the government intend to increase the staff of guards for the public safety during the summer months?
3.	Are the penitentiary employees under the
eight-day regime?	i
4.	If not, what are the reasons for not adopting the eight-hour day regime in such institutions?


1.	1.068 as on February 29, 1932.
2.	Staff is always increased as the needs of the institution require, and safety to the public demands. A seasonal increase is always necessary for work in summer. Total number of officers as on February 29, 1932:
Permanent	 119
Temporary	 55
3.	No.
4.	This has been discussed on many occasions and it has not been found possible to adopt. Winter hours are shorter than summer hours. Penitentiary Act, Sec. 62 (2) calls for at least ten hours hard labour. The eight-hour system would call for shifts and change of officers during working hours, thus dividing responsibility. Officers are allowed three weeks' holiday per annum, and one rest day in seven, besides sick leave on full pay.


1. What was the total amount of money borrowed under the conversion loan of May, 1931?
2.	What were the total expenses incurred in
securing the conversion loan:	(a) commissions
to chartered banks and brokers; (b) advertising, travelling and all other expenses?
3. What was the total amount of money borrowed under the national service loan of 1931?
4.	What was the total expense incurred in
securing national service loan of November, 1931:	(a) commissions to chartered banks or
brokers:	(b) advertising, travelling and all
other expenses?


1.	$643,109,300.
2.	(a) $2,960,358; (b) $599,425. Commissions and all other expenses represent 5%oo of 1 per cent on the principal amount.
3 $221 19S 200
4.	(a) S1,S19,106;	(b) S266,000 (estimated,
accounts not yet complete). Commissions and all other expenses represent 9iHoo of 1 per cent or. the amount raised.
Note: Under 2 (b) and 4 (b) are included cost of advertising, printing, engraving of bonds, clerical assistance and other expenses.


1.	What was the name of the medical officer in charge of the Indians of Queens county, Nova Scotia, previous to 1930?
2.	What salary did he receive per annum?
3.	What is the name of the medical officer now engaged by the government in looking after said Indians?
4.	How much does he receive per annum?


1.	Dr. C. S. Hennigar, Liverpool, Nova Scotia.
2.	He was paid on the call or account system and earned $334.50 during the last 12 months of his employment, November 1929 to October 1930, inclusive.
3.	Dr. T. R. Ford, Liverpool, Nova Scotia.
4.	He is paid on the call or account system and earned $612.75 during the 12 months of the calendar year 1931.


1.	Who are the lessees of the Bickerdike pier from the Montreal harbour commission?
2.	What has been paid by any department of the Dominion government to the Canadian Import Company for coal during the years: (a) 1925; (b) 1926; (c) 1927; (d) 1928; (e) 1929; (f) 1930; (g) 1931?
3.	Is the Hon. Lorne C. Webster, senator for the Stadacona district in the province of Quebec, president of the Canadian Import Company ?
4.	Has the Canadian Import Company a lease or concession from the Quebec harbour commissioners in connection with the supply of oil to steamers?
5.	If so: (a) how long is the lease for; (b) what rent is paid?


This is a repetition of a question asked on the orders of the day some time ago, and it is answered in a return which 1 laid upon the table of the house this afternoon.


1.	How much has The Gazette Printing Company, Limited, been paid by the Dominion government during the following years:	(a)
1925; (b) 1926; (c) 1927; (d) 1928; (e) 1929; m 1930; (g) 1931?
Bankruptcy Act

2.	Is the Hon. Smeaton White, senator from the Inkerman district of the province of Quebec, president of The Gazette Printing Company, Limited?


This is a repetition of a question asked some days ago, and it was answered in a return which I laid upon the table of the house yesterday, March 9.


Hon. HUGH GUTHRIE (Minister of Justice) moved that the house go into committee to-morrow to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to amend the Bankruptcy Act, and to provide for the administration of the act by the Minister of Finance, and for the appointment of a superintendent of bankruptcy and the payment of his expenses from a percentage of the gross receipts out of the sale of any property of the debtor; and to provide for such assistants as may be required, and for the licensing of trustees and payment of fees therefor.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I
should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. An investigation is being held by a committee of the Senate in connection with the Beauharnois matter. In the past we, as members of the House of Commons, always received copies of the proceedings in such investigations, but so far we have not been furnished with any of the reports concerning this inquiry. When we hold an investigation in this house, reports are sent to the members of the Senate, so I should like to know if we may not be furnished with copies of these reports.


I will have inquiry made in order to ascertain why copies have not been supplied to members of the House of Commons.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister, or the Minister of
JMr. Maclanis.]
Railways, if there is a possibility of the report of the commission inquiring into railway matters being tabled before the Easter recess.


The answer to that question will be no. Lord Ashfield has been detained somewhat longer than he had expected because of urgent matters of public business in connection with the transport bill, and I am not in a position to state exactly when he may be expected to arrive in this country. Therefore I can only say with certainty that there is no likelihood of the report being tabled before the Easter recess, and I am sorry I cannot give the right hon. gentleman any indication as to when it may be delivered to the government.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask my right hon. friend if there is any possibility of the treaty between Canada and the United States with respect to the St. Lawrence waterway being signed before the Easter recess?


I should think the probable answer would be no.


On the orders of the day:
Hon. P. J. VENIOT (Gloucester) * About a fortnight ago a delegation waited upon the Acting Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Duranleau) with regard to the salmon regulations in the province of New Brunswick. I should like to ask the minister if he has been able to decide upon an answer to that delegation or, if not, when that answer may be expected.
We have made up
our minds on that question and have decided not to change the present regulations.


That is, not to grant the
request of the delegation?


Exactly.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of Trade
and Commerce whether the New Zealand treaty will be tabled and presented to parliament before the Easter recess?

Unemployment Continuance Act


I have nothing to add to
the answer I gave yesterday.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of National
Revenue whether his attention has been drawn to the following report which appeared in the Star a few days ago:
Produce and Stock Bartered for Rum
Quebec, March 2.-Produce and live stock are being used by people along the north shore to purchase liquor from rum runners, in cases where no money has been available, and unmolested activity on the part of the same rum runners are responsible to a great extent for the poverty which exists among fishermen and shore people, it is claimed by officials of the Fisheries department of the province, and in view of existing conditions it is probable that the attention of the federal authorities will be drawn to the matter, with a view to having patrols established all along the coast line, so as to halt this traffic.
I would ask the minister whether he has been made aware of the conditions that seem to exist, according to that report, and whether it is the intention of the government to see that some remedy is provided to put an end to such conditions.


I had not heard of the
conditions mentioned by the hon. member, but now that he has brought the matter to my attention I shall inquire into it and give an answer later.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe) asked a question with reference to the personnel of the subcommittee that has been set up to deal with the administration of the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act, 1931. I find on inquiry that the Minister of Fisheries is a member of that committee. When the Minister of Fisheries became Minister of Finance the Acting Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Duranleau) took his place on the committee, the appointments being made by office and not by names. As Acting Minister of Fisheries the Hon. Mr. Duranleau is therefore a member of and sits upon that committee.


The house resumed from Wednesday, March 9, consideration of the motion of the Prime Minister that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to resolve itself into committee of the whole on the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a bill to amend chapter 58 of the statutes of Canada, 1931, striking out the word "March'' in section 8, and substituting the word "May" therefor.
Yesterday, at the close of an impassioned speech in which moderation was conspicuous by its absence, the hon. the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) exhibited a rather delightful piece of humour when he asked the cooperation of my right hon. leader (Mr. Mackenzie King), myself and others on this side of the house. Cooperation in what? Cooperation with whom? We are ready to cooperate, but can we do so by supporting the measure which is now before the chair? It is a direct refusal of cooperation; it is a challenge to parliamentary institutions. Does not the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) realize that he is going altogether too far in the direction of personal power and autocracy? He is asking the elected representatives of the people of Canada to abdicate the control and sovereignty of parliament. He is asking full authority to legislate by order in council, to amend statutes, to decide anything while parliament is in session, to enter into any expenditure of public money without previous parliamentary authorization; and he kindly suggests and generously offers to communicate to us the decision after it will have been reached. Sir, is not that an utter disrespect for and contempt of parliament? Is it not adding insult to injury? How can we cooperate upon such a basis?
We have been elected to a legislative body, and the seriousness of the situation and the complexity of the problems which face this country at the present time make it all the more necessary that we should all endeavour to find the solution of these problems. We are willing to work; we are willing to sit on committees; we are willing to consider any proposal, any measure which this government has to offer; we are willing to adopt such measures if they are in the public interest. But we are not ready to vest in the Prime Minister a dictatorship, to transfer to him and his cabinet the rights and authorities of this parliament, and to delegate to him the
976	COMMONS
Unemployment Continuance Act
mandate which we have received from our constituencies. How can we cooperate when the decision has been reached before being submitted to parliament? How can we cooperate when the policies of the country are devised, decided and executed by order in council, and more particularly when important matters are decided one way and modified, altered, changed or cancelled before we have even had the chance of knowing it? How can we cooperate when this government one day preaches the expenditure of public money for the relief of distress in the country, and the next day preaches strict economy, curtails expenditures, retires civil servants, cuts salaries and so forth. Our rulers, like Penelope, the wife of the great Ulysses, are undoing during the night the work that they have done during the preceding day.
You must admit, Mr. Speaker, that it is rather difficult for reasonable men to cooperate with inconsistency, whim and whimsicality. No executive in the world has achieved the autocratic power of the present Canadian cabinet-I am speaking of countries with representative parliaments. I think the nearest parallel in history is to be found in the Committee of Public Safety during the terror of the French revolution. Like this government, that committee had an all powerful executive, controlling all things; like this government, that committee had the support of a majority in the convention. All the powers were held by that committee and it became such a despotism that it was the strongest and most ruthless which history has ever recorded. Of course, I do not suggest that this will happen in Canada; I do not believe the Prime Minister will go beyond certain limits. But has a free parliament the right to establish such a dictatorship? Has it the right to take a chance? Are we justified in abdicating all control and placing the rights and liberties of the Canadian people in the hands of one man, however distinguished he may be? The right hon. gentleman possesses great qualities but he will pardon me if I say that he possesses also some substantial imperfections. He has some characteristic features which are not unmixed qualities, and history proves that no man is great enough to endure well-nigh absolute power without a certain amount of moral weakening and that uncontrolled despotism always inflicts serious injury to the body politic.
May I quote the words of my right hon. friend uttered while he was in opposition. At that time he was complaining that the then Minister of Labour, Mr. Heenan, was endeavouring to enact legisluation which gave 
the power to make regulations in order to carry out the provisions of the act, and here is what he said:
I consider the present Minister of Labour (Mr. Heenan) a fair-minded minister but I do not think that it is in the interests of Canada that powers so great should be conferred upon any one individual under the modern democratic form of government where the temptations for abuse are as great as the powers here conferred.
The first departure by this government from sound constitutional practices occurred at the special session of 1930. At that time my right hon. friend asked this house to vote the sum of twenty million dollars to be used for such purposes and under such terms and conditions as the governor general in council would prescribe. That was a violation of the well known principle that the commons has full and unrestricted control over the destination of public money. Every sum taken from the consolidated revenue fund must be applied to a special purpose; it must be voted by parliament either under a statute, when the expense is a permanent one, or by an annual vote in the estimates, as is generally the case. That is the only possible way for parliament to retain its control over the expenditure of public money. In either case the destination must be described and at no time until this government took office had this principle been denied or violated. As my right hon. leader said, even during the war Sir Robert Borden not only specified the amount of money which he asked parliament to vote for the carrying on of the war but he gave the details as to the destination of that money. He said that so much was needed for expenditures connected with the Niobe or the Rainbow, so much for the purchase of a submarine or so much for the purchase of horses. Parliament always was given the fullest details. Had my right hon. friend then been on this side of the house and the government of the day had attempted to do that which is being attempted to-day we would have heard that which Dicey, Anson and Redlich say in the most eloquent terms.


Does my hon. friend
realize that his government passed a statute by which the government was authorized to guarantee the bonds of the Montreal harbour bridge in an unnamed sum, and that it is costing this country nearly S700,000 per annum? The estimate of the cost was given at $6,000,000 while the guarantee has amounted to over $19,500,000.


I think the last part
of my right hon. friend's question answers the

Unemployment Continuance Act
first; he says there was an unnamed sum and then he says that the expenditure was much higher than the sum which had been named.


The sum is not named
in the bill.


Was that unconstitutional?


The sum of $6,000,000
was not named in the bill; a question was asked as to the amount.


It was certainly stated
to the house in my presence.


The minister stated
$6,000,000, but that amount does not appear in the bill and the cost was $19,500,000.


A blank cheque.


That is the same thing
as Sir Robert Borden did during the war. The sum was not specified in the bills he introduced but he took good care to give all the details.
My right hon. friend threatened us with the calamity of his being unable to attend the Imperial conference, and as we could not afford to suffer his absence we allowed this measure to go through. Last year it became still worse. Chapter 58 of the statutes of 1931 was passed, and it is now proposed to resurrect this measure and extend its provisions for two months. I then stated that the bill gave a blank cheque to the government and the power to expend any amount of money for any purpose whatever. I stated, and my words can be found in Hansard, that the provisions of the act which permitted the taking of any steps to maintain peace, order and good government in Canada gave to the government the powers given to the parliament of Canada under section 91 of the British North America Act. I protested against that legislation but we were told that our misgivings were unfounded, that the things we feared would never happen. The Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie) discarded all our statements and said that the words "peace, order and good government" were inserted in the statute to give authority to parliament to vote a blank cheque for the purpose of relieving distress and unemployment. My hon. friend said:
If the bill is not founded upon the theory that it is necessary to maintain peace, order and good government in Canada, then parliament would have no authority to pass it. Without these words the bill in the form in which it is enacted into law might be set aside when challenged in the courts.
And again:
We recognize this emergency by the adoption of these words from the British North America Act, and they were placed in the bill as the foundation of our authority to pass such an enactment. They have nothing to do with the question of enforcement; they are merely a declaration to give us the jurisdiction which we know we have under the circumstances but of which vve want to be sure. . . . We are guaranteeing relief in order to maintain peace, order and good government. That makes it constitutionally certain that the bill will not be set aside.
The Prime Minister, when he referred to that provision about law and order, spoke only of possible troubles in Canada and said that it was good policy, good statesmanship on the part of the government to provide for any such disturbances. He said:
It is not for a moment to be thought that an insignificant number of strongly vocal persons shall be able so to affect the populace of this country as to make it impossible for us, in cooperation together as Canadians, to work out our destiny. I say that class, happily, is few- in number. But in this present situation they now see an opportunity propitious to the prosecution of their pernicious political doctrines. This is a land of freedom.
And so on. He continues:
If the government is given reason to believe, as there may be some cause for its so believing, that there is a settled purpose in the minds of a considerable number of people-not large, numerically, but scattered over the various parts of Canada-to take action against the maintenance of law and order, or make attempts to impede the difficult task with which we are charged, then we will take such action as in the judgment of the executive of this country, the cabinet who are the board of directors for the time being administering the affairs of this country, as will free this country from those wrho have proved themselves unworthy of our Canadian citizenship.
At no place in their argument did either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice suggest or represent or intimate that this law would be made use of to amend the statutes of the country generally. What has occurred? The Prime Minister, in the course of his remarks when introducing this resolution. spoke about an order in council concerning the returns to be made by the insurance companies. When I asked him whether there were other orders in council under that clause relating to peace, order and good government, he said that he did not know of any, but the Minister of Justice whispered to him that there was one concerning the prohibition of the export of gold.
Yesterday some orders in council were laid on the table of the house and I have been able to find at least three of four or more of them passed under this provision of peace,

978	COMMONS
Unemployment Continuance Act
order and good government. The first I find is order in council P.C. 2238, guaranteeing repayment to the chartered banks mentioned in it, of the amounts of money advanced by them to the Canadian Cooperative Wheat Producers, Limited, in connection with the crop of the year 1930. I do not think my right hon. friend has treated parliament properly in that regard. During the session of last year the hon. member for St. Henri (Mr. Mercier) on three different occasions asked a question about this matter. The first two questions were answered by the Prime Minister that they were not strictly according to the rules and therefore could not be answered, but finally, on May 14, 1931, the hon. member for St. Henri, as reported on page 1575 of Hansard, asked the following question:
1.	Is the government aware that the Canadian banks have advanced, in loans or guarantees, the sum of $68,000,000 to the Canadian Cooperative Wheat Producers, Limited?
2.	Has the government, to date, guaranteed the banks interested in these loans in favour of wheat pools, for said amount of $68,000,000, totally or partially?
3.	If partially, up to what amount?
The answer was:
Mr. Bennett: As the question now reads, the answer to the first part would be no. The answer to the second part would depend upon what portion of the first part it has reference to. No guarantee has been given for $68,000,000. An arrangement was made. At the moment I think the responsibility would be $2,000 or $3,000, provided the security upon which the advances by the banks are made is liquidated at reasonable prices. At present market prices there will be practically no liability.
Parliament sat until well into the month of August, but no legislation was submitted to it, yet on the 12th September this order in council was passed, and mark the wording of it:
The committee of the privy council have had before them a report, dated 11th September, 1931, from the Minister of Finance, recommending that, in pursuance of the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act, 1931, and of an undertaking on behalf of the government, made before the session of parliament at which the said act was passed, to implement by legislation the recommendation hereinafter set out, the governor in council guarantee repayment to the chartered banks hereinafter mentioned.
And so forth. I have no time to read it all, but I draw the attention of the house to the fact that the promise, the undertaking, had been given prior to the session of parliament-it is so stated in the order in council -that there would be legislation to implement the guarantee of the government. No legislation was introduced in parliament al-

though the matter was referred to on three different occasions. Then, after the session was over, an order in council is passed as a substitute for the legislation that should have been passed by parliament. There were no communistic activities in connection with this.
Then there are three orders in council, again guaranteeing advances by the banks to the marketing agencies mentioned in those orders. I have not time to refer to them.
The second order in council to which I wish to refer is the one dealing with the prohibition of the export of gold. This was passed on Monday, the nineteenth day of October, 1931. But before I refer to it, I would ask the government at least to submit to parliament legislation to ratify the order in council with regard to the guarantee of the advances by the banks.


I think there is no
liability at the moment.


So much the better, but that does not alter the fact that the government has done by order in council what should have been done by legislation.
As regards the order in council dealing with the prohibition of the export of gold, that again is passed under the provision regarding peace, order and good government. A penalty is fixed of a fine of SI ,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or both fine and imprisonment. It is stated in the order that these provisions shall come into force on the 19th day of October, 1931, and shall continue in full force and effect until the first day of March, 1932. If this order is renewed or extended, I hope it will be done by an act of parliament and not by a juggling of the calendar by substituting May for March as is proposed to be done by the resolution now before the house.
Then on the 27th October, 1931, order in council P.C. 2693 was passed, virtually amending the Bank Act, authorizing the banks to make to the government returns with regard to securities in another way than that fixed by the Bank Act. It also has force and effect until the first March, 1932. I ask the government, if this order in council is to be extended, that this should be done by act of parliament. The Bank Act is one of the most important acts. It is sacred legislation. It is different from the others in this, that we have a revision of the Bank Act every ten years, when a committee of this house studies any proposed changes most carefully. Surely the Bank Act should not be amended by order in council without authority of parliament.

Unemployment Continuance Act


Would the hon. member explain further what changes were made?


I am afraid I have not time to do it.


No complaint about it.


We are complaining now.


You are always complaining over there. We do not mind that.


We are not complaining as much as you would if you were over here.


Then on December 16, 1931, P.C. 3087 was passed on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie), increasing the strength of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police by three hundred men, with an added expenditure of $274,135. I do not want to comment upon that, but perhaps it is the reason for the fine parades we are witnessing on different occasions around the parliament buildings.
Then there was the order in council virtually amending the Insurance Act. Section 34 of the Insurance Act provides that the stocks held by the insurance companies must be valued at their market value. That was amended by order in council. It is stated in that order in council that the privy council has virtually declared that the Insurance Act is ultra vires and that it is proposed at the next session of parliament to bring in a new law which the law officers of the crown believe will be intra vires. But before this new law is put into force we have this order in council. I have seen the bill which is presently before the Senate and I notice that section 54 of that bill is exactly the same as section 34 of the Insurance Act as it was. There is no change made there at all. Will that order in council be extended for another year? If so, I say again that this parliament has the right to discuss and pass upon such a matter. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, is there one of those five or six orders in council which I have mentioned passed in the interests of the unemployed? This whole legislation was passed presumably for the relief of distress and unemployment and the clause about peace, order and good government was included only to give authority to the government for that purpose. But these orders in council which were passed concerning the insurance business and banking and the mounted police, were they orders in council passed in the interests of the unemployed? They took the place of acts of parliament, which is exactly what we am-621
foresaw would happen as the use to which the clause would be put when the legislation was before the house.
But bad as that legislation was, the present proposal is many times worse. This parliament is in session and the government is asking power to amend to-morrow a statute which we may pass to-day in this House of Commons. The suggestion that the rights of parliament will.be safeguarded merely by tabling at the next session of parliament any orders in council that may be passed is preposterous. It reduces parliament to a formless debating society, carrying on in a vacuum of futility.
Sir, the legislative function is to formulate what is to be and what should be the law of the country. The function of the executive is to carry out the law as formulated by this parliament. It is parliament that has the power to decide what the law is and what the law should be. It is parliament that has the control of the treasury, of the levying of taxes and of the manner of spending those taxes. It is the only effective agency in any British House of Commons for controlling the departments of government. The goal of democratic government is a satisfactory understanding between those two branches of government. Fundamental laws have defined what are the proper functions of each. The struggle of the House of Commons in England extending over many hundreds of years was carried on to ensure the control of parliament over the executive-not the control of the executive over parliament.
The Prime Minister pleaded that to proceed in this way would give greater convenience to the government in the serious conditions that now face the country. Doubtless absolute and autocratic power is more convenient than a free government. But does Canada want that? Our system is one of check and balance to make it sure that none of the divisions of the government shall become so powerful as to have the others at its mercy.
When in opposition my right hon. friend the Prime Minister referred frequently to that clever book of the present Lord Chief Justice of Great Britain, Lord Hewart, entitled The New Despotism. I might say that the Prime Minister's is a newer and stricter and narrower despotism. I have here a fine quotation of Lord Hewart which I should like to put on Hansard if I had time, but perhaps at some other stage of the bill I shall have the pleasure of doing so. But Lord Hewart was speaking only of regulations which permitted the departments virtually to make the laws of the land. He never even dreamt that
980	COMMONS
Unemployment Continuance Act
it would come to the mind of any ruler to assume the power of amending the statutes and the laws of the country. No wonder parliament is losing some of its former high position in popular esteem. My right hon. friend is responsible for it. This decline in the moral authority of parliament is due to the assumption by the Prime Minister of powers over the House of Commons which would have been undreamed of fifty years .ago, and he is reducing the members of parliament to a condition of almost servile impotence.


Oh, oh.


Yes. Parliamentary government is the form of free government, and I cannot forgive my right hon. friend for undermining-


Oh, oh.


My hon. friends over there remind me of the words of an American reformer, Lincoln Steffens, who said that he could forgive Philadelphia for being corrupt but not for being contented. I could forgive my hon. friends opposite for being made impotent by the actions of the government they support, by losing their parliamentary rights, but I cannot forgive them for being contented and satisfied with that situation. The control by parliament over the executive is no longer even a theory; it has become a fiction. The process is reversed; it is the executive which controls parliament. It is a revolutionary process, but revolutionary in the sense of reaction and contrary to all national traditions.
Had I time I would quote the words of the president of the Canadian Bar Asosciation which held its annual meeting at Murray Bay last year, when he called attention to the danger of such legislation. I am opposed to this government-	.


Oh, oh.


Yes, and I am glad
everybody knows it, and that everybody can see it.


Hear, hear.


I am opposed to this
government ridding itself of constitutional restraints. If a majority in parliament has its rights, I claim that the minority also has its rights. We have the right to consider all public business submitted which is going to be the law of the land. We have the right to require full publicity of public business. I
IMr. Lapointe. 1
have been sent here by my constituents to speak their voice in this parliament and to share in the work of legislation. They trust me; they may be wrong, but they have been trusting me for about thirty years.


The hon. member's time
has elapsed.


Oh, Mr. Speaker, you
have no mercy.


Mr. Speaker, at the very outset may I convey to my hon. friend who has just taken his seat, the ex-Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), my sincere congratulations upon the eloquence he displayed in his address, the choice of diction he used, the grace with which he presented his material, and especially, upon the high-powered sophistry of his argument. My hon. friend would have us believe that he, and he alone, is the protector of the people's rights in the parliament of Canada. Recently there was introduced in the Quebec legislature an iniquitous bill known as the Dillon Bill, which not only deprived the elected members and those who were not elected of the right to protest against corruption, but was made retroactive, and was supported by the newspaper controlled and partially owned by the hon. gentleman who has just resumed his seat.
It would appear that my hon. friends opposite are possessed of some peculiar mental condition which prompts them to conjure up in their imaginations constitutional questions. We all remember, sir, that in 1926 a constitutional question was conjured up in the mind of my right hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King). He went to the country at that time and was, I think, returned on that constitutional issue. What was the contention? It was that Canada was being sold out to Downing Street. However when the hon. gentleman who now, with such distinction, occupies the position of Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) called for a return of the correspondence passing between the right hon. gentleman and the then Governor General, Lord Byng, we found that it was the right hon. gentleman himself who wished Downing Street domination in Canada. That was the constitutional question of 1926. I venture this, Mr. Speaker, that had not Lord Byng been imbued with the splendid traditions which have always characterized governors general in Canada, had he been able to tell the Canadian people what actually happened on that occasion, my right hon. friend's constitutional issue would have fallen to the ground, and he would have returned to parliament repudiated hv the Canadian people.

Unemployment Continuance Act
I am at a loss to understand why, when the Conservative party of Canada introduces or attempts to introduce measures to assist men without work and women and children without food, all conceivable constitutional objections are taken by the opposition, and even appeals are taken against Your Honour's rulings. Had the appeal which was taken only a few nights ago been carried, what would have been the result?. There was at that time no amendment before the house, and had the appeal from Your Honour's ruling by the right hon. the leader of the opposition been sustained by that vote all unemployment relief would have been precluded.
The control of parliament over taxation is a fundamental principle of British government. So fundamental is it that we did not require the comments of such a great champion of constitutional government as my hon. friend who just preceded me to put us right in the matter. I say that the elected representatives of this or any other parliament have the right, if they desire to exercise it, to delegate to the government the power to control taxation and the expenditure of mone}'. There is not an authority on the constitution of this country or on constitutional practice prevailing in any British country saying that parliament's control over taxation and expenditure must have unanimity of opinion from all elected members. It is quite competent for the majority of elected members to delegate that power to the executive. If my right hon. friend thinks it is a constitutional question, let him ask members of this parliament and they will give him his answer, because the great majority in this house have faith in their right hon. leader and will be prepared to delegate power to the cabinet.
There is no more a constitutional question at the present time than there was in 1926. To state that there is a constitutional issue herein involved is merely subterfuge. It is sheer persiflage,-merely, an effort by the Liberal party to give effect to that policy on unemployment which in the last few years they have pursued with such unenviable distinction to themselves. What was their policy when in power? The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Mackenzie King) had a policy then; he was prepared, with his charitable disposition and from the goodness of his heart, to give a five cent piece to the unemployed if they would vote Grit.
Just before I leave the constitutional question, what is the alternative suggestion of hon. gentlemen opposite? It is that a commission be appointed which would be responsible to no one at all in the spending of the
money of this country. Hon. gentlemen op* posite would take away from parliament control over taxation; they would take away from the cabinet the right to receive that control from parliament, and they would vest it in an irresponsible, roving commission. That was the alternative announced by the leader of the opposition, which received vociferous applause from the hon. gentleman who just made his constitutional speech. Hon. gentlemen opposite talk glibly of orders in council; after listening to them one would think there was something sinister or reprehensible about the passing of an order in council in order to do the greatest work this parliament and this government can do, that is, protect human life in this country. May I point out, sir, as my right hon. leader pointed out, that the previous government appropriated money for the Montreal harbour commission by order in council; they practically destroyed the dairying industry of this country by order in council, and during the time my right hon. friend and his distinguished deskmate, who just resumed his seat, were in power, their government passed 53,968 orders in council. So let us hear nothing more about the passing of an order in council being something sinister; it is merely a fantasy of the imagination of hon. gentlemen opposite.
As I said before, Mr. Speaker, we have no other measure before parliament through which the unemployed may be assisted. Hon. gentlemen opposite have been able to make no suggestions, and now they ask us to cut off relief entirely from now until May 1. My conscience will not allow me to be sidetracked by constitutional arguments; I want to tell you that I think as much about the poor men and women who are unemployed as I think of the constitution of our country. Hon. gentlemen opposite suggest absolutely nothing; they want to cut off relief entirely, but we want to carry on this relief because, when men through no fault of their own are out of employment; when women and children are suffering, we believe public funds should be made available to protect the welfare and the lives of our citizens.
Mr. ANGUS MaeINNIS (Vancouver South):	Mr. Speaker, I wish to say a few
words in connection with the very important question under discussion at the present time. But before dealing with the resolution I wish to refer briefly to the statement made in the house yesterday by the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Manion), who I am sorry is not in his seat.


He is not far away.
9S2

Unemployment Continuance Act


If my hon. friend from
North Huron (Mr. Spotton) will keep quiet now, we will give him an opportunity to speak when I am finished. That is the proper procedure in parliament; if he does not know it he should be told, because he is continually interrupting.
Replying to the speech made by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth), the Minister of Railways and Canals took rather a peculiar line, which showed that if he is not a good cabinet minister at least he is a good politician. Having nothing else with which to reply to the statements which had been made, the minister tried to make a noise about something entirely different; he brought up something not even mentioned by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, the question of Russia. Instead of telling us something of the policy of the government in regard to unemployment he dealt in great detail with the murder of the czar and the royal family, Russia's repudiation of her debts, her irreligion and lack of respect for the female of the species. This may have been good politics, but it did not throw any light on the subject under discussion. However, since the minister did bring up the matter I think it only right that something should be said in reply.
My hon. friend was very much concerned about the attitude of the Soviet government toward the kulaks, the rich peasants of Russia. I should think he would be concerned rather with the condition of the unemployed in this country. He gave extensive quotations and blamed the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre for praising everything Russian. Just a week ago yesterday, after the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre had made another speech, the hon. member for Toronto Northwest (Mr. MacNicol) took a good deal of the time of the house to point out the bad things the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre had said about Russia, so between the two hon. members we may possibly reach the truth. At least one person has gone to Russia who is quite capable of telling about things as he saw them, without fear or favour.
The Minister of Railways and Canals quoted from an article by Henry Wales, correspondent of the Chicago Tribune. I have here another despatch from Mr. Wales which appeared in the New York Times of March 29, 1931, giving an account of an interview with Michael Tzetlin, vice-chairman of the Soviet executive committee at Archangel. This is what he says in connection with the kulaks:
The state is aiding them to build homes and create new villages, composed of kulaks exclu-
[Mr. Spotton.1
sively, where they can hunt, fish, farm, enter the timber industry or do whatever they please. The government is giving them all the land they want, providing lumber, building materials, food supplies and clothing, and establishing postal, telegraph and transportation services in the newly opened territory.
I wonder whether the government of Canada is doing that much for the unemployed in this country. Are we getting these facilities? Is anything being done to set up the unemployed so that they may become self-supporting? Absolutely nothing. Wre shall shortly come to what the government is actually doing. This writer goes on to say:
The kulaks are not guarded. Each village has its militiamen, the GPU (secret police), the same as all other communities. Each settlement chooses its own mayor-tzaritza, we call him-who is responsible to the authorities for law and order in his community.
Records show the death rate among kulaks transported here not above the normal rate among the local populaces.
One more quotation with reference to the kulaks:
The liquidation of the kulaks is a great reform measure-an emergency similar to mobilization in war time. It is hard on them. So was freeing the slaves hard on southern plantation owners in America. So was the prohibition law, which legislated out of business an entire industry in the United States.
When the Minister of Railways is discussing Russia he should not forget that Russia at the present time is at war; it is making war on poverty, on ignorance and on the superstition that has grown and fattened under the czarist rulers. Nor should he forget that when this country was at war it conscripted Canadians and sent them away, not to some place where they could earn a living but into the front line trenches, to fight the German army, an army with whom personally they had no quarrel. Let me read from a speech made not so very long ago by Sir Arthur Currie, to show that the place to which we sent the Canadians who were conscripted during the war was not at all as good a place as where the kulaks were sent by the Soviet government. And remember that the kulaks were the class in Russia who would not cooperate in the socialization of the machinery of production in the interests of the people as a whole. As an hon. member says, they were like Tories. Sir Arthur Currie, before the National Republican Club of New York, said:
Let me give you one picture of war, a memory I carry from the battle of Amiens. That battle was a great victory. It was perhaps the greatest triumph we had. Our troops went into it fit and healthy, high-spirited and well-trained. We had plenty of artillery, we had plenty of tanks. The Germans were completely surprised and thoroughly beaten. At

Unemployment Continuance Act
the end of the day I was asked to go back to a casualty clearing station. I was told that something was wrong. I went back. And there I saw the aftermath of victory. Something was indeed wrong. The extraordinary secrecy of the movement had somehow hampered the army medical services. I saw ambulance after ambulance full of wounded men, some shrieking, some groaning, some dying, some dead, some just suffering in patience, waiting to get to the hospital gate. Inside the doors of the building used as a hospital, its windows boarded up tight so that no light would reveal its position to enemy aircraft, the fumes of acetylene gas from the lamps, the terrible smell of gas gangrene from some of the wounds, the sickening odour of ether, the white faces of the worn-out nurses, the blood-stained hands of the doctors, who had to work as fast as butchers-only to save and not to kill-made a scene of horror that I can never forget.
As I said a moment ago, the Soviet government are at this moment at war; they are making war on poverty and on all the other conditions that were left them as a heritage by the rulers who preceded them. More than a decade ago we were at war with a different enemy, and the people of this country thought that was a good and sufficient reason for taking the able-bodied men of Canada, whether they wished to go or not, and placing them in the midst of such conditions as Sir Arthur has outlined in this address to the National Republican Club. Surely if it is right and proper in the one case it is right and proper in the other. I will leave the Minister of Railways there; it is not necessary to say anything further in that connection. The statements he made in regard to Russia were exploded long ago, and apropos of this I would paraphrase slightly a few words of Lord Macaulay's in reference to something similar. These stories are now altogether exploded. They have been abandoned by statesmen to aldermen, by aldermen to clergymen, by clergymen to old women and by old women to the Minister of Railways and Canals.
We are discussing now the act which was passed last year, empowering the governor in council to do certain things during the parliamentary recess. It will be remembered that when that act was introduced the date of its expiry was fixed at March 31, and it was pointed out to the Prime Minister that the house would likely be in session prior to that date and, in order that the act might not be in force during the session of parliament, the date was changed from March 31 to March 1, as parliament, being then in session, could deal with any questions that might arise. Now, with the house in session, hon. gentlemen opposite are asking us to extend the act for another two months, and this without
giving us any indication of what they are going to do at the end of that time. I opposed the bill when it came up last year. I told the government, when opposing it, that I should be quite willing to meet 