Hon. H. H. STEVENS (Minister of Trade and Commerce) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 9, to amend the Canada Grain Act.
Explain, please.


Mr. Speaker, a condition prevails in the country well known to all hon. members. Commodity prices have fallen but the charges incident to such commodities have not in all cases fallen to a corresponding degree. The government has been studying
Questions

this situation with a view to lessening the burden placed upon the farmer by the movement of grain, and it has been found necessary to secure an amendment to the act in order to achieve this purpose. This bill is to amend section 134 of the act by adding the words "except by order or regulation of the board."
A full description or analysis of the situation can be given at a later stage of the bill.


What will be the effect?


The effect will be to empower the Board of Grain Commissioners to lower charges in connection with elevation, storage and so on.


Handling charges.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by in asterisk).
1.	How many permanent employees are there on the staff of the Montreal harbour commission?
2.	How many were there last year (1931) at this date?
3.	How many labourers employed during the season of navigation worked at the harbour of Montreal since the opening of navigation?
4.	Of the latter: (a) how many were residents of Montreal at the time of their employment; (b) how many resided at outside points?


The following information has been furnished by the harbour commissioners of Montreal :
1.	Number of employees on staff payroll as at 31st October, 1932-176.
2.	Number of employees on staff payroll as at 31st October, 1931-172.
3.	192.
4.	(a) 188; (,b) 4.


1.	What persons have been holding the position of fish warden at Jordan Falls or vicinity, Shelburne county, Nova Scotia, since January 1, 1929?
2.	For what periods have they been respectively acting?
3.	At what rate or rates of pay?
4.	Has there been any difference in the extent * of the duties to be performed by the respective fish wardens during the period above named? If so, what?


1,	2 and 3. 1929-30 season-John McKay, from May 1 to July 31 by the day as required for 79 days at $3 a day; 1930-31 season -John McKay, from May 1 to July 31 by the day as required for 74 days at $3 a day; 1931-32 season-Howard Smith, from May 4 to June 30, by the day as required for 57 days at $3 a day; Isaac Harrison, from May 4 to 23 and July 1 to 31, by the day as required for 45 days at S3 a day; 1932-33 season -Howard Smith, from May 3 to July 16, by the day as required for 70 days at $2.50 a day; Isaac Harrison, from May 3 to July 26, by the day as required for 80 days at $2.50 a day.
4.	Yes. In 1931 the dams in the river were [DOT] made passable for fish, necessitating protection further up the river.


1.	Has the governor in council, under The Relief Act, 1932, loaned or advanced money to, or guaranteed the payment of money by any public body, corporation or undertaking?
2.	If so, on what date?
3.	What are the names of the public bodies, corporations or undertakings to whom money has been so loaned or advanced or to whom such guarantee has been given?
4.	What amount was so loaned or advanced or guaranteed to each public body, corporation or undertaking?


This order for return is
now tabled.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams and other documents respecting the repairs, during the years 1931-32, on the breakwater at Comeau's Hill, Yarmouth county, Nova Scotia, showing the name or names of all the foremen, the nature of the work done, the bills for materials and supplies, time sheets, vouchers and other papers.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to inquire of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie) if there is any truth in the rumour that a fire has occurred at the St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary at Montreal?

Sun Life Company


Mr. Speaker, it is true that a disturbance took place in one of the branches of the St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary at about eleven o'clock this morning. Fifteen inmates were at work in the tailor shop and three guards were in attendance when the trouble started. The ringleader of the prisoners is said to be a man named Crossley. The building was set on fire by the prisoners and when the guards attempted to turn on the hose to extinguish the fire, the hose was cut by the prisoners. The doors of the shop were shut by the prisoners and immediately a serious condition arose. The last report I have had upon the matter came in at about one or two o'clock. The warden states that all prisoners are now under control and locked in their cells. No fatalities have occurred. Three guards have been injured, one by assault made by Crossley, another named Jacques is rather seriously burned, and another named Forger has also been injured. The warden states that prisoner Crossley has been removed from the burning building, that all prison officials behaved in a most exemplary manner, that the prisoners are now all in their cells and that the injured guards' have been taken to the Montreal hospital for treatment.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. A few days ago I visited your office along with the hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Garland) and showed you a document on the strength of which I proposed to move the adjournment of this house in order to debate a question of urgent public importance. This matter concerned the financial position of the Sun Life Assurance Company and the conduct of a senior official. Your Honour told me that I would have your permission to make use of the document in full, and when I again visited your office accompanied by the hon. member for Battle River (Mr. Spencer), Your Honour repeated that I would have permission to make a statement on the floor of the house but that you would then rule against my proceeding with the motion as the matter was not one of recent occurrence. I then asked if I could have permission to treat it as a notice of motion, and you told me there was nothing in the rules to prevent that, I could put the entire
document on the order paper by way of a notice of motion. After the vote in this house on your ruling I sent the document to the clerk of the house by way of notice of motion. I was asked to modify it slightly, which I did, and I was then informed that the matter would appear in votes and proceedings of Thursday. When I received my copy of votes and proceedings on Thursday I found that it did not contain my notice of motion. Upon getting in touch with the clerk's office I was informed that through some mistake this notice had not been put in, but that it would be in today's votes and proceedings. Upon receiving my copy today I find that my notice is not included. Is some official of this house exceeding his authority or is there some powerful influence at work to conceal from the people of Canada the true situation in connection with the Sun Life? I make that statement because on Wednesday Your Honour stated that the rules of the house provided other opportunities for discussing this matter but my endeavours to avail myself of those opportunities have not been successful. I have been denied that privilege and I ask for some explanation.


Mr. Speaker, before an explanation is made I should like to point out that the hon. gentleman is perfectly right in making this a matter of privilege. This is a matter of parliamentary privilege in the largest _ sense-is - parliament to be used as a medium to make public a document with respect to which an injunction is now pending and in force in the superior courts of a province? Let us analyze the facts. A charge was laid against one Harpell for criminal libel. He was brought before the courts as provided by the code and was asked if he had a statement to make. He then began to read a statement which it is now sought to place upon the records of this parliament.


That is not correct,


In part.


I am not getting my
information from that source at all.


The judge having ruled
against Harpell, that that was not proper- every hon. member who is a lawyer knows that that ruling was correct-he was then asked to make any statement he might desire to make in answer to the charge against him prov'ided such statement was in accordance with the provisions of the code. Having
Sun Life Company

failed in his efforts he then proceeded to his presses at Gardenvale and set this statement up in type. It was his intention to publish it and send it broadcast throughout this country and the world, and in addition much of it was to be published in the current issue of the Journal of Commerce. The Sun Life is an institution doing business in practically every part of the world; it has thousands of policyholders in every province of this dominion with the possible exception of one. The company then proceeded to obtain an injunction in the civil courts of Quebec. An injunction prohibiting the publication of the document and that particular issue of the Journal of Commerce was granted. Harpell then removed himself to Ottawa and endeavours now to use the votes and proceedings and Hansard of this parliament as a medium to make public that which the courts of the province have prohibited being made public. This is a question affecting the highest privilege of this parliament. This matter is sub judice, it is now before the courts. I assume it is the duty of this parliament to refrain from prejudicing the cause of either litigant or party in any manner, shape or form, directly or indirectly, while the matter stands for consideration by the courts of the country. I submit that the privileges of this parliament should not be abused by permitting the placing upon the order paper of resolutions, recitals, short or long statements with respect to the conduct of this company when the moving force behind such action is the defendant in criminal proceedings now pending in Montreal, against which defendant an injunction has been issued by the supreme court of that province.


The hon. member has asked for an explanation of my statement, and I am prepared to give it. Since the conversation I had with him in the Speaker's office, at which conversation I told the hon. member that this matter might appear on the votes and proceedings by way of a notice of motion, it has come to my notice that the charges contained in the preamble to the resolution or motion as presented, are now in Canadian courts the subject of litigation on which a judicial proceeding is pending, and as the publication of the material therein contained has been forbidden and restrained by injunction order made by the Superior Court of the province of Quebec, it therefore must not be brought forward in debate. I would cite as authority, May, thirteenth edition at page 323. The material not being in order, will not be accepted for the votes

and proceedings. It was not published in the votes and proceedings or other official journals of the house pursuant to an order by the Speaker.


On a point of order, may I say I happened to be one of the members who accompanied the hon. member for West Elgin (Mr. Hepburn) at about two-thirty in the afternoon of the second of this month to Your Honour's room. I then heard you inform the hon. member that he would have the opportunity of reading his full statement as he showed it to Your Honour. I was more than surprised a short time afterwards, in coming to the house, to find that you took an exactly opposite stand. I for one am exceedingly surprised, more so than I have been as regards anything that has happened in the house before, at the action you took at that time. If I may, I would like to say that the matter that is now being referred to has not, so far as I know, been engineered by this man Harpell.


Oh, oh.


I want to say that the imatter was taken up by us in 1927, 1928, 1929-


On what subject is the hon. member speaking to the house? Is it on a question of privilege or on a point of order? That he may have been surprised at the Speaker's ruling is to be regretted, but it is not a matter for discussion by him or by the house.


I just want to make a remark.


The other day the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre-


I am not through with my comments on this matter.


I understood the hon.
member for Wetaskiwin (Mr. Irvine) was rising to speak.


I want to make a remark on this question of the privilege of the house before we leave it. No doubt the Prime Minister is quite right in seeing to it that parliament does not discuss any matter that might be in the courts, to the prejudice of one or other of the parties. I think we all agree with that, but the point of privilege as I see it is this: Who is to be the judge of that? It appears to me that if the Speaker decides quietly by himself that such and such a matter is before the courts, before it appears on the order paper.

Sun Life Company
84.
such action may involve the Speaker in many difficulties. My understanding of the rule- it may be wrong-is that we have the right to put on the order paper any subject we desire and then, if and when it comes before the house, it is regarded as being out of order, it will be so ruled. If I am wrong in that, of course my protest falls flat, but I understood that was the usual practice in the house, and if it is, I submit we are departing from that rule by permitting the Speaker to rule something out of order before the house knows what it is.


The hon. member, if I
may say so, is in error. The material to be placed on the votes and proceedings or on the order paper is subject to scrutiny by the clerk of the house and supervision by the Speaker. If the Speaker's decision is not agreed to by the house, it may be overruled.


I
understood the Prime Minister a moment ago to suggest that since this matter was sub judice, it could not be discussed or considered in this chamber. I also understood him to say that the document which he supposes is the same one as that which the hon. member for West Elgin proposes to discuss, was not permitted to be read in the courts and is not the subject matter of litigation. I, for the life of me, cannot understand how, because the courts of Quebec serve an injunction to prohibit the publication of a document-and I do not know whether it is the same document or not-that injunction on their part shall be taken to prohibit discussion in this house of a subject which, as I understand the matter, is not under litigation in the courts of Quebec. The litigation there is a personal matter as between the President of the Sun Life Assurance Company, Mr. Macaulay, and Mr. Har-pell, on a charge of libel. I understand and have read in the newspapers that Mr. Harpell attempted to read some document into the records of the court. He was prohibited from so doing. That document, therefore, is not and will not become a subject of those litigation proceedings. That, I understand, is the matter in which the hon. member for West Elgin has an interest. Of course I am not a lawyer; the right hon. gentleman is in a better position in that regard than I am, but as a layman I find myself in considerable confusion over his suggestion in the matter.


There is just one matter with which
I wish to deal. The other day the hon. member for West Elgin (Mr. Hepburn), was ruled out of order because the matter he wanted to
bring to the notice of the house was not of recent origin. Unless we know what the subject matter is in the paper which he wanted to read, we do not know whether it is of recent origin or not. Now I understand he is not allowed to put the matter on the order paper as a resolution.


Mr. Speaker, as I understand the matter, you have given a ruling. That being so, I do not apprehend that the discussion can proceed any further unless your honour should desire to withdraw your decision and allow the matter to be the subject of debate. If that were the case, I would be very happy to discuss it. Of course, if your honour insists, as I think you have every right to do, in maintaining your ruling, there is only one course open to the house-that is, to have an appeal; otherwise there can be no discussion.


On the point of order,
the document which I was refused permission to read contained information obtained from the report of the Superintendent of Insurance of the recent development in the Chicago courts in respect to the Insull investigation and as to the connection of the Insulls with the Sun Life Assurance Company. The matter in the Quebec courts is one between two individuals. It is a libel case that arose out of a statement to the effect that Mr. Macaulay, in the opinion of Mr. Harpell, was a crook. It has no relation to this matter at all. This is a reference to the Chicago courts and the report of the Department of Insurance a copy of which was laid on the table by the Minister of Finance only a few moments ago.


The hon. member for West Elgin well knows that the material he seeks to put on the votes and proceedings is by no means confined to the insurance report. That is incidental to it, and in my opinion the material is included in that matter which is prohibited by the injunction order. That is my ruling. If the hon. member wishes to appeal from it, it is open for him to do so.


Am I permitted to appeal? I deprecate this attempt to conceal the truth from the people of Canada. If I am permitted to appeal from your ruling, I should like to appeal from it because I want to find ways and means of placing this before parliament and I have your word that I shall have means of doing so. What means shall I have? I have been ruled out of order on two occasions.


It is not the prerogative
of the Speaker to conduct a school in parlia-
Trade Agreement

mentary procedure. I understand the rule and I hope the hon. member understands it as well as does any other hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING Leader of the Opposition): I wish to ask the Prime Minister a question arising out of a report which appears in today's papers of proceedings in the British House of Commons yesterday. It would seem in part to be in conflict with the statement made by the Prime Minister in this house yesterday, and I want to be quite sure as to the exact facts. The Canadian Press cable dispatch, referring to the remarks made by Sir Herbert Samuel, leader of the Liberal opposition in the British house, is as follows:	[DOT]
It had been made dear during the course of debate, he continued, that the agreements which purported to be for five years could be altered at any time by parliament whenever it chose.
I gather that the Prime Minister in his statement yesterday to this house agreed with that, at all events in so far as the powers of the British parliament are concerned, the constitutional power and the legal power.
* Reference is also made in the report to a statement by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as follows:
Mr. Chamberlain replied for the government that new Canadian duties, substituted by the Anglo-Canadian pact for existing duties, could not be altered within the next five years except to a limited degree specified in the agreement.
That statement clearly would indicate that so far as this parliament is concerned we are not free to change the duties, though it is admitted that so far as the British parliament is concerned it is free to change the duties that are set forth in the agreement. I would like to ask my right hon. friend if he agrees with this statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, assuming of course that it is a correct report of what the chancellor may have said.
I am not prepared to make any such assumption, and the question can stand as a notice. I shall deal with it at the next sitting as I have to leave in a moment to catch a train.


On the orders of the day:
Hon. II. H. STEVENS (Minister of Trade and Commerce): The other day the hon. mem-

ber for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woods-worth) asked me when we might expect census figures relative to unemployment to be released. I replied that I understood a considerable portion of those figures had already been released and that I would advise him as soon as possible of the progress being made.
A bulletin showing the number of unemployed, male and female, as of date June 1, 1931, in cities and towns of 5,000 and over, was issued last April. In addition this was published in full in the Labour Gazette, the official journal of the Labour department. There is now being issued this month a further bulletin extending the figures to places of 1,000 and over, and giving the totals for the whole of Canada by provinces, differentiating by sex, and showing the causes of unemployment. This statement will be available about the middle of next week. These figures were ready some weeks ago but some last minute checking is found advisable to see that they are as accurate as possible.
In addition to the general summary above mentioned we have ready for the printer a series of about twenty bulletins on individual cities of 30,000 and over which will review the situation in full detail. I might add that the study of this subject will comprise some six or eight volumes, quite a number at all events, exhaustively analyzing the figures and the facts in connection with the situation. The preparation of this final summary is now well advanced, but it will be some little time yet before it will be issued. But the bulletin issued in April last is a fairly complete bulletin dealing with towns of 5,000 and over, which really comprise the major portion of the figures desired.
I should like to indicate to the house that the compilation of this data naturally takes some time, and I do not think there is the slightest reason to complain of the work done by the bureau in this regard. I am convinced, as far as I can judge from very close contact with the facts, that their work in this respect has been very commendable. I should not like the impression to be left that there was the slightest degree of neglect by the bureau in the production of these figures.
Has the minister any figures in reference to the amount of unemployment in towns of over 1,000?


I have the figures for
towns of 5,000.


I understood the minister to say that the figures were being compiled for towns of over 1,000.

The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)


For the benefit of my
hon. friend I repeat that there is being prepared a further bulletin extending the figures down to places of 1,000 and over, and giving the totals for the whole of Canada by provinces, differentiating by sex, and showing the causes. This will be available about the middle of next week.


I would like to submit to my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and Commerce that I doubt very much if he will get an accurate figure of the unemployment in this dominion by limiting the scope of the calculations to towns of 1,000. Canada, as my hon. friend knows, has never in the past had any machinery for computing unemployment figures, and we have always based our calculations on the number of men gainfully employed; comparing that index figure with the index figure of a previous day we can make a rough calculation of the number of unemployed by ascertaining how many fewer men are gainfully employed today. The greatest problem in unemployment, of course, always arises where men are gathered in the large centres of population, and where as a mass they are more difficult to take care of and' find employment for than in the smaller communities. But the fact is true that a great many of those who are unemployed in the Dominion of Canada have returned to the rural parts of the country and are now living back in the small villages and on the farms whence they came. In my opinion they are doing the wisest thing possible to relieve the unemployment situation by trying to act as good citizens in their own towns or on the farms, thereby not aggravating the unemployment situation in the large centres. I am of the opinion that a census of the rural parts of the province of Ontario, including the smaller villages, would reveal that there is very substantial unemployment represented by this class of citizen, who is causing no very great problem, but is nevertheless out of work. If our figures of unemployment are to be accurate to allow us to gauge the necessities of the situation, I submit to the minister that it would be wise to have a calculation of the number so unemployed.


I regret that I did not
make myself clear. I have been trying to emphasize to the house that there were virtually three stages: first, towns of 5,000 and over, which information was got out last April in order to give to the house and the country the information; secondly, towns of 1,000 and
over; and I added that the full study covering the Dominion by provinces, differentiating by sex, showing the causes, and giving the totals for the whole dominion, was in course of preparation and that the work was well advanced.


The house resumed from Friday, October 14, consideration of the motion of Mr. P. G. Davies for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Mackenzie King and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Coote.
Mr. Speaker, before the adjournment of this debate some weeks ago the group in this comer of the house found it necessary to move a subamendment. The reason for that subamendment was that the speech from the throne itself was completely-what shall I call it?

vague, indefinite, lacking in decisive plan for the reconstruction of conditions in this country, particularly with respect to business conditions, unemployment and agricultural affairs. We found it necessary because the purchasing power of the Canadian people has been depleted to a point which endangers the whole solvency of Canada, and further because of the fact that the group to your left, sir, the official opposition, had moved an amendment which, being purely negative in character could not be taken as reflecting the viewpoint of hon. members in this comer. May I remind hon. members of the house that our amendment urged:
That the dominion control of currency and credit should be so exercised as to provide and maintain sufficient purchasing power to;
(a)	Raise the price of agricultural products and other primary commodities to an equitable level in relation to the cost of production and the settlement of outstanding liabilities, public and private;
(b)	Increase consumption, thereby stimulating industry and providing employment for our people;
And that the issue of this currency and credit should be based upon the natural wealth and productive capacity of this country, not, as at the present time, upon one single commodity, gold, and that its volume should be determined by the goods and services to be dealt with, and the legitimate requirements of the people;
This house is further of opinion, that this step should be taken in the immediate future, pending other fundamental changes, and as an integral part of a system of planned economy,



The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
which is becoming generally recognized as essential, in order that the natural wealth and productive energy of this country may be utilized to provide a satisfactory standard of living for all our people.
Mr. Speaker, the necessity for a motion of that kind must ibe apparent to hon. members who will examine the actual internal conditions of the country. If they will study the effects of unemployment and declining price levels they will be able to make a fairly accurate estimate of the decline in income brought about by unemployment and underemployment in industry. Taking the average wage in the dominion as around SI,000, and estimating the total on the basis of the number of unemployed we find that the loss of income in the term of three years is about
SI,320,000,000. There is that much money less with which to purchase goods produced or possible of production by Canadian industry.
Concerning agriculture even more accurate estimates are available. The gross agricultural revenue for the year 1929 was $1,631,081,000; by 1930 it had fallen to $1,262,047,000; by 1931 it had fallen to 8880,240,000. It is still falling rapidly. From figures available in the Bureau of Statistics we now find that there is a difference in the purchasing power of the farmer in 1930 over 1929 of $369,000,000, in 1931 over 1929 of $880,000,000 and in 1932 over 1931 of $800,000,000, or a total of over $2,000,000,000. In order to avoid any error in calculation and to make sure that overlapping is avoided, for the sake of being conservative in my figures I am willing to cut that figure in two, and to assume that the farmers have suffered a loss in income of only $1,000,000,000.
Now let us consider the condition of the earning classes, the salaried and professional people in the community. In connection with these people also we have means whereby we may make a fairly accurate estimate. The income tax returns supply us with that information. I do not think any hon. member will deny that in 1930 and 1931 the incomes of salaried and professional classes declined at least 20 per cent, and in the following year by 30 per cent. During the past two and three-quarter years it is fair to conclude that the incomes of individuals in Canada must have been depreciated to the extent of about $675,000,000.
We add up the three sums, namely, the $1,325,000,000 as a result of unemployment and under employment, the $1,000,000,000 for loss of income in agriculture, and the $675,000,000 lost by other individuals and we have a grand total of approximately $3,000,000,000. That, in short, is what the depression

has cost Canada, and the condition towards the correction of which the policy of this administration should be directed. So far they have failed to take any adequate steps in that direction for reasons I can quite readily understand. To check the continued destruction of business and continued unemployment requires not the patching of the competitive system but the institution of an entirely new economic and social order.


Oh, oh.


Hon. members opposite are inclined to laugh at facts such as I have stated. All right, I call to my support as witness one of the most eminent bankers of the British Empire, Sir Basil Blackett, director of the Bank of England. If hon. members will turn to Who's Who they will find who he is. Not only is he a director of that bank, but he is chairman of the Imperial and International Communications Limited, secretary to the Indian Finance and Currency Commission, and to the Capital Issues Committee of 1915. In October of 1914 he went on a special mission to the United States government in connection with exchange problems arising out of the war. He was a member of the National War Savings Committee, and representative of the British treasury in the United States from 1917 to 1919. This is a man whose reputation and respectability is beyond reproach. What does he say? In his last lecture before the Halley Stewart Institute of Great Britain as published in a book entitled The World's Economic Crisis by Salter, Stamp, Keynes, Blackett, Clay and Beveridge, his words appear at page 98 as follows:
I wish to put before you this evening the view that conscious corporative planning is not only a desirable means of progress but an unavoidable necessity-
Note the words, "unavoidable necessity"-
-if we are to save the economic structure of modern civilization from disaster.
Then, two pages later on, he calls upon the support of the Prince of Wales. Commenting upon a statement by the Prince of Wales, Sir Basil Blackett has this to say:
The Prince of Wales was calling for planned social effort by the individual, and it is significant that his emphasis was laid on the fact that such social effort has to be consciously organized and planned if it is to be of any use to the community.
Then, again at page 105 of the same document, having pointed out that in the forefront of the reforms which a planned

The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
twentieth century demands is a stable money whose purchasing power will remain constant, he has this to say:
It is to our failure to seize this primary necessity of any rational monetary system that our present distress is preeminently to be attributed.
Not only are the facts I have recited concerning the condition of agriculture, unemployment and business ascertainable in these statistics supplied by the bureau, but we know from our own knowledge how desperate conditions really are. For example, how much longer can we expect the farmers to carry on when not only are the receipts from wheat and live stock below the cost of production, but the receipts from the products of mixed farming, that branch of agriculture which we were advised so strongly to go. into, have taken a similar fall.
In a letter from a farmer in the northern part of the province of Alberta, it is stated that it took four dozen eggs to buy a spool of white and a spool of black thread-four dozen eggs to buy two spools of thread. It took four dozen eggs to buy a cake of laundry soap and one of toilet soap. Two and a half dozen were required to get a box of matches, ten dozen to get a pound of tea, and two and a half dozen for a tin of pepper. To be fair, we follow this out and find that in the case of the manufacturer it takes many times more boxes of paper, many times more spools of thread to meet investment charges and overhead.


Those eggs were not Easter eggs, were they?


And so we find the whole structure of our country is collapsing because of declining price levels and that throughout the world the condition is precisely the same.


Oh, oh.


What minister said that?


I tell you frankly it is so like what we hear described as a nostrum or quack remedy that I am sure my hon. friends will not ask me to give the minister's name. I have too much regard for his mentality on normal occasions; I am willing to assume that these words burst from him in the heat of rhetoric.

The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)


Was it the red-blooded Canadian?


I am afraid it was.


The hon. member will not tell us his name?


I will, if you insist.
I have before me a part of the report of the central board of the British Cooperative Union to the sixty-fourth congress of the union at Glasgow, dated May 16-18, 1932. I use this quotation to demonstrate what others besides Lord Marley, Messrs. Keynes, Kitson and others have to say about this matter; they believe that the present order must undergo a drastic change. The report reads as follows:
Capitalist apologists cannot explain in terms which do not condemn their theory the disconcerting fact that, at the apex of productive capacity, world consumption and exchange of commodities are dwindling. Systematic destruction of valuable goods alleged to have been over-produced, the collapse of credit systems sanctified by banking tradition, and reversions to crude barter reveal even to the man in the street the lamentable failure of competitive industry and the flimsiness of its foundations. In such a world of unreality the simple verities of the cooperative ideal stand out as basic common sense.
We now find hon. members of the _ Conservative party taking a position which is not only antisocial and unintelligent but in direct variance with the policies preached and pronounced by just as sincere Tories in other lands. For example, I have before me an editorial which appeared in Lord Beaver-brook's Journal, the Daily Express, under date of Wednesday, April 13. It reads as follows:
The time is long overdue for a reversal-and a dramatic reversal of the monetary policy of Great Britain.
We have asked for that in this country for many years. The editorial continues:
The national need is for a steady expansion of credit facilities. The Bank of England is the obstacle in the way of that need, and because of its vested power it has imposed upon the government for ten years a policy of deflation.
Let me interject here a few remarks. I say to those who hold up the bogey of inflation to frighten the people that this country and most countries of the world have always been happier, better off and more prosperous on a measured and reasonable inflation than under deflation. I say to them furthermore that I defy them to demonstrate intelligently or logically in this house or any other place how they are going to restore industrial prosperity without inflation. We cannot continue with
the present price levels; debts cannot be paid, our own people and country are going into bankruptcy. We must have rising price levels and new activity, and we cannot have those without inflation. It must be remembered that no hon. member in this corner has ever urged the wild and stupid policies of rabid, uncontrolled inflation which have been pursued by desperate governments under desperate conditions; what we seek is a managed and intelligent inflation, an inflation which has a definite basis and a distinct regard for price levels and the quantities of goods to be consumed. It is the negation of intelligence to say that men do not exist or that bodies cannot be created that will have the power and intelligence to control such a policy. I should like to continue with Lord Beaverbrook's editorial, and I call the following to the attention of hon. members:
In other words, the Bank of England, which owes no responsibility to the electorate, dictates the government's financial policy.
The system is definitely wrong. It has played an enormous part in bringing about the postwar economic distress, and the men who conducted the bank's affairs then are still in charge.
It is no use tinkering with the question of reform. The present situation should be brought to an end.
The government must be master in its own house; the government must dictate the nation's monetary policy; and the Bank of England must be relegated to its rightful place as the servant of the nation.
If I could paraphrase by substituting for the words "the Bank of England" the words "the banks of Canada," or to be still more candid, "the federal reserve system of 'the United States" I would repeat word for word as part of my policy those words of Lord Beaverlbrook which appeared in the Daily Express. We must have control of our banking system. We can no longer leave that to the haphazard and foolish judgment of private individuals who, driven solely by the profit motive, have so jeopardized the whole existence of this so-called civilization and have brought it to a point where a new order is imperative. I simply repeat the words of the director of the Bank of England, whom I already quoted.
All along the line we have simultaneously to get to work to overhaul existing methods and practices and to rebuild our institutions. In the economic sphere agriculture, marketing, transport, housing, all need attention in close coordination with each other, and all have to be interrelated with the social services, with health services, with education, with the problem of provision for our leisured hours.
The same gentleman, having pursued much the same course as I have in depicting what
856	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Garland (Bow River)
scientific genius has done for the human race, sums everything up by saying that it might well foe that our vision of the future may be too dazzling for us to bear. In his concluding paragraph, Sir Basil Blackett uses these words, which I call to your attention, Mr. Speaker, and to the attention of hon. members opposite with all the earnestness at my command:
For the first time in human history the mere problem of daily subsistence lias ceased to be the primary pre-occupation of a large part of the inhabitants of the earth. There is no reason why in a short time any human being should feel serious anxiety about the provision of food and clothing and houseroom for himself and for those for whom he is responsible. Science offers to us and to the generation immediately ahead of us a standard of living and of material comfort immensely higher than any that has been known to the most fortunate of those which have gone before.
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata):	Mr. Speaker, as I have very little
time after perusing official publications, I must apologize for not being more familiar with the theories and systems of so many economists. Inflation might be interesting when considered theoretically, but although I am a poor man, I cannot believe in such a policy. I have a dollar in my pocket. Inflation can make it four, but the four dollars that I shall have by inflation might be worth one-fourth as much. So I shall not be much better off if inflation is applied to the country than if things are left as they are now.


That, of
course, is rubbish.


It may be. It may be rubbish in accordance with theories that have not yet been applied. If the economists should meet together and concentrate their theories, forming one system instead of as many systems as there are individuals, then one might learn the practical result that might ensue from those systems. But until this is done, one may be allowed to be a little doubtful about the matter, although I do not challenge the good faith of my hon. friend who is always interesting when he delivers a speech in the house.
Yesterday a challenge was issued by the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett), to every member of the House of Commons. May I refer to those explicit statements that were made during the campaign of 1930. At Cornwall, on June 27, the leader of the Conservative party said:
We propose at the first session of parliament to effect such legislation as will give Canadians (Mr. E. J. Garland ]
fair opportunity in competition with any country in the world. I will enact such tariff measures to give Canadians an even chance, or perish in the attempt. At the same time we will protect labour as well as consumers. There will be no exploitation.
The Prime Minister should be labelled as perishable. This is his declaration in regard to our blasting our way into the markets of the world. At Victoria, on June 17, he said, as reported in the Victoria Colonist of the same date:
It is true we must have foreign markets, and as I said the other evening we will blast a way to those markets on a world-wide basis with any exportable surpluses. We do not have to worry about that.
At Vancouver on June 18, as reported in the Province of that date, he said:
If Mr. Mackenzie King thinks I will not so build up our agricultural and industrial life that its strength will drive our products into the markets of the world, then he is wrong. For that I will do. If he thinks I will not establish new markets for these products, strive with all my heart to retain them, drive our products with all my power into new markets, into old markets, into reluctant markets, he is wrong. For that I will do.
After the election, on September 16, 1930, the Prime Minister made this statement as reported on page 238 of Hansard of that date:
He said: Mr. Speaker, in moving that you do now leave the chair, I do so because of the disturbed conditions that exist in this country and because of the circumstances that this parliament has been called to consider the problem of unemployment. I indicated a few days ago that the measures proposed were three in number, of which a tariff measure was one. Our tariff measure is not a general revision of the tariff, but deals only with such items in the tariff as it is believed will ensure additional employment to a large number of men and women in Canada.
Then he continues:
It is not for the purposes of protection that the tariff is being revised today.
He did not say "increased"; he said "revised." That was a euphemism. The tariff board had been dispensed with and the right hon. gentleman himself was revising the tariff without any other assistance. He continued :
The resolutions that are being submitted to this house are not for the purpose of affording protection in the sense in which that term is usually used; but if that term is used to designate just what we, during the election, indicated that it did mean, namely, the giving to Canadians an equality of opportunity with others who are building up their country to enable us to build up our dominion, and to give fair competition to the worker in Canada, be it man or woman, then it is protection that we

The Address

Mr. Pouliot
propose. Tliere can be no doubt, Mr. Speaker, in the mind of any hon. gentleman within sound of my voice that this government at least has a mandate to give effect to that policy.
That was true, but it was an experiment.
In every part of this dominion I was at great care to make it known to the audiences who listened to what I had to say, so that there could be no mistake as to what I meant, that in the event of their supporting candidates of our party they thereby supported a policy that -would ensure fair competition to Canadian workmen and workwomen and equality of opportunity to Canadians to build up their country.
He continues:
A number of items only will be dealt with. They will be dealt with on the basis of the employment that will be given to those who ' are not now unemployed. And we have very definite assurances from the producers in this country that as a result of the action we are taking they will increase the number of men and women in their mills and factories. I said the other day, Mr. Speaker, that the number might be estimated at 25,000 within a reasonable time.
I think that is too low an estimate, but I desired that the estimate should be at least conservative-as in keeping with the party for which I speak at this moment. When I say
25,000,	I think I am understating the number of men and women who will find employment by reason of the action that we are taking.
This is the last quotation from the observations of the present Prime Minister on that occasion:
We propose therefore to provide that so far as may be reasonably possible the requirements of the 10,000,000 people living on the northern half of this continent shall be provided by Canadian producers.
This was said during the special session on September 16, 1930. There is no excuse for poverty, as the hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Garland) has said, but there is a reason for it. The government tried an experiment by raising the tariff. These are the results, and the figures will give the house an idea of the logic of the Liberal party and of the lack of logic of the Conservative party. In 1930, the total Canadian imports were $1,248,000,000, a decrease of $17,000,000 from the preceding year. The exports were $1,144,000,000, a decrease of $243,000,000 from the preceding year. That decrease includes a decrease of S147,000,000 of exports to the United Kingdom. This explains why the Liberal government of that day submitted to the house and to the country a scheme of British preference. They wanted to increase the British preference in order to retain such a good client and to keep the trade going. After the present government had raised the
tariff during the special session, Canadian imports in 1931 amounted to $906,000,000, a decrease of $341,000,000 from the preceding year. The Prime Minister was blasting his way into the markets of the world and the result was a decrease of $341,000,000 in imports alone. Has he any reason to say now: "We have succeeded where others have failed?" The total Canadian exports in 1931 amounted to $816,000,000, or a decrease of $328,000,000 from 1930. The Prime Minister was blasting our trade into the markets of the world, and every time he blasted, the hole became deeper. Did he have any reason in 1931 to say, "We have succeeded where others have failed"? In 1932 our total Canadian imports were $578,000,000, a decrease of S328,000,000 over the preceding year. The Prime Minister was blasting, and again the hole became deeper. But he nevertheless continued to follow the same policy. Did he have any reason then to say, "We have succeeded where others failed"? In the same year, 1932, the total Canadian exports were $587,000,000, a decrease of $229,000,000 over the preceding year. The Prime Minister was blasting and the hole again became deeper. Did he have any reason there to say, "We have succeeded where others have failed"?
Here are the figures of the total decrease in Canadian trade for the two years ending March 31, 1932. The total decrease in imports was $669,000,000 or 53-7 per cent, and the total decrease in exports was $557,000,000 or 48-7 per cent. The Prime Minister was blasting our trade, and the hole became deeper and deeper.
At times we hear something said about a favourable balance of trade. If one buys nothing and sells only one cent's worth, one has a favourable balance of trade. It reminds me of the story of two old friends vho met. Paul asked Joe, "What is your business?" Joe replied, "I have a very good business." "What is it," his friend asked. "I am selling clay pipes," Joe replied. "Do you make much money at that?" asked Paul. "Oh, yes" said Joe. "How much do you pay for them, and what is your profit?" Paul asked. "I buy them for one cent, and sell them for one cent." "Then where is your profit?" Paul asked. "Oh," Joe replied, "a few may break occasionally." I think that story applies very well to the understanding of trade by the government, and especially by the Prime Minister.
May I submit some figures from the official report of the Department of Trade and
The Address-Mr. Pouliot

Commerce for the year ending March 31,
1931,	showing Canada's decrease in trade with different countries?
With the United Kingdom our trade was $368,000,000. The Prime Minister was blasting our trade in 1930 and in 1931, and the decrease with one c