I desire, Mr. Speaker, to lay on the
table of the house the report under the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act, 1931, together with copies of the orders in council passed under the authority of the statute. 41761-60
I desire to move, seconded by Mr. Sauve:
That seven hundred copies in English and three hundred copies in French of this report be printed, and that rule 64 be suspended in relation thereto.


Does that include the orders in
council which have been adopted under the provisions for "peace, order and good government," or are they documents by themselves?


The orders in council are
documents by themselves; they are not included in the printed report.


And will not be
printed?


I had not anticipated that there would be any necessity for printing the orders in council.


Can the Minister of Labour (Mr. Gordon) indicate when the report will be printed? I know that in the past it has been arranged sometimes to have the printing done a little in advance of the orders of the house.


I think it will be only a
day or two before the report is printed. I have asked the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) to speed up the printing. I am sending the right hon. gentleman a copy now.


The report is probably
printed by now.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. G. B. NICHOLSON (East Algoma) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 29, to amend the Railway Act.
He said:	Mr. Speaker, section 179 of the
Railway Act provides that in the event of a railway company deviating any of its lines or closing a terminal or a station, involving the necessity of its employees leaving their homes and moving to another point, they must first obtain the leave of the Board of Railway Commissioners, and the board may order such compensation to the employees as in their judgment the case warrants. I propose to amend this section by adding after the words "nor create a new divisional point" the following words:
Nor make any change in the routing of traffic, nor run crews through divisional points where their homes are established, nor make any other change.
And at the end of the section to add these words:
Questions
No such change shall be made or authorized without thirty days' notice of the intended change to the employees concerned.
Subsections 1 and 2 of section 250 arbitrarily prohibit any superstructure being erected over a line of railway that does not provide a fixed clearance of seven feet between the highest freight car used on the railway and the lowest beam of the structure. Subsection 5 however, grants the railway commission authority to give special permission in certain cases to change this arbitrary clearance. It is proposed to amend subsection 5 by adding the following words:
Provided that no exemption shall be made from the operation of this section nor any change made in the standards fixed by this section until due notice and hearing is first given to all parties interested.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
Hon. T. G. MURPHY (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 30, to amend the Yukon Quartz Mining Act.
He said:	The regulations for the disposal
of quartz mining claims in the Northwest Territories were established by order in council under the authority of section 35 of the Dominion Lands Act, being chapter 113, of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, while quartz mining claims in the Yukon territory are granted under the Yukon Quartz Mining Act, which does not permit of any amendments except by legislation.
The purposes of this bill are twofold:
1.	To make it. possible for the governor general in council to extend to holders of mineral claims in the Yukon territory the same measure of consideration as it is possible to extend to holders of mineral claims in the Northwest Territories in the matter of relief from representation work on mineral claims;
2.	To provide a penalty clause designed to prevent misrepresentation as to work claimed to have been done on a mineral claim, and to prevent removing or disturbing any legal post or stake marking a claim.
, Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Has Felix Bartholomew LeBlanc been appointed to the position of customs officer at Arichat, Nova Scotia?
2.	If so, was said appointment made by the Civil Service Commission?
3.	Is the said incumbent a returned soldier?
4.	Is he a Canadian citizen?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
3.	No.
4.	Yes.


1.	How much: (a) wheat; (b) other grain or cereal has been received at government elevator, Port Prescott, since opening?
2.	How much: (a) wheat; (b) other grain or cereal has been received at the elevator at Little Cataraqui bay, since opening?


1. (a) Wheat-	Bushels
Canadian		.. .. 604,553
United States		.... 95,530
T otal		.... 700,083
(b) Other grain-	Bushels
Canadian		.. .. 737,722
Foreign corn		.. .. 548,135
Total		.... 1,285,857
2. (a) Wheat-	Bushels
Canadian		.. .. 5,399,162
United States		.... 3,364,301
Total		.... 8,763,463
(b) Other grain-	Bushels
Canadian		.. .. 2,640,492
United States		.. .. -
Total		.. .. 2,640,492


1.	Has a contract been let to George Fletcher to carry the mail from Bailieboro to Millbrook, Ontario, during the year 1932?
2.	Has Mr. Fletcher a wife and children dependent?
3.	Was R. J. Porter's tender lower than Mr. Fletcher's for this contract?
4.	If so, how much lower?
5.	Were any complaints ever received regarding Mr. R. J. Porter as a mail carrier during his twenty-six years of service as such?


1.	Yes.
2.	Department has no official information.

Questions as Orders for Returns
3 and 4. Yes. $11 lower, but owing to special representations made regarding the situation of tenderers, and also the war record of Mr. Fletcher, he was allowed to reduce his tender by this amount to the rate of the lowest.
5. No.
temporary EMPLOYEES-PUBLIC WORKS


1.	How many letters were sent to temporary employees of the Department of Public Works advising them that their services would be no more required after the last of March, 1932?
2.	How many of said employees are native born?
3.	How many of said employees are French speaking?


Stand as an order for return.


I should like to ask the Minister of Public Works just what is the reason for having this question stand as an order for return. It requires simply a word in answer to each of the questions.


I think somewhat more detailed information is required than my right hon. friend suggests in order to complete the answer to this question.


The first question is:
How many letters were sent to temporary employees of the Department of Public Works advising them that their services would be no more required after the last of March, 1932?
Surely one word would answer that. The next question is:
How many of said employees are native born?
Surely one word would answer that. The next question is:
How many of said employees are French speaking?
Surely one word would answer that also, so why should this question be made an order for return?


It will take some time to get this information, and I should think if it comes down as an order for return it will be as satisfactory as an immediate answer.


I certainly think these questions that can be answered briefly should not be made orders for returns. It may be different if questions require a great deal of research, but the letters here referred to have been recently issued and it should not take long to secure the information.
41761-60^


I want to assure my right hon. friend that there is no desire on the part of the government to escape giving the information.


Perhaps the question
might stand instead of being made an order for return.


Very well.
Question stands.


1.	How many cases were referred for award to the proper authorities under the meritorious clause since the new machinery of pensions tribunals and appeal court was formed?
2.	How many such applications were granted?
3.	How many such applications are still awaiting decision?


1.	Fifty-seven.
2.	One.
3.	Fifty-six.


What were the exports from Canada, and value thereof, of agricultural products, each year from 1929 to 1930, inclusive, of the following: (a) live stock and products thereof; (b) milk, cream and dairy products; (e) wheat; (d) total agricultural products except wheat?


Stands as an order for
return, now tabled.


1.	How many officers retained in the Royal Canadian Air Force are married men?
2.	How many of these married officers have not seen war service?
3.	How many wives and dependent children are affected by the release of married officers of the Royal Canadian Air Force?
4.	Is the government considering absorbing married officers of the Royal Canadian Air Force into other branches of the government service?
5.	How many non-permanent officers of the Royal Canadian Air Force, who were first advised that their services were no longer required, have since been reengaged?
6.	How many of such officers have war service ?
7.	How many of such officers are married?


What are the names, length of service, nature of work and number of dependents of each permanent employee of the maintenance
94b

Unopposed Motions for Papers
staff of the Department of Public Works, Ottawa, who have been notified that their services will not be required after the 31st of March?


1.	How much excise tax per pound is collected on domestic raw leaf tobacco when used in licensed factories in Canada, and how and when is the tax collected?
2.	What amount was collected for the fiscal years ending March 31, 1930, and 1931?
3.	What was the total amount of tobacco consumed in Canada each year from 1908 to 1931, inclusive?
4.	How much tobacco was grown in Canada during the years 1908 to 1931, inclusive? _
5. How much tobacco was imported into Canada in the above years, and from what source were the said imports?
6. How much tobacco was exported from Canada during the above years, and to what countries?
7.	What rebate of import duty is allowed on imported raw leaf when manufactured for export purposes?
8.	What bonding privileges are extended to licensed manufacturers when raw leaf tobacco is imported by them?
9.	How much imported raw leaf tobacco was used for export purposes during the years 1908 to 1931, inclusive?
10.	What were the average prices received by the tobacco growers of Canada: (a) for their 1929 crop; (b) 1930 crop; and (c) 1931 crop?
11.	How do the departmental officials arrive at the average price paid for tobacco in the United States?
12.	Does the Canadian government classify the different types of tobacco raised in Canada, imported into Canada and exported from Canada?
13.	If not, for what reason?


For a copy of all correspondence, reports, telegrams, petitions and other documents, in connection with the post office at L'lslet, Quebec, in 1931 and 1932.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, memorandums, investigations, reports and other documents, regarding the change in the Briton Cove post office in the province of Nova Scotia, and the reasons for the transfer of same from the previous location to the present location, between any member of the government and any official of the Post Office department at Ottawa and any person or persons in the province of Nova Scotia.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, memorandums, reports and other
[Mr. Chevrier.l
documents, between any member of the government and any official of the Department of Public Works or the Labour department or any person in the province of Nova Scotia in respect to the Big Bras D'Or public wharf repairs during the summer and fall of 1931, with a copy of payrolls and amounts expended thereon; and particulars as to whether this work was performed by contract or days' work, and the present condition of said repairs.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, memorandums, reports and other documents, exchanged between any member of the government and any official of the Department of Public Works or the Labour department or any person in the province of Nova Scotia, with a copy of payrolls and amounts spent on the repair of breakwater and in harbour improvements, during the years 1930 and 1931, at Margaree, in the province of Nova Scotia.


For a return showing:	(1) the amount of
lumber; (a) hardwood; (b) softwood, imported into Canada during the past year by the manufacturers of .motor cars and trucks; (2) the number of motor car or truck bodies or frames, either wholly or partly made of wood, imported into Canada during the past year, showing the rate of duty, the amount collected, the kind of wood and the prices f.o.b. at the mills.


Dropped.
Motion dropped.


For a copy of all correspondence, memoranda, contracts, conventions or agreements entered into during the months of October, November and December, 1931, between the government of the province of Quebec or any of its departments, and the government of the Dominion of Canada, in connection with the apportionment, distribution and administration of moneys _ contributed by the government of the Dominion of Canada to works carried on by the provincial government other than those under the control of municipalities.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, reports and other documents relating both to the dismissal of Romeo Marquis, St. Germain, county of Kamouraska, Quebec, as rural mail carrier and the appointment of his successor.


For a copy of all correspondence, reports or other documents relating to the dismissal of Clement Levesque, postmaster at St. Pacome Station, Kamouraska county, Quebec; also copy

Motions for Papers
of all correspondence, reports or other documents in connection with an inquiry with reference to the charges brought ag-ainst the said Clement Levesque and the appointment of his successor.


For a copy of all correspondence, applications, reports on applicants and all other documents relating to the appointment of a postmaster at Douglas, Ontario.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, letters, recommendations, sworn statements, and all other evidence taken at any inquiry in connection with the dismissal of Albert Hamelin as postmaster at Jasmin, Saskatchewan.


For a return showing: (a) how many automobiles were purchased for the use of cabinet ministers during each of the fiscal years ending March 31, 1922, 1923, 1924. 1925, 1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929; (b) the make of car used by each minister and the price of each of the said cars; (c) the cost of maintenance of each of the said cars, showing in detail the salary of chauffeur, oil and gasoline, repairs, housing, depreciation and other charges.


If the house is
interested in getting this information, as I have no doubt it is, it will be equally interested in getting like information for the years immediately preceding and immediately following those mentioned. Accordingly I would move that the motion be amended by adding in line 4, after the word "1929" the words "also the fiscal years ending March 31, 1930 and 1931, and the fiscal years ending March 31, 1919, 1920 and 1921."


I think we might shorten [DOT]this by accepting the amendment proposed.


Perhaps the mover of
the original motion will accept the amendment.


I think the right hon.
gentleman had better ask his own questions.


Amendment agreed to.
Motion as amended agreed to.
moved:
For a return showing the number of persons in the employ of the government in connection
-	J
with the commons chamber, the senate chamber and parliament building generally, with the various salaries paid.


When this motion was
called previously I pointed out that there was no date mentioned.


With the consent of the house I will amend the motion by inserting the words "from March 1, 1931, to March 1, 1932."


With the amendment,
shall the motion carry?
Motion as amended agreed to.


For a return showing list of all works carried on in the province of Quebec during the calendar year 1931 under the Unemployment Relief Act by the government of the Dominion of Canada out of its own moneys, and to which no contribution has been made either by the municipalities or by the government of the province of Quebec, together with copies of letters and correspondence indicating on whose recommendation said works were undertaken.


Mr. Speaker, the return tabled today covers the major part, if not all, of the information asked for in this motion. There may be letters and correspondence that do not appear in the return as tabled, but undoubtedly the rest of the information will be found in the return.


Is it understood that the minister will bring down what is not in the report?


Yes.


That is satisfactory.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I promised the right hon. gentleman
(Mr. Mackenzie King) that I would inform him to-day with respect to the Easter recess. If it is acceptable, as I understand it is from what was said yesterday, it will be proposed to adjourn on the Wednesday evening preceding Good Friday and convene again on the succeeding Tuesday. I said Thursday, yesterday, but Thursday will be a holy day. This arrangement will allow us to sit on Wednesday, and, if the house thinks desirable, we might sit until eleven o'clock. At any rate, I will give notice in the ordinary way on the order paper.
Canada Shipping Act


That would be wholly acceptable to the members on this side


We spoke to Mr. Gardiner and I understand he is satisfied.
DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE On the orders of the day:


The house will be interested in the
information which I have just received that our colleague the Hon. Maurice Dupre, Solicitor General, was to-day unanimously elected vice-president of the Naval Committee of the Disarmament Conference. The proposal was made by the Italian representatives, and in view of the unanimity with which it was received the ordinary rule of secret balloting was dispensed with.
CANADA SHIPPING ACT On the orders of the day:
Mr. ANGUS MacINN-IS (Vancouver South):	I would direct a question to the
Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau). In the speech from the throne it was announced that there would be amendments to the Canada Shipping Act, and I would ask the minister whether we may expect these amendments shortly.


I regret to say that I fear it will not be possible to lay before parliament at this session a bill to revise and consolidate the Canada Shipping Act. While the work of the officers of my department in this connection is well in hand, it is not yet sufficiently advanced to permit a bill being brought down. Anyone who has made a study of the present act will realize that the work of revising it is one of great magnitude and of no small importance. The present act contains eighteen separate parts, each dealing with a different subject, the whole comprising 950 sections. It was only last fall that the statute of Westminster was passed by the Imperial parliament, and the British Commonwealth Merchant Shipping Agreement was signed at London only on December 10, 1931. By this agreement the governments of the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, the Irish Free State and Newfoundland undertook to propose any necessary legislation and to take such other steps as may be necessary for the purpose of giving full effect to the agreement. The revision of the Canada Shipping Act, when it is complete, will have to conform to the agreement, and after full and lengthy consideration the officers fMr. Bennett.]
of my department have proposed that the most desirable way to secure the legislative uniformity contemplated by the agreement is to have model sections of the law set up which would be embodied in the statutes of all those parts of the commonwealth which are signatories to the agreement. This matter is now engaging the attention of my department, but I may add that I intend to bring before the house this session such amendments to our coastal laws as are most urgent at the present time.


Will opportunity be given
for all interested parties to present their points of view-shipping masters, the various labour unions, and others who are very keenly interested, such as the marine engineers?


I understand that
representations were made some time ago by the different associations interested. At any rate, the bill will be referred to the standing committee on marine and fisheries and any interested party will have an opportunity to present objections or offer suggestions.


Does the minister intend to bring down at this session legislation with respect to the inspection and enforcement of safety appliances on board ship while in dock?


I understand that the chief object of the amendments will be with respect to our coastal laws for the purpose of putting Canadian bottom owners on the same footing as the American. There may be other amendments, but I cannot say offhand whether the amendment suggested by my hon. friend will be embodied in the bill.


On the orders of the day:
May I call the attention of the"
Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens) to the following despatch, diated March 8, and ask a question based upon it:
New Zealand Treaty Waits on Canada
Wellington, New Zealand, March 8.-"Unforeseen delay at the Canadian end" has temporarily held up progress on the trade treaty between Canada and New Zealand, Downie Stewart, finance minister, said to-night. The proposals negotiated between Mr. Stewart and H. H. Stevens, Canadian Minister of Trade and Commerce, at Honolulu, are ready, however, for submission to the New Zealand parliament. Mr. Stewart added he had been informed by Mr. Stevens that pressing political problems had precluded immediate submission of the proposals to the Canadian cabinet.

Unemployment Continuance Act
Will the minister say whether this despatch is correct, and what these political problems are.


The answer to the question is that in the course of a few days a statement will be made to the house regarding the Dominion government's position in connection with the New Zealand treaty.


May I ask the
Minister of Trade and Commerce or the Prime Minister whether negotiations are proceeding with the government of France with respect to a treaty between Canada and France on trade matters. I ask this question because I believe despatches have come from France which would indicate that the French government is contemplating banning fresh fruits from Canada and putting a prohibitive duty of $1 a bushel on imports of grain as a consequence of the abrogation of the treaty we had.


No such information has reached
the government, nor have we received any communications since the last despatch was sent, indicating a willingness to resume discussions looking towards an amended treaty


On the orders of the day:
May I inquire from the Postmaster General whether his department has completed or will soon complete the purchase of the necessary land for the erection of a postal terminal, near the Bonaventure station, in Montreal, and when we may expect to see the work started.


I think
that this question comes under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Stewart).


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, will the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) advise the house what members of the council are replacing, in their absence, the minister without portfolio (Sir George Perley) and the Solicitor General (Mr. Dupre) on the subcommittee for the administration of the unemployment relief act.


In view of the fact that no further new matters are being considered, no appointments
have been made. As occasion necessitates these appointments will be made, but at the moment there is no necessity. The members of council as a whole have considered such matters as require attention since the departure of the ministers referred to.


No Quebec men?


There are Quebec men on the council as a whole.


The house resumed from Tuesday, March 8, consideration of the motion of the Prime Minister that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to resolve itself into com-mitte of the whole on the following resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a bill to amend chapter 58 of the statutes of Canada, 1931, striking out the word "March" in section 8, and substituting the word "May" therefor.
Mr. Speaker, to my mind the resolution which has been introduced by the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) is one of the most important pieces of legislation brought before the house this session. It deals with unemployment and farm relief and affects not only tens of thousands of people; when the husbands and wives and children are taken into account it means that probably a million and a half or two million people are affected. The discussion thereon should receive the serious thought of every hon. member.
We have had in this country from time to time what have been known as hard times or depressions, and it must be said of the Canadian people as a whole that they face a crisis or anything which seems to be in the nature of a disaster with courage second to none. W'e have had depressions before, and in all probability as time goes on we will have others. They will occur when this government has passed on and perhaps when most, if not all, of the hon. members have left the scene. We had a depression which started in 1921 and extended into 1922 and 1923. I do not intend to deal in detail with the period of the great war, but for a moment I should like to go back to those days.
During the years from 1914 to 1918 the people of this country were under terrific stress and strain. They were keyed up from time to time with the news from the front; some of them were waiting anxiously for the cables announcing the causualty lists, and so

Unemployment Continuance Act
on, but their morale was sustained not only by their loyalty but because they were kept busy. There was no unemployment and, after all, the great tonic for idleness or for worry is activity and work. I might say that not only was every man and woman active in connection with the war, but there was also some profiteering, with which I do not intend to deal.
I desire to contrast that trying period from 1914 to 1918 with this depression, which in its magnitude and its ramifications is perhaps the greatest we have experienced. I am not unmindful of the efforts put forth by this government to grapple with the situation which confronted them when they took power in 1930 and which has continued down to the present day. I do not intend to hark back to the election campaign of 1930 other than to say that in the campaign the present Prime Minister, then the leader of the Conservative party, and all his candidates, made of unemployment a federal issue. Nothing was said in regard to the provinces taking part in this work, and very little in connection with the participation of municipalities. The then leader of the opposition made it a federal issue. He told the people of this country, not once but a dozen times, in so many words: If you elect me as Prime Minister and I form a government, with my bow and arrow I will kill and end unemployment in this country. That was the effect of the words he uttered. It is only fair to make a few observations in connection with the methods adopted by this government in regard to unemployment. As I said before, I am not unmindful of the efforts put forth, nor do I think the people of this country are unmindful of them; but I do think the majority of the people are of the opinion that 'whatever the efforts may have been, the results have fallen far short of expectations.
First of all, I should like to go back to the special session held in September, 1930. That session was called largely for the purpose of devising ways and means and passing legislation to end unemployment. The first method adopted by the government at that special session was the raising of the tariff to a point higher than any other government has ever attempted to raise it, and higher, I hope, than any government in the future will attempt to raise it. But this did not have the effect of curing unemployment; on the contrary, it made the unemployment greater, because people of moderate means had to pay more for the necessities of life. Therefore the increase of the tariff had no effect at all in the way of alleviating unemployment.

Then there was the measure under which an amount of $20,000,000 was voted to relieve or put an end to unemployment. I am not criticizing that in any way, nor did the opposition criticize it at the time it was brought in. They did have something to say as to the way- in which the money should be spent, and made certain suggestions which were not taken seriously or acted upon by the government; but the principle of asking for a vote of $20,000,000 was not opposed by hon. members on this side. As a matter of fact, the opposition would not at that time have criticized the granting of a larger sum, but the government thought $20,000,000 was the amount they should have to spend.
I want to speak of the mistakes the government, in my judgment, made at the time they had that amount voted. First of all, the government made a mistake even before the calling of the special session-and in the remarks I make I want it to be clearly understood that I am not in any way critical of the hon. gentleman who held the portfolio of Minister of Labour from the inception of this government until his resignation a few weeks ago. He is a capable man, a man of integrity, and one who, I think, has for many years kept in close touch with labour conditions in Canada. I am sorry, that the gentleman, as the Prime Minister pointed out not long ago, has become a casualty through being overworked and broken in health. But in that appointment to the portfolio of labour the mistake made by the government was this: if there is any place where a minister of labour should not have a seat, it is in the other chamber of this parliament. He was not close to the common people. He could not occupy a seat in this house in the special session of 1930 or in the session of 1931. Many questions were asked of the Department of Labour; sometimes they were answered and sometimes they were not. But in my opinion the results would have been far better for this country and for the people who are out of employment had the office of minister of labour been occupied by a member of the House of Commons.


When the Hon. Mr. Murdock was Minister of Labour in a Liberal government, had he a seat in the House of Commons?


Yes, he had.


He was defeated
and was appointed to the Senate.


He was not appointed to the Senate until years after he was minister of labour.

Unemployment Continuance Act


Not at all.


I do not mind interruptions if they are relevant. I shall answer any question I can, but as regards the question of my friend, he is wrong in his facts, because the Hon. Mr. Murdock was never minister of labour while he sat in the Senate.
Another mistake that I think the government made was that they linked themselves up with the provinces and municipalities. If I may revert to some remarks I made a few moments ago, they made the issue that primarily the question of unemployment was a matter fo.r the federal parliament. Then they attempted to make some arrangement first with the provinces and through the provinces with the municipalities. The result is that the whole matter has been confused; there has not been either head or tail to it. There are two principals: the federal government and the provinces, with the municipalities as a side partner. The result is that if a member rises and asks a courteous, intelligent question in regard to the expenditure of federal money on unemployment relief, it is very difficult to secure an intelligent answer. I say that in no spirit of criticism. It would have been -far better if the federal government had assumed the whole responsibility for the payment of money in connection with unemployment relief and had in some degree worked in conjunction, if they wished to do so, with the provinces and the provinces with the municipalities, but there should have been some scheme worked out so that the responsibility in regard to the payment of these amounts could at least be put on someone's shoulders.


What does the hon.
member suggest the federal government could have done instead of what they did do?


That is a fair question, and I am prepared to answer it. As a matter of fact, I was coming to it. I would say:	follow the advice that the
leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) gave to the government the other day, namely, that it would have been far better if this relief work had been carried out by a commission rather than through any government. Such a course would have done away with a great deal of the difficulty, unrest and dissatisfaction that prevail to-day in this country in regard to the expenditure of the money.


Would the hon. member eliminate the provinces and the municipalities in connection with this expenditure?


I do not say that I
would do so, but I would suggest a responsible commission composed of responsible men, not politicians, either members of the government or members of the opposition.


Oh, oh!


Hon. members can
take that as a joke, but I mean it just the same. I would suggest a commission where no politics could creep in. If the hon. member for Muskoka-Ontario (Mr. McGibbon) will wait a moment or two, I shall endeavour to give my reasons for saying why I think the appointment of a commission would have been much better than the way in which the matter has been handled by the government since 1930.
These questions sometimes get me off the beaten path. I want to go back to the
820,000,000 voted at the special session of 1930. We find, according to the statements made from the government side, that out of the fund of $20,000,000 the sum of $17,372,000 was expended. The whole amount apparently was not required, or at least, if it was required, it was not spent. The $17,372,000 formed part of a total expenditure by the provinces and municipalities of approximately $70,000,-
000.	That proves, to my mind at least, that $3,000,000 was not used, so that there was lack of business ability, lack of coordination and lack of cooperation between the federal government, the provincial governments and the municipalities. But I do not blame the municipalities in that regard. I am endeavouring to establish merely that the whole scheme has been worked out in a very unbusinesslike way. I repeat, that the federal government should have been in control of the situation from the first, perhaps having a commission working for or under it to some degree. I do not think any member of this house will get up and say that the efforts put forth by this government in the special session of 1930 did very much to alleviate unemployment. Unfortunately-one does not like to say this, but we must face the facts as we see them-the unemployment situation has gradually been getting worse ever since this government came into power, despite the fact that it has had practically a free hand to grapple with the situation. My hon. friend from Muskoka-Ontario, as a medical man, knows that if he is prescribing for a patient who gradually gets worse under his treatment instead of better, and concludes that his treatment is not the right one for the case, he may consult with some other member of the profession or perhaps call in another doctor to prescribe for the patient.
954	COMMONS
Unemployment Continuance Act
I am not insinuating at all that the opposition should be called in to deal with the present state of affairs, because they will be called in by the people of this country just as soon as they have an opportunity to speak their minds.


We shall have to be a
whole lot sicker than we are now for that to happen.


The whole management or mismanagement of the situation does not stand very much to the credit of the federal government or of some of the provincial governments, as I shall endeavour to explain in a moment or two.
I come to the session of 1931. At that session there was a long discussion of the unemployment question, and very late in the session, two or three days before the close, a measure was brought down by the government asking for what is commonly known now as a blank cheque in dealing with the unemployment situation. That blank cheque was given to them, although hon. members on this side opposed it, pointing out at the same time that if the government in their wisdom wished to ask for fifty or one hundred or one hundred and fifty million dollars, or any other stated amount, it would be voted without question. But no, the government must have a blank cheque and unlimited powers, and they got both. We do not know how much of the blank cheque has been handed over to the provinces, although figures have been given as to the amounts for 6ome of the provinces. I do not think, however, that any hon. member on the other side of the house will say that since the government was granted a blank cheque and unlimited powers in the session of 1931, unemployment has lessened. On the contrary, from 1931 down to the present day, just as from 1930 to 1931, the unemployment situation has been gradually getting worse; there are thousands more unemployed men and women in this country to-day than there were a year ago.
Now I come to at least a partial answer to the question asked by my hon. friend from Muskoka-Ontario about the commission and about the spending of this money. I do not charge the right hon. the Prime Minister, any member of his government, or the government as a whole, with having played politics in the expenditure of money voted for unemployment and farm relief. But I do say this, that either with or without knowledge, consciously or unconsciously, the federal authorities placed in the hands of the provincial governments something that most

of the provinces at all events have used for political purposes. I want to speak particularly of the province of Ontario.
Members from Nova Scotia and from Saskatchewan have pointed out in this house that politics did enter into the spending of the money voted for purposes of unemployment and farm relief. Speaking as a citizen of Ontario, and knowing something at least of politics in this province, I say that the fund has been used in Ontario for political purposes. I want to say a word or two about the political machine in the province of Ontario, and when I say the political machine I mean the provincial political machine. Of course, in a federal election the provincial political machine comes out to do duty for the federal party, but primarily it is a provincial political machine. Its chief architect and designer is a gentleman who now occupies a high position in London, England, but that machine is still in existence, and its ramifications are numerous indeed. It is surprising how this political machine is manned. It is manned by officials of the highways department of the province of Ontario; it is manned by the officials of the liquor control board of the province of Ontario, and when I say '[DOT]officials" I am not referring at all to the commissioners; it is manned by officials who have to do with old age pensions in the province of Ontario; it is manned by officials who have to do with mothers' allowances in the province of Ontario; it is manned by officials of that great public institution, the Ontario Hydro Electric Commission.


Might I offer a suggestion to my hon. friend? Does he not think that in fairness, having made a general statement of that kind, he should give more details, rather than leave it in the form of a general statement? Those are pretty serious charges, and it seems to me that my hon. friend has said either too much or too little.


In reply to my hon. friend the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Manion), I do not think I have said too much or too little, and if I have the time I may say a good deal more before I sit down.


There is plenty of time.


In regard to the manning of the political machine by officials of the Ontario Hydro Electric Commission, let me say that part of the machine is not working true to form; for there has been to some extent a backfire from the gun they have been firing in that part of the political

Unemployment Continuance Act
machine. But I repeat, Mr. Speaker, in the province of Ontario the political machine is manned by officials of these different departments and commissions as I have stated here on my responsibility as a member of this house. They have built up that great political machine in the province of Ontario. I will not say that they have taken the money out of the treasury, but the fact that they have the spending of the money through their officials has resulted in their using it, if not directly at least indirectly for political purposes.
My friend the Minister of Railways thought I had said too much or too little. Well, I am going to tell him something more. During the last year and a half there have been several by-elections for the legislature of Ontario, and to rnv knowledge hundreds and hundreds of unemployed men were stopped outside the polling booths by Conservatives and warned that they had better be careful how they marked their ballots, because if it was found they had voted against the Queens Park candidate they could take it for granted that they would not get any work or relief from the unemployment fund. If that is not playing politics I do not know what is. So I repeat that in Ontario, unfortunately, the money received by the province under the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act has been used to further the purposes of the political machine.
I regret that the Minister of Labour (Mr. Gordon) is not in his seat. He holds a very important portfolio. There is no doubt of his ability, nor of his integrity so far as I know; but I am a little doubtful of him in some other respects. I am told that his sponsor was the distinguished gentleman who now occupies such a prominent position in London, England, and that it was he who tutored the minister in the craft of politics. So we had an excellent combination-an apt pupil and a very clever teacher. On February 23 last the minister took part in the debate on unemployment, arising out of the amendment moved by the member for Kenora-Rainy River (Mr. Heenan) on the motion to go into supply. One would naturally expect that in what was his maiden speech as Minister of Labour he would have at least said something in regard to the policy of the government or what he himself thought should be done to help dispel the dark clouds of unemployment and distress that hang over the country. I have read his speech carefully in Hansard of that date. He was not subject to the forty-minute rule and consequently spoke at length. In all kindness to him I would point out that he took up almost three-quarters of an hour in criticizing
the immigration policy of the former administration, and tried to argue that the policy was largely the cause of the present unemployment and distress. Well, the hon. gentleman came into this house after the elections of 1930, and I would refer him to a speech delivered on March 9, 1928, by the then hon. member for Vancouver North, Mr. McRae, who sat on this side as a member of the Conservative party and of the opposition. His fellow Conservatives applauded the scheme that he outlined for colonizing fifty million acres of land in the far west at a cost involving not millions but billions of dollars. If the then government had taken his advice and carried out that policy the country would now be bankrupt.
After attacking the immigration policy of the late administration, the minister launched an attack on the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River, who held the portfolio of labour in the late Liberal government. I hold no brief for the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River; he is well able to take care of himself and usually does, but I would say to the minister that if he puts as much energy into his work and gets as close to the labouring people of Canada as did his predecessor, he will have a record to be proud of when he retires from the Department of Labour. On that occasion he regaled the house with a vast amount of correspondence from people up in northern Ontario, from mayors, presidents of boards of trade and others, all throwing boquets at the administration. One would expect an hon. gentleman holding the very high and responsible position of Minister of Labour to maintain debate, especially during this trying period, on the high plane of national politics rather than descend to the low level of ward politics. But a perusal of the correspondence is sufficient to convince one that it could have no place even in the discussion of a village council.
Now, to come to the resolution itself:
That it is expedient to introduce a bill to amend chapter 58 of the statutes of Canada, 1931, striking out the word "March" in section 8, and substituting the word "May" therefor.
The Prime Minister is a very eminent lawyer, and I do not pretend to follow him in the citations he read to the house yesterday from a judgment delivered by the late Lord Chancellor Haldane, but it appears to me as a layman using ordinary common sense that he is attempting to resurrect something that is dead. He is trying to amend an act that became null and void on March 1 last. This resolution requires an undertaker to bury it, and when that is done the government should bring in some live act in its place.
956	COMMONS
Unemployment Continuance Act
I should like to say a word or two with regard to farm relief as it pertains to the province of Ontario. Aft e have heard a great deal in regard to the money spent in Saskatchewan and the other provinces of the west for direct farm relief, but if this government does not take some steps to relieve the situation in this great province of Ontario, before long they will be confronted with a situation that will tax all the resources of the country. During the course of a debate the other day the Prime Minister stated, in reply to a question as to farm products and their prices, that the fanners of this country had better read the book written by the Duchess of Atholl. If that is all the relief the government is prepared to give the farmers of Ontario and of the other provinces, then it is a sorry day for the farmers and for the whole Dominion of Canada.
I want to repeat what has been often said in this house that if the basic industry of this country cannot prosper; if the farmers cannot find markets for what they produce, at prices which will at least give them some profit, that industry is doomed. This is the situation facing the farmers of Ontario to-day, as well as those of every province in this great dominion. I hope the house will not permit the Prime Minister to force through this blank cheque again. The right hon. gentleman likes to cite precedents from the mother of parliaments, as he calls it.


The hon. gentleman has spoken for forty minutes.


Mr. Speaker, as one who has had
considerable relief work done in his constituency I can hardly let the statements just made by my hon. friend (Mr. Sanderson) go unchallenged. The hon. gentleman said this money was used for political purposes. I agree with the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) that if a man stands up in this house and makes a charge as serious as this, at least he should be prepared to give some proof.- The only proof suggested by the hon. member who just took his seat was that somewhere, at some time, some persons had been told by somebody that if they did not vote for a certain candidate in a certain by-election-which the hon. gentleman did not name-they would be deprived of relief work. The one outstanding thing that has struck me during this debate has been the lack of real criticism by the opposition. Perhaps they are performing what they think is a party act, but it does not take very much intelligence to understand that really there

is no enthusiasm behind what they are doing; their efforts are not well directed, and above all no alternative plan has been suggested. I defy any member of this house to go into the ridings where this money has been spent and successfully criticize the way it has been handled. I do not say there have been no mistakes; there have, but what undertaking of such magnitude ever was carried through without mistakes being made? The opposition have suggested no alternative. What would they have done with these tens of thousands of people, men, women and children, literally starving in this country? When I remember that notable speech of the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King), with the background it had-that speech that acted as one of the most powerful weapons in sweeping hon. gentleman opposite from the government benches to the opposite side of the house-I should think they would have left this subject alone.
We had unemployment then, Mr. Speaker; we still have it and everyone regrets it, but what would hon. gentlemen opposite have done? I asked the hon. member who just took his seat what he would have done, and what was his answer? He said he would have appointed a commission. Was that an alternative policy? I ask him now, as I ask any member opposite, what he would have done that the government did not do. Would they have started a dole?


You started it yourselves.


The hon. gentleman
says we started it ourselves. I will do this; I will go into Hamilton at the next election and defend the labouring people there against him on this question.


Did I understand the hon. member to say he will go into Hamilton and speak against the labour candidate?


No, I said I would defend this legislation, and I think it can be defended successfully. Through this legislation seven million man-days of work were given the people of this country. Is that nothing to be proud of? Did it have no effect on the prosperity of the country? Perhaps it had not much 