Hon. T. G. MU Pi PHY (Minister of the Interior) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 21, to amend the Indian Act.
Explain.
Mr. MURPHY': It is proposed to make certain amendments to the Indian Act dealing with the appointment of truancy officers and executors of estates; also relating to the sale of cattle and field crops; the establishment of roads on reserves; enfranchisement; residing or hunting upon reserves without authority; and the regulation of the operations of hawkers, peddlers and others on reserves.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. ROBERT WEIR (Minister of Agriculture) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 22, respecting the inspection and grading of hay and straw.
Explain.


The present grades for hay and straw were established some twenty-five years ago, when the demand for these commodities was of a different nature from now. We have had a number of requests that the definitions of the grades as set out in the statute be repealed and that authority be given to the minister to establish new grades more in conformity with present requirements. If this bill could be given its two readings this afternoon, I would then refer it to the committee on agriculture.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
[Mr. Lapointe.J


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
At the coming conference with the provincial governments, is it the intention of the government to move to obtain an agreement whereby the censoring of motion pictures be concentrated under a minister of the Dominion government?


This question apparently refers to matters coming before the interprovincial conference which was held last fall. I think the question is out of date.


1.	At what points between Calgary and Saint John are rest and feed stations available?
2.	What are the facilities at these various stations ?
3.	Are the stations operated under the direct control of the railway or are they privately operated; if privately operated, what are the names of the operators?
4.	Are the railway companies financially interested in any of such operators; if so, what is their interest?
5.	What is the price of fodder charged shippers at the various feeding stations; where price is per bale is there any standard weight of such bale?
6.	What inspection, if any, is made of quality of fodder supplied?


This question can be
passed as an order for a return so far as the Canadian National Railway is concerned, but we have no records of the Canadian Pacific Railway with respect to this matter. I am sure that my hon. friend could get that part of the information by writing to the Canadian Pacific Railway.


Question passed as an order for a return.


So far as the Canadian National Railway is concerned.


1.	How many pounds of New Zealand butter were imported into Canada in 1932?
2.	How many pounds of New Zealand butter were imported into Canada up to present date during the month of January, 1933?
3.	What is the total amount for both periods?

Trade Relations with Russia


1.	Canada's imports of butter from New Zealand entered for consumption, for the year ended December 31, 1932, were 50,972 pounds.
2.	Canada's imports of butter from New Zealand entered for consumption, for the month of January, 1933, were 76,924 pounds.
3.	Canada's imports of butter from New Zealand entered for consumption from January 1, 1932 to January 31, 1933, were 127,896 pounds.


1,	2, 3 and 4. Canada's imports of bituminous coal entered for consumption, by countries, year ended December 31, 1932, were:
Tons of
Imports from 2,000 lbs	$
United Kingdom..	..	332,037	766,084United States	
8,187,178	10,824,064Newfoundland	
2	24Total Imports. .. 8,519,217	11,590,172


How many persons were employed on Canadian railroads in 1928, 1929, 1930, 1931 and 1932?


The average number of
railway employees throughout Canada is as follows:
1928		 187,710
1929		 187,846
1930		 174,485
1931		 154,569
1932-Complete returns not yet available.


1.	Has Mr. A. C. Belle-Isle been appointed postmaster of Campbellton, New Brunswick?
2.	If so: (a) on what date was he appointed; (b) was he advised that an inspector would install him as postmaster at a given date, and in such a case, on what date?
3.	Was he installed as postmaster of Campbellton?
4.	If so: (a) on what date; (b) if not, why?


1.	Yes.
2,	3 and 4. A certificate was issued by the Civil Service Commission on behalf of Mr. Belle-Isle on the 20th January, 1933, and Mr. Belle-Isle would be notified by the district superintendent of the probable date of the transfer. Mr. Belle-Isle was installed on the 4th instant.


1.	How much bituminous coal was imported into Canada during the year of 1932?
2.	What quantity came from the United States of America?
3.	What quantity oame from Great Britain?
4.	What quantity oame from other countries?


1.	At what points between Calgary and Saint John are rest and feed stations available?
2.	What are the facilities at these various stations?
3.	Are the stations operated under the direct control of the railway or are they privately operated; if privately operated, what are the names of the operators?
4.	Are the railway companies financially interested in any of such operators; if so, what is their interest?
5.	What is the price of fodder charged shippers at the various feeding stations; where price is per bale is there any standard weight of such bale?
6.	What inspection, if any, is made of quality of fodder supplied?


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of Justice, who is leading the house, the following question: Will the government afford the house an early opportunity of discussing the proposed Canadian syndicate Russian barter transaction in cattle and oil and other commodities? What I mean by an early opportunity is, say, not later than next Tuesday because, in the absence of the Prime Minister, which we all regret, I know that we cannot expeot the opportunity to be afforded to-morrow.


In answer to my hon. friend, I
shall discuss the question with the Prime Minister at the first opportunity, probably this afternoon, and let him have an answer


Trade Relations with Russia
to-morrow. I think an early opportunity could be afforded for a discussion of the matter, but the proposal that I have heard made was that it should be discussed on the estimates of the Agriculture department. However, if that is not agreeable to the house, some other date can be fixed.
That will be quite satisfactory to me, if we may discuss it on the live stock vote.


I think that would be
the appropriate time, and if it is acceptable to the house we shall arrange to have the matter discussed on the live stock vote of the Department of Agriculture.


Is the reply of the Minister of Justice intended to convey the impression that the Minister of Agriculture will take up his estimates on Tuesday so that the matter may be discussed at that time?


No, I did not intend to leave that impression. I have not discussed the matter with the Minister of Agriculture. I do not know when he will be ready with his estimates, but I fancy it will not be at a very distant date.


In the meantime apparently there is at least one syndicate trying to make an agreement to exchange cattle for Russian goods. May I ask the Minister of Justice, whether the government would be opposed to such an agreement being carried out provided it could be made satisfactorily and without any government guarantees?


I am not going to express an opinion on behalf of the government in answer to the question of the right hon. gentleman. The matter was fully placed before the house by the Prime Minister himself, and I have no further information than he afforded the house on that occasion.


I have no right to speak for the Minister of Agriculture, but I have a hunch that he will be quite ready by next Tuesday.


I am sure reasonable
notice will be given.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask
the Minister of Justice if the government has

been approached by a steel industry concerning a certain barter involving an exchange of steel rails for Russian oil, to a value of about $4,000,000? What is the attitude of the government towards that proposed barter?


No offer of the kind has come to my knowledge. Until this moment I had not heard of it, but I shall make inquiries regarding it and let the hon. member know.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask
a question of the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Manion). A press report from Vancouver contains the information that representatives of Hull, B'lyth and Company, old country coal merchants, are leaving for the east to negotiate with authorities of the Canadian National Railways for the purchase of the railways' dock at Vancouver harbour. I should like to know if the minister has any information in this connection, or whether he will obtain it and give it to the house.


Mr. Speaker, I have
heard more or less indirectly that there have been some negotiations between the Canadian National Railways and some other parties concerning the dock in question. However I cannot give any accurate information at this time. I understand the railways are not using the dock to any great extent. I shall make inquiries however and give the hon. member any information I may receive from the railway company.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to know if the Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie) has received any further information concerning the trouble at Anyox.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to know
if it is the intention of the government to deport Fred Booth, John Harris, Tom Kir-bride and J. Waldon, all of Bienfait, Saskatchewan, together with their families? I have been notified that such deportations will take place. Is there any truth in this notice of deportations I have received?


I shall draw the hon. member's
question to the atttention of the Minister of Labour as soon as he enters the house. His department is charged with deportation matters.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, in respect to the appeal made by the provinces of Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia in October, 1929, against the decision of the Board of Railway Commissioners in their order No. 448 dated August 26, 1927, I should like to ask when an answer will be given or a date set for re-hearing?


I believe I explained the other day that at the interprovincial conference an understanding was arrived at by which domestic freight rates on feed grains were to be lowered. Representatives at that conference from the western provinces were quite agreeable. Although the proposal was delayed a short time owing to the illness of a traffic officer of the Canadian Pacific Railway, it has now been received, and I have submitted it to the western provinces. If it is acceptable to them-and I think it will be

it may be that the appeal will be disposed of. However when the replies arrive the government will have to deal with the appeal in the proper manner.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the hon. Postmaster General (Mr. Sauve):	I want to inquire whether
he has received from the Department of

Public Works a grant of 50 per cent on the dredging and drainage cost of rivers in Laval-Two Mountains county, since 1930, and what is the amount?


I do not quite follow the drift of the horn, member for Laprairie-Napier-ville's question. I shall make inquiries and consult the files, if necessary, and shall give him, in due time, the answer to which he is entitled.


Does the hon Postmaster General wish me to put the ques tion in English?
Hen.. Mr. SAUVE (Translation): If the hon. member thinks he can better express the purport of his question in English, he is free to do so.


I did not
catch what was said. Does the hon. Postmaster General wish to reply in English?


The house resumed from Thursday, February 2, consideration of the motion of Mr. Woodsworth:
Whereas under our present economic arrangement large numbers of our people are unemployed and without the means of earning a livelihood for themselves and their dependents;
And whereas the prevalence of the present depression throughout the world indicates fundamental defects in the existing economic system;
Therefore be it resolved, that, in the opinion of this house, the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth in which all natural resources and the socially necessary machinery of production will be used in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the few.
Mr. Speaker, the resolution before the house to-day was moved on the first day of this month by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth). It was discussed very ably by hon. members from this side of the house, as well as those from the Progressive, Labour and Independent groups, but Liberal members observed a discreet and possibly ominous silence. None of them has yet indicated his reaction to this resolution. Coming in at this time, when we are in the midst of an unusual depression, at a time when there is considerable u'nrest in the country, the resolution has created a great deal of interest in the house and country. On account of the new political party sponsoring it, and the acclaim the party has received, the resolution has produced the impression in the
1944	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Anderson
minds of some people that it challenges our democratic institutions. It is for that reason only that I venture into the debate.
The first clause deals with the unprecedented unemployment situation obtaining in Canada and in other lands. There is no doubt that everyone regrets the extreme unemployment and the attending distress suffered by many of our citizens. The unemployment situation which we have has been produced by many forces. They are world-wide in their character and have been in operation for some years. I would judge that the great war and the unusual inflation following it, and the unprecedented prosperity from 1921 to 1929, have been largely the causes of our present depression. It commenced in the latter half of 1929 and by the time of the election in 1930 was well under way. It has continued since that time and we are still looking for a solution. This country is not worse off in that regard than other countries, and I compliment the government on the courage and efficiency they have shown in attacking this situation and bringing relief to our unemployed as much as possible.
You may say that the unemployed fall into two classes; the first class, those citizens who never have accepted responsibility for making a living for themselves and providing for their dependents. These people have been on the unemployed list before and probably will be as long as they live. They accept employment by fits and starts but are very much subject to wanting leisure. The second class consists of those citizens who do accept the responsibility of making a living for themselves and providing for their dependents. They are the larger class. The unemployment list to-day includes quite a number who have come on it only this year, because their little savings that they had accumulated in previous years have been spent, and only with great reluctance have they ventured to ask for assistance under the unemployment relief scheme, that is direct relief, that we have this year. This is the class of citizen that deserves sympathy and should get every assistance possible.
Before the present time it has not been looked upon as the duty of the government to provide jobs for the individual. It is the duty of the government to make the laws, to put into effect such machinery as will enforce them, to see to it that the individual's rights and liberty and life are protected, that he is given justice as between man and man. It is the duty of the citizen to obey those laws, to provide for himself as far as possible and to assist in paying the taxes that will keep the country solvent. Many of the people

who are on the unemployed list to-day are not able to pay taxes, but they have paid taxes before and it is not their fault that at present they are not able to do so. It has been said in this house that large numbers of people in this country have been denied the right to work. This is a free country and the right is not denied to any person to work in any vocation he chooses. But circumstances may be such that if they depend for their day's labour on the ingenuity and initiative of some Other individual, under the circumstances we have to-day that other individual may be unable to give them employment. To my mind employment is not going to get much better in the future. We have a condition, brought about by many forces, as I have already indicated, that will render employment in factories and other places not so extensive as in the past.
The unemployment relief system which we have to-day is not satisfactory, it is not a permanent solution for our difficulties. It will be a less satisfactory solution in the future, and I am going to offer a suggestion to the government that I have not heard mentioned before. I do not know of any country that has put anything like it into effect. It is this, that the government should set up some means by which more people will be returned to the land. The government has made some efforts in that direction; I compliment them on it. It is the right direction. They are putting certain people on crown lands in various parts of the country. They are assisting them to make homes and provide for themselves. But I would go further than that. There are large tracts of land going back to a state of nature all over this country. In Ontario -il speak of it particularly-there are large tracts of land unused at the present time farms practically deserted. You see them in all sections, with only a fence around the hundred acres, no fences within, going back to grass and weeds. I would suggest that the money that is now spent on unemployment relief might be better used in acquiring some of that land by the government, parcelling it out into small lots, five or ten acres, or even twenty-five acres, and taking the unemployed from our cities, towns and villages and putting them on that land; assist them by giving them expert direction, and help to build their own homes. Show them how to produce agricultural products by what might be called a forced system. If numbers of these people were given the opportunity to go on the land -and I know lots of them would be willing- they could produce on a five acre lot all the fruit and vegetables they require. They could also produce eggs and poultry, milk and butter,

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Anderson
sufficient fodder for the cow and grain for their fowl. Then they would have a stake in the country, would be more contented, and better citizens. It would provide a solution in a certain measure of the unemployed situation to-day.
I would also suggest that some of the large industrial plants move from the cities to country districts where they might be surrounded by land which could be parcelled out amongst the employees in a similar manner. The day is coming when fewer men will be employed in those industrial plants, the shorter working day and week are coming, so they are going to have more leisure time. It would be a good plan to give them a stake in the country, where they could use their leisure in doing something for themselves, improving their homes. It would keep them from burning up gas on the highways and getting into traffic jams, and I am quite satisfied that they would be happier, and better citizens, and would be less troublesome in times of distress. I simply offer this to the government as a suggestion in the hope that it may be looked into and if possible put into operation to a certain extent.
In the second or main section of the resolution is embodied the policy of the new political party. I will read it:
That, in the opinion of this house, the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth in which all natural resources and the socially necessary machinery of production will be used in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the few.
That, of course, is plainly a socialistic program. This new party, as stated by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre in his speech on February 1, has attracted to itself certain other groups and political parties in this country. Those affiliated are the United Farmers of the three prairie provinces and of the province of Ontario, but I note that the United Farmers joined with a reservation. They got into bed with the new party, but indicated that should the sleeping conditions prove not congenial they would leave at any time. They intimated that in affiliating with the new party they still maintained the right to follow their own policies as United Farmers. Speaking of the United Farmers of Ontario more particularly, I may say that they are a hardheaded business class and very shrewd politicians. They are not going into anything very definitely and securely until they know how it is going to turn out, and just so soon as they find out what this commonwealth actually means a great number of them will secede from it.
Not only that, but even at the present time the leaders who have affiliated with the new party will not be able to carry with them anything like the body of United Farmers of Ontario. It is also stated that the labour unions from the Pacific coast to the border of Quebec have affiliated with this new organization. Well, the labour unions may have affiliated but there is a large class of labour in the dominion that does not belong to the union. I think the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre made the statement, that they had affiliated.


I think the hon.
gentleman is in error; I said nothing about the labour unions.


If the hon.
gentleman says they have not, I will accept his word. But I find at page I6S8 of Hansard he is reported as saying:
Further than that, the political labour bodies in the provinces from British Columbia to Montreal have also voted to affiliate.
That gave me the impression that he meant the labour union, but apparently he meant something else. He also said that there were a large number of people in this country who had indicated their intention of uniting with the party, people from one end of the country to the other, and I have noticed in the newspapers that many people have so intimated. There was also another party, it appears, that endorsed the policy of the new party and which neither the hon. gentleman nor any member of his party mentioned, and that was a section of the United Church of Canada. The United Church in Toronto on December 7, 1932, in their report presented to the Presbytery of that city, moved this resolution which was passed:
In view of the fact that our political leaders have not evolved any adequate system so far as the masses are concerned, but have _ directed their efforts toward protecting vested interests, rather than the common welfare, be it resolved that we adopt some such program as that of the C.C.F.


Hear, hear.


Hon. gentlemen say " hear, hear," but large numbers of the United Church of Canada do not say " hear, hear."


Hear, hear.


And the
United Church itself does not say "hear, hear." Now, the acceptance of this policy as presented by hon. members across the aisle will simply mean that we shall need to get a new constitution for the dominion.

1946	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Anderson


Hear, hear.


I am glad
they say " hear, hear " to-day, but the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre did not say "hear, hear" when that was said on the first of this month by the Prime Minister. He did not believe then that it would be necessary to change the constitution of the country if the policy of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation was to go into effect. The policy as enunciated is communist, pure and simple. I am quite sure that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre and the party behind him are sincere in what they say. They are in favour of socialism or communism, and the difference between these two systems was defined in the house by the hon. gentleman: communism is brought in by force and the other by constitutional means. I agree with the hon. gentleman in that statement; so far as I can make out from a study of the two systems, that is the difference. But can anyone supporting an effort towards socialism say that force will not eventuate? The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre did not say that force could be prevented. At page 1689 of Hansard, in answer to a question that was asked at the time, as to whether force might be used, he said:
It may very well be that force may prove inevitable, yes, if the attitude of certain gentlemen is persisted in and the people of this country are denied the right that they have to self-expression and to the enjoyment of a decent livelihood.
That is the statement of the hon. gentleman, that force will be used if it becomes inevitable. Now, that is a warning and also a threat.


Did he say who was
going to use force?


No, but who else except the socialist party? Does the hon. gentleman think that the rest of Canada will use force? The hon. member made this statement that I have quoted. This means that if the people of the dominion are docile enough to accept this policy meekly, if they do not resist, then we shall have socialism; but if the rest of us do resist, if the people object to it, we shall have force, because in any event this party intends to put its policy into effect and create a socialistic or communistic state in this country.


The hon. gentleman is misstating entirely the position I took the other day.


It is a fair deduction.


I am basing my proposition upon the statement made by the hon. gentleman himself. That is the way it appeared to me and I am satisfied that is the way it will appear to many other people in Canada. If the hon. gentleman did not mean that, I am sorry that I misconstrued his remarks as I have no desire to do him wrong. It is the intention of this new party which had its birth in the closing months of 1932, to appeal to the electorate upon this policy. That is their whole policy because it has been stated in this house and it has not been enlarged upon. It is a policy fashioned after the Russian system, it is nothing less than that.
The hon. gentleman gravely asks this parliament to endorse this policy and put it into effect immediately. That is a most extraordinary proposition to make to any house. Such a proposition makes it impossible for any hon. member, no matter how favourable he may be towards that policy, to vote to put it into effect immediately. That would not be democratic. It is socialistic to ask that we go ahead without the endorsation and consent of the people of Canada. Such a course of action would wreck our constitution and destroy confederation.
The hon. gentlemen who are advocating this policy state that it is meant to displace capitalism. It might displace capitalism but it would destroy democracy. What is eapital-sm? It is simply a system by which we produce wealth for the production of further w'ealth. Capitalism as we know it to-day came into being during the last half of the nineteenth century, less than one hundred years ago. Since that time the world has made more progress than it had in the previous five thousand years. The success of capitalism has been phenomenal; the world jumped ahead immediately it came into effect and the progress of the world has been continuous ever since. As the hon. member for Wetaskiwin (Mr. Irvine) said, when this system was founded the world was suffering from a scarcity of everything except poverty, but in less than a century we had an overproduction and over-abundance of everything. In spite of this, capitalism is denounced as a failure. Before capitalism terrible famines took place all over the world. I can remember when the people of Ireland faced starvation because of the failure of the potato crop and I can remember when the people of India and China were starving by the millions because of the failure of their crops. What has been

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Anderson
the result of capitalism? Famine has been eliminated, so much so that the hon. member for Wetaskiwin says that the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation offers economic independence to everybody.


My statement was that
economic security was offered to everyone.


The hon.
member is reported on page 1743 of Hansard of February 2, as saying;
The Cooperative Commonwealth Federation guarantees to every Canadian economic independence.
If there has been a mistake made in Hansard the hon. gentleman should have had it corrected. He said also that there was in this country sufficient plant and equipment to guarantee at least an abundance of the necessaries to every Canadian. That would mean that the Canadian people would have economic independence and an abundance of necessaries free of cost. It is the intention of hon. gentlemen to destroy the price system and to destroy capitalism, consequently the necessaries of life, which include shelter, clothing, food and heat and light, will be given free to everybody. Was there ever a greater slogan for an election? Was there ever a greater attempt at wholesale bribery of the people? Such promises are over and above any ever made by the Liberal or Conservative parties, yet hon. gentlemen complain about the promises made by the political parties during election campaigns.
In the last twenty-five years-I make this statement subject to correction if any hon. member cares to correct me-the world made more advancement under capitalism than it had made in the previous two thousand years. Does any hon. member want to deny that statement? Since the war everything has been stimulated by capital. Laboratories were set up wherein scientists could work unhampered by the necessity of producing a living. Nature has been made to yield up her secrets and those secrets have been applied to such an extent that our civilization has been transformed. Yet, according to hon. gentlemen opposite, capitalism is a huge failure.
Capitalism brought in the machine age in which we are now. By means of the capital expended in the laboratories, in our industries and in all lines of personal endeavour, the machine has been developed to such an extent as to eliminate thousands of men from gainful labour. Far more men have been eliminated than is required to build the machine. This has all been brought about by 53719-1231
capital. We are entering the electrical age, our machines are going to be run by electricity and more men will be eliminated from gainful occupations. These things are just signs of the times, they are progress and it is futile for anyone to think that he can stop the progress of the world. It will go ahead in spite of what any human being may do.


What is happening to those men who have been eliminated?


I am just
going to take up that point. The hon. gentleman gave his own solution for this. I am not saying that there is nothing in socialism,
I am simply saying that we are on the verge or are well advanced into a new era. The sun of that new era is well above the horizon and the signs of the time are everywhere for any man to read. We are not going back to the old system but also we do not need to go to socialism. We can carry on with the system we have, that is capitalism. The only thing that is wrong now is that capitalists did not realize that the advances have been so great that it is out of step with our social order. Capitalism got ahead of the social order which we have in the world to-day and we must bring the social order up in step with capitalism.
The machine age is only beginning. As I have said, we shall see further advances and progress in machinery until possibly some day every man will be able to have a servant of an electrical character. That is one of the possibilities of the future and we must prepare for it. But only a fanatic would attempt to disrupt the present order by trying to bring in a new order all at once. If there is to be a new order, it must come gradually and imperceptibly, a merging of the old into the new, so that when the old order passes out, the new order will be ready to take charge of the situation and carry on. I am not altogether advocating capitalism. I say that it has been a splendid thing for the world, but it has defects. It has had defects which have been remedied; the defects which it now has can be remedied, and by remedying those defects and carrying on with our present progress we shall eventually bring about a system under which the people of this world will be able to have a living without very much work. We shall be able to have abundance to eat and all the luxuries of life without having any socialistic state. Socialism was in existence long before capitalism. Socialism has been in existence pretty nearly as long as the world has. It is a failure in
1948	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Pouliot
*Russia to-day, and it is a peculiar situation for some hon. members to be advocating socialism and communism when socialism and communism are at this very time failures in Russia. Russia started out without a price system. They were going to run a socialistic state there by making everybody engage in labour and by parcelling out to them what they needed in the way of food, clothing, shelter and so forth. But what is happening now? At the end of five yearn they are trying to bolster up their plan by bringing in capital. They are beginning to arrange for a capitalistic system in that country to bolster up a system of communism. They are asking the loan of capital from outside countries, even from Canada. Socialism has not been a success; it has been a failure, and all I have to say is that we should stay with the capitalistic system that we have, improve and perfect it, and it will bring us out of the depression in which we find ourselves just at present.
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temiscouata):	Mr. Speaker, the motion that is
before the house reads:
Whereas under our present economic arrangement large numbers of our people are unemployed and without the means of earning a livelihood for themselves and their dependents;
And whereas the prevalence of the present depression throughout the world indicates fundamental defects in the existing economic system;
Therefore be it resolved, that, in the opinion of this house, the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth in which all natural resources and the socially necessary machinery of production will be used in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the few.
Since the beginning of this debate many quotations have been made by hon. members in the far comer to my left. In the speech of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) we find quotations from the English poet Blake, the Reverend John A. Ryan, D.D., Hjalmar Schact, expresident of the German Reichsbank, Mr. P. W. Martin, the October letter of the Royal bank, and Goldsmith. The hon. member for Southeast Grey (Miss Macphail) has quoted Gustav Cassel, Mr. G. D. H. Cole, Stuart Chase, and an English girl, from an article in The Canadian Student. The hon. member for Macleod (Mr. Coote) has quoted Shakespeare, Sir William Beveridge, John Maynard Keynes, Sir Basil Blackett, Lloyd's Bank Monthly, Henry Ford and Walter Rathenan. The hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Garland) has quoted Lord Marley, Professor W. H. Wakenshaw, Sir Arthur Salter, a great

scientist called John L. Hodgson, and Sir Basil Blackett. The hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Maelnnis) has quoted Karl Marx and President Hoover.
I am not interested to-day, in any one of those people. The only quotations I shall make will be from the speech of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, who is the mover of the resolution. I do not know what it exactly means because there are in it some words that may mean a great deal or nothing. I should like to know whether they mean a great deal or nothing and in order to procure that information I want to ask the hon. member fifty-five questions.


Put them on the ordei
paper.


First of all, may I quote the speech of the hon. gentleman which is of much more interest than any quotation from Sir Basil Blackett, G. L). H. Cole or Walter Rathernan or Karl Marx. I am not interested in any of those. As I have already informed the house, I have not time to read any communistic books and I believe those who do so are wasting their time.
An hon. MEMBER; Treason.


I would not go so far as
that, but they think a great deal of them because they do not always understand their full and real meaning, and those who write those books do not themselves often understand the first word of what they are writing.
First of all, the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre spoke about a new and better social order. There is only one social order and it is order. When there is no social order, the situation is disorder. So if the hon. member proposes a new social order, conditions will remain the same; there will be no change. If it is something different, then it will be disorder. Is that not logical, Mr. Speaker? There has been confusion in the mind of the hon. gentleman between capitalism and ownership and the abuse of capitalism and capitalism itself. The two things are entirely different. One cannot condemn capitalism just because of the abuse of it. While the abuse is bad, that does not mean capitalism is also bad. I am not personally interested in capitalism in a practical way, but if I take the stand today, I do so on behalf of human liberty and freedom, and if the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre thinks he is advocating liberty, he does not realize the results that will be brought about by his proposal. If his proposal were adopted in this country, there

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Pouliot
would be no more human freedom and liberty; we would have human slavery, state slavery.
I quote from the speech of the mover of the resolution:
Great economists have pointed out that our present economic system could not last very long, but must give place to a different one. In more recent days we have the technicians pointing out not only the feasibility of fundamental changes in our social order, but the absolute necessity of such changes if our civilization is to persist.
What are those changes? Those changes come from the platform of 1921 as quoted by the hon. gentleman, and it is most important that I should put them on record as a basis for my questions. The hon. gentleman said at page 1687 of Hansard:
The Independent Labour party of Manitoba is formed for the purpose of giving political expression to the aspirations of all workers, regardless of industrial affiliation, who believe in the establishment of a cooperative commonwealth-
Mark this, Mr. Speaker:
-with production for use and not for profit as its economic basis.
Quoting from the platform of the United Farmers of Alberta, the hon. gentleman continued:
A community freed from the domination-
This is rather mixed up, but afterwards I shall detach some sentences in order to analyze them:
A community freed from the domination of irresponsible financial and economic powers, in which all social means of production and distribution, including land,

Mark you, it includes land:

are socially owned and controlled either by voluntarily organized groups of producers and consumers, or-in the case of the major public services and utilities and such productive and distributive enterprises as can be conducted most efficiently when owned in common-by public corporations responsible to the pepole's elected representatives.
There was another platform published by the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation, and here is the quotation from their platform as given by the hon. gentleman:
A federation of organizations whose purpose is the establishment in Canada of a cooperative commonwealth in which the basic principle regulating production, distribution and exchange will be tiie supply of human needs instead of the making of profits.
Just the same thing as in 1921. The reason I am suspicious about that platform, Mr. Speaker, is because of the following expressions which were used by the hon. gentleman in the course of his speech, and I would ask if these statements mean much for the social
welfare of the country and the public good. Here is what he says:
The object of the federation shall be to promote cooperation between the member organizations and to correlate their political activities.
That is why I am against it. We cannot play any game for political purposes with the welfare of this country. To-day we have a most serious problem to consider, and while I give full credit to the hon. gentleman for the sincerity of his view, still as a Canadian citizen I believe that order must be maintained at any cost, and that if anyone is found guilty of a breach of order he must be punished. The whole community should not suffer for the excesses of the few.
Here are my questions, Mr. Speaker, and before each series of questions I give first of all an excerpt from the passages which il have just quoted from the hon. gentleman's speech, and then state the consequence. The questions follow:
"All social means of production and distribution (including land) (should first be) freed from the domination of irresponsible financial and economic power/'
First consequence:
There would be no more municipal and other taxes on land; municipal councils and school boards would be abolished.
Questions:
1.	Would the municipal councils and school boards be replaced by other public bodies?
2.	If so, how?
Second consequence:
All mortgages on lands and buildings would be wiped out.
Questions:
1.	What is the total amount and number of mortgages in each province?
2.	How many are held by widows, orphans and different people who have no other means of living than the revenue therefrom?
3.	Would the cooperative commonwealth pay the mortgagees in full?
4.	If so, how?
5.	If not, what proportion, if any, would be paid to widows, orphans and people who have no other means of living than the revenue therefrom?
6.	What would happen in the case of mortgage transfers for value received?
That is only to give the house a sweet mouth before I put my other questions, as follows, giving first a quotation from the hon. gentleman's speech:
"All social means of production and distribution (including land) (should be) socially owned and controlled by voluntarily organized groups of producers and consumers."
Questions:
1.	What is the definition of the words (a) "socially owned" and (b) "socially controlled"?
2.	What would be the function of the dominion parliament and provincial legislatures in a cooperative commonwealth?
1950	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Pouliot
3.	By what process would privately owned lands be turned into societies or become socially owned and controlled property?
4.	How would such groups of producers and consumers be voluntarily organized?
5.	Would such groups be amenable to the laws?
6.	Would the cooperative commonwealth compensate private individuals or corporations who presently own land and property, for their loss, and if so, to what extent?
7.	How many people in each province would be affected by their private property becoming "socially owned and controlled"?
8.	Would such change in land ownership take place in urban as well as rural centres?
9.	What are the social means of production and distribution (excluding land) which should be socially owned and controlled?
10.	Would movable as well as immovable property be socially owned and controlled?
11.	How and by whom would socially owned and controlled means of production and distribution (including land) be managed?
12.	How, by whom and for how long would each of the above mentioned managers be appointed ?
13.	Who would decide the kind, area and location of the land or property to be assigned by society to each individual?


Would the hon. member permit me to inform him that his questions are so hot that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre has left the chamber.


In deference to the hon. gentleman who has left the chamber, I think my hon. friend from South Essex (Mr. Gott) ought to have first found out why he left it.


The hon. gentleman has said that he wishes to be fair. He will make it clear that what Zinoviev says is not what I say.


I think that anyone in this house has ears to hear, and by no twist of one's imagination can it be suggested that I have put into the mouth of my hon. friend from Winnipeg North Centre anything that Zinoviev has said. Now, as the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot) so well pointed out, in order to accomplish the purposes of this organization property must go into the possession of a proletarian dictatorship, if you want to put it in the words of Zinoviev, or there must be collective ownership, if you want to put it in the words of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. Property must be possessed; the land must go. But remember this. The agency through which this socialism is being expressed on this occasion is principally our U.F.A. friends in this country. Oh, that is a different consideration. Therefore they say: "When we get out a platform, we must bear in mind the fact that a great number of the farmers are to be appealed to, and we have collective ownership advocated." Oh yes; but they note in brackets down below that "use-land" will be exempt. All other lands are included in

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Stanley
the collective ownership except "use-land"; and as to the interpretation of "use-land," who is going to determine what comprises such land? That interpretation is left for someone to determine later but in the meantime what is required is the support of the farmers. Their political support is needed, their votes are needed, and in the meantime, to carry out in its entirety the collective ownership of the socialist party, they can afford to exempt such land. For the time being at least use-land will be exempted. That is the sop that is being given to our farmers.
How is this revolution to be accomplished? Ah! that is the rub, politically speaking. How is it to be accomplished, I ask? Well, by the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation. And that will express itself for the time being as "all things to all men." We have various degrees of socialism running up and down the colour line. I belong to the medical profession, as most hon. gentlemen know, and in the laboratory we have what we call the Fehling's test. We have a glass of blue solution for testing for sugar. If you have the least little tinge of sugar you will get just a little tinge at the bottom, a tint of pink, and as the sugar is increased it goes on up the line until, when you have a considerable quantity of sugar, you get a scarlet red. I do not know how better you can express the degrees of socialism. You can take it from a faint tinge of pink at the bottom to the flaring red scarlet at the top.
Now, how is socialism expresing itself? Well, we have various brands or degrees of socialism. First we have that highly cultured university socialism called the League of Social Reconstruction, represented by some of the eminent university professors-Professor Gordon, Professor Alexander and other such gentlemen. That is the class of people that belong to that grade of socialism. Then we have what is called in the various countries of Europe "tamed" socialism. To that class I think belong our friends of the U.F.A. and other Progressive members. Then we have the socialism that belongs to political labour. An hon. member has pointed out the difference between labour unions, trade unions and the political labour party. We have those also, and we have the socialism which found its expression through the Rev. Mr. Ivens in the O.B.U. back in 1919, or through Bob Russell, in such organizations as the I.W.W. Then we have the bolshevik socialism, and again the all-inclusive, all-embracing socialism which is so well represented by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, which takes in all. How does he express himself to-day?-
You find him in this position. First he is the honorary president of the League of Social Reconstruction, and he is the leader of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation; he is also a member of the house here, representing political labour. He was one of the outstanding leaders in the O.B.U. activities.


Mr. Speaker-


Allow me to finish my statement.


The hon. member rises to a point of order and he has a right to state it.


The point of order is that the statement just made by the hon member is absolutely untrue and I ask that it be withdrawn.


He has not finished the
statement.


I ask that it be withdrawn. I was not among the leaders of the O.B.U., never belonged to it, and was not one of its leaders. I ask that the statement be withdrawn.


I made no such statement as that the hon. member was a member of the O.B.U. I said he was one of the leaders in the O.B.U. activities.


I was not one of the leaders in those activities and I ask that the statement be withdrawn.


The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre will have an opportunity to reply to statements such as that when he comes to make his reply in this debate.


I deny the statement just made and I ask that it be withdrawn.


The hon. member can
state the truth as he sees it when he comes to reply.


I ask that it be
withdrawn.


May I say this then.
When the O.B.U. were in the height of their activities, when all the turmoil and troubles were going on in Winnipeg and in western Canada, headed by the O.B.U., m