Mr. Speaker,
I desire to present to the house a copy of an original petition, addressed to the members of the House of Commons, and for the attention of the Minister of Fisheries, signed by Austin A. Ramsay, Isaac B. Lewis, Norman Thompson, James C. Palmer, J. J. Moran and two hundred and fifteen others, asking that no leases of oyster areas be granted in the bays or rivers on the northeast side of Prince county, Prince Edward Island; also, a memorandum in connection with the same, addressed to the members of the House of Commons and the Department of Fisheries, protesting against the leasing of these oyster areas, signed by: G. Ellsworth Gills, of Ellerslie, Prince Edward Island, on behalf of the fishermen's committee, and: Isaac B. Lewis, Richard Murphy, Norman Thompson, Chas. Mc-Fadyen, all of Conway, Prince Edward Island.


Mr. G.B. NICHOLSON (East Algoma): Mr. Speaker, for the hon. member for South Renfrew (Mr. Maloney) I beg to move:
That the petition of John Gilbert Mitchell and others, praying for the passing of an act to incorporate the Thousand Islands Bridge Company, together with the report of the clerk of petitions thereon, be referred to the select standing committee on standing orders for the purpose of considering the suspension of standing order 92 in relation thereto.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I beg to move:
That the petition of Lilac Violet Grumbell Reid, praying for a bill of divorce from Clarence Dixon Reid, together with the report of the clerk of petitions thereon, be referred to the select standing committee on standing orders for the purpose of considering the suspension of standing order 92 in relation thereto.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau) based upon a report of a meeting held in the city of Toronto on Tuesday, April 25. I do not suppose Your Honour will permit me to read this report, but I shall refer to its contents. Mr. Hector Charlesworth, the chairman of the radio commission is reported to have said at this meeting that the commission would not deviate from the policy which it had formulated and that anyone was a liar or a fool who said that radio in Canada was not in a better position to-day than it was a year ago. He then got very dramatic and said, "My head is bloody but unbowed." I ask the minister if he has read this report; if he has not will he read it and after he has read it will he endeavour to discipline the chairman of the radio commission.


Order.


I have not read the article in question nor has my attention been drawn to it. If it comes to my knowledge, I will take the matter under consideration.


The minister now has knowledge of it.


Order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I am reminded of a question I asked the minister the other day in connection with the application for a licence for a radio station at London. The minister said that he would reply the next day, but I have not had this reply.


The information which I re-
Coal Inquiry

ceived this morning is that no licence has been granted. An application was received two or three days ago by the radio commission asking for a hundred watt station to provide local service in London.


Could the minister say from whom that application was received:


I think it is the
London Free Press. I understand the demand is made on behalf of the Western Ontario Broadcasting Company, but I have no official report or advice from the radio commission. All I have received is some verbal information.


Are two licences ever issued to the same party? I understand that these people have a licence for operation at Windsor.


The matter will be
considered when I have the report of the radio commission. The radio commission, according to law, when a wave length and a certain power for a new station are asked for, have to make their recommendation to the minister, so I shall wait for the recommendation before I give an answer.


On the orders of the day:
About three weeks ago, during the consideration of the estimates of the Minister of Mines, I asked when the report of the investigation being held with reference to the importation of anthracite from Great Britain, would be brought down. The minister said: Possibly within a week. I asked this question because the price of anthracite had been reduced by $1 a ton, the reason being given that this was due to a reduction in freight rates. I would like to ask the minister whether that report will be in the hands of parliament before the end of the session and whether a copy of the evidence will be laid upon the table for the perusal of members.


The inquiry that was made at my instance, under the Combines Act, into the question whether there was a combine within the meaning of the statute in connection with the importation and distribution of British coal, was one made by the registrar, not by a royal commissioner. It has not been the practice in the past nor is it contemplated by the statute that a report of the registrar be tabled in the House of Commons and the evidence made available to the public gener-
ally. The practice followed is, I think, sound, because much of the evidence given and much of the information that the registrar receives on an inquiry of that character has to do with the business of private individuals who are not immediately concerned with the question into which inquiry is being made.
The report of the registrar was delievered to me on Tuesday of this week. It is quite voluminous and I have not yet had an opportunity to examine it in its entirety. I have, however, proceeded with a review of it and I hope to be able to go through it before Monday or Tuesday of next week. Then I shall have some observations to make to the house with respect to the inquiry of the registrar.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. Is it true that tenders have been asked for in connection with the construction of the new terminal post office in the city of Montreal?


Tenders have not been invited for that work this year.


The house resumed from Thursday, April 27, consideration in committee of Bill No. 37,' respecting the Canadian National Railways and to provide for cooperation with the Canadian Pacific Railway system and for other purposes-Mr. Manion-Mr. LaVergne in the chair.
On section 4-Nominations and appointments to board of directors to be vacated and three substituted for original incorporators.
The question is on the amendment of the Minister of Trade and Commerce to clause 4.


On clause 4 last evening
a general discussion arose and a statement was made by the leader of the opposition to the effect that Sir Henry Thornton had been forced out of his directorship in the Royal Bank by the action of this government. That, in brief, was the gist of the remarks made by the right hon. gentleman. I denied the statement at the time and he persisted m it, saying that he 'had been so informed by Sir Henry Thornton and believed him. This morning I made some inquiries, the result of which I wish to put on record merely

C.N.R.-CJP.R. Bill
to keep the record reasonably straight. I find that Sir Henry Thornton was appointed a Royal Bank director on December 10, 1929, when the right hon. gentleman still had some considerable time to go before he went out of poiwer. Sir Henry was reelected a director of the Royal Bank on January 9, 1930, again on January 8, 1931, and again on January 14, 1932. He remained a director until the annual meeting of January 12, 1933, at which meeting he was not reelected. However, he had resigned the presidency of the Canadian National Railways on July 19, 1932, so that he was a director of the Royal Bank for six months after he had resigned from the presidency of the Canadian National Railways. May I suggest, without going any further, that these facts constitute a complete answer to the right hon. gentleman's charge that this government in some way influenced the Royal Bank to make Sir Henry Thornton withdraw from the directorate of that institution. That in itself is proof enough without anything further, although I have a little further proof if I need it.


May I say to my hon. friend that Sir Henry Thornton was certainly under the impression-and he so informed me-that the reason he was not reappointed on the board of directors of the Royal Bank was due to the action of the Dominion government. I assumed at the time that this was because of his being also president of the road. In that I may have misunderstood the significance of his not being retained as a director. This, however, would only make the situation more aggravating, because it would indicate that the government was interfering with a purely private business in the appointment of a director of a private corporation. But Sir Henry Thornton certainly had the impression that the reason he was not reappointed was that the bank had intimated to him that he must resign and the intimation conveyed with it the impression that the government of the day had considered that advisable.


The right hon. gentleman's remarks to-day are a good deal milder than his observations of last night. He said then that Sir Henry Thornton had told him that and he believed what Sir Henry Thornton had said.


I do.


I shall give my right hon. friend still further proof that the statement is not true. I have under my hand a telegram
from Mr. M. W. Wilson, general manager, and,
I think, vice-president of the Royal Bank of Canada. I telegraphed to him, asking about the matter, and this is his reply:	'
Your telegram received. When Sir Henry Thornton retired from the Canadian National Railways he offered to resign from the board of this bank but it was suggested that he allow the matter to stand until his future plans became more definite. As you are aware he subsequently removed to New York and shortly before our annual meeting in January he intimated that as he was no longer a resident of Canada he did not wish to offer himself for reelection. His wishes were carried out. At no time was the question of his directorship discussed with us by any member of the government.


May I ask the minister whether he can and will say that Sir Henry Thornton's intimation that he was not to be renominated was not due to a message which was sent by Mr. Wilson himself to his manager in New York who convened it to Sir Henry and that when it was conveyed to him, he intimated that under the circumstances he would not expect to be reappointed?


I do not know anything about any private messages of Mr. Wilson to Sir Henry Thornton. I have given a public message from Mr. Wilson to the people of Canada. I accept Mr. Wilson's word. Furthermore, last night I made the statement- and I repeat it to-day-that the government had nothing whatever to do with Sir Henry Thornton's retiring from the board of directors of the Royal Bank. Moreover, if the right hon. gentleman were fair, which he is not, he would accept that statement and withdraw his own.


I have given to my hon. friend the reasons why Sir Henry Thornton believed that he was being asked to retire from that board at the instance of the government.


He was making excuses for the fact that he was dropped, probably.


I think we had perhaps better come back to the question. The question is on the amendment to clause 4. An amendment has also been moved by Mr. Elliott and withdrawn for the time being. Does the hon. member wish to press his amendment?


I thought the arrangement last night was that it would be considered with the amendment to section 11, as the two relate to practically the same thing.
C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill


May I say, Mr. Chairman, that there is no doubt that we shall not get through this bill to-day because the acting leader of the government stated last evening that we should not go on with it probably beyond five o'clock, and it is not at all likely that we shall get through with it before then because there are still quite a number of clauses to consider, but I will make this statement now with respect to clauses 11 and 7, both of which are in dispute, that we shall not deal with them to-day. I should like, however, to go on and make progress with some of the other clauses. The passage of the amendment which has been moved by my colleague the Minister of Trade and Commerce would not interfere with section 11 at all in so far as the hon. gentleman desires to amend section 11.
I made the statement last night that we had been three weeks on this bill, and I was corrected by the leader of the opposition. I have made inquiries to-day and had the reflbrd searched, and I find that we have spent fifteen actual working days on the bill, or exactly three full weeks of five days a week, and it is seven weeks since we introduced the bill. I should like to make some progress to-day and go on with section 4. We are quite agreeable to allowing sections 7 and 11 to stand until next week.


Does the minister contemplate any amendment to section 7?


No.


The minister will have to shorten his speeches to make headway.


Perhaps the right hon. gentleman might take a little of that himself.


In order to put the question clearly before the committee I might stale that the hon. member for West Middlesex moved an amendment to clause 4 which was withdrawn to allow the committee to discuss the new subclause 2. The Minister of Trade and Commerce has moved an amendment which will be subclause 3 of clause 4 if adopted. Does the hon. member for West Middlesex wish to press his amendment?


I am afraid that the minister is not shortening the debate by separating this clause from the proposed amendment to section 11.


I do not quite follow. Would the hon. member explain the connection between the two, and why we cannot proceed to pass clause 4?


This amendment deals with the question whether or not all the trustees shall be full-time men. The amendment proposed to section 11 deals with the question of whether all the trustees shall have equal voting power. I say that the two affect so vitally the effectiveness of the board of trustees, and are so closely connected, that I think it would save time to consider them both together, and that was the understanding given.


I just want to get straight what my hon. friend means. I do not quite see what difference it would make to proceed now with section 4. I have met my hon. friend's wishes to a large extent in the amendment which we have moved. We have now moved two amendments, one about the chairman and directorships and so on, and the other in regard to the other two trustees. These other two trustees at the discretion of the governor in council may also be full-time men, so I think I have practically met my hon. friend's wishes so far as full-time trustees go. In regard to the question of a majority vote, that is a separate question altogether, and I suggest with all respect that we can deal with that when we come to it. Here is the government's submission in regard to section 4. I think we might pass that, and I am quite ready to hold sections 7 and 11 over till next week. It seems to me that the two questions are separate and distinct.


As I explained to my hon. friend last night, the amendment moved by the hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce will not, I submit, be of any great benefit if the vote of the other two trustees can only be counted when the bhairman votes with either one of them. I do not want to be disrespectful with regard to the amendment that has been proposed by the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I realize that it is a step in the right direction, but it is only a step, I submit, providing that the trustees are what I would call real trustees, operative trustees, having a vote of equal weight on the board with the chairman. I do submit that we will save time by considering them together, and that was agreed to last night.


I am very anxious to
oblige, although it has not done me very much good so far. At the same time I do not yet see any connection between the two.
I know what the hon. gentleman has in mind, but so far as section 4 is concerned we are taking this attitude irrespective of what we do with section 11. I think my hon. friend might therefore concede that we have gone

C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill
a long way with him on this. So now let us dispose of it, and then when we come to section 11 we can argue the question whether there should be a majority vote or not.


I am not going to occupy more of the time of the committee in arguing whether we should consider this amendment now or later. Unless we can fallow the arrangement that was made last night I must submit the amendment which I moved before.


That is all right; go ahead and submit the amendment.


Mr. Elliott moves that all the words after the word "that" in the proposed amendment to be known as subsection 3 of clause 4 be struck out and the following substituted therefor:
One of such trustees shall be their chairman. Each trustee shall devote his whole time to the performance of the duties of his office and shall not be an officer of any company other than a company which is comprised in National railways and shall not, during his tenure of office as trustee, become a director of any company other than a company which is comprised in National railways of which he was not a director at the time of his appointment.


Before the vote is taken may I call the attention of the committee to what that means. I assume that they have it pretty well in their minds. This is a very, very important board. They have to administer a property of the people of this country which has cost and is worth many millions of dollars. It will be perhaps the most important board functioning in the dominion, and I submit that what was formerly done by a board of seventeen on the Canadian National Railways, and by a board of about an equal number on the Canadian Pacific Railway, is of sufficient importance and sufficiently onerous to demand the whole time of three of the very best men that can be obtained. That is the object of the amendment. I do not think that this great national asset should be entrusted to three men any one of whom should be permitted to give only part of his time to that work.


I agree with the hon. gentleman. He has explained his amendment quite correctly, but we have made an amendment whereby the governor in council may, at discretion, make all three trustees full-time men. I stated last night, and I repeat now, that as far as I know it is the intention of the government to do that for a time at least, so I am sorry to have to refuse to accept the hon. gentleman's amendment. I shall have to vote against it.


This is a very important question. When the bill was before the house before the Easter recess, I had intended moving an amendment that the board of trustees be enlarged from three to five members. I wish to protest against the board being limited to three members. The maritime provinces claim that under the British North America Act they have certain rights which they look to this and all governments to protect. We feel that if a board of trustees consisting of only three members is chosen from central Canada the claims of the maritime provinces may be overlooked. Under the terms of the legislation the trustees have great powers. They may scrap lines or cut down services. In the report of the Duncan commission there is the following finding regarding the old Intercolonial railway:
That to the extent that commercial considerations were subordinate to national, imperial and strategic considerations, the cost would be borne by the dominion and not by the traffic that might pass over the line.
If the trustees put that line on a strictly paying basis, and curtail services until that object is reached, I claim that they will not be playing fair with the maritime provinces, and will not be adhering to the terms set out at confederation. I do not know whether there are to be three or five members, but if I were in order I should feel very much like moving an amendment to the effect that there should be five trustees, one of whom should come from the maritime provinces.


You have a great chance of getting it.


Question.


The question is on the subamendment.
Subamendment (Mr. Elliott) negatived on division.


That section 4 of part I of the bill be amended by striking out the word "three" in the fifth line thereof and substituting therefor the word "five."


That is
out of order.


I must inform the committee that subsections 1 and 2 of section 4 have been adopted. We are now dealing with a new subsection, No. 3. Therefore it must be by general consent that we continue.


I rise to a point of order. Surely any amendment to aniy portion of the general section may be moved before that section as a whole has been passed by the committee.

C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill


The hon. member
would be quite right, as usual, were it not for the fact that when discussion on the bill began it was decided by the committee that the subsections would be considered one by one.


It was a matter of convenience. But before any general section is passed any hon. member has the right to move an amendment.


On the point of order,
may I say that under ordinary circumstances I believe the hon. member would be right, and he would have made a very good case. But the chief, and practically the only important point in subsection (1) of clause 4 has been carried by the committee; that subsection states that there shall be three trustees. Therefore I submit that if we vote upon the possibility of their being five we will be acting contrary to the rule.


My decision is this,
subject to the view of the committee, that general consent of the house to an agreement in connection with procedure on the bill supersedes the rules and regulations, and binds me as if it were a rule written in the book. Therefore at this stage I must declare the subamendment out of order.


On the
point of order-


I have ruled, and the hon. member has already spoken.


But I
can speak twice to a point of order. With all respect to your ruling, Mr. Chairman, I suggest that you do not carry a section of a bill until the section is carried completely. For the purposes of convenience and, as you say, by mutual arrangement, we did agree to deal with it by subsections. But certainly according to the rules, before section 4 in toto has been passed by this committee, any hon. member has the right to move an amendment to any of the subsections.


Apparently I have not made myself clear. The general consent of the committee has the force of a ruling set down in the book. Unless there is general consent of the committee to supersede that ruling, I am bound by it. For those reasons I must deal with subsections as if they were individual sections. I decide that in this instance the amendment is out of order.


Mr. Chairman, is it not a fact that before a final decision is given on the section, after we have gone

through the subsections, you ask the committee whether or not it is prepared to adopt the section as amended. That means that the entire section is before the committee either for acceptance or rejection.


Not in this case.


Oh yes.


The right hon, gentleman is mistaken. Under the agreement we have taken each subsection of the bill as an individual section; that is what we have been doing so far.


I never have so understood it.


Therefore I never put the question, "Is section 4 adopted as amended?", because we have considered each subsection as an individual section. I am in the hands of the committee, of course, but I am ruling that the amendment is out of order.


May I explain this point.


I understand perfectly
the position taken by the right hon. member but I cannot allow hon. members to speak twice on the point.


I had not
finished speaking; you, Mr. Chairman, interrupted me and I sat down.


I am sorry.


The point I wish to make is this, that if the amendment moved by the hon. member for West Middlesex had been adopted, the trustees would have had to give their entire time to the work. Under those circumstances I submit the amendment moved by the hon. member for Prince probably would not have been deemed necessary. But the subamendment of the hon. member for West Middlesex having been voted down, it is only proper that in those circumstances the committee should have a right to say whether there should be five rather than three trustees. That is a perfectly proper subamendment, as it has not been definitely decided that the three trustees are to give all their time to their work. We have taken subsections, one after the other for the sake of convenience, and the avoidance of unnecessary discussion. But there has always been the right so far as I have understood, to move any amendments we wished to the section as a whole.


Since we have all spoken
twice, may I say another word?

C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill


Why
not? You can speak as often as you like in committee.


In regard to section 6 we carried subsections 3, 5, 6, 7, and 8. The only parts left for discussion are subsections 1, 2 and 4. The same is true in a number of other clauses. The only provision in subsection 1 of section 4, with which we are now dealing, is for the appointment of three trustees, and their replacement of the directors. If we can pass a subclause then deal with another subclause, then go back and discuss again the original clause, I do not know where we will get.


The hon. member who moved the subamendment could have moved it on subsection 1, but he did not do so. I am bound by the agreement of the committee, which to me is a ruling of the house, to rule that the amendment is out of order.


The committee is dealing in a very arbitrary manner with my subamendment.


Order.


He is
quite in order.


When I was speaking to
the amendment moved by the hon. member for West Middlesex-


Mr. Chairman, I draw to
your attention the fact that the hon. member, according to your ruling, is out of order.


I must be tolerant.
Some hon. members have spoken twice or three time's to the point of order although I have decided they should not. Under those circumstances I believe I should hear the hon. member.


This is the first time I spoke. I was speaking to the subamendment moved by the hon. member for West Middlesex (Mr. Elliott). I stated that I wished to move an amendment to this clause, that there should be five trustees instead of three. The chairman said that if I would wait until the subamendment of the hon. member for West Middlesex was disposed of then I would have the opportunity of presenting my amendment. I waited. Now I am treated in this way, saying that my amendment is out of order and is not going to be presented to the committee. I think under the circumstances I am being treated very unfairly. Therefore I feel like appealing.
53719-277J


Mr. Chairman, in my opinion the ruling of the chair is correct. I certainly understood that in dealing with this bill we are not following ordinary rules, passing it section by section, but subsection by subsection. But we are only wasting time on this, we might have had a vote. I submit to the right hon. leader of the opposition that we did distinctly agree that on this bill we would vary the ordinary practice. But I would not like the hon. member for Prince (Mr. MacLean) to suffer from a misunderstanding, and if he wishes to move his amendment now I would be disposed to let him do so, but not to treat it as a precedent.


I agree with the acting Prime Minister as to our having agreed to vary the ordinary practice, but the ordinary practice is to discuss a -whole section, including all subsections at one and the same time. We are varying the practice in this respect, that for the sake of precision we discuss each subsection by itself; but it was not understood that we would not have the right to amend a section as a whole in the light of any change made in a subsection.


I understood that when we passed a subsection it was passed, not that we could go back and amend it afterward. But we would like to make some progress, and as far as I am concerned we are willing to deal with it.


I have given my decision that the subamendment is out of order.


We can get around to the same thing later. I propose to move an amendment to subsection (5) that if at any time the trustees are not employed full time there shall be five of them instead of three. I am serving notice.


The question is on the amendment of Mr. Stevens. Shall the amendment carry?
Amendment agreed to on division.
Subsection as amended agreed to on division.


Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask if we have not already passed some clause which commits the house to three trustees?


Yes.


Then I submit that any amendment of that would now be out of order.


Are we now in order to speak of three or five?
C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill


Which clause have we passed?


Wre have passed clause 4.


No we are discussing 4.


I beg to submit the following amendment:
If at any time the trustees appointed are not employed during full time then instead of three trustees the number of trustees shall be five.
I think I am quite in order, because the status of these trustees has been materially changed by the amendment of my hon. friend the Minister of Trade and Commerce. It makes these trustees part time or full time trustees at the discretion of the governor in council. That being the case, I believe it is quite competent for us to move now that if they are not engaged for full time we will perhaps require more of them to attend to the business of the railway. Not only would such an amendment be in order but it would be logical and reasonable.


Having heard the proposed amendment, although I have some sympathy with it I must rule it out of order, under standing order 48, commentary 399:
After a decision has been given on an amendment to any part of a question, an earlier part cannot be amended. In like manner where an amendment of any part of a question has been proposed from the chair an earlier part cannot be amended unless the amendment so proposed be withdrawn.
In this case it has been voted upon by the house-


Would the chairman be good enough to explain the application of 399 to this matter?


I will try to explain.
I do not know if my hon. friend will understand me-through no fault of his. I understand this question has been decided before.


No, this is an entirely new question.


It has been decided
that there shall be three trustees. Now the hon. member for Quebec South (Mr. Power) proposes an amendment that there shall be five trustees. If I understand the English of commentary 399-I am not so sure of that part-that point has already been decided by the house. Therefore I have to rule the proposed amendment out of order.


It is quite true that the
section dealing with three trustees has been passed. But I submit that the status of these

trustees is entirely changed by the amendment of the Minister of Trade and Commerce that trustees may or may not be part time according as the governor in council thinks fit. The original idea of the bill as presented to us that there should be three trustees has been departed from. There were to be three, appointed for seven years; now we have three men who are to be appointed practically during pleasure, who may be removed from time to time, and may be employed for part time or full time or any time at all. I am not quarrelling with the amendment, but I say that if you have entirely changed the duties of the trustees then it is competent for any member to propose that there shall be five instead of three.


I must maintain my
position.


Before you give your
decision may I point out that the argument of the hon. member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Hanson) does not apply to this subsection (1), which defines the manner in which the trustees may be appointed. There might be something in my hon. friend's point if the subsection said that there shall be only three trustees, but it does not say that. Then the next subsection says that two of them may be part time or full time. The third subsection, now proposed to be amended by the hon. member for Quebec South, provides that in case two of the trustees, that is those other than the chairman, shall be part time men then there shall be five trustees. I submit that is not inconsistent with subsection (1) which speaks of three.


Mr. Chairman, may I point out that if you had 'given the same ruling with regard to the amendment moved by the Minister of Trade and Commerce it could not have been considered, on account of what was done under subsection (2). The house passed subsection (2), which provides that:
One of such trustees shall be their chairman. He shall devote his whole time to performance of the duties of his office . . .
The house decided that one should give his whole time, and therefor by inference that the others should be part time. But you allowed an amendment which said that in some cases they may give full time.


The right hon. member is quite right, but the amendment moved by the Minister of Trade and Commerce was received the other day by the unanimous consent of the committee. Now I must decide

C.N.R.-CPJI. Bill
that the hon. member for Quebec South is out of order. His grievance is not without redress; on the motion for third reading he can move that the bill be sent back to committee.
Section as amended agreed to on division.
On section 6 (1)-Appointment from panel.


Subsections 1 and 2
remain to be dealt with; the others have been passed.


There is one matter on which I am not very clear, which I think can be brought up under any section in part I, which refers to the national railways. According to section 3 (d) "National company" means the Canadian National Railway Company. Then in subsection (e) I find the following:
"National railways" means the National company, as owner, operator, manager or otherwise, and its transportation, communication and hotel system, which system shall be deemed to comprise all companies which are elements of the Canadian National Railways as defined in the National act-
I should like to know if this act is sufficiently broad to include the Canadian Government Merchant Marine and the Canadian National Steamship Company. If it is I have nothing more to say, but if it is not I think some clause should be included providing that the three trustees who are to take over the Canadian National Railways shall take over the merchant marine and national steamships as well. If that is not done it will mean, that the minister or the government will have to retain the present directors, or others, to look after the affairs of those two companies. So I think we might as well arrange that the trustees to be appointed under this act should also look after the affairs of these two companies instead of having two separate companies looking after the business of the Canadian Government Merchant Marine and the Canadian National Steamship Company.


I agree entirely with the
hon. gentleman, but that provision is not in the bill because it is not necessary. The Canadian National steamships and the Canadian Government Merchant Marine are entrusted to the same directorate by order in council. I confess that the matter has not been discussed, but I am quite sure it is the intention of the government to have these companies looked after in future as they have been looked after in the past. I quite agree that there would be no reason for having a separate board of directors, but that matter can be dealt with by order in council, so it need not form part of the act.


Unless it is in the act I do not see how the governor in council can decide that these two companies do come under this act. This bill is very specific; it deals with certain matters, and according to the definition in subsection (e) of section 3 it would not include the two companies I have mentioned. It seems to me that I have a strong argument, and I think the minister agrees that the Canadian Government Merchant Marine and the Canadian National steamships should be handled by the trustees who are to be appointed under this bill. I think before we pass this bill an amendment should be moved, or a new clause added, so that the trustees appointed under this act will manage not only the railway company but the merchant marine and the National steamships as well. I cannot agree with the minister that in some way the governor in council can arrange to place the merchant marine and the National steamships under this act, by order in council, giving the three trustees power to manage those companies. It would be a very simple matter to make that provision; for instance, the definition contained in subsection (e) of section 3 might be enlarged to include the Canadian Government Merchant Marine and the Canadian National Steamship Company. I think the minister agrees that there should be only one management for the three companies, and I think it would be an easy matter to make that clear now.


I very largely agree with the idea that the management of the merchant marine and the steamship company should be as the hon. member suggests, but in the past these companies were not entrusted to the directors of the Canadian National. By order in council the directors of the National railways were simply made directors of these two companies as well; they were not so appointed under any act, and I submit that it is not necessary to put them under this act. However, I hardly think we will finish this bill to-day, and I will agree that before we do so I will give a fuller explanation to my hon. friend than I have given at the moment, if that will be satisfactory.


That will be quite satisfactory.


The first question to be dealt with by the committee is the amendment of the hon. member for Quebec South, who moved that the section be amended by striking out all the words after the word "occurring" in the fourteenth line.
C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill


Would the bon. gentleman just explain what he has in mind?


The effect would be that in future the appointments would be made by order in council, and we would do away with this panel system. I think the minister agreed to a certain extent that if the original trustees were to be appointed by order in council there was no reason why those succeeding them should not be appointed in the same way. The panel system seems a rather cumbersome method of going about it.


I agree that there is a good deal to be said in favour of the suggestion of the hon. member, but at the same time after a good deal of discussion the government thought this was the better way to leave it, on the ground that, speaking broadly, the panel system is a more non-political method of dealing with the question than appointment by order in council, whether under this or another government. It is true that at the present time the government is appointing the three trustees but for the future it is recommended that if one trustee disappears, the president of the Exchequer court and the chairman of the Board of Railway Commissioners and the remaining trustees may submit a panel of eight names. I do not know that there is every protection against political manoeuvring, if whatever government happens to be in power chooses to manoeuvre, but it is considered that it would be better to leave the panel proposal in the bill.


I submit that the argument just advanced by the minister is not very strong. This government will appoint three trustees and under the panel system those trustees may be self-perpetuating. There is no question but that they can arrange for their own reappointment. The three men will be able to run this railroad for eternity, if it lasts that long. There is another viewpoint which perhaps should be considered when considering the amendment of the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Under that amendment, these trustees need not be appointed for a definite term. They can be appointed for part time service and then for full time service if the governor in council deems it advisable. It might very well happen that these appointments would not be made definite or permanent until this government was about to go out of office, at which time the trustees would have had five, six or seven years of service, as the case may be. It seems to me that if the government wished to be fair it would say that the original appointments shall be made from a panel. I think they [The Chairman.]
should either say that or say that all future appointments will be made by the governor in council. I cannot see any force in the minister's argument that we are getting away from politics.


I shall touch upon only one point raised by the hon. gentleman. When we reach the clause covering that matter, it is the intention of the government to move an amendment in order to make the appointments definite as to years. We would not be able to put through the rather "slick" game the hon. gentleman suggests. We intend to make the appointment for seven, six and five years or five, four and three as may be decided by the committee.


I would like to get an interpretation of the new clause number three to section 4, which reads:
The trustees, other than the chairman, first appointed under the provisions of this act shall from time to time during the terms of their appointments devote to performance of the duties of their office their whole or part time as may be determined from time to time by the governor in council, and the salaries to be paid to such trustees for whole and/or part time service shall be fixed at the time of their appointments.
I see nothing in that clause to prevent the government making these part time appointments to date from the date of appointment and then some fine day making them full time appointments, say for a period of five years.


I think my hon. friend is
putting a fairly loose interpretation upon that clause. The reason this clause was drawn up by the legal officers of the Department of Justice and my department was in order-


I know why it was drawn
up.


It was not drawn up for
the purpose suggested by the hon. gentleman.


I am not imputing motives.


The first appointments
might be made for seven years for the chairman, six years for one of the trustees and five for the other, but if we decided to put them in for full time, say for the first three years, under clause 7 we could not interfere with them without an address of both houses of parliament. We could not undo the work we had done, that is, we could not change their salaries or anything of that sort without an address of both houses of parliament. I may say quite frankly that when we get to

C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill
the next clause and decide upon the term of the appointment, we will not be able to go outside of that provision by making them part time for a portion of their term and full time for another portion.


I suppose it is pretty much wasting time to make any suggestions in view of the fact that the minister has stated that the government intends to stand by this clause as it is now worded. Apparently.it is the intention of the government to provide for the panel method of selection in the case of vacancies, and it is stated that this is done to avoid the possibility of political appointments. It does not seem to me that this provision meets the case at all. As I pointed out on the second reading of the bill, if this is an efficient method of guarding against political appointments to fill future vacancies, the same plan should be followed in appointing the original board. We should be consistent. Let us assume that it is the desire of the government to control this board politically. It will appoint three men who are amenable to government influence. I am presupposing and not charging this. Should a vacancy occur, the two trustees remaining will no doubt renominate themselves upon the panel, while the president of the exchequer court and the chairman of the railway board will make certain other selections for the same panel.


Eight names.


There will be eight names
altogether. The point I want to make is that the two men left on that board, being politicians-the committee knows the sense in which I use that word-will no doubt select four other politicians for their portion of the panel. The president of the exchequer court and the chairman of the railway board may select four men whom they think are not tarnished with political feeling, but if the government wants to do so they can ignore entirely those four nominees. If the first appointments are political-they certainly can be although I do not say they will be-this board will be able to perpetuate itself as a political organization. It seems to me that the provision of having the president of the exchequer court and the chairman of the railway board submit four names to the panel is absolutely useless because the government could ignore those names entirely. If I am wrong in this assumption, I should like to be placed right. The government is not enjoined or compelled to select any name from those submitted by the president of the court and the chairman of the board; if they wish they
can fill the vacancy from the trustees who are still left on the board. I suppose it would be more than human nature to expect that these two men would not put their own names upon the panel and be again selected. If this method is to be adopted at all, I would like to see it adopted right from the beginning. If the panel principle is going to get rid of politics, then I think it ought to be applied in the first instance. If we start out on a political basis-I am assuming that in order to make my argument-the thing will perpetuate itself.


Supposing the government was the same one that appointed the three; then a panel of eight names was submitted, if the government wished to replace two or three of them, irrespective of the other five or six, the government could do so. But supposing in the meantime the government had changed, the trustees could not submit their own names in any way I know of, where the new government would not have the opportunity of replacing them if it so desired.


If the government changed, they might take the selections submitted by the two trustees.


But they could refuse them altogether; after all, parliament is supreme.


The whole thing, it seems to me, is imperfect.


I am not arguing its perfection, I will admit. It was suggested by the royal commission that in the case of a vacancy a panel be submitted by the two remaining trustees. That was their reason for the "stagger" system in the appointments, so that one at a time would drop out and the other two would submit a panel. But in order that there might be a broader basis for the selection of a panel, there were added to the selectors, if I may use that word, the president of the exchequer court and the chairman of the Board of Railway Commissioners. I may say quite frankly that the question was discussed whether the government of the day could not put on a representative, but that would make the matter still more political. The general recommendation of the royal commission being as I have said, the government decided to insert it in the bill.


Does the government not think it is a most remarkable principle to ask men who are already on the board to make selections for the panel? It seems to me that they are prejudiced and self-interested, that
C.N.R.-C.P.R. Bill

is if they wish to act in that way, and it would be better to have the selections made by others than those who are already on the board. What is the principle that governs that provision?


Is that not provided for in the fact that the chairman of the railway commission and the president of the exchequer court can also submit names? It is not possible for the two trustees to submit eight names. They would probably submit four and the others would submit four, so that the government would probably have a voice, and the selection would not really prejudice whichever party happened to be in power.


Why should the two surviving trustees be selected to submit the four names? Are they the proper persons to do that sort of work? If they are prejudiced, as they well might be, why not somebody else instead of those two?


An argument may be advanced in this regard, but there is this to be said for the two remaining trustees; they would understand the railway business to a certain extent and they would know the type of men who should be selected. We will take it for granted that they are honest and true men, and they will probably submit names of men that will be of a suitable type. They might desire to be selected themselves, but the two men submitting the names are not in the panel to be selected. They remain. The submission of a panel is only in the case of one trustee dropping out, because they drop out according to the "stagger" system. They do not submit their own names, and, having iad some understanding of the railway business, they should be able to select the right type of men for the position.


The minister is on
extremely weak ground in the action he is taking. The government say that the first three trustees are to be appointed by the governor in council and there should be some reason for taking away from it the power to appoint in the case of a vacancy. If the governor in council is good enough to appoint the first board, when the time comes for these men to be replaced, the governor in council should be equally competent to appoint their successors. I do not see why the government should want to get away from this practice which has always been followed in making appointments. In this case I think the government is trying to put over the house this bill which is extreme in many ways, and then to appoint a self-selecting boa