I desire to lay on the table order in council P.C. 980 passed pursuant to the provisions of the relief legislation.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Was a petition for an inquiry under The Combines Investigation Act alleging that an illegal combine consisting of: Canadian General Electric Company Limited, Canadian Marconi Company (limited liability), Canadian West-inghouse Company Limited, Northern Electric Company Limited, Western Electric Company Limited, Standard Radio Manufacturing Corporation (now the Rogers-Majestic Corporation), Canadian Radio Patents Limited, is operating and has operated since January 19, 1927, filed with the registrar under the Combines Investigation Act, during the year 1930?
2.	Did the registrar make an investigation and report to the minister?
3.	Was the report of the registrar of such a character as to induce the minister to transmit the complaint, the petition, copy of the evidence taken at the investigations and other necessary documents to the Attorney-General of Ontario for appropriate action under section 31 (a) and (b) of the Combines Investigation Act?
4.	In view of the fact that the Attorney-General of Ontario did not institute proceedings against the alleged illegal combine, has the minister considered the advisability of applying any of the other remedies enumerated in
section 31 of the Combines Investigation Act, and what decision has he arrived at in connection therewith?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
3.	Yes.
4.	Yes, but no further action is contemplated.


1.	Is the government advised that an English company, Fuels Development, Limited, has decided to work the peat bog at Alfred, Ontario?
2.	Has this company asked the government to grant a subsidy for the furtherance of the undertaking?
3.	Will the government assist the development of such peat bog?
4.	If so, in what manner?


1.	No.
2.	Yes.
3.	No.
4.	Answered by No. 3.


1.	Is the government aware that the Montreal harbour board employs American subjects as timekeepers in the place of Canadian-born British subjects?
2.	If so, what are the names of these American subjects, and were Canadian-born British subjects replaced by them?


The following information haa been furnished by the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal:
1.	All timekeepers on the staff of the Harbour Commissioners of Montreal, without exception, are Canadian-iborn British subjects.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Have any public works been authorized by the Department of Public Works, for the present year, in the county of Bonaventure?
2.	If so, what are their nature, what amounts have been authorized, and in what localities?


1.	Yes.
2.
St. iSimeon Centre-
To cut and bridge a gap in
Shore end of wharf	 $ 275
Port Daniel East-
Repairs to wharf	$2,600
Removal of stone	 600

	3,200

Motions for Papers

Miller & Mann (Hopetown)-
To repair roadway approach..	100
St. Godfrey

Removing sand and gravel accumulated on wharf....	25
Cross Point

Wharf improvements	 2,200


For a copy of orders in council P.C. 1947 and P.C. 1948, together' with a copy of telegrams, cablegrams, letters and other correspondence relating to subject matter of said orders in council as at present on the files of the Department of External Affairs.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams and other documents, regarding the dispensing with the services of Norman Jollimore, mail carrier between Halifax and Lower Prospect post offices, and the awarding of the service to J. Bernard Umlah of Terrance Bay from the 1st of March of this year, and also with regard to changing the contract so that the services will be_ from Lower Prospect to White's Lake connecting with the mails from Upper Prospect.


For a copy of all correspondence, evidence, reports, and other papers and documents respecting the investigation recently held regarding the administration of relief funds at Glace Bay, Nova Scotia.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, petitions, reports and other documents in possession of the government, respecting any change made since 1930 in the postmastership or in the location of the post office at Field, Ontario.


For a copy of the report, evidence and all information obtained by the Sutherland commission, in the investigation into tobacco buying conditions in the province of Ontario, following alleged report of combine and application for investigation under the Combines Investigation Act.


I think this had better stand.
Motion stands.


For a copy of the report and evidence arising cut of the investigations of Fred McGregor, registrar, under the Combines Investigation Act into the importation of British coal.


The Minister of Labour (Mr. Gordon) a few days ago made clear the position of the department with respect to this matter. The evidence in question has been transmitted to the attorney general of Quebec, and the report of the registrar upon the evidence would prejudice the position of any person who might be brought to trial. Under the general provisions of the law and the rules that regulate the conduct of government I submit that in the first place it is improper to ask for the papers and, in the second place, that the government would have to resist the motion because it cannot prejudice the position of any person who might be accused under the provisions of the act. The report of the registrar upon the evidence is calculated to prejudice the fair trial of any person who might be accused.


May I ask the Prime Minister if it has not been the practice in certain cases to publish such evidence, and if so why should there be any change of policy in this particular instance?


I cannot answer that question. If it has been done in times past that is no reason why the position of a possible defendant to a criminal charge should be prejudiced by the premature publication of comments upon the testimony on which he might be adjudged guilty or innocent.


Does the hon. member withdraw the motion?


It is the only thing to be done, I suppose, if the government will not give the information.
Motion withdrawn.


For a copy of (1) amended rules and regulations governing the administration of the Patents Act; (2) regulations and forms for carrying into effect the Unfair Competition Act of 1932. which were made effective September, 1932.


It would be impossible for me to comply with this order within the next twenty-four hours, but if the hon. gentleman will withdraw it I shall see that copies are

Conferring of Titles
sent to him at the earliest possible date. Some of these rules are under consideration and are before council for modification, and I will send him the amended copies as soon as possible.


Very well; stand.
Motion stands.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question arising out of the reply he made yesterday to my inquiry with regard to the government's view with respect to the conferring of titles. Yesterday the right hon. Prime Minister stated:
... it is the considered view of His Majesty's government in Canada that a resolution passed o.v one house of parliament is legally effective only as an expression of the opinion of those vho support such resolution in that house, and this is particularly true with respect to the prerogative of the crown.
The sovereign can only be deprived of a prerogative right by statute of parliament, in very special form, which the government does not propose to introduce. There is apparently no opportunity at this time for discussion of the matters referred to by the right honourable gentleman.
The matter referred to by myself, mentioned in the last sentence, was as to whether the government would undertake to say that no titles' would be conferred until parliament had been given an opportunity to discuss the matter anew. I wish now to ask the Prime Minister whether he will give the house the assurance that we will have an opportunity to discuss the question of titles before the government advises His Majesty in any way with respect to the exercise of the royal prerogative in regard to the conferring of titles in Canada.
I should like to add to my question, if I may, that the reason I urge that this assurance be given is that the house has all along been under the impression, until the reply of the Prime Minister was made, that a resolution of this house would bind the government. The question with respect to titles was asked at the beginning of this part of the session, I think, but was answered only a day or two ago so really no opportunity has been given the house to discuss the question as I am sure it would have wished to do had the opinion of the government been made known.
I might add further that, as my right hon. friend will recall, on February 14, 1929, the
house refused to entertain a motion of the present hon. Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) that a special committee be appointed to inquire into the question of titles with a view to considering whether the resolution of the House of Commons of May, 1919, should not be rescinded. That motion was voted down by a very large majority, I think it was 114 to 60. In view of that fact, and because on two occasions the house has expressed itself as opposed to the conferring of titles, and also since there has been an understanding on the part of hon. members that the resolution of 1919 would be binding, no intimation to the contrary having been given until yesterday-


Some days ago.


I accept my
right hon. friend's correction; I believe the statement of the government's position was made a day or two ago, but the question as to opportunity being given hon. members of discussing the matter was not answered, until yesterday. I do not imagine hon. members would wish to discuss the matter at this stage of the session; before, however, His Majesty is advised to exercise the right of conferring titles I think an opportunity should be given for a full discussion of this question.


I regret that I am unable to give any such assurance with respect to any matter of that character. I can only add that personally I have never held the opinion, that a resolution of this house had any effect upon succeeding parliaments, or that it was binding upon anyone other than the persons who were parties to it or who desired to be bound by it. A resolution passed 'by this house stands in exactly the same position as a resolution passed by any other deliberative body in Canada whether it be a city council or a town council, so far as the effect on the legal position is concerned. I do not care to give any assurance with respect to a matter of executive government or with respect to what might be, without governmental intervention, the exercise of the prerogative rights of the sovereign, which have not been limited in any sense by any action taken by this parliament, and which could be 'limited only in the special manner which I indicated yesterday.
Mr. ARMAND LaVERGNE (Montmagny): I hesitate to interpose my remarks in connection with a question on which I was not consulted, but I was just wondering whether the resolution passed by this parliament, called the Nickle resolution, is not in direct conflict
Canada Shipping Act

with the statute of Westminster. That is a phase of the matter which should be looked into. It seems to me that the Nickle resolution was for the advice of the Imperial government, and ithat the king exercised his prerogative on the advice of the Imperial government. In view of the statute of Westminster I should think this resolution would become void because of the new position assumed by the Dominion of Canada.


I suppose it
is not proper to debate this question at the moment, but the point just raised by my hon. friend shows the desirability of having the question debated by the house before any steps are taken. If he will permit me to do so I should like to say to my right hon. friend the Prime Minister that his reply raises an even larger question, inasmuch as I take it to mean that the prerogative of conferring titles may be exercised by His Majesty the King altogether apart from the advice of his ministrj'. I submit that the exercise of all the royal prerogatives are subject to the advice of the ministry, the one with regard to titles quite as much as the one with regard to pardons.


With Your Honour's permission I only desire to direct the attention of the right hon. gentleman, who is widely mad, to the life of Mr. Asquith. My right hon. friend will recall the communication sent [DOT]to Mr. Asquith by his sovereign, who made it abundantly clear that it was not on the advice of anyone that he asked Mr. Asquith to accept an earldom. The prerogative of the sovereign is still in existence; it has not been taken from him and can only be taken away in the manner I have indicated. I only mention that to be correct legally. My right hon. friend will recall another instance in which the same action was taken b}' the late Queen Victoria.


But may I say that the exercise of the prerogative in each of those cases was in accord with the well known and established custom at Westminster. The contrary is the case here.


As the right hon. gentleman will recall, that is hardly the fact. When the late Baron Parke left the bench it was recommended to his sovereign that he would be made a life peer and he was gazetted a life peer under the title Lord Wensleydale. The committee on privileges in the Lords met and decided that the prerogative of the sovereign could not be exercised to create him a life peer but only an hereditary peer. Accordingly his patent as a life peer was can-
LMr. LaVergne.]
celled and he was made an hereditary peer, because it was ascertained as a constitutional matter that there was that limitation upon the exercise of the prerogative.


I do not wish to deprive my right hon. friend of being made a life peer if that is the intention of His Majesty, but all I would ask is that before a title of that kind is accepted by himself or anyone else an opportunity be given this parliament to express its views with respect to titles in this country.


Why say that?


As a matter of privilege I suppose I should say that if the right hon. gentleman thinks he has added to the courtesies of debate, or established for himself any firmer position in the regard and esteem of the people of the country, by the observations he has just made in answer to an explanation with respect to the limitation of the prerogative of the crown, I am content.


Well, I am content also if my right hon. friend thinks his lecture will improve the amenities of parliamentary discussion. What I said was perfectly reasonable in the circumstances. It was a remark which was understood by members of the house and which will be received by the country in the spirit in which it was meant.


Hear, hear.


Hon. ALFRED DURANLEAU (Minister of Marine) moved the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 106, to amend the Canada Shipping Act.
What are the amendments?


The only amendments made by the Senate are with respect to two sections. The first amendment has to do with the pilotage authority, a word or two having been added to the section. The section provided that in the absence of the minister the authority would be vested in the deputy minister, and the Senate has provided that it shall be in the absence of the minister from Ottawa. The other amendment is merely a minor change in the last section. Paragraph 12 of section 1 of the statute will come

Redistribution-Mr. Jean
into force at a date to be proclaimed by the Governor in Council and published in the Canada Gazette.
Motion agreed to; amendments read the second time and concurred in.


The house resumed from Tuesday, May 23, consideration in committee of Bill No. 2, to readjust the representation in the House of Commons-Right Hon. R. B. Bennett-Mr. LaVergne in the chair.
I had not intended to take
part in this debate at its present stage, but, the statement having been made that the increased population of the island of Montreal is the cause of the extensive readjustments that the majority in this house is seeking to effect in 52 of the 65 electoral divisions of the province of Quebec, I thought it advisable to set forth the situation with respect to the island of Montreal, as it appears to me personally, without in any way binding my colleagues or my leaders, in order that it may be well understood that the changes it is necessary to make in the distribution of the Montreal constituencies in no way justify the almost general redistribution it is sought to effect in the remainder of the province.
I wish also to throw some light on certain points regarding the procedure that appears to have been followed in redistributing the Montreal island constituencies, in order that it may not later be said that we willingly accepted, or that we suggested, changes that are not rational and that do not conform to the interests and the views of the people of the island of Montreal.
We, the Liberal members for Montreal, have understood that the majority in this house would decide in the last analysis, and that it would be impossible to reach an understanding were we to insist on the application of logical principles in every case. We had nevertheless to take into consideration the wishes of the majority, to study the various plans submitted, to understand their import, and to protest against the most flagrant wrongs, leaving, for the rest, to our friends opposite the entire responsibility of the changes to be effected.


Hear, hear.


It is in that spirit, Mr. Chairman, that we have approached the problem of the redistribution of the Montreal island constituencies and that we have reached. I shall not say an agreement, but
more or less satisfactory conclusions, which, though lacking as they are in soundness and in conformity to common sense and to the interests of the population, reflect the opinion of the majority in this house, and which we have been obliged to accept as the lesser evil.
Various bases of redistribution, as regards Montreal, were possible. It was acknowledged in the first place that Montreal was entitled to a larger number of members, by reason of its increased population. It had in 1921 a population of 724,205, divided in thirteen constituencies, giving a unit of 55,700. According to the census of 1931, its population is 1,003,868. The unit of 1921 would yield at least eighteen constituencies. But, in order not to disturb too much the remainder of the province, it was agreed, I suppose, to increase the number of Montreal divisions to sixteen, or three more than in 192,1.
The addition of three electoral divisions to Montreal should not, it seems to me, necessitate changes in more than six or seven rural ridings. However, I shall leave the discussion of this phase of the question to my friends representing the other counties of the province.
The addition of three electoral divisions to the island of Montreal would give an average population of 62,000 per constituency. It should have been easy to establish these three new divisions without upsetting the present constituency boundaries of the entire island. The thirteen present divisions of Montreal island have the following populations: Mai-sonneuve, the division I have the honour to represent, 116,311; Hochelaga, 87,096; St. Mary's 65,555; St. Denis, 140,940; St. James, 54)903; Cartier, 48,064; Laurier-Outremomt, 88,579; St. Ann's, 60,696; St. Lawrence-St. George, 37,861; St. Antoine, 36,033; Mount Royal, 93,035; St. Henry, 44,019, and Jacques Cartier, 130,776.
Had we taken the three most populous constituencies of the whole Dominion, viz.: Maisonneuve, St. Denis and Jacques Cartier, which cover the entire suburban area of Montreal and which are practically the only ones where the population is likely to increase, and divided their combined population of 388,027 by the unit of 62,000 established for the sixteen electoral divisions, we would have had six constituencies instead of three. Such a division would have settled the Montreal representation without difficulty or acrimony. For I believe that the electors of the ten other Montreal divisions do not desire any changes and that their present representatives have no objection to retaining them as they are.
Apparently that did not suit our friends opposite, who set about to draw up all sorts
Redistribution-Mr. Jean


Will the
hon. member allow me to put a question?


Certainly.


Was it not
understood last week that the redistribution fMr. Jean].
of the Montreal divisions would be effected following an agreement between the two sides of the House?


I do not think
there was any final understanding, although we reached certain conclusions. If my hon. friend can assure us that there are changes. . . In any case, I wish to submit the changes that we suggested and which are, I say, more acceptable than the one set forth in the bill. I wish to state that we have endeavoured to meet the requirements of our hon. friends opposite.


I would like the hon. member for Jacques Cartier to place his proposals in writing.


Last week
we decided to accept your conditions and we asked the clerks to insert the descriptions as agreed upon. I am greatly surprised to learn to-day that you have other suggestions to make.


Your verbal propositions are worthless.


They are the
propositions of honest men.


In the first place, I must say to my hon. friend that, in so far as I am concerned, I have neither accepted nor rejected these propositions. However, I am keeping an eye on my interests and those of my constituents in connection with this matter.


Yesterday, I asked the hon.
Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau) to kindly submit the government's plan regarding the island of Montreal. He replied that he would do so later. I am in entire agreement with my hon. friend from Jacques Cartier when he says that last week we had reached an understanding regarding the redistribution of the Montreal island divisions. Under that plan, St. Mary's was to remain and Lafontaine to disappear. The population of the latter was to be divided between Hoehelaga, St. Denis and St. Mary's.


And part of it was to go to Mercier.


We accepted the representations of our friends on the committee, but we received no confirmation of this plan and that is why I asked the hon. minister yesterday, to tell us what the government intended to do regarding Montreal. If my hon. friend from Jacques Cartier will tell us now that the plan

Redistribution-Mr. Gobeil
submitted last week is the one the government will submit to this house, I think the debate will be greatly simplified.


Mr. Chairman, the hon. Minister of Marine has just left his seat. I must say that, up to last week, we had practically settled the redistribution of Montreal Island. If, in the course of the day, the Liberal representative on the committee, the hon. member for Laurier-Outremont (Mr. Mercier) will kindly meet the hon. Minister of Marine and myself, we will be ready to continue negotiations with a view to reaching an agreement, if possible.


I am ready to meet the hon. Minister of Marine and my hon. friend the member for Jacques Cartier immediately. Should we come to an agreement, it will be useless to pursue the debate.


In that case, I shall ask the member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Jean) to postpone his speech regarding the island of Montreal.


Let him
finish it.


I am willing to put off my remarks until the conclusion of the negotiations, but I should like to point out that, in the course of the observations I have made, I did not say that we rejected or that we accepted the proposals and the plan submitted to us. I set out the situation that is being created and gave figures that, I believe, will help to solve the problem.


It seems to me that, having almost reached an understanding, it is not right to take advantage of the Montreal island situation to make political capital.


I have no objection to postpone my observations, and, if we succeed in coming to an agreement, I shall be happy to say nothing more on the subject.


Mr. Chairman, I have listened very attentively to the debate which has taken place during the last few days. The speech of the hon. member who has just taken his seat (Mr. Jean), and those of yesterday and the day before, seem to justify the conclusion that it is impossible to come to any agreement in this matter. I had understood for the last four or five days, and my understanding was increased by the speeches of yesterday and the day before, that the question of the island of Montreal had been settled and that an agreement had been arrived at. Since the so-called conciliation
committee has been functioning our work has been less direct but I understood that a suggestion had been made to hon. friends opposite with regard to the island of Montreal that had been accepted. But the discussion of the last day or two has led me to believe that it is impossible to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.
I was somewhat delighted and I must confess greatly surprised at certain remarks made the day before yesterday by the hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe). If we are to take his word the members from Quebec on the special committee have been wonderful prestidigitators. According to him, they have succeeded in making Conservative constituencies out of Liberal constituencies. I must confess that I am not quite as optimistic as the hon. member for Quebec East, although I hope his prediction will be realized. He gave the principle under which he thought this committee should have worked, namely, not to disturb municipal, county or district lines. His exact words are reported on page 5309 of Hansard, as follows:
-how deeply attached the citizens of that province are to their municipal lines, which have existed from time immemorial. That applies to the municipal lines, the county lines, even the district lines.
Before I go into my argument in detail, I must say right now that I disagree absolutely with the opinion expressed by the hon. member for Quebec East. In disagreeing with him I find myself very much in accord with the opinion expressed yesterday by the former Minister of Marine (Mr. Cardin). He admitted that in many cases it was impossible to do this, but I desire to go further and say that in most cases it is impossible not to change these lines. In my opinion municipal, county and district lines should be forgotten absolutely when we are arranging federal electoral districts. I do not intend to argue this point at any length, but how can we respect municipal, provincial and district lines in the province of Quebec when there are sixty-five federal constituencies, seventy-four rural county divisions, and ninety or ninety-one provincial electoral districts? I think these figures show that it is impossible not to disturb these lines and they should be forgotten when we are making a redistribution for federal purposes. But none of these imaginary boundary lines, if you wish to call them that, are being disturbed. The hon. member for Quebec East pointed out that the people should not be set apart. They are not being set apart. Municipal boundaries are not being disturbed; county boundaries are not being disturbed, and the
Redistribution-Mr. Gobeil

people will continue to work and meet together as they have in the past, whether the federal electoral district is extended or contracted. That will have nothing to do with municipal or county administration. Let me illustrate my point in a very few words by referring to my own constituency which has not been changed. As far as county purposes are concerned, Compton belongs to four different counties. For county purposes, a few parishes in my constituency go in with the county of Stanstead while others have to go to the Sherbrooke county council. In the eastern part of the county they go to the Frontenac county council, and the bulk of the county goes to the county council of Compton. Nobody has ever complained or found fault in regard to that. Yesterday an hon. member said that we were going as far as to divide parishes. I have that situation in my county too; one parish has been divided into two for a long time and nobody has complained. Therefore on that point I wish to give my opinion as strongly as I can. As I said before, I am very much in accord with the ex-Minister of Marine, that this action might have been taken now, but I ami sure it will be taken when the next redistribution bill is drafted when county lines and, indeed, all lines should be forgotten.
I wish to make a few remarks in connection with papulation. It has been said by hon. members opposite and, in fact, by some hon. members on this side, that we in this bill have tried to equalize population. That is true. But as the hon. member for Richelieu (Mr. Cardin) said yesterday, this is absolutely impossible if we take the province as a whole. I wish to tell the committee the idea on which we worked in this redistribution. Some counties, for certain but not in each case for the same reasons, have not been changed. In the eastern townships practically no changes have been made because, in view of the fact that they are the only rural part of the province where the English speaking element can secure representation, not only was it a matter of agreement but there is in the British North America Act a provision whereby the county boundaries of the eastern townships cannot be changed except by the wish of the majority of the members for those counties; at all events, those counties have not been changed. Therefore we cannot take as a basis for the average population the counties of the eastern townships.


Will the hon. member allow me to ask a question for the purpose of information? Does the

reference made in the British North America Act to the counties of the eastern townships not apply only so far as provincial counties are concerned? I am not sure; I am asking that as a matter of information.


The hon. member is
right; it applies only to the counties for the Quebec legislature.


The hon. member for
Laurier-Outremont (Mr. Mercier) and the hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Casgrain) may be right. I am not a lawyer, but I was told that; in fact, I read it in the act. It may be, however, it applies only for provincial purposes, but I am not going to discuss that.


It is for the provincial field only.


As I have said, the counties of the eastern townships have practically not been changed, so we cannot take the population of those counties as a basis on which to work. Some other counties like Vaudreuil-Soulanges and Argenteuil have not been changed, because it is almost impossible to change the boundaries, but the principle on which we work was to take a group of contiguous counties and try to equalize the population in that group. I am going to take only one group of counties to illustrate my statement, and I will take that consisting of Bellechasse, Montmagny, L'lslet and Kamour-aska, four counties in regard to which we heard many arguments yesterday and the day before. My hon. friends opposite declare that L'lslet will disappear and that we should have joined L'Islet and Montmagny as a whole, leaving the other two alone. There was no one county that was bound to disappear, but out of that group of four it was understood that we were going to make three. What we have done is simply this. Instead of joining Montmagny and L'lslet, giving them a population of practically 40,000 and leaving the other two counties one on each side with a population of 21,296 and 24,085 respectively, we thought it was more practical to divide the population in that group of counties so as to make three counties with populations as follows:
Constituency-	Population
Bellechasse	 27,480
Montmagnv-I/Islet	 30,869
Kamouraska	 30,852
I am not going to argue this any further; I simply point out that this is the method we have adopted. I might take other groups of counties in other parts of the province and

Redistribution-Mr. Gobeil
find that the population was perhaps 5,000 or 8,000 or even 10,000 more than in this group, but it all depends upon the population of the surrounding counties.
The county of Chapleau was referred to yesterday by the hon. member for Richelieu.
It is quite true that we have a new county there with a population of only a little over 21,000, while the other new county has a population of about 40,000. In the case of Chapleau, however, we took into consideration the fact that it is a new territory which has developed very rapidly. As every hon. member knows, in the Abitibi district fifteen years ago there was practically nobody. In view of the present colonization program which will very likely be further extended due to the present situation, we have considered that in ten years from now the population will probably be 50,000. Another reason for our course is the fact that the county is about 300 or 400 miles long, I am not quite sure which, but at all events not less than 300 miles. As to the other new county taken from Portneuf, Champlain and Three Rivers, which has a population of over 40,000, we thought in that case there was a question whether we should put La Tuque in the district of Portneuf in the new county or leave it out. But as this was almost entirely an industrial county in which the electors were all deriving their living from the pulp industry, we thought it was only logical we should put all that industrial section together.
Another argument advanced against us, as I said at the beginning, was this. The hon. member for Quebec East went so far as to say that we had succeeded in making Conservative counties out of Liberal. That may be true; I am not going to dispute the fact that Champlain and Three Rivers will probably be safer counties for Conservatives after the redistribution than they are to-day, but I would ask my hon. friends opposite to be fair and to recognize that if that is a fact it is equally true, that the new county of Lafleche-St. Maurice, if we take as our guide the vote of 1930, is a solidly Liberal county. We have not done anything to attain that. We have simply taken the population as it was, and according to the vote of 1930 this new county is a county in which the Conservative party has no fighting ground at all. The same remark applies to that other new county. We have taken the people who were in Abitibi. We have not changed their political faith at all, and I think my hon. friends opposite will admit that there too we have a solid Liberal county. But that question was not considered when we made this redistribution. We simply divided the counties the best we could. That was the thought we had in mind, and that is what we did.
The hon. member for Quebec East also said at page 5309 of Hansard:
And I wish to say immediately that in any place or any constituency where any change was made, as my right hon. friend suggests, in 1924, which should not have been made-
I go further, any change that was made either fairly or unfairly-I am quite willing to undo it. But it is not necessary to change the whole map of the province of Quebec for that purpose.
That brings me to a point which I wish to bring to the attention of the house. The hon. member for Quebec East also said in the same speech in regard to the county of Dorchester:
St. Maxime de Scott was put there in 1924, so let him take it away if that is the purpose of this redistribution bill.
It is not my intention, nor could I do it in any event, to belittle in any sense the remarks of my hon. friend from Quebec East, but at the same time the truth is the truth and the facts are the facts. I say to my hon. friend from Quebec East that there was no change made in the county of Dorchester in 1924-none at all. I have here the official list of all the changes that were made in 1924, and it shows that none were made in the county of Dorchester.


Then why make changes this year?


If my hon. friend will wait for a moment I will show him that although the federal redistribution committee did not make any changes, there were changes made. Although the federal redistribution act did not make any change in the county of Dorchester, what do we find? We find that after the redistribution of 1914 the parish of St. Maxime was in the county of Beauce, and part of another township was in the county of Dorchester. We also find that another part of the territory shown here on this map was in the county of Dorchester. That was after the redistribution following the census of 1911. At the redistribution of 1924 no changes were made in that county, but when we look at the official map what do we find? We find that after 1924 this parish of St. Maxime is placed in the county of Dorchester, and we find that there was transferred-[DOT]


What is the degree of latitude?


Never mind that at the moment. We find that another parish that.
Redistribution-Mr. Gobeil

belonged to the county of Dorchester was transferred to Bellechasse. I am simply giving my own word that when I compared the official maps of 1914 and 1924 I found that changes were made in the province of Quebec which involved thirty-three counties, and when I looked to see the number of changes made by the redistribution committee I found that there were only seven. What happened was this: My contention, and I ask every member of the house whether I am right or wrong, is that changes of this nature did not occur in any other province of this Dominion except Quebec. What happened in that province was that between 1911 and 1921, the census years, or between 1914 and 1924, the years in which the Redistribution Act passed the federal house, the Quebec legislature itself made several changes in the boundaries of provincial counties. In fact, it is making changes almost every year in the boundaries of some counties. So in 1924 when the redistribution bill was before this house the changes that had been made by the Quebec legislature were incorporated in the federal Redistribution Act without any special mention of them being made in the act itself; but that act took as a basis the new county boundaries that had been made by the Quebec legislature. That is why I said at the outset that the provincial county boundaries should be absolutely forgotten for federal electoral purposes.
The hon. member for Quebec East also said that we were carving up the province of Quebec, and we have heard the same thing said a hundred times during the last few days. It has been said that we were making changes in almost every county in the province of Quebec. But I ask, is it fair that we should take as a basis of a federal redistribution the changes in the county boundaries that were made by the province of Quebec? In 1924 more than thirty-three such changes were made in the province, excluding the city of Montreal.


Might I ask if the hon. gentleman would mention in detail the thirty-three changes that he said were made in the province of Quebec?


I will name the counties, if that is satisfactory to the hon. gentleman.


Give the counties.


The county of Bagot-


What changes were made in the county of Bagot?
{Mr. Gobeil.]


My time will not permit me to give the entire list of all those changes. I have only so many minutes left, Mr. Chairman, but when I have finished my remarks, if there is time left, I shall be glad to give those details.


I do not want to interrupt the hon. gentleman, but might I say this?


If the hon. member permits the question.


May I put a question to the hon. gentleman with his permission?


No, because you are trying to deprive me of the opportunity to say what I want to say.


He has the floor.


The hon. gentleman mentioned certain changes, I aslc him to name those changes.


The hon. gentleman has the floor and has a right to retain the floor, he should not be interrupted.


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman, the hon. member for Compton (Mr. Gobeil) is advancing a very serious argument. He says there was an alteration made in 1924 in the redistribution in thirty-three counties. If his information is correct he should name the counties.


This reply has nothing to do with the point of order. The point of order is whether the hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Casgrain) has the right to interrupt the hon. member for Compton without his permission. Permission not being given the hon. member for Charlevoix-Sague-nay is out of order.


Are you the chairman?


I ask the hon. gentleman kindly to allow the hon. member for Compton to finish his speech.


I am willing and pleased to name the counties in which these changes were made, and if my hon. friends opposite want more details I will have those details typed for them and send them as many copies as they want. They are: Bagot, Beauce, Bellechasse, Berthier-Maskinonge, Brome-Missisquoi-here is another striking example -Charlevoix-Saguenay,	Chateauguay-Huntingdon, Chicoutimi, Dorchester, Drummond-Arthabaska, Gaspe, Joliette, Kamouraska, Lafoelle, Laprairie-Napierville, L'Assomption-Montcalm, L'Islet, Matane, Megantic, Mont-magny, Nicolet, Richelieu, Richmond-Wolfe,

Redistribution-Mr. Pouliot
Rimouski, Sherbrooke, St. Johns-Iberville, Shefford, Terrebonne, Yamaska, Wright. If my hon. friends opposite want more details I have here all the territories by square miles that were transferred from one county to another between 1914 and 1924 by the provincial government and incorporated in the federal bill without any mention of it in the bill.


Will the
hon. member allow me to put a question?


Yes.


He is more courteous to you than to me.


Is it because you represent a Tory county or because, having narrow views, you were able to do what is being done in the province of Quebec, that you were appointed to the redistribution committee?


I will say quite frankly, in answer to the hon. member for Lotbiniere, that I am ignorant of the reasons why toy colleagues made me a member of the redistribution committee.
Mr. DUPRE (Translation); It is because we had confidence in you.


I suppose my colleagues considered I would do as well as another. In any case, I was a member of the committee.


I must say they made a very poor choice.


That is a matter of opinion. My colleagues selected me to represent them on the committee; they must have thought I would do the work satisfactorily. I acted to the best of my knowledge and ability, and I am convinced that the bill, as it now stands before the house, is fairer to the people of the province of Quebec than the one-I was on the point of uttering an unparliamentary word-of 1924, which hypocritically effected changes in 26 Quebec counties. These changes had been made by the provincial government and should never have been effected.


I prefer a hypocritical settlement that gives justice to one that does not give justice and is made by a hypocrite who does not name himself.


I have not
the least objection to answering reasonable questions put to me by my colleagues. I have never understood, however, that this house is a suitable place to exchange remarks in language that would not be tolerated elsewhere. I can say only this: the member for Lotbiniere, I have not the slightest doubt, fulfils his parliamentary duties conscientiously and to the best of his knowledge, and the . member for Compton has done and will continue to do likewise.
Mr. Chairman, I am through with my remarks. It was not my intention to go into details in making these few statements. I just wanted to place before the house the rules or ideas under which we worked and to deny certain allegations made in -this house by hon. members who have spoken before me. I wanted to place before the house these injustices, as I see them, that were perpetuated in the redistribution of 1924.
I will have something more to say later on in connection with the schedule, but at present I am through.


Mr. Chairman, I will now conclude the speech which I started yesterday evening.
The hon. member for Compton (Mr. Gobeil) said that one parish in his constituency was divided, that he had only part of it in his constituency, that part is in the township of Hereford, which has belonged to his constituency since confederation and before.


Mr. Chairman, I never said
that.


The hon. member said he
had part of the parish in his constituency.
I have a note of it.	'


I object, Mr. Chairman, I
never mentioned constituency. I do not want the hon. gentleman to put in my mouth words that I never uttered.


We heard you.


I never heard anything
so extraordinary. I have a note here that the hon. gentleman said he had the parish for a long time in his constituency; which is the case.


Yes.


Then why deny it and
disturb me when I speak?


I never said "since confederation."


Perhaps the hon. member has forgotten, just as he has forgotten the name of the constituency of the hon. member for Lotbiniere (Mr. Verville). But I know the parish of St. Hermenegilde in the township of Hereford which is part in Compton constituency and part in Stanstead. What I say is that the township of Hereford has belonged to
53S0
Redistribution-Mr. Pouliot

the electoral district of Compton since before confederation, and it is still there. The reason why it is still there is that the boundaries of the constituency of the hon. gentleman have not been changed since 1853. If he does not know that he can learn it now, it will foe beneficial to him.
There is another thing. He repeated after the big guns, the hon. Solicitor General (Mr. Dupre) the hon. Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau) and others, that municipal and provincial lines did not count. Did he say that or did he not? Yes, he admits it.


I never said "did not count."


Did not count for federal purposes.


No, I said should be overlooked.


That is the same thing.


It is not the same thing
at all.


Well, we call that hairsplitting, and as I am not a barber, I am not fond of it. Sir, let us say that the hon. gentleman contends that in a federal redistribution provincial and municipal lines should be overlooked. I take an entirely different point of view. It is a matter of mandate. The hon. gentleman has received a power of attorney from each one who voted for him.
I say it is only fair that he should give an account of the way he has fulfilled his mandate, and that he will do, because there is no change in his constituency. The electors said to the hon. member for Compton, to the Solicitor General, to the hon. member for Levis (Mr. Fortin), to the minister of Finance (Mr. Rhodes) and to others, "Go to the House of Commons and represent us there." It is only fair, sportsmanlike and just that a man who has received such a mandate should go back to the same people and have the courage to face them, as the hon. member for Richelieu (Mr. Cardin) said yesterday. One who is not afraid to meet the people who accorded him such an honour will go back and tell them what he has done. What will my hon. friend from Compton say? " I recommended my brother to the Canadian National Railways, the Canadian government and others so that he could sell his jam." That is a fine way to fulfil a mandate, but that is what the hon. gentleman has done. The hon. member for Compton read a letter which he had received from a man named Vaughan or some other official of the Canadian National who is ready to lick the boots 
of any member on the government side in order to keep his job; in that letter information was given up to July of last year. Then my hon. friend the Minister of Railways and Canals (Mr. Manion), who is listening to me now, refused to give the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Boulanger) the further information for which he was asked. I hope the hon. member for Compton, who was so busy selling jam for his brother to the Canadian government and the Canadian National Railways, will tell his electors how much time he devoted to that purpose, and how many of the 15 cent and 25 cent jars of jam were sold after the Canadian National complained that the quantity was not sufficient and that a larger jar must be sold for 25 cents.


Order. I think the hon. gentleman is getting away from the question under discussion.


I have just finished that portion of my remarks, sir. I say this is why my hon. friend from Compton was in a jam when he discussed the matter in committee. I believe in sportsmanship, in fairness, in justice and in equity; that is why I say a man should have the courage to face those who sent him to the House of Commons without putting some of them in another constituency so that he may not have to face their wrath.
We have heard a good deal about the redistribution of 1924 from one of the executioners who were put on that committee for a special purpose. What happened in that redistribution? Yesterday I heard my good friend the hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. ILapointe)-and I will ask my hon friend the Solicitor General to keep quiet and listen to me, because it may bring good results ask the members on the government side jointly and severally what change made in 1924 has been rectified in 1933. My hon. friend was unable to get an answer. In 1924 the boundaries of the counties were rectified so that they might remain the same for federal purposes. If we look at the description of the county of Dorchester we see that the line of demarcation made in 1924 has been very materially changed in the bill now before the house. I think it is rather needless to continue the discussion along these lines, but I shall be ready to meet any hon. gentleman opposite when we come to discuss the schedules to tire bill. To-day the boundaries of the county of Dorchester are the same as they were before confederation. We were toll yesterday that this electoral district was

Redist ribution-Mr. Pouliot
created in 1791. That may be so; I do know that since 1853 those bounda