Hon. E. N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 54, to amend the Dominion Notes Act.
Explain.


Mr. Speaker, this bill provides for an amendment to subsection 3 of section 4 of chapter 41 of the revised statutes, the Dominion Notes Act, and provides that the provisions of that subsection can be suspended from time to time by order in council. It may be termed, in a sense, a companion bill, and one which necessarily follows the Gold Export Act which we passed last year.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has Mr. E. C. Buchanan, formerly president of the press gallery, been named director of external relations, at the service of the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission?
2.	If so, when was he appointed?
3.	Who recommended him for such a position?
4.	What salary is he receiving?


The following information has been furnished by the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission:-
1.	Mr. E. C. Buchanan has been appointed under section 40 of the Civil Service Act as director of public relations for the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission.
2.	March 3, 1933.
3.	The Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission.
4.	$5,800 less 10 per cent.


1.	Has the federal government guaranteed one or more maturities of Newfoundland since 1930?
2.	If so (a) on what date; (b) what amount was involved in each such guarantee; (c) under what authority has the federal government
[DOT] guaranteed the maturities of Newfoundland?
3.	Has the federal government paid any sums of money to the dominion of Newfoundland or for such dominion since the month of August, 1930?
4.	If so (a) on what date; and (b) what sum was involved in each such payment; (c) under what authority were such payments made?


1 and 2. As stated in the house earlier in the session, certain banks made a loan to Newfoundland in connection with interest due January 1, 1933, and the dominion guaranteed repayment of $625,000 under authority of chap. 36, 22-23, Geo. V.
3.	No.
4.	Answered by No. 3.
* CANADIAN NATIONAL EXPRESS-TRANSPORTATION RATES	[DOT]


What are the transportation rates of the Canadian National express between Montreal and Riviere du Loup, and Quebec and Riviere du Loup?


These rates can be obtained at any express office of the railway company.


1.	What is the cost (a) of the primary product; (b) of the manufacture of rural mail boxes sold by Amedee Lesieur to the Post Office Department?
2.	What is the dimension of each such box?
3.	Of what metal are they made?
4.	What is the weight of each box?


1.	(a) No information; (b) no information.
2.	Length, 231 inches; circumference, 31-f inches.
3.	Galvanized iron.
4.	11 pounds.
Questions


1.	What is the complete postal address of Amedee Lesieur whose name is mentioned at page 3041 of the unrevised edition of the House of Commons debates?
2.	Since what date lias he been a manufacturers' agent?
3.	What was his previous occupation?
4.	How many contracts were granted to him since the month of August, 1930?
5.	What are these contracts?
6.	By whom and to whom was he recommended on each occasion?
7.	Of what manufacturers is he the agent?


1.	408 East St. Joseph Blvd., Montreal, P.Q.
2.	Not recorded in files of Post Office* Department.
3.	Generally known as merchant and agent, but not recorded in Post Office Department.
4.	Two.
5.	10,000 rural mail boxes, P.C. 2799, December 12, 1931.	50 combination letter boxes,
July 2, 1931.
6.	Patented equipment submitted, found satisfactory and ordered according to the needs of the department,
7.	No record in Post Office Department.


1.	Did the Post Office Department purchase
10,000	rural mail boxes from Amedee Lesieur of Montreal?
2.	If so, on what date?
3.	Did the Post Office Department call for tenders before purchasing the said boxes?
4.	If so (a) on what date; (b) what were the names and address of each tenderer; (c) the price of each tender?
5.	If not, why?
6.	Before such purchase was made, did the Post Office Department receive requisitions from the persons in charge of the rural mail boxes for the purchase of a further supply?


1.	Yes.
2.	December 23, 1931.
3.	No.
4.	Answered by No. 3.
5.	Patented box submitted was found satisfactory.
6.	Stock of boxes on hand so low that additional purchase necessary.


1.	How many radio receiving set owners paid the licence fee for 1932 in each of the following cities: Ottawa, Toronto, Hamilton, London and Windsor?
2.	Are firms selling receiving sets required to report separate sales to the department when such sales are made?
3.	If so, how many sales were reported in the above cities in the year 1932?


1. For fiscal year 1932-33, eleven months
ending February 28, 1933:
Ottawa and suburbs	 19,083
Toronto and suburbs	 105,264
Hamilton and suburbs	 22,966
Windsor and suburbs	 10,599
London and suburbs	 11,983
2.	No, but before selling a radio set a dealer is required to see that the purchaser is licensed.
3.	Answered by No. 2.


1.	Who holds the contract for the transportation of postal parcels in the city of Montreal ?
2.	On what date was this contract renewed the last time?
3.	What was the amount of the contract (a) before renewal; (b) after renewal?
4.	Were tenders called for before the renewal of such contract?
5.	If so, what are the names and addresses of the tenderers, and the amount of each tender?
G. If not, why were tenders not called for?


1.	J. E. Laurent.
2,	3, 4, 5 and 6. The contract for this service was held by Gour & Richer at the rate of 70 cents per hour and was due to expire on September 30, 1930.
On May 1, 1930, instructions were issued to renew this contract for a further term of four years.
Owing to the fact that the department received information that Gour & Richer were farming out the contract these instructions were cancelled and the service placed in the hands of J. E. Laurent from October 28, 1930, under a temporary agreement at the same rate.


(
What sum of money has Mr. Simeon Ratte, postmaster at Ste-Anne de Beaupre, received by way of salary, commission or otherwise, since his appointment?


86,910.13 from January 3, 1931, date of transfer of office, to February 28, 1933


^ 1. Has the Hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce received any communications from the citizens of the county of Saguenay asking for a twice-daily boat service between Tadoussac and St. Catherines bay?
2.	If so, what were the tenor of such petitions or communications?

Questions


1.	Yes.
2.	Asking that a service of two trips a day be performed.


1.	What was the number of the deportations for the fiscal years 1931 and 1932, and for the six months of the 1933 fiscal year?
2.	What was the nationality of the deportees?
3.	How many of these deportations were due to mental, criminal, public charge and unlawful entry causes?
4.	What was the cost to Canada of said deportations ?


1.
1930-	31	
4,3761931-	32	
7,0251932-	33 ( 6	mos.)	
3,967
6 mos.
2.	1930-31	1931-32	1932-33Arabian	1	_	Albanian. . . .	-	_	1Austrian	13	53	26Belgian	16	50	10British	3,099	4,248	2,574Bulgarian. . . .	3	8	8Chinese	73	78	32Czecho Slovak. .	57	311	88Danzig	-	3	3Dutch	36	75	42Esthonian. . . .	6	4	2East Indian. . .	-	3	-Finnish	95	256	141French	9	16	11German	121	222	119French W. Indies.	-	-	2Greek	10	17	6Hungarian. . . .	33	179	56Italian	11	24	17Japanese. . . .	3	28	29Jugo-Slav. . . .	39	88	66Latvian	1	2	-Lithuanian. . .	14	29	13Luxemburg. . .	-	1	1Maltese	1	1	2Palest ine....	-	1	-Polish	160	500	232Roumanian. . .	70	150	87Russian	2	22	18Danish	92	142	65Icelandic. . . .	-	1	1Norwegian. . .	56	111	62Swedish	39	87	61Spanish	-	1	-
6 mos.
1930-31 1931-32 1932-33
Swiss	34	46	13Syrian	1	7	-Turkish	-	1	-Ukrainian. . . .	1	-	-U.S.A	279	260	179Portugese. . . .	1	6 mos.3.	1930-31	1931-32	1932-33Mental	436	330	163Criminal. . . .	868	1,006	452Public charge. .	2,245	4,507	2,694Unlawful entry.	. 119	243	141
4.
1930-	31	
8146,666	121931-	32	
295,159	791932-	33 (6	mos.)	
122,628	59


1.	Has Edward Martin been appointed permanently as keeper of the light house at Carleton Point, county of Bona venture, Quebec?
2.	If so, when was the appointment made?


1.	Henri Joseph Martin .was permanently appointed lightkeepeir at Carleton, Quebec, by Civil Service Commission certificate dated May 27, 1932. lit is understood this is the same person as Edward Martin, his name in full being Henri Joseph Edouard Martin.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Is one Joe Merryfield in the employ of the federal government?
2.	If so, what are his duties?
3.	Do his duties necessitate his visiting the province of British Columbia?


1, 2 and 3. Mr. J. E. Merryfield has been in the employ of the government as census commissioner (census of trading establishments), in which capacity he has been engaged recently in western Canada, including British Columbia, his employment terminating on March 31, 1933.


1.	What was the total amount of mail and steamship subventions given on the Pacific ocean for the last three years?
2.	How much of the aforesaid subsidy goes to Canadian ships?

Questions as Orders jor Returns
3.	How many Canadian owned ships are in receipt of a subsidy?
4.	How many British or other owned vessels are chartered on the Canadian Pacific coast, and in receipt of a subsidy?
5.	Are any of the companies receiving subsidies employing Oriental crews?


1.	Excluding coasting services-$2,295,450.
2.	To Canadian owned ships-$1,691,800.
3.	On the Pacific, excluding coastal services-7.
4.	There are under chanter at the present time 3 ships.
5.	In some cases stewards, deck hands, etc., employed in ships sailing to Chinese ports are orientals, under British or Canadian officers.


1.	Has the government taken any steps to secure repayment of the sum of $125,000 made by the Beauharnois Corporation Limited to John Aird, junior?
2.	Has the government taken any steps to secure repayment of the sum of $150,000 said to have been paid by Mr. R. O. Sweezey out of the funds of the Beauharnois Corporation Limited to the National Press of Winnipeg?


The answer to the question is, No, because the government had no jurisdiction in the premises.


Answered.


1.	At the present time, in a general way and in so far as the government has information, are Canadian citizens debarred from employment on race tracks in the United States?
2.	Have citizens of the United States recently made application to the Department of Immigration for permits to enter Canada for the purpose of employment on Canadian race tracks during the coming racing season?
3.	If so (a) who are the persons who have made such an application; (b) what are the reasons alleged in support of their application; (e) was their application recommended to the Department of Immigration in each case; if so, by whom; (d) what kind of work have these persons stated they intend to perform on Canadian race courses?
4.	Have citizens of the United States been employed on Canadian race tracks during the last racing season under permits granted by the Department of Immigration?
5.	If so (a) who are the persons to whom such permits have been granted; (b) what work

has been performed by said persons on Canadian race tracks; (c) have the said persons paid income tax to the Canadian exchequer on the revenue they have earned by working on Canadian race tracks; (d) what reasons have motivated the granting of permits to such persons; (e) who recommended to the Minister or to the Department of Immigration the granting of permits to such persons, if any?


1.	What was the cost of the site of the National Research Institute?
2.	What was the cost of the erection of the National Research Institute?
3.	What was the cost of the equipment of the National Research Institute preparatory to its inauguration in 1932?
4.	What was the total amount of the travelling expenses incurred by Dr. H. M. Tory, president of the National Research Council, each year from 1926, inclusive, to 1933, including those for voyages to Japan, England and Germany ?
5.	What was the cost of transportation of Dr. Tory's household effects (and a motor) from Edmonton to Ottawa in 1928-29?
6.	What	was	the	total	expenditure	for
assisted researches for 1926-33?
7.	What	was	the	total	expenditure	for
salaried assistants in the assisted researches from 1926 to 1933?
8.	What	was	the	total	amount of	the
travelling expenses incurred by members of the National Research Council in attending meetings of the council for each year (specified) from 1926 to 1933?


For a copy of all correspondence, petitions or other documents in connection with the appointment of the postmaster at Adamsville, Kent county.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, or other documents, exchanged between any person or persons and the chief electoral officer of Canada, relating to, or in any way having a bearing on complaints received by the chief electoral officer regarding the returning officer for the constituency of Oxford South during and immediately following the Dominion election held on July 28, 1930.


For a copy of all correspondence between the Minister of the Interior or any departmental official, and Mr. Sidney J. Webster, of Golden, British Columbia, regarding lot 10550, G.I. Kootenay district, on the east shore of Kinbasket lake, on Big Bend road.


Mr. LaVERGNE:
For a copy of all documents, requests, petitions and correspondence, respecting bilingual stamps or currency addressed to the federal government or the House of Commons by citizens of Canada, in 1906 and 1907.
I trust the hon. member will not press this motion. It goes back twenty-seven years, and necessitates a very great difficulty in ascertaining whether or not there are any papers. Because, after ten years many of them are destroyed, and it will take a very long time to ascertain whether they are existent or not.
Mr. LaVERGNE: I do not wish to press the motion, but my recollection is that in 1907 I presented a petition in favour of bilingual currency, having the signatures of
1,700,000	Canadians.


I forgot to mention that some of the petitions presented to the house were in the archives of the old building and were destroyed by the fire. We are not in a position to say whether this petition was among them or not.


Dropped.


For a copy of all orders in council issued since August 20, 1932, pertaining to valuations for duty on goods entering Canada from Great Britain or any other country; also a copy of all instructions, including confidential letters to customs officers affecting the valuations for duty or classification for duty purposes, issued by the Department of National Revenue since August 20, 1932.


Before this motion
carries I think it should be brought to the attention of the house, as I am sure my hon. friend well knows, that it has not been the practice of this government or its predecessor to bring down confidential information. The Department of National Revenue cannot display even to the House of Commons the transactions which take place with private individuals. This notice of motion also asks for confidential letters passing between officers of the department. I submit, Mr. Speaker, that the motion should be redrafted. I am sorry to put my hon. friend to any trouble, but if we are not asked for confidential information of the kind I have mentioned I shall be glad to give my hon. friend such information as I can.


It is not the intention of
the question to seek information on confidential matters relating to the private affairs
Motions for Papers	
of any company. What the question asks for	
is confidential letters sent to customs collectors	
affecting valuations.	When these confidential
letters are sent out to the officers and are	
acted on and because of the instructions given	
in these letters valuations for duty are made,	
then public action	has been taken and it is
no longer confidential.	
Mr. LAPOINTE	: They become public
matters.


Will the hon. member
consider amending the motion?


No.


Or does he press it as it


As it is.	
The house divided on the motion (Mr.	
Young) which was negatived on the following	
division.	
	YEAS
Messrs:	
Ahearn,	Kennedy
Beaubien,	(Peace River),
Bertrand,	King, Mackenzie,
Blair,	Lapointe,
Bourassa,	[DOT] Lucas,
Bradette,	Luchkovieh,
Brown,	Maclnnis,
Butcher,	Mackenzie
Carmichael,	(Vancouver Centre),
Gasgrain,	MiaeLean,
Chevrier,	McKenzie (Assiniboia),
Coote,	Mitchell,
Denis,	Moore (Ontario),
Desrochers,	Motherwell,
Donnelly,	Munn,
Dubois,	Neill.
Duff,	Parent,
Dupuis,	Perras,
Factor,	Power,
Ferland,	Ralston,
Fiset, Sir Eugene,	Reid,
Garland (Bow River), Roberge,	
Gershaw,	Rutherford,
Girouard,	St-Pere,
Goulet,	Seguin,
Hall,	Speakman,
Hanson (Skeena),	Spencer,
Heaps,	Stewart
Heenan,	(West Edmonton),
Howard,	Taylor,
Howden,	Totzke,
Hurtubise,	Urquhart,
Ilsley,	Vallanee,
Irvine,	Verville,
Jacobs,	Woodsworth,
Jean,	Young.-69.
	NAYS
	Messrs:
Anderson (Toronto-	Barber,
High Park),	Baribeau,
Anderson (Halton),	Beaubier,
Arsenault,	Bell (St. John-Albert),
Arthurs,	Bennett,
Baker,	Bourgeois,
Motions jor Papers

Bowen, Bowman, Boyes, Barns, Bury, Gasselman, Chaplin, Charters, Cotnam,
Moore (Chateauguay-Huntingdon), Morand,
Mullins,
Murphy,
Nicholson,
Peck,
Perley (Qu'Appelle), Pickel,
Cowan (PortArthur-	Plunkett,
Thunder Bay),	Price,
Cowan (Long Lake),	Quinn,
Davies,	Rhodes,
Dickie,	Robinson,
Dor ion,	Rogers,
Dupre,	Ross,
Duranleau,	Ryckman,
Ernst,	Byerson,
Esling,	Sauve,
Fraser (Cariboo),	Shaver,
Ganong,	Short,
Garland (Carleton),	Simpson
Gobeil,	(North Simcoe),
Gordon,	Simpson
Gott,	(West Algoma),
Guthrie,	Smith
Hackett,	(Victoria-Carleton),
Harris,	Smith (Cumberland),
Hay,	Sproule,
Johnstone,	Stanley,
Jones,	Stewart (Leeds),
Lafleche,	Stewart (Lethbridge),
Loucks,	Stinson,
MacDonald (Cape	Stirling,
Breton South),	Stitt (Nelson),
Macdonald (Kings),	Sutherland,
Macdougall,	Swanston,
MacLaren,	Thompson
MacMillan	(East Simcoe),
(Saskatoon),	Thompson (Lanark),
MacNicol,	Tummon,
MeDade,	Weese,
McGibbon,	Weir (Melfort),
MeGillis,	White (London),
McGregor,	White (MountRoyal),
McLure,	Willis,
Maloney,	Wilson,
Manion, Matthews,	Wright.-100.
PAIRS	
(The list of pairs whips.)	is furnished by the chie
Messrs:	
Barrette,	Rheaume,
Bell (Hamilton),	Mercier (St. Henri),
Bell (St. Antoine),	Raymond,
Beynon,	Euler,
Black (Halifax),	Dubuc,
Caban,	Rinfret,
Gantley,	Cardin,
Duguay,	Dumaine,
Edwards,	Elliott,
Embury,	Bothwell,
Fortin,	Fafard,
Gagnon,	Boulanger,
Geary,	Mercier (Laurier-Outremont),
Hanson	Veniot,
Kennedy (Winnipeg), Larue,
Laurin,
Lawson,
Lennox,
Perley, Sir George, (Mr. Young.]
McIntosh,
Thauvette,
Fontaine,
Gray,
Pouliot,
Marcil,
Pettit,
Ponteous,
Rowe,
Senn,
Smoke,
Spankie,
Spence,
Spotton,
Stevens,
Stitt (Selkirk),
Sullivan,
Turnbull,
Bouchard,
Macphail, Miss, Lacroix,
Sanderson,
Cayley,
Gardiner,
Fraser
(Northumberland), Hepburn,
Malcolm,
Weir (Macdonald), Brasset,
McPhee.


I was paired with the hon. member for South Oxford (Mr. Cayley). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Northumberland (Ontario) (Mr. Fraser). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for West Middlesex (Mr. Elliott). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Beauharnois (Mr. Raymond). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for West Elgin (Mr. Hepburn). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Kamouraska (Mr. Bouchard). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Beauce (Mr. Lacroix). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Frontenac-Addington (Mr. Spankie). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


-I was paired with the hon. member for Southeast Grey (Miss Macphail). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. Ann (Mr. Sullivan). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.
Mr. RiHEAUME (Translation): I was paired with the hon. member for BertShier-Maskin-onge (Mr. Barrette). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.

Business oj the House


Now that the Minister of Finance (Mr. Rhodes) has brought down his budget I should1 like to ask the Prime Minister if he is in a position to indicate to the house whether we now have before us all the legislation that will be introduced this session with the exception of what may arise out of the resolutions now before the committee of ways and means and anything that may oome from other committees of the house. I should like to ask also whether the government intends to proceed at this session with the redistribution measure and if there is any possible way in which that measure might be expedited.


The shipping bill now in the other chamber will be proceeded with and the pensions bill will be brought down. The redistribution bill will be proceeded with, and I think every reasonable effort is being made to expedite the work of that committee, at least that is my advice in that regard. Amendments to some existing statutes probably will have to be brought down, affecting possibly the Post Office Act, the Public Works Act, the Judges Act and the criminal code. Owing to the great difference of opinion that has been expressed by different public bodies with respect to the proposed legislation arising out of the Gibb report I am not in a position at the moment to say whether or not that bill will be proceeded with. It has been printed, but a great many public bodies in the cities affected have been directing communications to the government suggesting that the matter be delayed until they can further consider it. At the moment I cannot say whether or not. we will proceed with that measure at this session. I think two or three other statutes, the names of which I do not recall at the moment, will have to be amended as well. I will endeavour to indicate clearly on Monday, so far as one may do so with certainty, the legislation that will be proceeded with.


On the orders of the day:
As a matter of privilege I should like to state that during the course of some observations I made last week I stated in good faith that the Temiscouata Railway was held or controlled by the Canadian Pacific Railway, or the Quebee Central. I am informed by a telegram which I have just received from the president of the Temiscouata Railway that this is not the case, so I wish to correct any wrong impression I may have given.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. CAMERON R. McINTOSH (North Rattleford): I rise to a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. At page 2000 of House of Commons Debates, there appears the following statement:
Mr. McIntosh: Is it not a fact -that a lot of dead horse railways in eastern Canada have been taken over as part of the Canadian National?
I wish emphatically to deny that I uttered any letter, syllable, word, phrase or clause making up this statement; in fact I repudiate the statement and the sectional sentiment giving rise to it. Because of this attitude I ask that it be dissociated with my name in Hansard and accredited to the dead horse member, whoever he may be, who gave expression to such a deplorable spirit of small Canadianism.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, pamphlets have been issued entitled "Unemployment Among Wage Earners" giving the statistics for one or two of our large cities. I should like to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens) whether this information is available with regard to the country at large.


I will take it as a notice of a question and look into the matter.


The house resumed from Tuesday, March 21, consideration in committee of the following proposed1 resolution-Mr. Gordon-Mr. Ross in the chair:
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a measure to continue in force the provisions of the Relief Act, 1932, until the 31st of March, 1934.
When the house rose last evening I was saying to the Minister of Labour that I hoped his back to the land movement would be more successful than previous schemes had been. This is not the first time that an attempt has been made in this country to establish a back to the land movement, at least in Ontario. I can remember that the Hon. Mr. Ferguson, as Minister
revised edition
Relief Act, 1933

of Lands and Forests in 1917, established what was known as a colony on the east side of -the river Kapuskasing. I am not sure whether the minister was in that part of the country at that time, but I may tell him that Mr. Ferguson believed he had started a well laid out scheme. As I say, he began it in 1917 but it was abandoned in 1920.
Let us examine what was done in connection with that scheme. I want to impress upon the minister that too much care cannot be taken in trying to establish people on .the land. Mr. Ferguson and his organization selected the east side of Kapuskasing river, and the land there was supposed to be one of the best pieces of soil for farming purposes. Moreover, the beauty of the landscape, the fact that a dominion experimental farm was about to be established on the other side of the river, and other favourable circumstances were all taken into consideration as well as the method followed to have the applicants properly selected! for settlement on the land. A committee was appointed to pass upon the suitability of applicants; indeed, proper instructions were given to the applicants before they were allowed to go on the land. They were granted eighty acres of land1 which, subsequently was increased to one hundred acres; each applicant was allowed 8150 to go towards the erection of a house; and they were each loaned $500. At the outset of their training they were given certain allowances; $1.10 a day for unmarried men, and for married men, $5 for the wife and $6 for each child per month, not to exceed in the aggregate $50 for each family per month. This was later discontinued and there was a great deal of dissatisfaction in the colony.
I would point out to the minister that this well laid out scheme, after all these precautions were taken, ended in failure. The government appointed a commission in 1920 under the chairmanship of Mr. W. F. Nickle, who was later a member of this house and later still Attorney General of Ontario, and they recommended that the scheme be abandoned. So far as I can make out, it cost the province of Ontario something like $2,000,000 for the experiment. I hope that the minister's back to the land movement will prove more successful than th-at scheme. Now that the minister and the government are interesting themselves in the back to the land movement, especially so far as Ontario is concerned, it seems to me that they might do something to improve the living conditions of those now on the land in northern Ontario so as to keep them there, instead of having them leave the farms as at present.
(Mr. Heenan.]
There are many methods that could be adopted. I will suggest one to the minister. If he is now advocating a back to the land movement in cooperation with Ontario, he ought to take this opportunity of impressing upon the Ontario government the importance of making provision, either by way of regulations or law or in some other way, to compel or at least to require the pulp and paper companies in the north to purchase their pulpwood from the settlers, and at a fair price. That is one suggestion I have to offer and I hope that the minister, when he is discussing the matter with the Ontario government-I suppose the same thing will apply to Quebec-will see to it that the settlers now on the land get a better opportunity of making a living in order to keep them on the land.
May I ask the minister now whether he will give us the information we were trying to get last evening as to whether or not in this relief measure iit is intended to establish an unemployment insurance scheme, because that is a method whereby, if we cannot cure, at least we can relieve unemployment. I do not want to repeat what I have said before, but I think the minister ought to tell us whether or not he intends to take any of the moneys which are to be voted for the purposes of this measure and apply something towards the establishing of an unemployment insurance scheme. Further, I think the minister ought to inform the committee whether or not at the late dominiomprovnncial conference such a scheme was discussed; whether or not this government bad a plan prepared and laid before the conference; and whether or not any of the provincial governments had plans of their own to propose at the conference. I would like the minister to give us that information before we discuss the other angles of this resolution.


Mr. Chairman, the hon.
member for Kenora - Rainy River (Mr. Heenan) has spent some time in commenting upon the colonization effort made in and about the Kapuskasing river valley in 1919. I happen to know a good deal about that effort. It was started as a relief measure in (the hope that some returned soldiers could be settled in that area. As anyone who cares to visit that part of the country will see, the location was ideal. Some criticism might be made of the choice of settlers upon the ground that in many cases they had no previous fanning experience. If there was any weakness in the scheme, it was in the method of selection. I followed closely the effort which was

Relief Act, 1933
made. Even before the project was started it was faced with considerable political opposition from the political party then known as the United Farmers of Ontario. This opposition took place prior to the provincial elections of 1919. Whether the scheme was good or whether it was bad, it was opposed from the beginning. The effort got into politics and any effort of that character which gets into politics and is footballed around has very little hope of ultimate success. The government of the province of Ontario changed in 1919, and following true to political history, the new government under Premier E. C. Drury, which had previously criticized this scheme decided to discontinue the effort. Except with the one reservation in connection with selection to which I have referred, the whole scheme had a sound basis. Anyone who cares to visit the Kapuskasing river valley will find that it is settled with men who at least are doing as well as other farmers in this country. I suggest to the h>on. member that the effort to open up that section of northern Ontario was not the failure which his remarks would seem to indicate.
The matter of unemployment insurance has been brought to the attention of the government of Canada on many occasions throughout a period of many years. The files of the Department of Labour indicate that resolutions have been coming into the department dating back as far as 1923.


Were those resolutions from outside bodies?


Yes. I have before me
some sixteen pages of typewriting containing names of labour and other organizations from which resolutions were received. The government of the day undoubtedly recognized that the subject was a most difficult one and that it was rendered still more difficult in Canada by reason of the constitutional setup of this country. The files contain a letter written by ithe then Minister of Labour to H. Little, secretary treasurer of the United Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employees, acknowledging a resolution which had been received from that organization. That letter was dated February 22, 1924, and reads:
This particular question is, as you know, a matter that has been before us on several occasions for eonsideraton. The main point involved would appear to be as to whether, with the enormous tax burdens that have come to the people of Canada as the result of the war, additional financial obligations could be assumed.
A circular letter was finally adopted as an answer to the many resolutions being received.


What is the date of that?
53719-208a


A letter was drafted and
in many cases the other answers follow the same language. The one I shall read is addressed to H. C. Needed, 145 Brunswick avenue, Toronto, by the then* Minister of Labour (Mr. Heenan) and is dated February 10, 1930. It reads:
Your letter of January 4 addressed to the Prime Minister, in which you have written on the subject of unemployment conditions and the desirability of the public authorities establishing a system of unemployment insurance, has been referred to the undersigned.
The standing committee of the House of Commons on industrial and international relations has been giving consideration during the past two sessions of parliament to the question of insurance against unemployment. A number of witnesses have been examined with the object of ascertaining the facts as to unemployment existing in this country and also as to systems of unemployment insurance which have been established elsewhere. The report of this committee last session, which was adopted by the House of Commons, accepted and endorsed the principle of unemployment insurance based on compulsory contributions derived from the state, employer and employee. The committee report went on to observe that while it is highly desirable that such legislation should be uniform in all the provinces and that while social insurance has a federal aspect, nevertheless, according to the Department of Justice, under our constitution, legislative jurisdiction in relation to a compulsory system of unemployment insurance is vested exclusively in the provincial legislatures.
The committee further noted that the provinces, on being consulted by the federal Department of Labour with regard to their attitude towards the establishment of a general scheme	of	unemployment	insurance, did notappear	to	be	prepared	to take immediateaction.	It	was	recommended that the federalgovernment be requested to bring this subject matter	before	the next	dominion-provincial
conference.
Copies of the last report of the proceedings of the above-mentioned committee have been sent to the different provincial governments this fall and replies are now being received which will doubtless come before the committee on industrial and international relations at the coming session.
If you are particularly interested in the reports of the committee proceedings I will be pleased to have copies of the same sent to you.
That was the answer sent to all those petitioners.
On February 3, 1930, a conference was convened by the present hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River. Perhaps, before I proceed with that, I might read to the committee a letter sent by the Deputy Minister of Labour on April 14, 1930, to many of the petitioners and directed to the attention of the then Prime Minister and in turn to that of the Minister of Labour:
In the absence of the Minister of Labour from Ottawa, I beg to acknowledge your letter of the 10th instant in which you inquire as to a declaration of the Prime Minister on
32S6
Relief Act, 1933

February 26, in favour of the establishment of a system of unemployment insurance. In reply I -would state that on February 26 the Minister of Labour received a deputation of representatives of certain municipalities in Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia, and of the provincial governments of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia, on the subject of unemployment. On the following day the Prime Minister was asked in the House of Commons if the Dominion government was willing to take the initiative in calling a special conference of the provinces to consider the question of unemployment insurance. In reply to this question the Prime Minister spoke as follows:
"My recollection is that a special committee of this house considered this question last session and brought to the house a report to the effect that unemployment insurance was necessarily a matter with which provincial governments rather than the federal government would have to deal. I think I expressed the view yesterday that in my opinion a system of unemployment insurance would be a constructive way to deal with the unemployment problem, to which system not only the employer and the governments concerned would contribute but the worker also. If the provinces make a move in this matter and it appears that the federal government can be of assistance in helping to bring about uniformity as between the provinces of any plan proposed, or can cooperate in other ways in any discussion on the subject, we shall be glad upon invitation to take the matter under consideration."
Yours truly,
Deputy Minister of Labour.
As to the conference referred to in that letter, I find a report on the files of the Department of Labour. Before I deal with the report, I should like to make this observation, that a review of the files of the Department of Labour discloses the fact that for a number of years, back as far as 1923, this subject has been before that department. As I have already indicated, the subject is one of great complexity and difficulty; it is also a subject that, if embarked upon by any government, should be taken up and the structure established in such a way that failure will not follow the effort, because we have already in the world too many instances where- ill-advised legislation setting up machinery for unemployment or social insurance was not based upon a firm and sound foundation, this apart err-tirely from the difficulty with which Canada is confined by reason of our constitution. To ail the advances or petitions that were made to the late government the same answer-and I am not particularly complaining about this-[DOT] was made by succeeding ministers of labour and by the then prime minister, in substance that the matter was one to which the provinces would have to subscribe

and that is very true

and that the government would give consideration to the subject.

As I say, a conference was held, and on the files of the Department of Labour I find a report of it. I can assure the committee that the report is very illuminating. The conference was held at Ottawa on February 3, 1930, and the report states:
This morning the Minister of Labour, Hon. Peter Heenan, in company with Hon. Dr. J. H. King, Minister of Pensions and National Health, and Hon. J. C. Elliott, Minister of Public Works, met a delegation from several municipalities in the province of Ontario, at which time a request was made -that the federal government should cooperate with the municipalities in connection with unemployment relief-
The committee will note that this conference dealt, according to this report, only with unemployment relief.

by assuming one-third of the expenditure in excess of normal cost where municipalities undertake special work for the purpose of providing employment.
The delegation was introduced by Senator Spence, who stated that fourteen municipalities were represented, and called upon His Worship Mayor Wemp of Toronto, who had been chosen by the gathering to be their spokesman.
Mayor Wemp, who opened the discussion, stated that i-t was not the intention of the gathering to criticize the administration but that they felt it was only proper they should present the problem, which he indicated was very acute, to the government in the hope that the government would see its way clear to adopt the policy of some former years and assist the municipalities in bearing a share of the expenditure in excess of the normal cost.
Mayor Wemp, in turn, introduced the following, all of whom reechoed his views:
Mayor Beckett, of Brantford; Doctor Bell, Hamilton; Mayor Kilpatrick, London; Frank Mitchell, the Border Cities (Windsor); Reeve Leslie. Township of East York; Reeve Dean, Township of York: Alderman Hughes, Welland; John Linden, Scarborough; a gentleman representing Reeve Marshall of Etobicoke Council, the same also representing New Toronto; also Controllers Somerville, Simpson, Pearce and Robins of Toronto.
At -the conclusion of the presentation remarks were made by the Hon. Peter Heenan, Minister of Labour, Hon. Dr. King and Hon. Mr. Elliott. The undersigned was present during the proceedings, also Deputy Minister of Immigration, Mr. Egan. In addition the following other officers -of the Department of Labour were present, Colonel Scknarr, Mr. Rigg and Mr. Phelan.
H. H. Ward,
Deputy Minister.
That is the sum and substance of the effort so far as I have been able to learn-there may have been something else-from the files of the department as to getting the provinces together with the dominion authorities in order that out of the conflict of jurisdiction the problem might be gotten into shape where legislation might be introduced to advance

Reliej Act, 1933
some plan with respect to unemployment or social insurance.
I can only make this remark in passing, that the same difficulty which confronted the late government, confronts the present one. We have the added difficulty that industry in Canada to-day, in common with that of other countries, is passing through a most perilous time. I ask any hon, member of this committee, who gives careful thought to the subject, whether or not the difficulties which confronted the late administration in connection with problems such as the one we are now discussing, are not increased ten-fold at the present time. I am convinced that by hurrying through legislation which has not been considered from every possible angle we may defeat the object to be attained. That is, if such a plan is found to be workable, having regard to the complexities of the problem, then it should be initiated and founded on a sure and actuarially sound basis, and should be subscribed to by every province of Canada and by the industries affected.
It is also abundantly true, at least it is so proclaimed by hon. members who were in the house when the late government was in power, that if there was a time more than any other when the world was apparently prosperous it was during part of the period of office of hon. members opposite. Yet, a review of the files of the Department of Labour which were compiled when the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River was Minister of Labour does not disclose anything but the expressions "Serious consideration will be given" or "The industrial and international relations committee have it under review." Nothing else was done. I suggest, and I think not unfairly, that as the late administration were in power at a time when people thought the world was passing through a period of prosperity, if they were unable during all those years to make any substantial advance towards procuring the object now so dear to the heart of the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River, then, I say it does not come with the best of grace at a time like this for the hon. member to offer condemnation of what this government is endeavouring to do by way of at least having the provinces come in with the dominion-and that means the overcoming of many difficulties-in order to bring about a plan of social or unemployment insurance which, once started, will be permanent and successful. At the moment that is as far as I care to go. I trust the accusation will not be made that my remarks have been made from a political standpoint, because I feel certain the great majority of
members in the committee are thoroughly conversant with the difficulties and pitfalls ahead of any government which seeks to set up a scheme of social or unemployment insurance calculated to operate on a permanent basis, and to work in the interests of those affected by it, and in the interests of the country as a whole.


Mr. Chairman, the minister has succeeded very well in evading answering the question I asked. If he will look at my remarks _ of last evening or read what I said this afternoon he must be convinced that I am not criticizing the government for not making greater haste with respect to the establishment of an unemployment insurance scheme. There was no necessity for the heat just now displayed by the minister. What I asked him, and what we have a right .to know is:	What progress is
he making? Was the matter discussed at the recent dominion-provincial conference? Did the government lay a plan before the conference, or had any of the provinces a plan to lay before the federal government? That is .the question I have asked. I am not criticizing him. But apparently in his efforts to make political capital, notwithstanding the fact that he has said he does not wish to do so-has misrepresented the evidence on bis own files-or at least, the evidence of the files he ought to have before him.
I did not raise the question of jurisdiction as between the provinces and the dominion. I realize as well as the minister that we have obstacles to meet in that connection. If the files were produced they would show that the late government, after the establishment of the Old Age Pensions Act, started in step by step to bring the provinces together. I notice that the minister very carefully evaded reading the files which would disclose that fact. In 1928 the hon. member for North Winnipeg (Mr. Heaps) moved a resolution asking that the matter be considered. If the government of the day had desired I believe we could have evaded the matter by attempting to have the Speaker rule the resolution out of order, on the ground that it was a provincial matter. However we chose to accept the resolution. It was submitted to the industrial relations committee, and they in turn made certain recommendations. Again in 1929-	.


Order. The hon. member cannot discuss the Old Age Pensions Act on this resolution.


I am not discussing it.
328o
Relief Act, 1933


It looks like it, to me. The hon. member is referring to a resolution about the Old Age Pensions Act.


I am answering the Minister of Labour.


The hon. member certainly cannot discuss the Old Age Pensions Act under this resolu/tiion.


I am not doing that; I
shall not refer to it again. In 1929 the matter was again submitted for further consideration to the industrial relations committee.


Order.


I am speaking about unemployment insurance.


Very well, go ahead.


The recommendations of
the committee, while I have not them before me, were to the effect that at the next dominion-provincial conference the government would lay before the provinces the matter of the establishment of an unemployment insurance scheme for Canada. The government of that day did not wait until the next dominion-provincial conference. Tf the minister will refer to his complete fdes he will find that we canvassed the provinces; he will find on that file that many of the provinces acquiesced, and agreed to the unemployment insurance scheme for Canada. One of the reasons we did not go into it more thoroughly was that we were right in the face of an election. We did not wish to draw that question into politics. What would have been said, if we had called a dominion-provincial conference in the face of an election? We would quite probably have been accused of making a political football out of the unemployment insurance scheme. But we did promise, and had in the estimates for 1930 a provision for sufficient money, to hold a dominion-provincial conference, had we been returned to power.
That is the history of the matter, and I am satisfied if 'the late government had been returned to power we would have an unemployment insurance scheme in operation in Canada to-day. I do not wish the minister to evade my question; I am not criticizing him because he has not introduced an unemployment insurance scheme. But certainly the words of the Prime Minister as expressed on April 29, 1931, gave hope to the workers of Canada that an unemployment insurance

scheme would soon be introduced. His words were:
I propose, if we are spared as a government and as individuals, that the information we will have before our term of office is ended shall be crystallized into the form of legislative proposals to be submitted to this house.
The headlines of the newspapers instilled into the hearts of the workers hopes that the government was going to introduce such a proposal. Without criticizing either the minister or the government, all I am asking now is, what did they do at the last dominion-provincial conference to further this scheme? Was the matter discussed? Did they have a plan to lay before the provinces, .or did the provinces have any plan to lay before the Dominion government? In other words I want to know, and I think I am entitled and the house is entitled to know, whether any serious effort was made to establish an unemployment insurance scheme for this country.


I would like to endorse the
remarks of the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River (Mr. Heenan). In order to fortify myself against your possible displeasure, Mr. Chairman, I would like briefly to outline the position at the present moment. We are discussing a proposal to vote a very large sum of money, in some respects an unlimited sum, for the relief of unemployment. A conference was held last fall between the dominion and the provinces. The main purpose of that conference was the consideration of steps to be taken to deal with the needs of those unemployed. There were four major methods suggested and discussed; one was the provision of public works to make employment; another the provision of direct relief; a third was the land settlement scheme; and the fourth was the suggestion of dealing with it by means of unemployment insurance. These various plans were put forward and discussed, some as alternatives, some as palliatives, some as substitutes. Now we are told-at least I have heard it suggested from the chair both last night and to-day-that we can discuss, as we have discussed for three or four days, three of those plans, but must not discuss the fourth. I would like to know why not. We know that the provision of public works has more or less