Mr. Speaker, the following
news item was published on Saturday last by the newspaper Le Canada:
Air. Duguay went to St. Leon to meet a settler by the name of Jeffrey Levasseur-
I wish to state, sir, that I never met any settler, at St. Leon. Moreover, I have never been to St. Leon. The settler alluded to called to see me at my office. I wish to add that I am amazed at the statement made by the Hon. Mr. Laferte, Minister of Colonization of Quebec. He is entirely wrong in seeking to justify his agents by throwing the blame on me. Within the last ten days settlers from St. Leon-the latter is not in the county of Lake St. John but in that of Chicoutimi-have come regularly to my office with grievances against Mr. Maltais. I
devised edition
24S4
Questions

replied to Mr. Levasseur that he should first communicate with the Minister of Colonization at Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, I think the
hon. member is out of order.


No, he is not; he is speaking to a question of privilege.
(Translation): Mr. Levasseur stated that he had already written to the minister but had not received a satisfactory reply. I finally told him that if he wished to communicate with Ottawa, he was at liberty to do so. I, myself, wrote the dispatch, Mr. Levasseur signed and sent it. I am unaware who paid for this dispatch. The amount of $40 mentioned in the article was paid to Mr. Levasseur after the dispatch was forwarded. Mr. Jeffrey Levasseur admitted to me in the presence of a witness, in my office,. that on his return to Chicoutimi they had made him sign a statement similar to the one which appeared in the newspaper article. I can therefore state, sir, that I acted within my rights, and1 that in the future, under similar circumstances, I shall act the same way. It matters little whether the Quebec Minister of Colonization approves of my conduct, I shall act as in the past.


I desire to lay on the
table of the house certain orders in council passed pursuant to the relief legislation.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Are the rayon industries in Canada subsidized by the government in any way?
2.	If so, to what extent?
3.	What profits or dividends have been declared by rayon or celanese products corporations from the years 1928 to 1932, inclusive ?
4.	What is the scale of wages paid to men and women employed in these industries?
5.	How many hours constitute a worker's week in this industry?
6.	What percentage of these products are used for military purposes?
7.	How much did the Canadian government buy from these firms from 1928 to 1932, inclusive?
8.	Can rayon factories be turned into munitions factories in case of war?


Mr. Speaker, I should
like to point out that apparently there is an idea abroad in this house that questions may be asked which can be answered only by the government writing to the people concerned.
[M. D'uguay.l
This could be done just as well by the member as by the officials of the government. The fourth question concerns the scale of wages paid to men and women employed in these industries. This is a matter of provincial legislation as well as of contract between the employee and the company and all the government could do would be to write a letter and ascertain what the scale might be. The same could be said of the next question dealing with the worker's week in the industry. This is purely a provincial matter. The custom of asking the government to send out communications to various people in different parts of Canada in order to answer questions is not what is needed to take up the time of parliament.	,


Mr. Speaker,
I agree largely with the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) in what he has just said regarding questions which relate to private industries and the obtaining of information by the government when such information can be obtained just as easily by members of parliament, but I should like to know whether the right hon. gentleman's remarks extend to the giving of information with respect to matters related to bodies immediately under the control of the government. I refer particularly, for example, to harbour commissions and bodies of that sort which operate indirectly if not directly under a department of government.


As the leader of the
opposition had occasion, I think, to indicate some years ago, the truth is that with respect to some of the operations of harbour commissions and other bodies of that character which receive money from the government, the government can exercise some control, being compelled to give approval of certain matters before contracts are entered into, but in what one might call the ordinary administrative side of the question, the government has not any more control of the matter than has someone on the street. I did not, however, in the observations I made a few moments ago dealing with the type of questions to which I referred, intend to deal with those bodies at all. The policy of the government has been immediately to send to the bodies affected the questions that have been asked and to seek from them replies which it tables in the house as indicating the best information available with respect to such questions, and we shall continue to do that.


It will be satisfactory
to me if the government cannot give the information. I simply withdraw questions 3, 4 and 5.

Questions


With regard
to the reply which the Prime Minister has just made, I understand some questions have been asked with respect to harbour commissions, but they have been ruled out of order. I hope they will be reconsidered in view of the statement that has just been made by the Prime Minister, because I think they are covered by what he has said.


I dio mot want to take up time unnecessarily, but with respect to the sixth question:
What percentage of these products are used for military purposes?
How can the government answer the question How does it know what the product of any particular factory is amid how can it compare what is used for military purposes with the total output? As regards the seventh question:
How much did the Canadian government buy from these firms from 1928 to 1932, inclusive?
This is a proper question, although it is very general. As regards the eighth question:
Can rayon factories be turned into munitions factories in case of war?
It might be Said with respect to any factory in the world that it could be turned into a munitions factory in case of war.
I dlo not wish the right bon. gentleman to misunderstand me. There are questions which obviously the government would not think it fair to ask commissions to answer. Eor instance: Did John Smith work for the harbour commission and did he receive $2.50? You spend a dollar in time and energy in getting that question answered and the answer cannot be of any real value, nor is it the intention of the government to aisk the commission for it. I do mot, however, think my right horn, friend referred to questions of that character.


I think the
question might be permitted to appear on the order paper in case there should be any criticism of anyone for not allowing it so to appear.


At the risk of being tiresome, I might point out to the right hon. gentleman that on one occasi on in the house during recent years it was indicated that some discretion must be exercised by the Speaker as to what should appear on the order paper. I fancy the incident to which he refers is one in which the Speaker, in the exercise of his discretion, thought the question should not appear on the order paper. That is as far, I understand, as the matter has gome; that is, the Speaker is responsible for what appears on the order paper.
53719-158J


The right hon. gentleman is quite correct, but I think if his honour the Speaker would reconsider the question in the light of the statement as made by the Prime Minister this afternoon, he would allow it to appear on the order paper.


In view of the attitude
of the government at this session regarding questions 'asked as to 'the internal management of harbour boards, certain questions along the same lines have not been put on the 'order paper, the government having announced its intention of not answering such questions. As to question I on to-day's order paper, the first question seems fair enough and depending on the answer to that, questions following might or might mot be properly asked. I should say questions 1 and 7 might properly be asked, the others to be dropped.


I give the answer to this
question so far as we have information. The answer is very meagre.
1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	No information.
4.	Wages;
Per hour
Males-	Cents
Skilled	 50-80
Semi-skilled	 35-50
Labourers	 25-35
Youths	 15-20
Females-
Adults	 18-30
Girls	 15-21
5.	Hours: Standard hours of labour: 50 to 55 per week.
6.	Nil.
7.	Nil.
8.	No information.


1.	Has the position of assistant to the chairman of the radio commission been established?
2.	If so: (a) what will his duties be; (b) what will his salary be; (e) will he be appointed by the Civil Service Commission; (d) will he _ be appointed after competitive written examination?


The following information has been furnished by the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission:-[DOT]
1.	No; no such position is contemplated.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	What is the total cost of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, in the province of Nova Scotia, for the calendar year 1932?
.2486
Questions

2.	How many officers and how many men are employed on the force in that province?


1.	$461,129.78.
2.
Officers	 10
Non-commissioned officers and
constables	192
Special constables	 99
Note:- Of the above-mentioned special constables, 94 are members of the marine section, employed as crews on preventive service vessels.
unemployment insurance


Will the government be in a position at this session to bring down legislation dealing with unemployment insurance as referred to by the right honourable, the premier, in debate in this house on November 22nd last?


The answer is no.


1.	Has the Federal District Commission acquired a piece of land on Laurier street in the city of Hull?
2.	If so, from whom has the commission purchased such land?
3.	For what purpose will it be used?
4.	What price did the commission pay for such land?
5.	If such land has not been acquired, does the commission intend acquiring same?


1.	Yes.
2.	From the Canadian International Paper Co., Ltd.
3.	For park and playground purposes.
4.	The price paid was $20,000-19 acres.
5.	Answered by 1.


1.	How many pounds of raw and stemmed leaf tobacco were imported into Canada in the years 1929, 1930, 1931 and 1932?
2.	How much duty was paid each year?
3.	How much was paid in drawbacks?
4.	How much imported leaf tobacco is held in bond without duty being paid?


1.
Fiscal year-	Pounds
1928-	29	
18,726,6181929-	30	
17,113,4721930-	31	
16,580,3941931-	32	
13,075,335

No separate figures are kept for stemmed and unstemmed raw leaf tobacco.
2.	Imported raw leaf tobacco for manufacturing purposes in Canada is transferred to excise bond without payment of customs duty, but when ex-warehoused for excise purposes 40 cents per pound standard weight is collected on unstemmed and 60 cents per pound standard weight collected on stemmed tobacco. The following statement gives the amount of these excise duties which are tantamount to customs duties on imported raw leaf tobacco:
Fiscal year	Unstemmed Stemmed
1928-	29	
$6,852,402	60	$405,112	401929-	30	
6,596,128	35	410,960	751930-	31	
6,339,399	78	356,325	501931-	32	
5,460,943	38	210,241	803.	There is no drawback payable on unmanufactured foreign raw leaf tobacco taken out of excise bond and exported. A refund is allowed, however, of excise duty paid on foreign raw leaf tobacco (less ten per cent allowance for moisture) contained in manufactured tobacco, cigars and cigarettes exported by licensed manufacturers. The following statement gives the amount of refunds paid under this heading:
Fiscal year
1928- 29	 $ 59,915 69
1929-	30	
21,087	531930-	31	
101,351	051931-	32	
115,908	864.	Raw leaf tobacco held in excise bond on the 31st of January, 1933:
Standard weight Lbs.
TJnstemmed	 7,288,351
Stemmed	 470,576


1.	What was the total funded debt of Canada as of March 31, 1914?
2.	What was the total amount borrowed under funded debt from March 31, 1914, to March 31, 1932?
3.	What was the total amount of interest paid on funded debt from March 31, 1914, to March 31, 1932?
4.	What was the total amount of Canada's funded debt as of March 31, 1932?


1.	$294,415,943.42.
2.	$4,411,604,300, including refunding loans.
3.	$1,741,285,858.37.
4.	$2,502,859,760.34.

Motions jor Papers


How much was paid to J. A. Briere by the Public Works Department for his services as overseer in the reconstruction of a wharf at St. Charles de Caplan. Bonaventure county, during the shears 1932 and 1933?


1932, S409.50;
1933,	nil.


To whom was paid the sum of $393.22 out of the sum of $560 authorized by the Department of Public Works for the maintenance of Dredge P.W.D. 128?


P. Cain, caretaker, $10.45; A. Langlois, captain, $69.53;
O.	Roussey, labourer, $30.24; J. L. Anglearite, labourer,	S6.30;	J.	Roussy,	labourer,	$6.30;B. Duguay, labourer. $6.30; A. Huard, labourer, $6.30; V. Huard, labourer, $6.30; H. Duguay, labourer,	$6.30;	P.	Dore,	labourer,	$6.30;L. Chedor, labourer, $7.56; E. Mallet, labourer, $7.56; D. Morin, labourer, $7.56; O. Duguay, labourer, $7.56; I. Langlois, labourer, $7.56; J. A. Allain, labourer, $7.56; B. Allain, labourer,	$7.56;	R.	Chedor,	labourer,	$7.56;J. Allain, filsl labourer, $7.56; A. Roussy, labourer,	$7.56;	A.	Morin,	labourer,	$7.56;J. B. Anglearte, labourer, $7.56; C. Morin, labourer, $7.56; W. Langlois, labourer, $5.04; Absolon Roussy, labourer, $5.04; A. Huard, labourer,	$7.56;	D.	Morin,	labourer,	$5.04;
Alcide Roussy, labourer, $5.04; M. Langlois, horse and cant, $3.60; O. Chedor, horse and cart, $9; O. Anglearte, watchman, $40.32; L. Vignet, repairing machinery, etc., $2.25; Robins, Jones & Whitman, Ltd., roofing, paint, hardware, etc., $42.26; S. A. Huard, paint and gasoline, $14.72; R. Roy, trip to deliver telegram, 75c.-$393.22.


What sum has the federal government contributed, since 1930, for works in the town of Cap-de-la-Madeleine, Quebec, under the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act?


Unemployment Relief Act, 1930, public works, $15,000; Unemployment and Farm Relief Act, 1931, public works, $33,927.79.


What sum has the federal government contributed. since 1930, by way of direct relief, to the town of Cap-de-la-Madeleine, Champlain county ?


The following accounts
have been received and paid:	under the
Unemployment Relief Act, 1930, direct relief, $6,655.62; under the Unemployment and Farm
Relief Act, 1931, direct relief, $11,423.46; under The Relief Act, 1932, direct relief, $7,841.31.
In addition to the above accounts for direct relief distributed under the provisions of the Relief Act, 1932, amounting to $7,194,88, have been received from the province. These accounts have been audited and a cheque covering same will be forwarded to the province within a day or two.


What sum has the federal government contributed, since 1930, for works in the parish of Batiscan, Quebec, under the terms of the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act?


Under the provisions of
the Unemployment Relief Act, 1930, the federal government contributed $1,250 towards the cost of public works carried out by the parish of Batiscan.


1.	What work has been done by dredges, Manseau Nos. 101 and 103 for the government, directly or indirectly, since 1928?
2.	For what departments has this work been
done?	_
3.	What quantity of material has been lifted by these dredges?
4.	What is the class of material-rock, clay, etc.?
5.	What payments have been made to owners of these dredges for any and all work dope since 1928?


1.	How many camps for unemployed have been established in each province under the terms of the Unemployment Relief Act, 1931?
2.	What amount does the federal government contribute to their upkeep?
3.	Have any representations been made to the province of Quebec respecting tbe establishment of such camps?
4.	Has the Quebec government made an agreement with the federal government in tbe matter ?


For a copy of all correspondence passing between the city of Calgary and tbe Dominion government, or between the government of Alberta and the Dominion government, since September 1, 1932, regarding the payment of certain bonds of the city of Calgary in New
Motions for Papers

York; or with reference to the securing of gold by the city of Calgary for the purpose of making payment of said bonds.


For a copy of all letters, or instructions, issued to the Assistant Receivers General since September 21, 1931, with reference to the payment of gold for Dominion notes.


For a copy of all telegrams, letters, correspondence, petitions, and other documents exchanged between the federal unemployment relief office and the municipality of Princeville, respecting money disbursed for direct relief in said municipality.


For a copy of all telegrams, complaints, petitions, reports, communications and other documents, respecting the dismissal of E. G. Christie as postmaster of Mayview post office in the province of Saskatchewan, and the appointment of Mrs. Scotland in his stead.
Also copy of all telegrams, complaints, petitions, reports, communications and other documents, respecting the removal of the said post office from the home of E. G. Christie to the home of D. W. Scotland.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, reports and ratings of the Post Office Department and Civil Service Commission, respecting the appointment of postmaster at Simcoe, Ontario.
walker's CUTTING, ARTHABASKA, MAIL CARRIER


For a copy of the reports made following the complaints lodged against the present mail carrier on rural route No. 1, Walker's Cutting, in the county of Arthabaska.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, requests, or other correspondence received since July, 1931, by the government, or any of the ministry or officials, respecting the investigations held in connection with unemployment relief work carried out in Lake St. John county.


For a copy of all correspondence between the Post Office Department or any of its officials and any person or persons in the province of New Brunswick, regarding the dismissal of B. H. Lounsbury as postmaster at Killams Mills, and the appointment of his successor.
Also a copy of all evidence and a copy of the commissioner's report and all other corre-

spondenee incident to the investigation preceding dismissal of said postmaster.


For a copy of all documents, reports, letters, telegrams, recommendations, and all other papers on the files of the Civil Service Commission and the Post Office Department, concerning Alphonse Payette, postmaster, Hull, Quebec, now under temporary suspension.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, petitions, reports and other documents passing between the Post Office Department or any official or employee thereof, and any other person or persons, since January 1,	1932,
respecting the postmastership at Lawson, Saskatchewan.


For a copy of all correspondence, pay lists and other documents in the possession of the government, in connection with the construction of a building and grading done at Bay du Vin Wharf, Northumberland county, New Brunswick, during the years 1931 and 1932.


For a copy of all telegrams, letters, memorandums, correspondence and other documents exchanged between the Postmaster General or any of his officials and any person or persons in the province of Nova Scotia, relative to the suspension of Thomas T. Sampson, Postmaster at Louisdale, Richmond county, Nova Scotia.
Also a copy of all reports and evidence in connection with said matter.


Mr. ST-PERE (for Mr. Dupuis):
For a copy of all telegrams, letters, reports and other documents, exchanged since July, 1930, to date:	(a) by the Superintendent
General of Indian Affairs; (b) the Department of Indian Affairs, respecting amendments to the Indian Act presently submitted to the House of Commons.
Mr. ST-PERE (for Mr. Dupuis):
For a copy of all telegrams, letters, reports and all other documents received or sent since July, 1930, to date, by any of the federal departments, respecting the Dominion Elections Act and the expediency of granting the franchise to the Indians of Canada, and particularly to the Indians of the Caughnawaga reservation in the province of Quebec.
On the orders of the day:
As the first
of April is rapidly approaching, may I ask

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Butcher
the Minister of Finance if he has received any communications from farm organizations or others interested in relation to repair parts for farm implements.


I have received certain communications, but I am unable at the moment to indicate from just what sources. An announcement will be made in due course with respect to the subject matter in question.
PELEE ISLAND CABLE SERVICE On the orders of the day:
Mr. ECCLES J. GOTT (South Essex): I would ask the Minister of Public Works if he has received any report as to the cable service between Pelee island and the mainland, and whether one or both of the cables are down, and whether there is no communication; and if so, what is being done to maintain the sevice.


In reply to the hon. gentleman I
am able to inform him that unfortunately both these cables are out of commission. The one between Pelee island and Leamington went out of commission on February 20, and the one between Kingsville and Scudder went out of commission on the first of January. These cables are repaired and maintained under the provisions of a yearly contract for the service, and the repairs will be made as soon as possible.
INQUIRY INTO COAL PRICES On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN-FRANQOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata):	May I ask the Minister of Labour
if the investigation into coal prices has been concluded, and if so when we shall have the report; and if not, when will the inquiry be concluded?


So far as the coal investigation in eastern Canada is concerned, I believe that the evidence has all been taken and that the report of the registrar under the act is in course of preparation. I anticipate that it will be only a very short time before the report is concluded.
REPORTED SALE OF RAILS TO JAPAN On the orders of the day:


I would ask the Minister of Railways if he can inform the house whether the press report is true, that the Canadian National Railway is selling rails to Japan, and if so, may I ask whether they are old rails or new stock?


I cannot give the hon. member any information as this is the first I have heard of the matter. I presume that the Canadian National Railways can sell rails to whomsoever they wish, but I know nothing whatever about the matter.


The house resumed from Thursday, February 23, consideration of the motion of Mr. Woodsworth:
Whereas under our present economic arrangement large numbers of our people are unemployed and without the means of earning a livelihood for themselves and their dependents;
And whereas the prevalence of the_ present depression throughout the world indicates fundamental defects in the existing economic system;
Therefore be it resolved, that, in the opinion of this house, the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth in which all natural resources and the socially necessary machinery of production will be used in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the few.
Mr. Speaker, a few minutes before the house rose on Thursday evening I had invited you to attend with me at an imaginary meeting to be held by the directors of the organization owning the ship of state to which I had formerly referred. At this interview we heard an imaginary salesman for an imaginary shipbuilding firm endeavouring to secure a contract to build a ship without giving any details or any plans and specifications. I had been prompted to use this illustration by certain statements made by the hon. member for Wetaskiwin (Mr. Irvine) who had said that he and his party might be asked for details of their plan and that his reply would be: We are not called upon to give details. We are not in the dock; it is the old system and the old political parties which are on trial.
I have since been charged, Mr. Speaker, by very candid friends, with endeavouring to pour ridicule on the resolution submitted by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth). If that is the general impression, I much regret it. Nothing was further from my thought than a desire to ridicule a resolution sincerely proposed by any hon. member of this house. I simply wished by that illustration to point out how unreasonable it is to expect men who like to have at least some idea of the road they are invited to travel to accept so vague a proposition as that contained in the resolution.
It may be said that the hon. member for .Winnipeg North Centre has definite views
2490	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Butcher
on the subject and that he gave expression to them in the Walker theatre in Winnipeg on January 18. I have taken the trouble to read carefully the report of that meeting as it is found in the Western Producer of January 26, and I find myself very heartily in agreement with many of the statements made by the hon. member, but I find nothing whatsoever which in my opinion justifies either the assertion or the belief that an entirely new social order is necessary in order to remedy such evils as those to which the hon. gentleman referred. I am going to quote two or three of the statements that he made. He said specifically:
Someone asks, tell us exactly what you would do if you were in power. I do not think it is really possible for anyone to answer such a question. Events are moving so rapidly both here and in other countries that no one can tell precisely what should be done at any given moment in the future.
Of course, everyone knows that the hon. member could not tell exactly what he would do, and it would be unreasonable to ask him to do so, but he could and he should tell the members of this house something of the methods that he would employ to effect the improvements he had in view. He might at least give us a broad outline and perhaps some of the major details of his scheme. Among other subjects I would suggest he should tell us how he would proceed with the public utilities at present owned and operated by private corporations. Would he expropriate them? If so, would he compensate the present owners or would he confiscate their interests? If he would compensate, on what basis would he make settlement.
What is his plan with regard to the principal and interest of the bonded indebtedness of Canada? What is his plan with regard to those bondholders resident without the Dominion of Canada as well as those domiciled within? Then, the hon. member proposes, among other things, to take over the ownership and control of natural resources; to guarantee security of tenure of land; in some way to provide for the adjustment of debts; to fix hours of labour and, if necessary, to limit them; to fix rates of wages to some extent, and to provide crop insurance. All of these matters are referred to in the speech made by the hon. member for Battle River (Mr. Spencer).
But, Mr. Speaker, if I understand correctly the British North America Act all of those subjects, by virtue of that act, are under the jurisdiction of the provinces. The hon. member should tell us how he intends to imple-

ment- his platform in these respects. Especially would we like to know how he would proceed if the provinces, having sole jurisdiction in these matters, decide to repudiate his right to interfere. Would he say, "We will in any event pass laws, and will proceed to enforce them." If he would enforce them, how would he proceed to do so? These are just a few matters in connection with which the house should have definite information, before hon. members are asked to approve of the resolution. A little later in his speech he stated:
First of all there is the growing recognition that we cannot proceed along the old haphazard lines.
With this we must couple his former statement:
Events are moving so rapidly both here and in other countries that no one could tell precisely what should be done at any given moment.
It would appear that under the new system we would merely proceed along new haphazard lines, instead of along old haphazard lines. From what I had heard, I thought the hon. member had proposed to mould and control events, instead of having events control and mould us. If I have read correctly the statements by hon. members we are under their plan to become the masters of our own destiny, not the victims of circumstances. Then the hon. member said:
Before a doctor ventures to prescribe he makes a thorough study of the system and of the history of the ease.
I am not a doctor, but I presume his statement is true, as far as it goes. I suggest however that it is not the whole truth. Before a doctor prescribes he very carefully studies remedies as well as diseases. He learns the effect of drugs. I imagine he does not prescribe the use of a new medicine until he has a precedent, that is the experience of others to guide him for so doing. In a prescription of his own compiling, he makes use of no. drugs with the effect of which he is not familiar. Then, again, the hon. member said:
Our wheat growing in the west has been built, up on an export basis. We cannot possibly consume in Canada all the wheat that is produced. If we market abroad we must meet competition. Obviously the only possible solution is either to cut down the costs or to raise-prices or both.
We are all agreed upon that. We must, remember however and admit that prices are determined in purchasing countries and are based upon the law of supply and demand. Therefore we cannot control the price. We still have the possibility of affecting it by inflation, and I must state that the hon. member did refer to the possibility of a slight.

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Butcher
inflation. However, I understand that two of his lieutenants have repudiated the idea, and we are confronted with the question as to whether he or his lieutenants are going to have the right of way.
The only matter we have left is that concerning reduction of costs. What are the items which enter into the cost of production and marketing of wheat? There are taxes, and in many but not all cases, interest. How are taxes to be reduced? Obligations have been incurred. Services are required, but it may be possible to reduce taxes slightly. The farmer needs clothing for himself and his family; he has to purchase implements and parts therefor. He finds he must repair his machinery at home. He has to pay wages to farm employees, and finally has to pay freight on outgoing and incoming goods. But the 'hon. member says to the farmer, "We will help you to reduce costs." Then he turns to labour and states, "If there is not enough work to go around, the work shall be distributed and incomes maintained." I know it is the claim of labour that costs of labour do not figure largely in the costs of manufactured goods. However no one would suggest that raising wages would have the effect of reducing cost of goods.
A director of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation states that the wages paid to railway men must be maintained. He states, further, that if it is necessary to raise freight and passenger rates to accomplish this end, then, those freight and passenger rates must be raised. I do not know how this can be done if, at the same time, the promise to the farmers is fulfilled.
Recently some of the newspapers have been accusing Liberals and Conservatives of combining in order to trample on the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation. In my view that is a most unfair statement. While on both sides of the house hon. members have criticized the new movement, I contend that the avenues of approach have been as far apart as the poles. The criticism of the Liberal party has been sympathetic while that of many hon. members opposite has been hostile and unsympathetic. It seems to me that the difference in viewpoint is clearly illustrated by quoting two statements made in the house, one by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woods-worth) and the other by the hon. member for Toronto Northwest (Mr. MacNicol). The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre 3aid this:
It is the first duty of any administration adequately to feed, clothe and shelter its people.
The hon. member for Toronto Northwest said:
What is our major business to-day? The major business of this house is to do something to encourage the investment of capital in factories, buildings and land.
There we have an illustration of the great diversity of opinion; I believe the Liberal party, in the main, finds itself much nearer the viewpoint of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre than that expressed by the hon. member for Toronto Northwest.


The hon. member has
spoken forty minutes.


I believe I had thirteen minutes remaining to me, and with your permission, Mr. Speaker, and with the consent of the house I would like to state my conclusions. They are:
First-That a large number of our citizens are suffering from want and privation, principally because of unemployment or underemployment.
Second-That it is the duty of the state to adopt such policies as are best calculated to relieve that situation, in order, as far as is humanly possible, to afford to every man the opportunity of earning a good living for himself and his dependents.
Third-If for any good and sufficient reason any citizen is unable to obtain, or is physically incapable of doing, work, in order to obtain the necessaries of life for himself and his dependents, then it is the duty of the state to liberally provide those necessaries.
Fourth-Though there are grave defects in our present system I believe that those defects can be remedied without changing the system itself, and furthermore I contend that it is the imperative duty of the state to remedy them, and as rapidly as possible.
Fifth-That a sudden transition from the present system to a socialistic state would bring about a condition of chaos and suffering even worse than the present condition.
Sixth-That, whatever the future may bring, at present the majority of the citizens in Canada still want to have at least as much individual liberty as they now enjoy: they still want to own a home, lands and personal possessions, and do not want to substitute a system of state ownership, the like of which has hitherto only been briefly and spasmodically tried and as promptly discarded.
In view of these conclusions I shall vote against the resolution.


Mr. Speaker, it
is important that we should have a clear con-
2492	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Mackenzie King
ception of what the resolution before us means, and exactly what it proposes. For this reason I hope the house will permit me again to read the text of the resolution. Before doing so I wish to say that we should distinguish very carefully between the concrete proposition which the resolution embodies and proposes, and the preamble and other words by which it is accompanied. I would like hon. members to note in particular the preamble, and then the proposition itself. I submit that as respects the preamble it is one which any political party might apply to any other political party at almost any time. Indeed it is one which might be applied by parties other than political in commenting upon the failures or inadequacies of policies or principles which they oppose. The resolution reads:
Whereas under our present economic arrangement large numbers of our people are unemployed and without the means of earning a livelihood for themselves and their dependents;
And whereas the prevalence of the present depression throughout the world indicates fundamental defects in the existing economic system;
Therefore be it resolved that, in the opinion of this house, the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth in which all natural resources and the socially necessary machinery of production will be used in the interests of the people and not the benefit of the few.
The first two paragraphs find fault with the existing economic system. So far as hon. members in this house are concerned, I think we might as well declare at once that there is not an individual here who for one minute would say that the present economic system is perfect. Indeed, if it were perfect, it would be different from almost everything else in this world. Certainly the present economic system is very far from perfect. Evidence is abundant that it has failed in certain, possibly many particulars. But the point that is important for us to consider at the moment is whether that failure is due exclusively to what might be described as a social order based upon the institution of private property which has prevailed in the past, and which exists at the present time, and which is the one aimed against in the resolution, or whether it has failed as a result, in part at least, of some of the weaknesses and faults of human nature; weaknesses and faults which I submit will not be changed by a transition from one particular form of government or state control to another. Also, it is important to consider whether a change to the socialist state, which is what the resolution advocates, would not only serve to make present conditions worse than they are.

The preamble, as I have said, might have been applied in past election contests by either of the historic political parties in reference to its opponents with as much force as it can be applied to either or both of these parties, by the group that is citing it with reference to existing conditions, I remember, at the time the Liberal party appealed for office and was returned to office in 1921, conditions were not unlike those at the present time. The depression then existing was not world wide as it is at the moment; conditions were not as bad; so far as Canada was concerned it was nevertheless a great depression. I need not remind the house that conditions were certainly very serious. For a year or so after the Liberal administration came into office we heard from one of the leading Conservative journals in Montreal of little else save "the whispers of death," as though the end of all things had come under the then existing economic conditions. We had pointed out in the campaign that we believed the then existing conditions were in part due to the policies which had been in force under hon. gentlemen opposite while they were in office. I think we drew attention to the fact that they were in part due to the war and the consequences of the war, but we also pointed out that they were due to mistaken policies, and we indicated that if returned to power we would change those policies and substitute others which we hoped would bring about a better condition of affairs.
And that is exactly what we did, and what happened. After we came into office we reversed in many particulars the policies of hon. gentlemen opposite. They had been raising tariffs, we immediately lowered tariffs. They had been introducing other measures which were restricting trade; we took steps to remove those restrictions, and in a short time, as hon. members know, instead of huge deficits and increased taxation and continued depression, this country had for seven years in succession surpluses instead of deficits, reductions in the public debt accompanied by reductions in taxation, and a great increase of trade and employment with consequent prosperity, throughout the dominion.
I might say that my right hon. friend in the last general election, in opposing the then Liberal administration, adopted very much the same course, only he went a great deal further in what he promised. We were then at the beginning of a part of the present world depression. My right hon. friend stated that it was due to the mistaken policies of the administration. He put it all down to the policies of the administration then in

Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Mackenzie King
office, and he sought to win the support of the electors by stating that if returned to office he would alter those policies and put others into effect which would end unemployment. Indeed, he did immediately change those policies. At the time of making the statements he did in the general election, and again in this house, a year after having made the statements, he said that he expected his policies would have the effect of removing the depression ' and changing the distressing conditions. As a matter of fact up to the present his policies have not had that effect. His policies have been applied, trade has become more and more restricted, business has become more and more depressed, unemployment in the country has increased more and more. So much has this been the case that it would now appear that the policies of the right hon. gentleman, who leads the government, had been at fault rather than any particular economic system.
What then does the hon. member who proposes the present resolution offer as a remedy for existing conditions? Having said that economic conditions are not satisfactory, having by implication inferred that the policies of neither of the old historic parties are sufficient to meet the situation, he proposes a concrete remedy quite different from anything hitherto tried. It will be found in the following words:
-the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth . . .
That is the proposition that we in this parliament, that the country as a whole is called upon to consider, the setting up immediately of a cooperative commonwealth. Nothing else in this resolution is as significant as that particular portion of it, or indeed has any real significance in comparison. That is the concrete proposal, and if we oppose the resolution it is not because we are opposed to any wording of the preamble; much less is it in consequence of any opposition to the words which follow the substantive proposal; it is because we do not see, admitting that conditions may be bad at the moment, how they are going to be improved by immediately setting up a cooperative commonwealth as suggested.
Now notice the words that follow the proposal of my hon. friend, because they might seem to imply that there are different kinds of cooperative commonwealths. He says:
*-the government should immediately take measures looking to the setting up of a cooperative commonwealth in which all natural resources and the socially necessary machinery of production will be used in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the few.
Those words might be construed as qualifying words, but I submit that if they are to be used as qualifying words with respect to the cooperative commonwealth, they might equally be used as qualifying words with respect to any policies which might be introduced by any political party. My right hon. friend will claim for his policies, as I claim for ours, that they are intended to be used in the interests of the people and not for the benefit of the few. Simply attaching those particular words to a concrete proposal does not free the proposal itself from the significance that must be attached to it by those who understand its real import.
It might be said these words may be intended merely to express the hope that when a cooperative commonwealth is established matters will be so arranged as to be more in the interests of the people than for the benefit of the few. There again, as I say, is a hope of which no political party has the right to claim the monopoly. I believe my hon. friends are quite sincere in the hope they entertain, but I say of hon. gentlemen opposite, and I want to say it of my own party as well, that I believe with respect to our several policies we are all inspired by similar hopes. We may hope our policies are going to make things better for the many rather than for the few, but the fact that we are adding those qualifying words to our policies does not alter the effect those policies are likely to have once effect is given to them.
No, Mr. Speaker, I am convinced that the only way those words can be properly interpreted, in connection with the proposal set forth, is as they are understood in the language of political philosophy and economics. They are words which are intended to mean that instead of society continuing on a basis of private property and competition, 'such as governs in the affaire of the world at large, the structure of society in Canada is to be completely changed and there is to be an end here to private property; it is to pass into the possession of the state. Hon. gentlemen may say that all property is a pretty large order. That really is what the socialist aims at in his advocacy of socialism, but if you wish to modify it to the extent to which hon. gentlemen to my left have modified it, it means, in the exact words of the resolution, all the natural resources and all the socially necessary machinery of production. What are all the natural resources? They are all the mines, all the forests, all the fisheries, all the fields, all agricultural and other resources. These are all to pass immediately into the possession of
2494	COMMONS
Cooperative Commonwealth-Mr. Mackenzie King
the state, in addition to all the so-called socially necessary machinery of production. This must include all that is needed in order to supply the food, the fuel, the clothing and the housing of a nation. Those certainly are all socially necessary requirements, and the suggestion that is being made by this new party, the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation, is that all these things, as well as all agencies of transportation and communication which are essential factors in production shall be immediately transferred to the ownership and active management of the state.
I submit that the simplest way to get a true perspective of that proposal is to ask ourselves at once how this parliament, this government or any government that may be in office in Canada at any time would ever conceivably carry out a proposal of that kind. At the present time we have before us a very considerable problem in the possession of only one great public service utility, that is, the national railway system, and it comprises but one-half the railways of this country. Under this proposal all the railways would come immediately into the possession of the state, and in addition all other agencies of transportation by land and by sea. We would have the state managing, of necessity, all the dif-erent agencies that are used for the transportation of the commodities necessary to supply human needs, for they are a part of the socially necessary machinery of production. According to this program all these are to be taken over and managed by the state.
I must say, Mr. Speaker, that I do not believe the thing is possible for one moment. I cannot conceive any intelligent man or woman in the country for a moment believing that the government of Canada could immediately-because that is what the resolution calls for-take over what is meant by the socially necessary means of production and administer them on the part of the state. Assume, however, that such a thing were possible. Would conditions thereafter be any better than they are now? If we had all the great industries of the country controlled by the state to-day, do hon. members believe that conditions would be better for the great masses of the people than is the case at the present time? We may admit that conditions are bad now; we must admit it. We cannot have the hundreds of thousands of unemployed there are, without knowing conditions are bad, but have we any guarantee that if the state were controlling everything conditions would not be infinitely worse? If State ownership and control is going to be the answer to our problems, why cannot the
[Mr. Mackenzie King.l
state at present make our national railways pay? Why cannot they fill up all the blanks in the railway field by taking on increasing numbers of unemployed and giving them employment? I need not elaborate the point. It must be apparent that an attempt to socialize the various industries of the country or to nationalize production and distribution as a whole will simply have the effect of drying up the lifeblood of industry itself.
May I ask this all-important question: Who is going to select the leaders of this new state which is to control everything? After all, there must be someone at the head of it, and if all industries are to be managed by the state, who is going to choose the different heads of the various industries? How are they to be selected? On what basis are they to be selected? We are to do away with the institution of private property-because that is the proposal; we are also to do away with the system of rewards for services rendered, as they have been made in the past and are being made at the present time. Indeed, that is the significance of the qualifying words the resolution contains. Stop for a moment and think what the method of production at present is. Necessarily there are different contributing factors, of which land is one, using the word in the broad sense to include all resources. Labour is another contributing factor; capital is another, and managerial ability is a fourth. These four factors, working together with and as a part of the community, produce the wealth of human society in the form of various products, and under the present system they get their rewards in different ways. Labour gets its reward in the form of wages, capital in the form of interest, and managerial ability in the form of salaries. The 