(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	What was the cost of operations at the
forestry station at Chalk River, Ontario, during the years 1930, 1931, 1932 and 1933, respectively?	.
2.	How much was expended for material and equipment, and how much for salaries and wages ?


1.	1929-30	$	33,134 421930-	31	
32,469	531931-	32	
24,143	681932-	33	
21,365	292.	Materials,	Salariessupplies	and
equipment, etc. wages
1929- 30	$16,629 94	$16,504 481930-	31	
13,628	59	18,840	941931-	32	
6,381	47	17,762	211932-	33	
5,733	64	15,631	65


How much was contributed by the federal government to the Golden Lake Indian reserve during the years 1930, 1931, 1932 and 1933, respectively ?


1929- 30	$ 9,484 87
1930-	31	
12,986	011931-	32	
14,174	491932-	33	
10,567	901933-	34-March 27	
9,828	08


1.	Were tenders called within the last nine months for the delivery of flour to the Indian agencies at Battleford, Leask, and Lloyd-minster, in the province of Saskatchewan?
2.	If so, what tenders were submitted and at what prices?
3.	Who -were the successful tenderers?


1.	Yes.
2.	Tenders submitted October, 1933, as follows:
Battleford	Leask	Lloydminster$1 95	$2 21	$2 251 70	1 80	1 85No quo.	1 90	No quo.1 75	1 S5	1 751 62$	1 62$	1 701 90	1 90	1 901 95	2 25	1 951 85	2 15	1 801 80	1 95	1 952036	COMMONS
Questions as Orders for Returns
Tenders submitted February, 1934, as follows:
Robin Hood Mills Ltd., Montreal	
Quaker Oats Co., Saskatoon	
McCarthy Milling Co., Regina	
Radisson Milling Co., Radisson	
Bishop Milling Co., Battleford	
Western Canada Flour Mills, Winnipeg	
Jas. Hawson Milling Co., Lloydminster....
Lake of the Woods Milling Co., Winnipeg.. .
Ogilvie Flour Mills, Winnipeg	
Maple Leaf Milling Co., Winnipeg	
Battleford	Leask	LlojRminster1 57i	1 53	1 54A1 60	1 61	1 62No quo.	No quo.	1 991 62i	1 70	1 67 J1 80	1 95	1 951 SO	1 80	1 80No quo.	No quo.	2 101 87i	1 87|	1 87i1 75	1 90	1 751 85	1 97i	1 82i
3. The Robin Hood Mills Ltd., Montreal, for October and February.


1.	What officials in the headquarters and in the unit staffs of the Department of Pensions and National Health are in receipt of pension at the present time?
2.	What is the amount of pension in each case?


1.	What are the names and addresses of men employed on the Burlington channel bridge?
2.	What hours do they work and what wages do they receive?
3.	Is the eight-hour day in force on this bridge?
4.	What wages are paid for similar work on the Welland canal bridges?
5. Is the eight-hour day in effect on the Welland canal bridges?
6.	Are the applicants for positions examined by employees of the public works department or by the civil service commission?


1.	How many pink salmon were caught in district No. 1, British Columbia, after September 16, 1933: (a) by gill nets; (b) by seines?
2.	What was the total number of cases of pink salmon canned after September 16, 1933, from fish caught in district No. 1, British Columbia, and (a) how many of these have been inspected; (b) how many were classed as second quality; (c) how many were classified as inferior to second quality?
3.	What was the total number of pink salmon exported to the United States from the said district No. 1, during the season of 1933, and on what dates were such shipments made?


For a copy of all records and documents, including petitions, requests, recommendations,
[Mr. Murphv.l
tenders, counter-petitions and protests, with respect to the establishment of a rural mail service at Lauzon, Saint-Joseph de Levis, Harlaka, and Beaumont, with the branch post office of Saint-Joseph de Levis as a starting point, and with respect to the closing of the post office at Beaumont.


There are no dates mentioned in this motion and perhaps the hon. gentleman could indicate the period.


The Postmaster General (Mr. Sauve) is aware of the service about which I am asking information.


Motion agreed to.
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents, exchanged between any person or persons and the Department of National Health or any other department of the government, relating to the division of child welfare work, and also a copy of all correspondence exchanged between the different departments of the government respecting the same question.


If the hon. gentleman
will agree to strike out all the words after the word "work" in the fourth line, the motion will be quite satisfactory. It has not been the practice to produce inter-departmental communications as they are usually of a personal character between the ministers and their officials.
Motion as amended agreed to.


For a copy of all invoices of meats and packing house products, supplied' by the contractor to the unemployment headquarters camp at Spence's Bridge, British Columbia, between September 1, 1933, and December 1, 1933.

Relief Act, 1934


The same rule prevails
with respect to this motion as has prevailed with respect to similar motions; these documents will be produced to the extent to which the department is able to secure them.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, some time ago I placed a question on the order paper with regard to the number of copies of "Canada, 1934" which had been printed. I have received two answers to this question. One is from the Department of Trade and Commerce to the effect that 13,000 copies in English and 4,500 copies in French had been printed, a total of 17,500 copies. Another return was made by the King's Printer to the effect that there were 2,300 copies in English and 60 copies in French, a total of 2,360 copies. Could the minister explain the discrepancy in these figures?


I cannot give an explanation offhand but I shall make inquiries and let my hon. friend know.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have received a communication which indicates that a treaty may be entered into with Poland. If this is a fact, the fur shippers would like to make certain representations in this connection.


Obviously I could not give
any information in this form but the remarks of my hon. friend will be noted. When it is proper to make a statement on the matter, one will be made. If my hon. friend has any representations which he would like to make we shall be very pleased to receive them.


The house resumed from Tuesday, April 10, consideration in committee of Bill No. 42, respecting relief measures-Mr. Gordon-Mr. Gobeil in the chair.
When the house adjourned last evening the Minister of Labour (Mr. Gordon) was answering an argument which had been
raised earlier in the evening. The suggestion had been made that certain words which appeared in the 1933 act had been omitted from the 1934 bill, namely:
Notwithstanding the provisions of any statute or law the governor in council may,-
(a)	-loan or advance money to or guarantee the payment of money by any public body, corporation or undertaking;
Section 2, subsection (v) of the present bill reads:
Notwithstanding the provisions of any statute or law the governor in council may,-
(b)	When parliament is not in session, to take all such measures as in his discretion may be deemed necessary or advisable to maintain, within the competence of parliament, peace, order and good government throughout Canada;
Then I would emphasize these particular words:
-and at all times to take all such measures as in his discretion may be deemed necessary or advisable to protect and maintain the credit and financial position of the dominion or any province thereof.
I submit that these words, broad in their meaning, can give to the governor in council the power to guarantee payments in the same way as the guarantee was given to the Canadian Pacific Railway last year, and as evidence of that I suggest that we should look at the order in council, prepared by the Prime Minister himself, granting the guarantee to the Canadian Pacific. First I would ask hon. members to observe the wording of clause (b) of section 2, especially the words I have just quoted, and compare them with the language of clause 9 of the order in council as drafted by the Prime Minister, reading as follows:
That the said railway company is a public corporation carrying on its operations not only in Canada but in other parts of the world; and, in the opinion of the ministers, under present disturbed economic conditions, it is desirable to prevent default by the said railway company in discharging its said capital obligations and indebtedness as they mature, and in the public interest, to grant the request of the said railway company as a measure for the protection and maintenance of the credit and financial position of Canada.
I ask the committee to note the similarity between the wording of clause (b) of the present section we are considering and the basis of the guarantee as drafted in the order in council. The Prime Minister repeated, in his evidence before the banking and commerce committee, that he gave the guarantee because he believed it to be in the national interest, and he said further, " What I then did I would do to-morrow." I submit that under this section as we now have it he could
Relief Act, 1934

do the very thing he did in granting the guarantee to the Canadian Pacific Railway. He said further that there cannot be any opinion as to an act of parliament.


What is that?


I will read the whole thing:
Q. We want the facts.
A. The facts are on the record.
Q. No, there are some facts that are only matters of both opinion and of verbal conversation.
A. There cannot be any opinion as to an act of parliament.


Hear, hear.


I submit that, learned in the law as he is, he must know that the whole legal profession makes a large part of its living by interpreting acts of parliament. I suggest to him that there may be a difference of opinion as to what he may consider the effect of this measure we are now asked to pass upon, namely, bill 42, because if he is correctly reported he evidently believes there can be no opinion as to this act. In order that there may not be any doubt as to the powers that are being granted under this section, and in view of the promises which have been made, I beg to move, seconded by Mr. Hanbury:
That section 2 of the said bill be amended by adding thereto, as clause (c), the following words:
(c)	"Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize the governor in council to loan, or advance money to, or guarantee the payment of money by any public body, corporation or undertaking."


It will be necessary,
before taking up this proposed amendment, first to dispose of the amendment submitted by the leader of the opposition.


Last night I submitted certain questions to the Minister of Labour who is in charge of this bill. He is not here to-day, but possibly I may get the information.


The Minister of Labour is detained in his house on the advice of his physician and I am endeavouring to take his place. If it was asserted, as apparently it was, that he was staying away to avoid giving the information-because that is the inference from the hon. member's statement-


While the information
is being looked up I may say, speaking from memory, that the money was for the purpose of fitting up ships with deck accommodation to carry cattle across the ocean. It was a contribution towards that.
Mr. CAiSGRAIN: I see on this same sheet of paper an item with regard to the agricultural stabilization fund, under the act of 1933, an amount of $35,145.71. I should like to have an explanation of these various amounts. Last year in the debate on the budget we heard a good deal about this famous stabilization legislation which was to help the farmers and other exporters of products of the land. Was this money paid in virtue of the act passed last year, and how much was given to each province?


The hon. member's
anxiety to prolong the debate is certainly very ingenious. This question has already been asked in the house by way of application for a return. At the last session of parliament the government undertook to stabilize the pound at $4.60. It was then intimated that ithe pound might probably go beyond that value and therefore the sum payable under this stabilization provision would be very small. As a matter of fact the pound very shortly after began to move up and the sum total paid under the provision was $35,145.71. I stated in my place last year that this would be charged against the relief appropriation for the year, and that was done. I am very happy to think that the movement upward of the pound obviated the necessity of a larger sum being paid.


How were these amounts paid? Were they paid to the exporters, and what are the names of the persons who received the benefit?


The return will gratify
the hon. gentleman's very laudable curiosity in that regard. They were not paid to the provinces but to the persons who made the exports under the terms fixed by the regulations, which were published and indicated to the house.


In the statement of disbursements there were two items in the 1930 and 1931 acts of $500,000 each on account of the board of railway commissioners. I pre-

Relief Act, 1934
sume those were the amounts granted to the board for the elimination of grade crossings. * Why have those grants not been continued for 1934?


Those items refer to
something that should not now be discussed before the committee. We are at present dealing with 1934 legislation. The 1930 legislation and the disbursements under it were discussed in 1931, and just why the time of parliament should now be taken up except for an obvious purpose for discussing the expenditure in 1930 is something I am sure the hon. member will be able to answer to his constituents. The appropriation was made in 1930 to the grade crossing fund and the next year a similar sum was appropriated. Those who are familiar with the operation of that fund will realize that there is still a deficiency in it; in fact it would require a very substantial sum of money to make good the amount needed to meet the demands upon the fund under legislation passed by parliament in previous years. There are pending before the board of railway commissioners applications for a very large number of grade crossings. I thought my memory was good enough to state the number, but I cannot do so at the moment. It is not improbable that something will have to be done to add to that fund this year. For instance, in Hamilton just before the advent to power of this government, certain recommendations with respect to level crossings were made and later the then Minister of Labour, the late Senator Robertson, after conferences with the city and the railway authorities, undertook that certain grade crossings would be assisted, and they have been completed, but the money that is payable to the city and the railway company under the provisions of the agreement has not yet been paid. This matter covered some of the payments that were made under the direction of the board of railway commissioners.


There is a matter that I
would like to draw to the attention of the government and that I hope will receive consideration when funds being provided by this legislation are being disbursed. I have already on more than one occasion indicated the situation that prevails in one part of my constituency and extending also into that of the hon. member for Souris. I would likewise like to direct attention to a resolution that came into my hands this morning and that was passed at a meeting of the reeves of four municipalities, as follows:
At a meeting of the reeves of the municipalities of Pembina, Louise, Roblin and Turtle Mountain, held at Killarney on the 6th day of 74726-129
April, 1934, it was resolved that we hereby request the government of the province of Manitoba to petition the federal government to give the same consideration to these municipalities in regard to the payment of freight charges on feed, fodder and seed as that given to the area known as Manitoba drought area "A" as given by privy council order No. 2384.
I would like to say a word in regard to this particular area. Those who are familiar with the situation will know that in the extreme southwestern part of Manitoba there is a large area that has suffered very severely from drought. The area of which I speak is not nearly so extensive but at the same time it is one that has suffered severely and from neither the provincial nor the federal government has assistance come to which I think that particular section is entitled. Because the area is somewhat smaller it was excluded from the arrangements that were made between the two governments in regard to the extreme southwest of the province. But this area of which I speak suffered very severely, not only last year but for two or three preceding years. As regards one part of this area, perhaps the Prime Minister will remember that I called it to his attention a year or two ago when I requested that the customs charges on the importation of feed should be reduced.


Potatoes first.


No, I did not get consideration as regards potatoes.


No, but I say that attention was directed to potatoes.


Yes, but that is another case. I dealt with feed in a preceding session and I may say that the same area received consideration from the previous government. The Prime Minister has referred to potatoes. I think his party friends in that particular section of the country would like to forget about potatoes because, now that the matter has been mentioned, I may say that it was one of the grossest failures on the part of the present government to give relief that would have cost nothing. I shall, however, not discuss that question at the moment.
The district to which I referred is a section of country included in the area represented by these reeves that for two years, one under the preceding government and one under this government, received aid through the foregoing of the customs duties. This area, not only the Pembina district, but further west, Louise, Robin, ATgyle, has suffered very severely. I had occasion to call attention to that fact twice when I mentioned the great disaster that overtook them because of the mortality among their horses. I

Reliej Act, 1934

think I mentioned that sixty-nine, as I am credibly informed, had died in one township. All that this resolution asks is that consideration should be given to the question of freight charges which were reduced to the benefit of the area further west. In the letter accompanying the resolution the writer indicates that they have the assurance that the provincial government will make such an application. I would like to have an assurance that if the provincial government makes that application, the federal government will deal with it in the same way as it dealt with what is referred to as drought area " A " in southwestern Manitoba. (Last fall I took pains to drive through all this district and I found conditions there deplorable indeed, and if there is any section of the country that is entitled to whatever assistance can be given by either this or the provincial government, I shall be only too happy to press its case with all the vigour I can.


The hon. member for Lisgar is of course aware of the fact that each succeeding year representatives of the provincial authorities have presented to the federal government claims for consideration, and those have been sometimes for the payment of freight, of feed, sometimes to move cattle from one area to another, sometimes to pay freight charges for the transport of household effects and the family itself from the south to the north; but in every case it has been a matter of discussion and consideration between the federal and provincial authorities. As the matter stands now, until this legislation is enacted no agreements of any kind can be made between the provinces and the dominion. Several matters such as that to which the hon. member refers are being pressed upon the minister from Saskatchewan and one or two from Alberta. What the hon. member has said with respect to the southwestern section of Manitoba is known to the government, not only by reason of the representations made in the house by himself and others, but also by reason of the fact that the department's communications with the provincial government have pointed out the crop failures in that particular section, which in a previous year, but not last year, if my memory serves me aright, extended, as the hon. gentleman knows, far into Saskatchewan. Last year I think there was a crop in the Saskatchewan area, but not in that area in Manitoba, to which he refers. All these matters, I assure the hon. gentleman, will receive the most careful consideration of the minister and the government if thev have

any authority to deal with them. Until this statute passes they have no such authority, either to grant assistance or to refuse; they can merely advise, as I have been doing, that until the legislation is enacted they have no power to enter into any agreement.


Last night when the Minister of Labour was in his seat I asked him a couple of questions which he was unable to answer but said he would get the information. One was in relation to the $22,579,000 loaned to Saskatchewan, part of it to the Saskatchewan relief commission. The minister was going to find how much of it was loaned to the commission and for what purpose.


It was not loaned to the commission. The loans were made to the province of Saskatchewan. That item includes the expenditures made by the relief commission and the moneys loaned to the province on its treasury bills. The division is as follows:
Province	$13,987,119 84
Relief commission	 8,591,958 32


On the previous page it
states that the money spent by the commissioners, was $10,752,533. Is that in addition to this $8,591,000?


No, there is no relation
between the two items. The first item to which attention was directed is the money expended after July, 1931, when I brought to the attention of the house [DOT] the shocking condition of devastation that existed in that area, which I ventured to suggest as a national calamity called for national effort. The expenditure I have just read is the expenditure made by that commission to take care of a burden that the dominion assumed in its entirety.


But there was no commission in 1931, it was not set up until the fall of that year.


Oh yes, we set up a
commission to take care of that situation. But the commission that was set up later took care of the administration of the matter from the standpoint of the province as well. The hon. gentleman will recall the circumstances. The commission dealt with relief in its entirety, during the winter succeeding the July in which I made the statement. I have told the hon. gentleman more than once that at one time there were over 300,000 men,

Relief Act, 1934
women and children receiving relief in that area, an almost incredibly large number of people to be receiving relief in that particular area. The hon. gentleman will recall further that I pointed out to him that the commission took charge of that entire matter. Then the province availed itself of the commission to discharge its obligations, the Red Cross looking after the distribution of clothing. Our advances to enable the province to function, as distinguished from loans, include that $22,000,000. I fancy the hon. gentleman has seen the orders in council, because they were tabled here during the years in which the expenditures were made.


What I want to get clear is whether or not all the money spent by the relief commission in area A, that is the area in which the commission took full charge of the relief, was furnished by the federal government, and if any of it is being collected from the province.


The sums expended under the arrangement by which the federal government assumed entire responsibility will not be collected from the province or anyone else, except to the extent to which some persons desiring to treat the moneys received as loans and not as gifts may make payments as mentioned by the hon. member for South Battle-ford (Mr. Vallance) yesterday. I believe some $8,000 has been received, and I stated yesterday, and I desire again to state, that no proceedings will be taken to collect any money that has thus been given. It was stated in this chamber, with the unanimous approval of the house, that this was a national calamity in regard to which the central power should assume responsibility for the entire expenditures.
The other amount consists of items that represent our proportion of expenditures under the agreements made with Saskatchewan. Do I make myself clear?


Then there is still another item of $6,757,904.23 for relief expended in Saskatchewan. Through what channels was that spent?


That stands in the same position as expenditures made through the federal government in other provinces. That share of our expenditure is not recoverable.
In view of what the hon. gentleman has said, I think, he does not quite follow the matter in its entirety. I shall endeavour to make it clear. First, as to the expenditure made by the federal government, that was 74726-1291
solely federal expenditure. That applied to the province of Saskatchewan only because of the devastation that drought and other natural causes had effected in what was a papulous and rich area, but in which there had been a crop failure for three successive years, and subsequently, I believe it is fair to say, in a considerable portion for a fourth consecutive year. We discharge the whole obligation for relief in that area, under circumstances known I am sure to the hon. member for Weyburn. Secondly, there is the relief granted by the Dominion of Canada in accordance with the agreement made with the provinces, including Saskatchewan, the federal share of which is indicated in the returns that have been filed. Thirdly, there are loans made to the province of Saskatchewan as stated in the returns: (a) for the purpose of enabling them to carry on their relief operations; (b) for the purpose of enabling them to make grants to municipalities which otherwise are unable to pay their obligations, and (c) for the purpose of enabling them to discharge their functions as a government with respect to interest on their obligations, with respect to maturities which had to be met, and with respect to other provincial expenditures, including seed grain, which was one of the purposes for which advances were made by the federal government. Have I made it clear to the hon. gentleman?


Yes, I thank the Prime
Minister. There was another question last night that I directed to the Minister of Labour in regard to the notes taken and amounts collected on those notes by the relief commission. He stated that the total of the notes was something over $200,000 and the amounts collected $8,000. 'I said I did not think those figures could be correct. I find on looking up the report of the auditor general that these figures apply only to the unorganized area and not to the eighty-odd municipalities under relief.


The deputy informs me
he sent a telegram for the purpose of verifying the information concerning that and has not received a reply. But the face total of the notes I would think is larger than $272,000.


Immensely larger.


From what I know of
the notes given by those who accepted relief in this area I think the sum is much larger than that. That is just my memory. The repayments as indicated here are something like $8,000 I think.
Belief Act, 1934


No, repayments only from
the unorganized territory, not in the whole area of the dried out district.
Mr. BEiNNETT:	They have telegraphed
for that figure. The repayments of which there is record, as disclosed here amount to $8,000. The other figure will be given as soon as received; it is not available at the moment.


I think possibly the
misunderstanding arose yesterday through the fact that in the auditor general's report the only reference we can find to lien notes is in connection with the unorganized territory. In his report he shows immense sums charged to recipients, but makes no reference to the fact that lien notes have been taken. The figures we were dealing with yesterday we find apply only to unorganized territory, and refer to the lien notes taken from recipients in that area.


The hon. member for Swift Current, if I may say so without being -offensive, is perhaps confusing two matters. Lien notes were given with respect to feed and seed and that sort of thing; ordinary notes such as were mentioned by the hon. gentleman himself yesterday were given for general relief. They could not be lien notes under any circumstances, because the food and things of that kind had disappeared. With respect to seed and that sort of thing these lien notes were given, but that was a provincial matter. I should like to clarify that, because the hon. member for South Battle-ford dealt with it yesterday. A number ot people receiving direct relief from the dominion, when it assumed complete responsibility for relief, gave notes to the commission for the crown in the right of the dominion, that is the first point. Those were not lien notes; they were just ordinary notes similar to the note that was read yesterday, under which they undertook to repay.


Promissory notes.


Yes, ordinary promissory notes. In the next place, some of those people have made payments, which have gone into the consolidated fund. In some of the other provinces small sums have been refunded as well. I think I gave the committee an illustration last year of an old lady who sent in a very small sum of money because she desired to treat the assistance receiyed as an advance and not as a gift. I think I mentioned that last year, but the amount so 
refunded is so insignificant as to be not worthy of mention in connection with a matter of this kind.
I think I should go a step further and say that the notes for hay, feed and seed were of a special character which the provincial legislation dealt with in a definite and specific manner. Under those notes-and I think it will be recalled that some hon. gentlemen directed attention to this fact last year-they took possession of the crop before anyone else could get it. I think some hon. gentlemen opposite directed attention to that fact. That was under the provisions of a provincial statute which dealt with the matter of advances for the purposes indicated, with respect to which the dominion has nothing to do.


Mention of the Saskatchewan relief commission brings up a problem which has been very widely discussed in the eastern portion of Alberta, where the people feel they have a very great grievance. As the Prime Minister knows, the constituency of Medicine Hat runs adjacent to the Saskatchewan boundary for two hundred miles. To the east of the boundary relief is administered by a commission, who send men to the various districts and who seem to hand out relief in a sympathetic and almost a generous manner. This is done, of course, because the people in that section have suffered four successive crop failures largely due to the dry winds and drought. But these dry winds do not stop at the interprovincial boundary line; year after year they have also destroyed the crops on the Alberta side of the boundary. In Alberta relief is administered in a very different way. People found that not only were their crops destroyed but their garden crops were failures as well. Some of those who had trucks went to the neighbouring irrigation districts and brought back large loads of fresh vegetables which they distributed free of charge to the people. People in other provinces also generously supplied fresh vegetables to these districts free of cost, and that was greatly appreciated. The people in those districts, however, find difficulty in getting ordinary relief. In that whole strip of country, which is thirty miles wide, there are only two police officers. The people do not have automobiles; they must walk or drive their horses twelve or fifteen miles to find a police officer, and often when they get there he is not at home. Then the officer has to go back with them and investigate the case, and sometimes these officers are hard boiled. If they see chickens or cattle on the farm they feel that

Relief Act, 1934
the man is not destitute and should not get relief. So these people feel they have a grievance, because just across the boundary they see relief administered in a more generous manner.
The merchants of the district also have a complaint. They get very few relief orders. I was talking to a merchant in the Saskatchewan area who said he had two hundred customers, of whom one hundred and ten bring in relief orders, so the people there are thoroughly convinced that there is discrimination in respect to relief as between the two provinces. As the Prime Minister has said, the dominion does not expect to get any money back; usually the province does not expect to get money back, but we find that the municipalities and the improvement districts are trying to get these people to work for their relief. No one objects very much to that, but what relief is given is deducted from the allowances in the improvement districts. I know that this is largely a provincial matter, but according to my information the province has applied to have a relief commission for the eastern part of Alberta, and I hope to convince the minister of the necessity of reviewing the situation in this district.


I think, Mr. Chairman, the hon. member for Medicine Hat is not correctly informed as to an effort having been made by the province to appoint a commission in the eastern area of Alberta. The fact is that there is always the difficulty to which the hon. gentleman refers where an imaginary line divides people. I could give some striking illustrations in the older world, and they are not lacking on this continent, where that condition has brought about invidious references to these facts. The truth is that the dominion undertook the responsibility with respect to the area in Saskatchewan, and the province of Alberta set up its own commission. The Alberta relief commission was appointed by order in council dated December 2, 1932, consisting of Mr. A. A. MacKenzie, of Edmonton, as chairman, Colonel G. E. Sanders, of Calgary, and Mr. Robert Livingstone, of Lethbridge. That order in council was passed at the instance, shall I say, of the federal government; it is their commission, and it is regarded as one of the best commissions functioning in the country. The Saskatchewan relief commission is composed of Mr. Henry Black, chairman; Mr. C. B. Daniel, general manager; Mr. W. G. Yule, Mr. A. E. Whitmore, Mr. H. A. Mumms, Mrs. Pearl Johnson, and Mr. Oliver J. Dean,
secretary. In Manitoba, Mr. MacNamara, of the Department of Public Works, was secretary dealing with the matter, and in British Columbia, Mr. Griffith was administrator of the unemployment relief branch.
The representations which have been made by the hon. gentleman would be very proper representations to be made to the province of Alberta. I say to this committee very frankly that the dominion was not unwilling to assume the entire responsibility for administration and everything else in those provinces, and take it over as a dominion matter, but you have to deal with provinces who are not at the moment prepared to forego their autonomy and leave the administration of these matters in the hands of an outside authority. If the representations which the hon. gentleman has made now are successfully made to the government of the province of Alberta the matter will receive every consideration from the federal government as, if and when the request is made.


Mr. Chairman, the observations made by the Prime Minister with regard to the division of authority as between the provincial and federal governments impels me to say what I had intended to say at some other time. It seems to me that all the efforts in connection with relief in the last few years, and as contemplated under the bill now before the committee, have been predicated upon the assumption that this is an emergency only. I should like to venture the opinion that while relieving the distress of the unemployed is an emergency in an aggravated form, unemployment has become and will continue to be a more or less permanent factor. One would hope that as the years go by and as we return to a condition of normalcy, as one statesman of the United States called it, there would not be as great a degree of unemployment; that perhaps through the sharing of work, and for other reasons, nearly everybody will have employment. I believe, however, that for some years to come there will continue to be what one might term an irreducible minimum of unemployment, and that that has to be dealt with.
The point I wish to make is this, that if the government has not yet taken any steps in the matter it might very well now, either by the appointment of a commission, or of themselves, make investigations looking to the solution of the problem of providing for the permanently unemployed. The government itself and all hon. members in the house, regardless of their political affiliations,
Relief Act, 1934

have expressed themselves as being in favour of a form of unemployment insurance. I believe it was two sessions ago the Prime Minister said that unemployment insurance was a very difficult matter with which to deal, and that a good deal of time would be required to ascertain all the implications of unemployment insurance. He believed investigations would need to be made so that any legislation brought in would operate properly, under certain actuarial conditions, and so forth. But it seems to me that if the government could see its way clear to appoint a commission, if you like-and one hesitates to advocate the appointment of a commission, because there seems to be a great deal of public antagonism towards the adoption of such a course-it might consider the question from this point of view, namely, that nearly all these social problems ought, in a sense, to be coordinated under one federal control or, at least, under some sort of reasonable system. It might become possible that with unemployment insurance legislation there could be coordinated such things as workmen's compensation, widows' allowances, insurance for ill health, old age pensions, and poor relief. Then, combined with the investigations info the possibility of coordinating these services under federal control, there would of course arise the necessity of dealing with the provinces, because I appreciate that in this connection there is the question of invading their jurisdiction. The Prime Minister has spoken about the difficulty presented by the fact that the provinces are in control of some of these activities. I rise only to say that the government would do well to consider this suggestion, because in the future time might be saved if they at once appointed a commission for the purpose of investigating these matters. There would be many other features besides the ones I have mentioned. For instance, the commission could report to the government as to what form the unemployment insurance should take, whether it should be contributory or non-contributory -although the government is already on record in that connection-as to the proportion which should be paid by employer and empIo3ree; as to the proportion which should be paid by federal, provincial and municipal governments, and where the money should come from to make the payments-bv special tax, or some other method. I am making these references in a more or less indirect way, and have not been particularly definite.
I believe, however, there is merit in the suggestion that the government might now take steps to make these investigations so that at

the earliest possible moment a definite scientific system, if we may call it that, could be evolved and enacted into law at the earliest possible moment.


The question of social
services to be rendered to the people of a country by its government is one which has engaged the attention of peoples for nearly half a century. The burden placed upon governments has increased so greatly that the taxation necessarily imposed to meet the demands is, in some of the provinces, nearly as great as was their whole taxation at the time they came into being. Mothers' allowances, health insurance and old age pensions -and then, of course, there is the Workmen's Compensation Act, which I had intended to deal with separately, because it is more than a social service-all these are administered by the provinces. It will be recalled that the Workmen's Compensation Act is the embodiment of a principle, which principle is that an assessment must be made against industry for the purpose of providing a fund to meet the damage effected by industry to those employed in it. I have used the word "damage" rather than any other word, because actions which used to be taken in the courts were taken to recover damages for injuries. This act provides that a fixed sum shall be taken from industry every month for the purpose of creating a fund to satisfy the claims of those employed in the industry of a particular province. The consumer pays that tax.
Secondly, health insurance, which is part of the modern social insurance of Great Britain and on the continent of Europe, involves the payment of a sum based upon actuarial computations as to the period of illnesses of individuals, to enable a fixed sum per week to be paid, after a given period of illness, to those who are employed in industry. That is largely paid by the consumer. Now we come to old age pensions, and we find that in this country it is paid seventy-five per cent by the federal power and twenty-five per cent by the provincial power, that it is a sum payable to those who have reached the age of seventy years, and that it is paid to the extent of 820 per month. Those payments are made by the consumers, in the form of taxation. Then, lastly, there are mothers' benefits, or benefits which are created by statute to enable those who are deprived of the assistance of their husbands to maintain their children and enable them to give-and I shall use very broad terms-such training as will be sufficient to fit the children for

Relief Act, 1934
life's struggles. That also is paid by the provinces and involves an obligation being placed upon the taxpayers.	_
Those are forms of benefit which are paid directly or indirectly by the state to those engaged in industry, to those who have attained a given age or to others who have been deprived of a breadwinner. Then, of course, there is the ordinary, normal relief, which is an obligation placed upon the provinces, and in turn upon the municipalities. In the budgets of every province one could find year after year, long before the years 1929 or 1930, provision for indigents or for the poor, administered-and I am looking at the hon. member for Vancouver Centre-in remote communities such as those in British Columbia, where municipal institutions had not been set up, by the gold commissioner, and administered in the older provinces by municipal councils. This is indigent relief, or poor relief.
There were in this dominion before the depression set in an average of 143,000 people who had to be cared for, during the period they were unable to work, either by the savings they had made or by contributions made by the taxpayers. The hon. member for North Waterloo has pointed out that the number is now much larger. Undoubtedly it is much larger, not solely because of the depression but because of circumstances to which the hon. member for Wetaskiwin referred only the other day. This is the age of machinery; four men are now doing the work that seven did in 1920. The result is that you have to seek employment for that surplus population. For instance, take the everyday business of life which any one of us can recall from the days when we were ten years of age. We see year after year a lessening of the number employed in providing services for our comfort, for our convenience, and shall we say for our pleasure as well.
The hon. gentleman should keep in mind the fact that during all the period through which we have passed an effort has been made to collect such information as would enable us to have a picture of the situation, and we have that picture in a fairly complete way. It will be recalled that in the census we set up special inquiries for the purpose of giving us some idea of what was the situation throughout Canada. We have the reports of trades unions, and we have the reports of the establishments of industry giving us the number of people employed, the capacity for employment, and the extent
to which that capacity has been taken up during the months which have passed. I say with all deference to the committee that that is a fairly simple thing. It requires patience and time and effort, but there is no difficulty in getting it if you take the time and have the patience to do it. That information has been fairly well secured in this country and we have it in fair shape.
However, when you come to deal with the problem of the creation of facilities to meet that situation you are confronted at once with divided jurisdiction. The provinces have exclusive legislative control over the matters mentioned in section 92 of the British North America Act. Unless there is agreement by them all, you will have a situation such as you have to-day with respect to old age pensions.


Could
not the question of jurisdiction be reviewed?


The hon. gentleman has anticipated what I was going to say. I do not intend this afternoon to enter into a discussion of this matter, because obviously it is neither the time nor the place to do it. But I do say to the committee that there is not the slightest doubt in the world that unless there is a rearrangement of the powers of this parliament and the legislatures of the provinces, in the very nature of things the problem cannot be dealt with. May I say to the hon. gentleman that a commission is not necessary.


That was only a suggestion.


If I have the jurisdiction, I need nothing further in the way of information. I say that very frankly because we have spent enormous effort and considerable time and patience to see that that is available. All I can usefully say to this committee is that I hold a very strong opinion as to the necessity of an early revision of the provisions of the British North America Act. I am not unmindful of the fact, and I trust the committee will always keep this in mind, that sometimes there is an inclination on the part of many of us to be intolerant because of the views expressed by those who do not agree with us as to the desirability or necessity of amending that statute. I should like to remind the committee of what I am sure is in its mind always, that the British North America Act represents a compromise, and compromises are always difficult to change without the consent of all those whose interests may be affected. Every member
Relief Act, 1934

of this committee recognizes that difficulty. I need not go into it at any length, beyond stating that we recognize the difficulty and any steps we may take towards its solution will be taken in such a way as not to strain the mechanism of our existing machinery. When we have accomplished that we will be enabled to embark upon those improvements in our legislation which the circumstances clearly necessitate.
My attention has been directed to the fact that I said that before the depression period there were 143,000 who had to be taken care of, but I might state that that number does not include dependents. If we reckoned the way we do now, the number would be somewhere in excess of 400,000. The information given to me by those who make it their business to study this matter and report upon it as carefully as possible is that 143,000 would be an underestimate. I should have indicated that the 143,000 included only earners and not their dependents.
I am grateful to the hon. member for bringing up this matter, but it is clearly not a matter which we should endeavour to discuss under this measure. I have before me the recommendations which the provinces arrived at with the dominion last spring. I say very frankly to the committee that I had hoped we might be able to dispense with a relief measure this year. At the meeting in January the provinces indicated their views in these words:
That until such time as the large numbers of unemployed throughout Canada have been substantially absorbed, either by improved industrial employment or by federal works, federal assistance to the provinces should be continued on the basis of the provinces dealing with present economic conditions by the distribution of direct relief as provided in the existing agreement between the dominion and the provinces.
That is the conclusion at which the provinces arrived. I have explained how we dealt with these matters. At the conference we stated what the situation was, and each premier made a statement as to the situation in his province. They then retired for the purpose of considering how they could best deal with the difficulties which confronted them, and that is the recommendation they made. It was unanimous, but they expressed the hope, in common with ourselves, that conditions would obviate the expenditure of large sums for relief.
I should like the committee to know that there is a very distinct improvement in this country. I will admit that in the country west of the great lakes it is less apparent than

it is in the east. Shorn of their great reservoir of earnings by reason of a lack of profits, the millions of dollars which are normally available for business are no longer available. That means a diminution of purchasing power, and until there is an improvement in agriculture, in prices and otherwis