Hon. H. A. STEWART (Minister of Public Works) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
That, it is expedient to authorize the Minister of Public Works, on behalf of His Majesty, to enter into an agreement with the corporation of the city of Ottawa to extend the period of the existing agreement with the corporation for one year from July 1, 1933.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subj ect matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I asked a question yesterday concerning the Vancouver harbour commission which the minister said he might be in a better position to answer to-day. I should like his answer at this time.


Mr. Speaker, I am sorry to say that I have not the exact information before me. I have not yet, nor has my department, received any resignation from the Vancouver harbour commissioners. However I should like to inquire further.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
I should like to ask the Prime Minister if a circular is being issued in regard to the wheat agreement, and if so whether or not a copy will be laid on the table?


Mr. Speaker, I believe a pamphlet has been issued jointly between the government of the western provinces and the dominion, and is being circulated by the provinces.
I shall inquire if there are any copies available, and if so will lay them on the table.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minis-

The Address-Mr. Bennett
ter of Marine (Mr. Duranleau) whether or not it is the intention of the government to introduce a bill concerning harbours, along the lines recommended in the report of the Gibb commission?


Mr. Speaker, the matter is under consideration.


And has been, for a long time.


The house resumed from Monday, January 29, consideration of the motion of Mr. Gobeil for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Mackenzie King.
Mr. Speaker, we listened with
much interest to the observations made yesterday by the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King), and his well deserved tributes to the mover and seconder of the address in reply to the speech from the throne. It is true that neither of them was a new member of the house. One of them is a new member of this parliament; the other is an older parliamentarian. The practice that has grown up and has now become traditional, by which a member of one of the two great races in this country moves the address one year and a member of the other race the next year, has been maintained both here and in another place during all these years, and I believe that it is conducive to a better understanding between the peoples that constitute this dominion. I should like to join if I might in congratulating the members who have spoken on the character of the addresses they have delivered. It was to be expected that one who had been so closely associated with the growth and development of the eastern townships and was familiar with the problems of those who till the soil, and also that one who had been so familiar with the development of the delta region near the Fraser river in British Columbia, would be able to speak with some authority, and these two members have well warranted our hopes and expectations in that regard.
When, however, I heard the right hon. leader of the opposition condole with the government over the results of the by-elections, I could not but reflect that the government as it stands to-day has exactly the majority that it had when this house was returned. It is true that there was a byelection in South Huron which was carried by the party that secured the seat at the general election. The Dutch have again taken Holland, and Huron still remains a Liberal constituency.
It is true that a Liberal continues to represent Yamaska. He was elected at the general election by one vote. It is also true that the rotes polled at the general eleotion amounted to 709 fewer than those polled at the byelection, when his majority was 84. Therefore on the vote that was polled in the general election he was defeated by 625 votes-


Oh, oh.


That is very simple, and if in order to gain 83 votes it is necessary to poll 709, you can easily by a process of computation ascertain how long it will take the opposition to get into power.
It is also true that a Liberal was elected in the constituency of Mackenzie in which a Conservative has not been a candidate in this generation until the recent by-election, a constituency the then Liberal-Progressive member for which, elected at the last general election, voted in support of the amendment to the budget on the last occasion on which a budget was delivered when he was in this house.
It is equally true that so far as the county of Restigouche-Madawaska is concerned, and which has been referred to as an old Tory county, there never was a Conservative candidate elected in Restigouche since 1896; and in Madawask-a, for reasons that were well understood, Mr. Cormier was elected in the last election, and the gentleman who has succeeded him with his nineteen years experience in the local legislature had those peculiar claims upon the people which brought him the majority that he received. I can only hope, Mr. Speaker, that these gentlemen will give the same measure of satisfactory service to their constituencies in the larger arena which apparently they gave in the legislatures when they were members of them.


What about the Nova Scotia general election?


I might remind the
house that a Conservative candidate was successful in the by-election of Three Rivers and that in the western province of Alberta a seat was carried by this government both of which constituencies were at the general election represented by members of the opposition. With two supporters that we did not have before, and the opposition having two supporters that they did not have before
The Address-Mr. Bennett

we now stand on the very same footing as when this house was first returned and that too notwithstanding the fact that the fate of governments in conditions such as those through which we have passed has been that they have usually suffered defeat. But if one is to judge from the communications one receives and from the statements made by some of those who are within my vision at the moment, many thank God from time to time that this country is not under the guidance of the leader of the opposition in these trying times.
Mr. TOTZIiE: What about-


If hon. gentlemen have anything to say, will they foe good enough to stand up and say it at an appropriate time.


I am sorry.


I was about to observe that the general opinion of the business people of this country is not that there should be a general election. The business people of this country are concerned with the great problems with which Canadians have grappled with such courage during the last few years, and I can say perfectly frankly that those who sit on this side of the house regard it indeed as having been a great pleasure and a proud privilege to have served Canada in these hours and days of stress, and if the electors are not grateful, and I have every reason to believe that they will be when the appropriate time comes, we are content because we have had the great privilege of serving the people of Canada,


Is this a swan song?


Mr. Speaker, there
always is some excuse for ignorance and rudeness, but just why we should have it consistently manifested by one particular individual in this house I do not know. Why the house should be afflicted with interruptions from one who failed to secure nomination in his own constituency I do not know.
The leader of the opposition yesterday spent considerable time in endeavouring to prove that the statements made in the speech from the throne with respect to trade and revenue and employment were untrue; in fact, he used that word. Just why one charged with the responsibility of leading a party in opposition to the government should spend time in endeavouring to disprove what 
is known to almost every man in Canada is beyond my understanding.
On the question of revenue, for instance, can there be any doubt as to what the figures indicate? In July of last year this country's revenues were over $15,000,000 less than they were for the corresponding period the previous year. In the interim of six months we have not only picked up that fall in the revenues but have increased our revenues by over $5,000,000 beyond what they were for the same period last year. 'So we have that improvement which he who runs may read and he who sees may understand. There it is written on the public records of the country. What purpose is there in endeavouring to have that appear to be untrue which is true? What purpose is served by endeavouring to belittle the efforts of the Canadian people and their courage and persistence in adversity to achieve success and win through to prosperity? What purpose was served by it I leave to the good judgment of the people of this country.
On the question of expanding trade, there are the figures which speak for themselves. They show a continuous increase in trade since May of 1933. That may be read by anyone who reads the public statistics of the country. That cannot have been manufactured; the figures are there, and they speak for themselves. Take these indices, if you will, showing the gains that have been made since early in 1933:
Especially Significant Signs Of Improvement trams since early in 1933
.	Per	cent
Commodity prices	 g g
Security prices	' ' ''	63 3
Farm prices (wholesale)	 25.\
Increased employment		jg' 9
Contracts awarded	 72 2
Industrial production	 39.7
Mining production	j,	27!o
Kevenue carloadings	 4*3
Domestic exports	 '	43'4
That is the position as it was at the end of the year or thereabouts. These are matters that anyone can see who desires to see. I repeat, what purpose is there in endeavouring to make it appear abroad and elsewhere that things are different from what they are? Everyone has access to these very figures and can study these very reports. The same condition exists in the United States as was indicated by Mr. Marcosson in his recent article, "North of the N.R.A." What purpose is there in endeavouring to mislead when the facts

The Address-Mr. Bennett
can be ascertained from the public records of the country? In so far as trade is concerned, the figures are checked with the reports issued by the countries to which our goods go and from which we receive goods. They are verified from time to time. If the right hon. gentleman desires to cast aspersions upon the accuracy of the figures furnished by the Bureau of Statistics, he may continue to do so, but I repeat: What purpose can be served? I assert to this house that if the committee on public accounts, or any other committee of this house, desires so to do, they can summon before them every employee of the bureau of statistics. It will be found that not a single suggestion has been made by
any minister or anyone connected with the ministry as to how the records were to be kept or as to how the reports were to be prepared. They have made them with a consciousness of their obligation and duty towards those for whom they are prepared, namely, the people of this dominion. These reports have been prepared without fear, favour or affection and made public to those who desire to secure them.
I should like to give the figures showing the increase in our industrial production as compared with the increases in other countries. These figures show the gains in the different countries for the last twelve months, and are as follows:
Industrial production- Canada	
United States	
United Kingdom	
France	
Germany	Month December November November October October	1932 57.5 58.6 90.2 74.8 61.0	1933 72.2 65.8 97.3 85.0 71.2	Increase 25.6 12.3 7.9 13.6 16.9These figures show that in point of fact	portance	and the	following figures show the	Canada leads them all and in some cases the	increase	in Canada	in 1933 over	1932 as comincrease is double that which has occurred in other countries. The production of steel has always been considered a matter of im-	pared with the increases which have occurred in other countries:	Steel production (thousand metric tons) -	- Month	1932	1933	IncreaseCanada	December	31	50	61.3United States	December	857	1,849	115.8United Kingdom	October	447	679	51.9France	October	468	527	12.6Germany	October	522	715	37.0
While the increase in Canada has not been as large as that in the United States, where it reached 115-8 per cent, it is higher than the increases in the United Kingdom, France and Germany.
I shall deal next with wholesale prices. We
have been making an honest endeavour to secure a higher level of wholesale prices on this continent, and the efforts put forward by the United States are known to all. The changes which have taken place in the index figures of wholesale prices are as follows:
Wholesale prices-
Canada-1926=100	
United States

1926 = 100. . United Kingdom

1913=100 France (gold)-1914=100.. Germany-1913=100	
It will be noted that there is a decrease in the case of France and that the years upon which the base index figure is computed varies in the case of the different countries.
I recall hearing the leader of the opposition refer in a budget debate to the fact that
1932	1933	Increase	DecreaseDec.	64.0	69.0	7.8	Nov.	63.9	71.2	11.4	Nov.	101.1	102.8	1.7	Nov.	391	383	2.0Nov.	93.9	96.0	2.2	
the price of common stocks was a fair indication of the improvement in the condition of the country, it being the value of equities in properties. The increases which have occurred in the prices of common stocks in Canada and other countries are as follows:
Common stocks-
Canada-1926=100	
United States-1926=100.. United Kingdom-1924=100
France-1913=100	
Germany-1924-26 = 100.. ..
1932	1933	Increase	DecreaseDec.	58.4	107.6	84.2	Dec.	44.8	78.8	75.9	Nov.	92	114	23.9	Nov.	235	226	3.8Oct.	54.2	60.2	11.1	
The Address-Mr. Bennett

It will be noted again that a decrease has occurred in the case of France. Here again I think we have some reason to realize that our country has been making steady progress forward.
The next figures I shall give show the increases which have occurred in Canada in the production of different commodities. A very substantial increase has occurred in the production of newsprint which gives employment to large numbers of men, both directly and indirectly. There are large numbers employed in the woods in preparing the pulpwood in order that it may come down in the spring to the mills. There has been a considerable increase in the export of planks and boards, as well as in copper and nickel. Car-loadings have always been regarded as a matter of importance, and these show a very substantial increase. I have frequently heard reference made in the house to bank debits. These are the cheques which pass through the banks from time to time. There has been a substantial increase in this item, as well as in the awarding of contracts. The detailed figures are as follows:
Improvement Figures based on Actual Quantities No Adjustment for Seasonal Variations
February	November	Increase	December	IncreaseFlour production	
barrels	814,899	1,650,557 (October)	95-4	1,827,340 (November)	116-3Cotton imports	.... pounds	6,025,511	19,057,844	216 3	19,803,434	228-7Newsprint production	.... tons	125,610	193,718	54-2	175,304	39-6Planks and boards	.... exported board ft.	37,714,000	102,882,000	172-8	99,393,000	163-5Steel production	.... long tons	12,374	43,099	248-3	49,557	300-5Copper exports	1,326,200 (January)	4,498,400	239-2	1,998,400	150-7Nickel exports	3,079,000	8,581,100	178-7	6,424,800	108-7Carloadings	133,147	201,365	51-2	157,581	18-4Bank debits	.... dollars	1,830,276,963	2,837,469,562	55-0	2,491,921,510	36-1Contracts awarded	.... dollars	3,149,300	10,637,200	237-8	8,207,600	160-6The next figures I shall give to the house and provide a comparison between 1933 and refer to the wholesale prices of Canadian farm	1932, the index figure of 100 being for the
products. These figures are given by months year 1926. They are:
	1932			1933		
Vegetable	Animal	Total	Vegetable	Animal	TotalJanuary	42-7	68-5	52-3	35-1	57-9	43-6February	44-3	66-1	52-5	36-0	54-7	43-0March	45-1	65-2	52-6	38-0	56-0	44-7April	45-4	61-7	51-5	41-1	56-4	46-8May	45-5	58-0	50-2	46-9	58-4	51 -2June	41-5	57-8	47-6	49-4	57-9	52-6July	42-6	57-8	48-3	60-8	59-0	60-1August	42-3	58-5	48-4	54-9	60-5	57-0September	39-5	60-4	47-3	49-5	63-4	54-7October	36-8	58-6	45-0	44-6	62-8	51-4November	36-3	57-2	44-1	46-7	65-8	53-8December	33-4	58-1	42-6	45-3	66-6	53-3Yearly average	411	60-7	48-4	45-7	60-0	510
If we take the production of raw material and of partly manufactured goods, we find the same story of a steady and continuous increase in the volume, in the value and in the activity of those engaged in the production of these goods. Of course, I realize the soundness of the criticism which has been 
made that we have been looking forward to better days but that we have been disappointed. That is quite true, but so has all the world. As I indicated to this house upon one occasion, Sir Arthur Salter pointed out that the world had about gotten back to prewar conditions when the unprecedented
JANUARY 30, 1934	g5
The Address-Mr. Bennett
speculation which was carried on on a scale never before heard of brought about disastrous consequences with the result that the second recovery became much more difficult than the first. But allowing for all that, this government, in the discharge of its responsibilities, has never lost courage but has always
remained confident and retained its faith and belief that in the end we will succeed.
Before leaving these statistics which I have given I should like to give the house some further figures which show the percentage of gains since early in 1933 with seasonal adjustments, based on an index figure of 100 for 1926. These are as follows:
Indexes with Seasonal Adjustments (1926 = 100), showing Percentage Gains since early in 1933
Index Numbers
Physical volume of business	
(Includes industrial production and distribution.)
Industrial production	
Flour production	
Cotton imports	
Newsprint production	
Export of planks and boards	
Mining	
Steel production	
Copper exports	
Nickel exports	
Electric power output	
Carloadings	
Bank debits	
Contracts awarded	
Commodity prices	
Security prices	
Cost of living	
Employment-[DOT]
Unadjusted	
Adjusted seasonally	
Agricultural marketings	
Wheat prices	
Feb.	Nov. [DOT]	Gain allowing for Seasonal Variation	Dec.	Gain allowing for Seasonal Variation67-0	85-5	27-6	86-2	28-760-9	83-9	37-8	85-1	39-757-8	74-7 (Oct.)	29-2	98-0 (Nov.)	69-653 * 8	137-5	155-6	135-8	152-485-9	122-3	42-4	117-2	36-429-4	51-8	76-2	63-2	115-080-5 (Jan.)	99-2	23-2	102-2	27-019-8	68-1	243-9	82-9	318-715-3 (Jan.)	51-6	237-3	21-1	37-967-1 (Jan.)	126-4	88-4	112-8	68-1136-1	158-1	16-2	156-5	15-05/ -9	62-9	8-6	60-4	4-385-2 (Feb.)	94-6	11-1	86-3	1-322-7	45-7	101-3	39-1	72-263-6	68-7	8-0	69-0	8-546-6	78-8	69-1	76-1	63-377-0 (May)	78-1	1-4	78-4	1-877-0	91-8 (Dec.)	18-6	88-6 (Jan. 1)	15-181-3	90-9 (Dec.)	8-7	95-0 "	16-956-1 (Jan.)	41-8	-25-5	30-7	- 45*345-8	63-7	39-1	60-3	31-7
If we had given way to phnic or to pessimism it would have been reflected at once upon the minds of the electorate. Sometimes I think the task has been difficult and the way hard but we have never faltered in the faith and confidence that we have had that in the end this country would win through to prosperity. The facts I have now presented to the house are some warrant at least for the confident faith we have had in our ability to do so. I will not take time to indicate at greater length further factors to which reference might be made, but I shall deal at once with the problem of unemployment and the references made to the matter by the leader of the opposition yesterday.
What are the facts? The facts are that the statistical department prepares these reports from time to time without reference to the government, as I have said, and that in the preparation of these reports their endeavour has been not to mislead, as has been suggested. And for any responsible 74726-5
member of this house", much less the leader of the opposition, to suggest that Mr. Coats would be guilty of a manipulation of these figures is something which, I really do submit, is not quite fair. The language used yesterday is language which, I think, should not have been used. The figures as presented, says the leader of the opposition, represent the prosperity of the country, not a prosperity such as is borne out by the facts but a prosperity borne out by the manipulation of statistics. That appears at the top of page 30. Later he says:
. . . I think he ought to look very carefully and see that the right thing is done and that there is no further possibility of the manipulation of figures as is the case in the form in which they are given here.
Obviously, I have not had time to go back over all the reports that have been made, but I had the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens) ask for a report; and because Hansard has not been published a sufficient length of time to enable a detailed

The Address-Mr. Bennett

report to be made on the basis of the criticism that has been made, though such a report will be available later, all I can say at the moment is that the report which I have now received reads thus. The leader of the opposition said:
The index figure for the calendar year 1933 was lower than it has been at any time since 1930. Yet this is described as being evidence of increasing employment.
In the statement made by the bureau these words appear:
In the first few months of the year (1933) activity reached its lowest level in recent years, but from April 1 the general trend was steadily upward, the period of improvement extending over eight months.
That is a quotation from the very report to which the right hon. gentleman referred, and the statement I have in my hand reads, in this regard:
The fact that the 1933 average was lower than the 1932 average was due to the first four months; the last five months showed marked improvement over the corresponding months of 1932. The chart from the bureau's report illustrates this.
That chart I hold in my hand; it was available for the right hon. gentleman, as well as for any other hon. member, and it indicates exactly what the facts are in this connection.
Now we come to another matter, namely, the reporting firms. In the United States the Labour Department makes up its figures from industrial reporting firms-trade union firms, if you will, though not .all of them are members of the trade unions but those engaged in industrial activities. The statement I have here reads:
It has always been the policy of the Bureau of Statistics to secure, as far as possible, reports from all firms employing over fifteen persons. The number of these firms has increased, but the bureau in calculating its indexes allows for this by relating the number of employees reported each month to the number reported at the base period of 1926. Thus its indexes do not reflect the change in the number of firms.
The proper relation is established by statistical rules that are applicable here as elsewhere in order that there may be no misleading and that the figures may be comparable and not noncomparable, as some have suggested. When it was stated yesterday that the number of firms reporting had increased, perhaps it will be in the memory of some of those in this chamber to-day that, despite all the difficulties through which we have passed since 1930, there has been increased industrial activity, notably in the Toronto area, and the

number of firms that have reported has increased substantially over preceding years. That in itself indicates that, notwithstanding the difficulties we have had to meet, our industrial activity has not languished, and the number of firms employing fifteen or more has been increased- To quote again from the statement I have in my hand:
The bureau's index does not go below firms of fifteen employees, but the great majority of the firms reporting to it are firms employing between fifteen and fifty. It is believed to be very representative.
It is true that, as indicated by the report, with respect to those who are engaged in what might be called unemployment works these were included in the figures, and special reference was made to them. The right hon. gentleman said that these figures were entirely illusory. The department say that this is what they have done:
The employment statistics of the bureau are issued by exactly the same staff and by exactly the same methods as they have been issued monthly during the past eleven years, or since their inception by the bureau. No one outside the bureau sees these statistics until they are released or has any say whatsoever in their content or purport. In fact, this applies to the staff immediately engaged in their primary compilation, whose results are never altered in the slightest degree. It would be quite futile for the bureau, even if it were so disposed, to "manipulate" statistics of employment, as such manipulation would at once be belied by numerous other current statistical records. For example, the records of car loadings, bank debits, trade, numerous monthly production processes-all confirm and explain the movement of the bureau's employment index. The only current record of unemployment in Canada is that of the Department of Labour, based on reports from trade unions. This showed a marked decline in unemployment between March, 1933, and October, 1933, with a slight seasonal increase in November. The November index was 20.4 per cent compared with 25.1 per cent in March last and with 22.8 per cent in November, 1932.
There you have the trade union report made to the Department of Labour, and as regards those employed in industry and other branches of activity in this country, the report shows that there has been a steady decline in unemployment from March 1933 to October 1933. In the contentions put forward yesterday by the right hon. gentleman, this statement appears:
The bureau does not distinguish between employment arising out of moneys paid out of the public treasury for relief, and employment as provided by private firms.
The bureau's comment is as follows:
The bureau's index is an index of the volume of employment and' is clearly and categorically described as such in each and every issue of

The Address-Mr. Bennett
the figures. It would be absolutely impossible for the bureau to find out monthly wherein the employment provided had its financial source. The record does, however, clearly show the trend of employment from month to month in a very large number of specified industries whose relation to relief is nil. Highway construction is only one of over 60 industrial classifications shown. Such highway construction has been included in the record ever since 1921, and has presumably always been paid for by taxation of one kind or another. The bureau's index of employment is not to be taken as an index of unemployment except in the most general way, and even this general application has never been made by the bureau.
As a matter of general information, we know that there are about 14,000 employed in camps by the Department of National Defence, and about 19,000 by the Ontario Department of Northern Development, while doubtless there are a number employed by other provinces and by municipalities. The aggregate, however, would appear to be under 50,000 included in the bureau's figures out of the total increase of 146,000 between April 1 and December 1. For example, in manufacturing alone, which cannot be associated with relief, the following increases in payrolls as between April 1 and December 1 are shown.
This is an amazing figure which has been published and sent abroad showing the increase in the pay-rolls between, as I have said, April 1 and December 1 of last year.


May I ask the Prime Minister who is responsible for what he has read?


It is from the Bureau of Statistics.


Who is responsible for it- the minister or Mr. Coats?


The minister, so far as I know, has not seen it.


Who is responsible for it?


Whether it was written by the director, Mr. Coats, himself, or by one of his assistants, I am not in a position to say, but it comes from the bureau and the bureau is responsible.


The Prime Minister who is reading it should be in a position to tell us who wrote it.


I say that it came from the Bureau of Statistics. The increase in the monthly pay-rolls of the reporting firms from April 1 to December 1, 1933, is as follows:
Economic areas-	Increase
Maritimes	 10,500
Quebec	 52,000
Ontario	 56,900
Prairies	 13,600
British Columbia	 13,900
Total	 146,900
And on the average of 1926 being taken as equal to 100, on April 1 of last year the figure stood at 76 per cent and on December 1 at 91-8 per cent, an increase, as will be observed, of 20-8 per cent. These are facts as they have been gathered by the bureau and if they are disputed I certainly can only say that an opportunity can be afforded to the house and to every member of it to bring before the appropriate committee the gentlemen who prepared these figures.


Who are the gentlemen who prepared those figures?


The manufacturing industry shows an increase of 41,789 in the same period and they are divided amongst the following:
Animal products-edible.
Fur and products.
Leather and products.
Lumber and products.
Musical instruments.
Plant products-edible.
Pulp and paper products.
Rubber products.
Textile products.
Plant products, not elsewhere specified.
Wood distillates and extracts.
Chemicals and allied products.
Clay, glass and stone products.
Electric current.
Electrical apparatus.
Iron and steel products.
Non-ferrous metal products.
Non-metallic mineral products.
Miscellaneous.
Then there are:
Logging.
Mining.
Communications.
Transportation.
Construction and maintenance.
Services.
Trade.
This shows in respect of the firms reporting monthly to the Dominion Bureau of Statistics a total increase of 146,900 persons during the period to which I have referred. The increases for the months during the period are shown in the appropriate columns. The figures teach their own lesson.
Considering further the matter of Canadian employment I have before me a compilation issued by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics which shows that 8,061 firms of classified industries reporting in December, 1932, had 765,441 persons employed; 8,428 similar firms reporting in December, 1933, had 850,486 persons employed, an estimated increase in respect of reporting firms of 10-3 per cent. In the face of these facts I submit that Canadians have some reason to feel a sense of pride rather than of pessimism with respect to their country and with the record which
74726-5 j
The Address-Mr. Bennett

they thus establish. I think it is due to those who have been assailed in this house that an early opportunity should be taken to determine the method by which these computations have been made and to demonstrate the soundness of what has been done. That is the position. I do not think it is desirable to take up the time of the house in reading into the record columns of figures one after the other dealing with these matters, because no good purpose would be served by doing so.
In addition to this we have the retail sales which show a marked improvement. I wonder whether there is any member in this chamber who does not realize that every merchant in all the larger communities of this country has said repeatedly that last December was the best month he had had for years. I know one merchant in this city said that it was the best he had had for six years in cash business. I know others who said it was the best they had had for four or five years and others that it was the best they had had for three years, but they have been unanimous in their statement that the retail sales during the month of December have exceeded those of any December in recent years. I therefore conclude that if ever there was justification for stating that there has been an improvement in trade, an expansion in revenue and an increase in employment, it has been in this house to-day. I invite the house to give as close and studious attention as possible to the facts for the purpose of ascertaining whether the bureau upon which we have relied during all these years is the bureau to which we can look with confidence or whether they have manipulated figures, and if so for what purpose I know not, for without direction from someone what purpose would there be in doing this, and without direction from some person, why should they desire to do it? I recall an occasion when the right hon. gentleman waxed somewhat eloquent and angry because attacks were made upon those who could not answer for themselves. It is not in my judgment fitting that those occupying important positions in a department of such transcendent importance to the nation should be attacked without at least some opportunity being afforded to those concerned in making their defence. As there must always be governmental responsibility whether the ministry knows aught of these things or not, I for my part have the greatest satisfaction and pride in saying that I believed the League of Nations was right when it said that our

Bureau of Statistics was one of the best in all the world and that the information supplied had been found to be accurate and reliable in every particular and was a credit to this dominion. I still hold that view.
The next point to which the right hon. gentleman directed considerable attention was the trade agreements. How sad a thing it is for him to contemplate those agreements! I suspect that every time he stands in his place and speaks about them he thinks of his efforts in 1923. Methinks I can hear him still pleading his cause in England to a deaf administration that the very things that have been done should be done and that we should have for our exports the preferences we have now received. All the members of the house should take the time to read the record of the economic conference of 1923. I commend it to them. I have read some parts of it to this house on various occasions. Why should the right hon. gentlemen decry so vigorously agreements that have brought such a measure of additional trade to this country? And not content with doing it at home, we find it abroad also. I hold in my hand the Glasgow Herald for February 1, 1933, and the candidate representing the Liberal party, Mr. Kier, made a speech at the close of the campaign, being supported by Major Gwilym Lloyd George, M.P., and other speakers. He is reported to have said:
*-he could now safely say that no entry made by any candidate into any contest had been more amply justified judging by the enthusiasm and support his candidature had provoked. His supporters and himself were late starters, but he believed they were fast finishers.
Then he proceeds to say that,
-he talked on the transatlantic telephone last night to Mr. Mackenzie King, the leader of the Canadian Liberal party, who told him of the anxiety with which Canadian Liberals were waiting the result of the East Fife by-election. Mr. Mackenzie King reminded him of two by-'elections held recently in Canada in safe Tory seats which resulted in the return of two Liberals pledged to oppose the Ottawa agreements, -which had resulted in increasing the world's tariffs, and pledged to fight for an immediate reduction of Canadian tariffs. He expressed the hope that everywhere in Great Britain there would be encouraged progressive movements designed to promote freer trade and the removal of trade restrictions.


I am sure my right hon. friend will permit me to remind him that at the time of the election to which he refers a dispatch appeared in the press to the effect that I had communicated over the long distance telephone with the gentleman he mentioned, and that I immediately denied in this house the accuracy of that report. I stated

The Address-Mr. Bennett
that I had been rung up by a gentleman from somewhere in Scotland and asked certain questions, and that I had replied to him I did not think it was proper for me even to discuss a matter which related to the domestic affairs of Great Britain, and that I had nothing to say. I said nothing. I made that statement in the house last year, and I am surprised that my right hon. friend does not remember it.


I certainly accept the statement of the right hon. gentleman. But apparently Liberalism is as unreliable in England as it is here.


Hear, hear.


It has been said that as a result of the agreements entered into in Ottawa in 1932 the rest of the world would retaliate against Canada and against the empire. There is of course nothing to warrant any such statement. During the entire period of time that the Liberals were in office after the war they were unable to conclude any agreement at all with Germany, and it was not until after the Ottawa pacts were signed that an agreement was made with Germany, which as I happen to know and as hon. members opposite know, could not be brought about by the late Hon. Mr. Robb or anyone else. So that as far as Germany at least is concerned, one of the large markets of the world, we did make an agreement with them. There was a contract or agreement with France, but under that agreement France three times within a few months, and during the regime of hon. gentlemen opposite, raised the tariff against Canadian wheat. After the Ottawa agreements we negotiated a new treaty with France. So you have at least those two great trading nations with which Canada made trade agreements after the Ottawa agreements. And the agreements that were in force with other countries have not been abrogated. The twenty odd most-favoured-nation clause agreements that were in force, and have been for years, these contracts, treaties and agreements still stand. No country has asked that they be abrogated, no complaint has been made that would indicate reprisals as possible or likely. And as I shall presently show, we have extended our trade with all these nations.
It is desirable to keep in mind the extent to which we as a country have become dependent upon a stable market. I wonder if any member of this house has taken the trouble to realize what it means to have unstable markets for the exports of Canada. Has this house forgotten the observations made by the right hon. gentleman at the close of the budget of 1929 with respect to
trade with the United States of America? Have we forgotten the Hawley-Smoot tariff of that day, and his speech on that? Have we forgotten how he said that it is not desirable that we should do anything to protect ourselves, lest we arouse their anger still more and become the victims of it?


I never made a statement of the kind.


I think the word was "provoke." I have it among my papers, but it would disturb the sequence of my observations to turn to it now; I will take it when I come to it. "Provocative" I think was the exact word. At any rate it indicated a measure of regret that this country could not protect itself lest it might offend someone.


That is not a correct interpretation, nor fair comment on what appears in the text.


It was also said that even our British preference should not be increased at this time for the same reason. Now, sir, I ask for any evidence that the world has resented the Ottawa pacts.


Hear, hear.


If there is any we have a right to ask for it. Mere statements do not add to our knowledge. Name the countries, give us some indication of them.


There was not anything in them.


All I can say, Mr. Speaker, i3 that perhaps the hon. member for Hants-Kings (Mr. Usley) may be able to give an answer to that with respect to apples.


Three cents a barrel.


If the hon. gentleman desires to make a speech his opportunity will come later.


But my right hon. friend asked me a question and I answered.


The hon. gentleman has a habit of thinking any question is addressed to him that is addressed to the other side. It is a mistake.
May I point out that there has been a steady increase in trade between the countries comprising the British empire; that we have had an assured and sheltered market for our products, that in certain markets where there was uncertainty before there is now certainty and we know that foT a period of three years, five years from 1932, we have that market with respect to those products. We know that if material comes from a foreign country
The Address-Mr. Bennett

to Great Britain it has to pay a duty of ten to twenty per cent, while Canadian products and products from other parts of the empire enter free.


Did they not always enter
free? Was there ever a duty against Canadian goods entering Great Britain?


Order.


our own efforts in the establishment of our own Canadian industries. I shall not dwell further upon that.
There is one matter to which I think I am warranted in referring, which has been largely affected by treaties, and that is the lumber business of this country. I suppose that it is within the knowledge of members of this house that British Columbia exported more lumber last year than in any other year in its history. The largest lumbering trade that goes on in the world is transacted from that province.


Exported to Great Britain.


Exported to all the world, to Great Britain and to Australia, New Zealand, China and all the world. I have under my hand the figures of the countries to which that lumber goes and the amounts, and it is amazing the number of countries to which British Columbia lumber is sent- It is not simply to one or two or three or four countries. If I might mention individuals, the gentleman in charge of that particular business has built up a market in almost every country in the world. British Columbia lumber is going to all the seven seas.


Did it not always go to the seven seas?


No, it only went to four. May I direct the attention of the hon. member for North Vancouver (Mr. Munn) to the fact that the greatest exports of lumber which his province has enjoyed in all its history took place during the past year, and largely that has been due to the exports to Great Britain which have been ensured by reason of the fact that our lumber goes in there free against its competitors who have to pay from ten to twenty per cent of the value to get their lumber into the ports of England. I have the figures before me of the exports from British Columbia, but I shall not take time to give them.
I think it may fairly be said, then, that we have abundantly justified the bargains which we made with respect to trade. We have enhanced and increased our business not only with the British Empire but with the countries of the world.
But the right hon. leader of the opposition asked me yesterday, very pointedly, why did we not negotiate a reciprocity agreement with the United States?


Hear, hear.


I was surprised to hear the right hon. gentleman use the word

reciprocity, because reciprocity might be a very difficult thing to accomplish with any country in the present disturbed conditions of the world. I shall not do more than ask two or three questions with respect to that. I wonder where the right hon. gentleman gets his information that the United States desires to negotiate a treaty with Canada. All I can say is that I do not believe the government of the United States has been communicating with him to that effect, and they certainly have not been with us. It may be that his former minister to Washington among his activities has given him information to that effect, but that I think is doubtful.
I read to this house last year a joint statement prepared by the President of the United States and myself, and I know of no reason why the facts stated in that memorandum are not as accurate to-day as they were then. That is all I shall say with respect to that.


If the mountain won't come to Mahomet why does not Mahomet go to the mountain?


There might be some little difference of opinion in some cases as to which constituted Mahomet, but if the hon. gentleman was present no such difficulty would arise.
I find that the right hon. leader of the opposition was in power in this country for many years. Did he negotiate a treaty with the United States?


There was a Tory government then in the United States.


I find that on April 9, 1929, at page 1403 of Hansard the right hon. gentleman thus expressed himself:
This year differs from other years in one essential particular. This year, when the government was preparing its budget, it had before it the knowledge which is common throughout the continent, that a neighbouring country was about to make certain changes in its tariff, changes which may materially affect trade between the two countries. Trade between this country and the United States is, I believe, the greatest trade that exists between any two countries in the world, and naturally we are interested in what the citizens of the republic do with respect to matters which may affect that trade. We are interested as well in all that affects the industrial conditions of that country because, as we know from experience, matters are so inter-related in economic affairs that it is seldom that one portion of this continent is appreciably affected by depression or the opposite without other parts being also affected. We have the word of those in authority in the neighbouring republic that there are certain measures to be

The Address-Mr. Bennett
introduced at a special session of congress now about to assemble. An important measure vve are led to believe, is a measure relating to farm relief. Another measure relates to "limited adjustments of the tariff"; that I think is the expression which has been officially used. Having that knowledge before us, I ask hon. gentlemen irrespective of party: In the condition of prosperity which Canada is to-day enjoying would it be desirable on the part of the administration to take any action with respect to the tariff in Canada at the present time which by those across the line who may be interested in seeking to raise the tariff in that country could be regarded as provocative? I say that with the knowledge which we have before us at the present time, were we to do what hon. gentlemen opposite by their amendment apparently wish us to do, namely raise the tariff, we would be creating in the minds of the American people the very sentiment which would cause them to raise their tariff higher perhaps than it was ever their intention to raise it. We do not intend to take any action of that provocative character.
May I say to my hon. friends opposite, in the other corner of the house, that were we to-day to take a step along the lines of increasing the British preference to a greater degree than exists at the present time that step also might be misconstrued, for we know that there are people on the other side of the line who are just as anxious to be troublemakers as certain people on this side of the line, who are ready to misrepresent matters, and we have to take human nature as it is, and deal with it as it is. So facing the situation before us, we have followed the policy that we have followed in the past and that we shall follow at all times, of dealing with each situation as it arises in the light of the conditions as they exist at the time.
I suppose there is no doubt as to the accuracy of that record?


Why pause?


I think if the hon. gentleman, formerly of Lunenburg, but now of Antigonish-Guysborough, had listened he must have heard what was said by his leader with respect to that matter. But let me ask a question or two as to what is intended by this demand for reciprocity. Reciprocity in cattle, in butter, in eggs, in hogs-reciprocity in all these, I suppose, would be the proper thing to have?


What about fish?


I am so glad to hear
that-fish, as well as cattle, hogs, butter and eggs, because I will now give you the prices of these commodities in Canada and the United States. I got the market quotation to-day on hogs, and I find the figures are as follows:
Hog Prices
	Monday	Tuesday
	Jan. 29	Jan. 30
	Per 100 pounds	
Toronto-select bacons. . .	$10 15	$10 35Montreal-select bacons. . .	10 10	10 10Winnipeg-select bacons. . .	9 25	to 10 15
Chicago-good to choice

180-220 pounds		3 85	4 00
Buffalo-good to choice- 180-220 pounds		3 75	
So we want reciprocity	to 4 00 in hogs	in orderthat Americans can find in	Canada	a market
for their commodities at twice the price they get at home.


What about the price of wheat?


The price of wheat is the same as the price obtained in Canada having regard to the duty of forty-two cents per bushel imposed by the American congress against Canadian wheat.
Just one more moment while I deal with a further question as to the prices of cattle, bacon, butter and eggs, in the two countries. We have now had expressed in this house by western members a desire that we should have a reciprocity agreement with the United States with respect to these items. The prices being received for these commodities at different points in Canada and the United States are as follows:
Cattle-	Per cwt.
Good weighty steers-Toronto. .. $5.40-$6.50 Good 1,100-1,300-lb. steers-Chicago 5.00 - 6.25 Hogs-	Per cwt.
Select bacons-Calgary	 $8.50
Select bacons-Winnipeg	 9.00
Select bacons-Toronto	 9.45
Select bacons-Montreal	 9.25
Good	to	choice,	180-220	lb.-
Omaha	 $3.25-$3.40
Good	to	choice,	180-220	lb.-
St. Louis	 3.65-3.75
Good	to	choice,	180-220	lb.-
Kansas City	 3.35-3.45
Good	to	choice,	180-220	lb.-
Chicago	 3.60-3.75
Butter-	Per p