I desire to lay on the table the 
correspondence between the government, the Canadian Pacific Railway Company and the Canadian banks with respect to the guarantee by the government in regard to the loan of $60,000,000 to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. At the same time I offer my apology to the hon. gentleman for the delay in presenting these papers, which was due to certain papers being mislaid.


Hon. RAYMOND D. MORAND (East Essex) moved that the first report of the special committee to inquire into operations of the radio commission under the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Act, 1932, be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
A message from His Excellency the Governor General transmitting further supplementary estimates for the financial year ending March 31, 1934, was presented by Hon. E. N. Rhodes (Minister of Finance), read by Mr. Speaker to the house, and referred to the committee of supply.
Hon. E. N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 37 to amend the Bills of Exchange Act.
He said: Mr. Speaker, this bill proposes two amendments to the Bills of Exchange Act. The first substitutes the name Remembrance Day for Armistice Day, in conformity with the legislation that was passed in 1931. The second amendment proposes to authorize the closing of branches when civic holidays are declared.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
Hon. ROBERT WEIR (Minister of Agriculture) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 38 to amend the Dairy Industry Act.
He said: There are two principal changes to be made in the act. One is a change in the definitions to keep the act more in line with modern practices and the other is an extension of the act at the request of a number of the provinces.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.

Questions
Hon. ROBERT WEIR (Minister of Agriculture) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 39 to amend the Destructive Insect and Pest Act.
He said: There is a very slight change to be made in this act. The proposed amendment, which is regarded as an interpretive section, does not affect the intent of the present section but is necessary in order to enable the various provinces to deal with the control of pests in their respective territories, and is being made at their request.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.	[DOT]
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	What were the conditions of the original cattle quota imposed on Canadian cattle by the British government?
2.	What are the adjusted cattle quota terms and conditions at present in vogue?
3.	Is there anything definite yet as to the cattle quota that will prevail during the last half of the year 1934?
4.	Does the British government under the terms of the Anglo-Canadian Ottawa agreement impose such cattle quotas without the consent of the government of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I think it should be
said with respect to this question that the matter is under consideration. The quota as fixed was arranged by the High Commissioner for Canada with the British Government, and negotiations are now pending for the purpose of determining what the future action shall be. But the quota as it stands is that we should ship the same number of cattle as we shipped in the first six months of 1933-and there the matter stands at the moment.


How much has the government paid in premiums on gold since it has prohibited exportation?


Since October 19, 1931, the marketing of non-monetary gold, including the current production of the Canadian mines, has been done through the medium of the government which has distributed to the mines and owners of such gold the net proceeds of the sale abroad.
Such sales to February 28, 1934, have realized 832,069,743 in excess of the standard value established by the Currency Act, after deducting all costs incidental to the export and sale.


1.	When	was	Dr.	J.	T.	Hill	appointed
medical doctor at Onion lake, Saskatchewan, Indian agency?
2.	What has been his salary since appointment to date?
3.	When	was	Dr.	J.	T.	Hill	appointed
Indian agent at Onion lake?
4.	What has been his salary as agent since appointment to date?
5.	What are the names and present salary of other members of staff at this agency?
6.	Are any salaries herein subject to discount?


1.	April 2, 1923.
2.	Salary on appointment $2,000 plus house, fuel, light and rations. Increased to $2,120 April 1, 1927.
3.	July 1, 1932.
4.	$1,600.
5.	D. H. Cameron, clerk, Indian agency, $1,200 plus house, fuel, light and rations; R. C. Hamer, Indian farming instructor, $960 plus house, fuel, light and rations; F. M. Warne, Indian farming instructor, $1,200 plus house, fuel, light and rations; G. M. Malloch, Indian farming instructor, $960 plus house, fuel, light and rations; D. Vanasse, Indian interpreter, $900 plus house, fuel, light and rations; A. E. Peterson, dispenser, $120.
6.	All salaries shown above and value of allowances are subject to the provisions of the Civil Service Salary Deduction Act of 1932.
radio BROADCASTING-CANADIAN BROADCAST


1. How	many broadcasting	stations in
Canada are using the programs of the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission?
2. How many broadcasting	stations in Canada are being paid for this service?
3.	What amount of money wms paid to each station since the inauguration of the service up to the end of January, 1934?
4.	Are any broadcasting stations in Canada using the programs of the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission and giving the same service as the other stations, but, not paid for said service; if so, how many?
5.	Are all stations that have a broadcasting licence compelled to use the programs of the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission whether they are paid for this service or not?
Questions


Mr. Speaker, I suggest to the
hon. member that that question be dropped. The select committee set up for the purpose of dealing with problems arising out of the administration of the Broadcasting Act will deal with just such matters as this one, and to discuss in this house a question which may be raised there is not conducive to the best interests of the service which the hon. member doubtless wishes to assist. I suggest, therefore, that the question be dropped, and that he deal with the matter through the committee.


The question is dropped.


1.	What quantity of butter from New Zealand entered Canada each year for 19281929-1930?
2.	What quantity of butter entered Canada each year for 1928-1929-1930 coming from Australia or any other country?


1.	The quantity of butter imported (entered for consumption) into Canada from New Zealand for the calendar years 1928, 1929, and 1930, was:
Calendar
years	Pounds
1928		 16,124,641
1929		 33,764,462
1930		 37,012,400
2.	The quantity of butter imported (entered for consumption) into Canada from Australia, or any other country, for the calendar years 1928, 1929, and 1930, was:
Calendar years 1928	1929	1930Imports from	pounds	pounds	poundsAustralia.. 629,944	274,400	1,422,512United Kingdom.	8,682	1,729,216	111,676United States.	..	38,352	148,051	58,922Alaska	
365	....Bermuda	45Fiji	
7,840	....Italy	
37	
....Jamaica	
33	
Netherlands	 2,205	

Newfoundland	
848	500Syria	
829	....


1.	Has the Minister of Public Works been informed that the departmental wharf at New Richmond, Bonaventure county, is badly in 
need of repairs and until it is put in condition, pulpwood has to he carried to Maria or Carleton for shipment?
2.	If so, will any action he taken shortly in this respect?


1.	'It is reported to the department that the public wharf at New Richmond is in need of extensive repairs, and that to enable pulp-wood or lumber to be shipped over it extensive dredging would be required in addition to the cost of the repairs.
2.	Matter under consideration.


Mr. LaRUE:
1.	Has the federal government received from the government of the province of Quebec a request for the carrying out of additional relief works in the village and parish of St-Benoit Joseph Labre d'Amqui?
2.	If so, on what date and what was the amount involved?
3.	Has the federal government complied' with that request?
4.	If so, on what date, and on what date was the government of the province of Quebec advised of such compliance?
1.	Yes.
2.	February 19th, 1934, $6,000.
3.	Yes.
4.	The schedule of works referred to was approved on behalf of the dominion by order in council P.C. 468 dated March 5th, 1934, and the province so advised on March 8th.


What are the gross and net operating revenues of the Canadian National Railways for each year since date of organization:	(a) for its
lines east of Port Arthur and Armstrong: (b) for its lines west of Port Arthur and Armstrong; (c) for its subsidiary lines west of Detroit and Port Huron; (d) for its subsidiary lines in the New England States?


Mr. Speaker, we have not
that information in our department, but the whole information which we received is in the annual report which is to be tabled shortly. If the hon. member will look at the annual report, and if he does not get the information he desires he may write me a letter which I could pass on to the railway management.


I thank the minister.

Questions


1.	What are the amounts at par value of bonds outstanding on the Canadian National Railways system?
2.	What is the total interest payable annually on these bonds?
3.	What is the amount of the bonds held by private individuals?
4.	What amount of these bonds are held: fa) in Canada; (b) in the United States; (c) in other countries?
5.	Are any bonds held by railway corporations in the United States?
6.	If so, what amounts are so held?
7.	What are the names of the bodies corporate in Canada holding these bonds, and what amount is held by each?


The annual report, which
I shall table in a very few days, will contain most of this information. If the hon. gentleman will, after looking it over, tell me of any information that he does not find, I Shall pass on to the Canadian National Railways such requests as he may make.


How much money has been spent by the Dominion of Canada under the Unemployment Relief Act for the years 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, and 1934?


The report of the Dominion Commissioner of Unemployment Relief setting out the federal assistance rendered to provinces and municipalities in their relief efforts, is now in the course of preparation and will be laid as hitherto on the table of the house in conformity with the provisions of the statute as soon as possible after the end of the fiscal year.


What amount of money was expended' in the town of Pembroke, under the Unemployment Relief Act, for the years 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, 1934, respectively:	(a) by the federal
government; (b) by the provincial government of Ontario; (c) by the municipality?


The Unemployment Relief Act, 1930-(a) $16,248.38; (b) $16,248.36; (c) $32,496.74.
The Unemployment and Farm Relief Act, 1931, and Continuance Act, 1932-(a) $17,877.77; (b) $17,877.75; (c) $32,877.77.
The Relief Act, 1932-(a) $14,669.45; (b) $14,669.42; (c) $10,784.14.
The Relief Act, 1933-(a) $17,591.54; (b) $21,989.39; (c) $13,193.67.
The figures shown under (b) and (c) represent expenditures to which the dominion contributed and are not necessarily the total relief expenditures of the province and municipality.


What amount of money was expended under the Unemployment Relief Act in the townships of Sabine, Lyell, Airy, Murchison, and Dickens, for the years 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, and 1934, respectively:	(a) by the federal government;
(b) by the provincial government of Ontario?


No accounts have at this date been received from the province with respect to unemployment relief expenditures in the townships of Sabine, Lyell, Airy, Murchison and Dickens.


1.	What is the total amount of money expended under the Unemployment Relief Act for the construction of the trans-Canada highway, from Pembroke to Mattawa, for the years 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, 1934, respectively: (a) by the federal government; (b) by the provincial government of Ontario?
2.	What was the total amount contributed by the federal government under the Unemployment Relief Act, to the federal constituency of North Renfrew for the years 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, 1934, respectively?


1.	Accounts received from the province covering expenditures on the trans-Canada highway do not set forth the expenditures by sections.
2.	The Unemployment Relief Act, 1930, $16,248.38; the Unemployment and Farm Relief Act, 1931, and Continuance Act, 1932, $17,952.87; The Relief Act, 1932, $15,062.07; The Relief Act, 1933, $17,817.08.


1.	How much grain has No. 2 elevator received and shipped during its operation by the Vancouver Harbour Commission for season 1933-34, until February 15, 1934?
2.	What was the total cost of operating No. 2 elevator from September 30, 1933, to February 15, 1934?
1598	COMMONS
Questions as Orders for Returns
3.	What was the amount for the following items:	(a) payroll; (b) interest on investment; (c) sinking fund; (d) amount chargeable to superintendency and all overhead?


This question stands as an order for return, and I shall table any information I may receive from the harbour commission.


Mr. ROBERGE;
1. What was the grand total of asbestos exportations, year by year, since 1928 to date?
2.	What were the annual exportations of this mineral product since that date?
3.	To which countries were these exportations made?
4. What was the average annual cost of these exportations?
Return tabled herewith.


1.	In what countries does Canada maintain trade commissioners and/or agents?
2.	What was the total trade of Canada with each of these countries in 1933?
3.	What is the cost to Canada in maintaining each of these commissioners and agents in: (a) salaries; (b) other expenses?


Return tabled herewith.


1.	In the case of life insurance companies reporting to the Dominion Government Department of Insurance, what was the total amount of loans on policies in Canada on December 31 in each of the last ten years?
2.	What was the total amount of policies lapsed in each of these years?
3.	What was the total amount paid to policy holders and beneficiaries in each of these years?
4.	What was the total amount of premiums paid by policy holders during each of these years ?
5.	What was the number and value of
ordinary life insurance policies in force in Canada at the end of 1932, or nearest available date, in each of the following classifications: (a) under $1,001; (b) $1,001 to $2,000; (c)	$2,001	to	$3,000;	(d)	$3,001	to	$4,000;(e)	$4,001	to	$5,000;	(f)	$5,001	to	$10,000;(g)	$10,001	to	$20,000;	(h)	$20,001	to	$30,000;(i)	$30,001	to	$40,000;	(j)	$40,001	to	$50,000;(k)	$50,001 to $100,000;	(1)	$100,001 to
$500,000; (m) $500,001 to $1,000,000; (n) over $1,000,000?


1. What are the grain elevator tariffs in effect for the crop year 1933-34 at: (a) Mont-

real; (b) Vancouver; (c) Saint John; (d) Halifax; (e) Quebec; (f) Port Arthur; (1) for handling grain from cars or boats; (2) for shipping it out in cars or boats?
2.	Were any reductions on the grain elevator tariffs put in effect for handling grain via any of the above ports during the crop year 1933-34?
3.	At which of the above grain handling points are there government grain elevators operated by the government or by a board under the government?
4. At which of the ports mentioned in question No. 1 are grain elevators which have been constructed by the government?
5.	What is the full capital cost including
grain galleries, and all grain loading equipment appearing on the books of the Vancouver Harbour Commissioners, chargeable to:	(a)
No. 1 harbour board elevator; (b) No. 2 harbour board elevator; (c) No. 3 harbour board elevator?
6.	Are any Vancouver harbour board grain elevators leased to private grain firms?
7.	If so, to whom are they leased, and what are the rentals per year?
8.	Do Vancouver harbour board elevators leased to private firms pay civic taxes on the same basis as property used for a like purpose and privately owned?
9.	Are the grain elevator tariffs covering Canadian ports approved by the Board of Grain Commissioners?
10.	Has the government or any governmental body paid any civic taxes or any equivalent thereto on the dominion government grain elevator located at Port Arthur, Ontario?


For a copy of all pay lists in connection with work done on the breakwater at Ste-Adelaide de Pabos, Gaspe county, during the year 193334, and also copy of all letters, exchanged' between the Department of Public Works and any other person in connection with this said work.


For a copy of all documents or accounts in the Department of Indian Affairs between the department and any person living in the Spiritwood district or elsewhere during the years 1933 and 1934 till the present time, in connection with the medical attendance given to the Witchekan and Chitek Indian reserves, located in the North Battleford electoral district.


For a statement showing the export from Canada to the United Kingdom, both in weights and in money value of: (a) fresh salmon; (b) frozen salmon; (c) canned salmon, each shown separately, for the years 1929 to 1933 inclusive, each year shown separately, and showing

Tariff Board
whether exported from the Atlantic coast or from the Pacific. If the unit of cwts. is used, indicate the pounds content, and use the same standard throughout.


For a copy of all documents, letters, reports of inquiry, orders in council, if any, reports to the federal government or to members thereof, reports to different departments, with respect to the case of Mr. Avila Blouin, of the city of Quebec, who was wounded during the war.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, and other documents in the possession of the government, dated from August, 1930, to date, respecting the resignation of Georges Molloy as postmaster of Chandler station, county of Gaspe, and the appointment of his successor.


For a copy of all contracts, letters and correspondence between the Minister of Public Works, the deputy minister, the engineers and officials of his department and all other persons, from 1930 to date, respecting the retaining wall along Tardif channel, at Notre-Dame de Pierre-ville, county of Yamaska.
.	COAL INQUIRY CORRESPONDENCE


For a copy of all correspondence exchanged between the Hon. W. A. Gordon, Minister of Labour, and the Attorney General of the province of Quebec, the Hon. L. A. Taschereau, concerning the inquiry held during the years 1932-1933 by Fred McGregor, registrar under the Combines Investigation Act, regarding the importation and prices of English coal.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to repeat a question which I addressed to the government last Monday based upon a report in the Ottawa Press which stated that the government had decided to refer to the Supreme Court the question of the right of the tariff board to make rulings in points of law and with regard to the validity of the fixing of values on goods imported under the British preference. I asked then whether the report was accurate, and I received from the Prime Minister a rather non-committal reply. In this morning's paper the report is repeated, stating that the government has so decided to refer such matters to the courts, and I
should like again to-day to ask the Prime Minister whether or not he can give a more definite reply in the matter.


The questions to which the hon.
gentleman refers are obviously questions of great difficulty. As a result of the appeal that was taken before the privy council, and which the privy council heard and reserved judgment, the formal conclusion that will be arrived at by the privy council will be communicated to those concerned, to the public and to this house immediately they have been finally settled. There have been many very difficult matters to be considered, and while in a broad way a conclusion has been arrived at I have no conclusion to communicate to the house at this moment, but I trust that some day during the present week I may be able to do so.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, about three weeks ago I directed a question to the Minister of Pensions and National Health (Mr. MacLaren). The question was this: Is it the intention of the government this session to bring down any amendment or amendments to the Pensions Act. The reply of the minister at that time was that the matter was under consideration. Has he any further information to give to the house.


The answer is in the negative.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister if it would be possible to have the legislation amending the Dominion Elections Act introduced some little time before the end of the session, and if possible before the Easter recess.


It will not be possible to introduce
the legislation before the Easter recess, but as soon as reasonably may be thereafter it will be submitted. At one time I thought it might be desirable to introduce a skeleton bill and have it referred to the committee on privileges and elections, but in view of the fact that so many members of the house are busily engaged on other committees I thought
1600	COMMONS
C.N.R.-C.P.R.-Joint use of Tracks
it more desirable that we should prepare the legislation, and it will be submitted to the house as early as possible after the Easter recess.


Would it be
asking too much if I asked the Prime Minister, if without going into any detail he could indicate the lines of the proposed legislation?


I think the right hon.
gentleman himself would say that that is a rather unusual request.


It is, yes.


Hon. R. J. MANION (Minister of Railways and Canals) moved the third reading of Bill No. 25, to ratify and confirm an agreement respecting the joint use by His Majesty and the commissioners of the transcontinental railway of certain tracks and premises of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company at Quebec.
Mr. Speaker, I add my protest to that of the hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe) and other hon. members who have spoken on this matter. The bill at first renewed the agreement for a period of 999 years, thirty years more than the age of Methuselah. It is a binding contract for a long period of years, and if I remember well the Minister of Railways himself suggested in reply to one hon. member from British Columbia that he was ready to accept an amendment making the term 99 years.


If my hon. friend will permit me, he is mistaken as to the bill. It was another bill that ratified an agreement for 999 years, and that bill has already received its third reading.


I am very glad that the minister has rejuvenated the contracts that existed between the Canadian National and the Canadian Pacific. But may I draw to your attention, Mr. Speaker, the fact that the mail contract with the Canadian Pacific Railway represents a much larger amount than the contract with the Canadian National.
There is another matter which I wish to draw to the attention of the house. During the campaign the right hon. the Prime Minister, referring to the two main railways in this country, very often used the phrase "Amalgamation	never-competition ever."
Those words we have not forgotten. We trust that there will not be an amalgamation

of both these railways because competition is essential. I am not going to repeat what has already been said on that subject except to say that I regret that legislation. I believe it is wrong, and as I have already said, I add my protest to those that have already been made in this house on the matter.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third
time and passed.


Hon. EDGAR N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
['That the name of Mr. Fraser (Cariboo) be substituted for that of Mr. Stevens on the select standing committee on banking and commerce.']
Mr. Speaker, before you leave the chair I desire to take the opportunity which this occasion affords to bring to the special attention of the house the matter of the heavy burden of debt, both public and private, which perhaps will never be paid either in this or in any other country, and I desire also to make suggestions in regard to possible ways of dealing with that heavy burden of debt. I shall deal with the question particularly from the point of view that the load of private debt as it now rests upon the people of Canada will greatly retard recovery from the present depression, and so long as that burden exists not only will recovery from the depression be difficult but no permanent prosperity is possible. I realize, of course, that it is only by the will of the government that any action can be taken in this house-


Perhaps the hon. gentleman will not mind my interrupting him for one moment. This matter was discussed by this house, Mr. Speaker, on an amendment to the address in reply to the speech from the throne. I have no desire to limit the observations which I always listen to with pleasure of the hon. member for Wetaskiwin, but I do not think the time of the house should be taken up twice discussing the same matter at the same session.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, before you give your ruling, I would like to draw attention to the ruling you yourself made on March 31, 1931. That ruling I think will very clearly show that I have the right on the motion for supply to raise a discussion of the question I am now bringing to the attention of the house. The ruling to which I refer was made in connection with a motion which was put forward by the hon. member for North Winnipeg (Mr. Heaps). He attempted in the first instance to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose

Debts-Air. Irvine
of discussing a certain matter, and he moved a resolution, but the right hon. the Prime Minister rising to a point of order pointed out that the subject matter of the resolution had already been dealt with by the house. But on that same day, when the motion for supply was made a little later on, the hon. member then brought the same matter up and again the objection was raised, but he was allowed to proceed with his discussion on the ground that he was not making any particular motion but was discussing a grievance before going into supply, and not only did he discuss the question but a very prolonged discussion took place.
I submit, sir, that we have a parallel case before you to-day, and it is inconceivable to me how the ruling you made on the date referred to could be altered on this occasion. Furthermore, let me say that I am not moving any motion to-day. I am simply taking advantage, as I said at the outset, of the opportunity which I understood was afforded to every member of this house before going into supply to present a grievance of the people I represent in regard to one of the most difficult problems they have to encounter to-day.


The hon. member can proceed in the meantime and I will give a ruling later.


When the right hon. the
Prime Minister raised the point of order I was about to say that I realized it is only by the will of government that any action can be taken in this house with respect to either the question I have suggested or any other. It is not my purpose to-day to make an appeal exclusively to the government for I realize that the question of debt reduction implies the principle of contractual obligations and that is almost sacred to the economic system under which we now live. Before any action as drastic as that which would be necessary to be taken in respect to debt can be taken I imagine that we would have to have the almost unanimous support of every party and group in this house. I propose to make several suggestions as to how the burden of private debt may be dealt with and also indicate the principle upon which I desire to make my plea. I shall not move any amendment with respect to the matter because, as every hon. member knows, an amendment to the motion to go into supply is always regarded as a motion of want of confidence. Were I to move an amendment I would be defeating the object which I have in view rather than promoting it. If my intent in this matter were purely political,
no doubt that is what I would do, but it is not. While the present government along with all other previous governments must share the responsibility for not having changed the debt creating system, it cannot be charged with originating that system nor can we hold the present government responsible for debts which were contracted before it came into office. For these reasons, and also because the burden of debt is so heavy and so universal in its blight and its removal so fundamental to the recovery of this country from the great depression, I consider that this question should be dealt with without any blame being placed upon or favour granted to any party or group in this house.
The farming and labouring classes have suffered more than any other class during the present depression, chiefly because their incomes have dropped more drastically. While I mention these classes particularly I do not wish it to be understood that I am asking for legislation which would apply only to them. I mention them because I understand their position better and because it is my particular duty to represent them in this house. Our professional and business men are also overburdened with debt and their positions should also be taken into consideration. My proposal is that debt be reduced so that it may bear the same relation to the prive level which it did when contracted and that interest should be wiped out completely from the time the price level dropped precipitately until it again reaches the point where the major portion of the debt was incurred. Moral principles are very seldom applied, either nationally or internationally, except in rare cases When it is necessary to bolster up obviously immoral practices, nevertheless I do not propose to leave it out of consideration.


Would the hon. gentleman be prepared to reinstate the debts when prices come up again?


If my hon. friend will wait a moment, he will find that I shall answer his question in my speech.
I should like to examine the principle upon which the suggestions I am about to make should be considered. A contraction of a debt surely presupposes the stability of the income with which it is to be paid. If a man contracts a debt when his income is at a certain figure, surely it is understood that his income, whether from salary, from wages or from prices received for goods produced by him for sale, shall be fairly stable. It is absurd to expect a man to repay a debt when the basis upon which it has been contracted
Debts-Mr. Irvine

has been changed. The income with which a debt is to be paid is just as sacred as the contract to pay the debt. For if the income has been reduced or destroyed it is absolutely impossible to fulfil the contractual obligation. To create a debt and endow it with reproductive powers and then deflate and destroy the income of the debtor so that his property goes to the creditor is one of the greatest crimes which ever received the endorsation of the wise and the good. Where a debtor's income has been reduced by his own will, by his own carelessness, by his own inefficiency or even by misfortune, it may be both equitable and legal to hold him to his contractual obligations, but where his income has been reduced drastically or destroyed completely by a universal economic condition which he was personally unable to alter, then I suggest that it is only fair and reasonable that the contract should be reconsidered and readjusted to the new circumstances. Such debt adjustments should be made, particularly when the creditor stands to benefit from a calamity which has become not only national but as wide as civilization itself. Such adjustments become increasingly important when the creditor class has had a great deal to do, perhaps unwittingly, with bringing about the stoppage of the economic machine which has plunged the debtor deeper and still deeper into debt.
It is common knowledge that the farming and labouring people are almost in a state of bankruptcy at the present time. For example, let us consider the case of a mechanic working in the railway shops. Six years ago he put his savings into a home, costing about $4,000. After fifteen years of work he had managed to save $2,000. In order to purchase his home he had to borrow $2,000 at eight per cent interest. Assuming that he was able to save at the same rate for the next fifteen years, he would be able to save another $2,000 but he would have to pay $160 annually as interest on the $2,000 he had borrowed. His average savings for the first fifteen years had been only $133 per year so that the only way he could carry on is to save something from what he used to pay for rent in order to offset the extra interest he must pay. He starts out on that proposition but pretty soon he finds that his taxes are increased. Bye and bye he is put on short time and his income is reduced by one-half although the interest and taxes are still going up and being added to the bill he has to pay. Soon afterwards he is discharged from his position and has no income at all. After six years he finds that instead of owing $2,000, he owes 
$3,000, but he has no work and little chance of getting any. It must not be forgotten that he is six years older and even though work were- plentiful, it is altogether likely that a younger man would take his place. Such a man stands to lose everything and something should be done by this parliament at this session to assist our people in that position.
Let me turn to the farmer's position. Everyone realizes, surely, that farmers to-day cannot pay the debts which they contracted from fifteen to four years ago, from the prices which they are now receiving for the products they have to place on the market. Not only are the farmers not able to pay, it is impossible for them to pay. Those of my colleagues who may follow me in this discussion will place before the house comparative figures showing the drop in the capital values of agriculture as a result of the drop in the prices of agricultural commodities. Such figures will also show the impossibility of carrying on with things as they are, and will indicate the extent to which debts should be reduced.
I am reasonably certain that the majority of the members of this house expect the return of prosperity, and in such a hope they rest content, that when it does come back both farmers and labour people and others as well will be able to pay their debts as usual. I do not desire to enter into any argument at this time as to the possible return of the elusive nymph prosperity. For the sake of this discussion I am going to assume that she does come back. What then? She will come back to discover that the debtor's debt is larger than it was when she left; she will discover that the debtor is very much older and less fitted to meet the great struggle which he must enter if he is to survive; and we must all realize that the visit of the nymph the next time may be of much shorter duration than the last.
But there are other factors. For instance, it will take the added income of several years of prosperity to bring the farmer's stock and equipment to that point of efficiency at which it stood when the depression started, without paying anything at all on debts. Let me point out, before I pass on, one other consideration in respect to the farmer's position, and that is that the prospects of marketing for the farmers of Canada are less hopeful at this moment than at any other time in the history of the dominion. The capacity of human beings to consume certain commodities may be without limit, but their capacity to consume foodstuffs must be limited by the capacity of the human stomach.

Debts-Mr. Irvine
There is undoubtedly an oversupply at this moment of farm produce; not only so, but we have both the potential and the actual capacity to increase very much more that oversupply. So much is this so that steps are being taken to reduce production. And let it not be forgotten that from now henceforth the economic burden of agriculture will be all that it can bear, without assuming the pyramided debts of several decades on top' of present obligations.
Let me turn then for a moment to the common justice of the situation. Is it too much to ask that mortgage companies, bondholders and banks should assume their fair and equitable share of the economic losses which the people of Canada have sustained since the depression began? Is it fair that the income of people who receive wages, or of farmers who receive prices for their commodities should be less stable than the income of those who are paid interest on interest-bearing securities? Not only is the farmer's and labourer's income very much less secure, but the drastic fall in price levels, which paralyzed agriculture and increased unemployment and almost destroyed the purchasing power of the great masses of the people, increased correspondingly the incomes of those who receive fixed payments in the form of interest charges, because their income could buy very many more goods when the price level was low than could be bought with the same income previously. Surely therefore it is not unreasonable to ask that we reduce debts to the debtors of Canada to-day by as much as the creditors have gained through deflation, or by as much as the farmers and labour people have lost through the drop in wages and in the prices of agricultural products.
There may be some who will argue that debts will adjust themselves by the old favourite route of bankruptcy. Let me suggest that that course, no doubt inevitable in many cases if things go on as they are, is too haphazard, too unfair, too slow, too tragic, too disastrous. The situation is so serious in respect to debt at this moment that it demands a courageous, firm and immediate national policy. Apart altogether from the purely human factor of the matter and of common justice, recovery under the present debt pressure will be very much delayed if indeed not entirely prevented; for if farmers and labourers were to earn sufficient, under growing recovery, to escape foreclosure, which is all that they can expect even if prosperity does return, their money should not be allowed to flow into that stagnant pool,
because money that is paid for debt in times of depression is not reinvested, there being few opportunities sufficiently attractive to entice the investor. Therefore all debts paid during a depression shorten further the purchasing power of the people and result in further deepening the depression.
President Roosevelt, with his NRA and central bank, has so far failed to tap that stagnant pool and make it flow into the channels leading to consumption. I say therefore that even if we think that prosperity will come back and that debts will be paid it is essential that reductions should be made, because if we allow debts to be paid at the present juncture it will further swell the amounts of money which the bankers say they have and cannot lend because there is no safe demand for such loans. I suggest that if it were not for the anxiety of our creditors to protect their old investments we should very soon see a quickening in the economic and business life of the dominion.
Now there are various methods by which debts might be reduced, and I intend to mention some of them. Some of my colleagues will follow with examples from other countries indicating the extent to which such countries have reduced debts, and the methods they have adopted in doing so. To begin with, I propose that we wipe out interest entirely for the period of the depression, beginning at the date when the price level slumped precipitately and continuing from that period, until our price levels rise to bear the same relation to our debts that they had when the debts were contracted. The power to do that rests of course entirely with this parliament. There may be some constitutional doubts as to whether the power to reduce debts remains with the provinces or with this house. From my experience in listening to debates on the constitutional question in this parliament, it appears to me that the only way we can settle the constitutional doubt is to act and then allow the courts to decide the matter at leisure. Whatever course may be taken, let it not be said that both provincial and dominion governments did nothing and simply allowed the people to suffer because they could not decide among themselves which of the two had power to act. If it be clear which has power to act, let that be stated unequivocally so that the responsibility may fall where it properly belongs. If it be not clear, then let this parliament act and let the courts subsequently decide. Meanwhile the people will get relief and in due time the responsibility and the task will be placed upon the body to which they properly belong.
Debts-Mr. Irvine

But in matters of interest I suggest that there seems to be no doubt that the power rests in this parliament. When prices of farm produce dropped, then there was nothing left for the farmer to live on, let alone for him to pay interest on his capital. Is it fair that capital should have the first charge as against the farmer himself? Let us take as an example a farmer who has invested in part his own capital and borrowed the rest. There is no reason that the capital which the farmer risked on his own behalf should be treated differently from that which he borrowed from somebody else. But that is the situation. Surely hon. members will agree that the rights of capital should not be placed before those of the man himself. Let them stand on a basis of equality, if you will, although I think that is unfair. I believe the man should come first, but certainly let not debts come first. The claims of debt surely should not be taken before that of the individual who is struggling to make a living for himself and his family. I regard it as a rrime to compel a man who is unable to provide for his family, to pay interest to bondholders who have been reaping benefits from the depression. I propose, in order that that may be prevented, that all interest should be cancelled for the period mentioned.
With regard to debts which have piled up not only by the adding of interest compounded, but by the great drop in price levels, there are other methods of dealing with that. May I suggest as one method, that a moratorium be placed by this parliament on all past debts and to be removed when the price level warrants. I think it will be agreed that for obvious reasons it is inadvisable for a province to pass such an act, but the federal parliament did pass a moratorium during the war, and it apparently worked fairly successfully. There is more need for a moratorium to-day than during the war. While I am not arguing for this as the method that should be adopted, I mention it as a possible course to be taken and one for which there are ample precedents.
Another method which might be adopted is reflation of currency and credit. This is the most painless way of bringing about the desired result because people understand so little about money that if they get back the same number of dollars they put into the bank they seem to be satisfied regardless of the purchasing power. When the farmers' debts were increased by deflation twice as much as they originally were, the farmers did not know anything about the matter. It was only later they learned that it took two

or three times as much wheat to pay the same amount of debt. When a banker gets a dollar, he does not care whether it buys one or two bushels of wheat. What he is concerned with is how long he will have his hands on it and how much interest he will be able to charge for its use. The time has come when the people will insist that the important thing about a dollar is the amount of goods it can buy and I insist that the Canadian dollar in 1934 should pay the debt which a Canadian dollar contracted in 1918. That I claim is common justice and we dare not do other than that.
May I point out that reflation is not to be confused with inflation? The former is increasing the purchasing power until the price level reaches a desired point previously held, whereas inflation is increasing purchasing power beyond the value of goods upon the market, and if that is continued without any control, disaster is inevitable. While I believe a properly controlled reflation would be of great benefit to the debtor class in Canada to-day, I do not now advocate nor have I ever advocated uncontrolled inflation.
Another method by which debts might be reduced is by statute law to cut all debts by a fixed percentage. This I believe to be the honest, courageous, most direct and easiest way to meet the difficulty. I know a government will think very seriously before taking action so drastic and unusual, but the economic conditions of Canada to-day are so drastic and unusual that they must be met with drastic and unusual acts. I do not suggest that the government should assume all the responsibility. Every party in the house should indicate its willingness to take action of that sort in the interest of all the people of Canada. My hon. friends may disagree with the suggestions which I have made and I am prepared to hear the old argument about impracticability. These proposals may be impracticable, although I do not think they are. I shall not argue their merits now, beyond saying that not one of the things I have proposed is nearly as impracticable as it is for us to try to carry on without making a reduction in the personal debts of the Canadian people. Further, the suggestions that I have made have not been offered as cures or rather as solutions of the national problem. They have been offered rather as a remedy for a very sick patient. There is no true remedy for these debt conditions except the introduction of a new financial system on a non debt-creating basis. But I am not married to the suggestions I have made. If hon. members can make better ones, let them make them and gladly shall I accept them.

Debts-Mr. Coote
Let me draw attention particularly to what is to be done. We must bring debts within the limits of the debtor's income. We must compel those who obtain their income from interest-bearing securities to assume their share of the economic loss caused by the great depression. This is the bare minimum of justice and I care not how the government or parliament may decide to do it as long as it is done. It would be easy for me to demand that the government at this moment state its policy with respect to this question. It would be even easier for the government to declare that its policy was one of having nothing to do with altering contractual obligations. But knowing how difficult it is to arrive at a proper policy on a question of this sort and how dangerous it is to have no policy at all, I in all humility and sincerity suggest that if the government has not already decided what it is going to do in this case, it should appoint a special committee of the house representative of all parties, to canvass the whole situation in respect to debt reduction, as to the practicability of reducing it, as to the amount by which it should be reduced and as to the method which should be adopted to do so, and that such committee should report in good time so that action may be taken during this session of parliament. That proposal, I suggest, is reasonable and just.
The situation with which we are now confronted is impossible if debts are not reduced. If debts are reduced not only will it not harm the creditors; it will really assist them, for with their power of controlling money they can make more in a year under prosperity than they are going to lose by the cut in debts which will have to be made. Above all we would give hope to a hopeless people if we took action of this sort. Let the farmers and the debt burdened people of this country realize that the whole nation is going to bear its share of the economic losses that have been sustained and that they are going to have an opportunity of emerging from their present condition; then hope will be revived and recovery speeded up very greatly.
I leave the matter to the wisdom of parliament, repeating only the substance of one thought which I expressed earlier in the course of my remarks. This question of debt, with its urgency and its vital effect upon the nation, is above all partisanship, and I fully believe that every hon. member will so regard it. I conclude by making reference to a remarkable speech delivered in this house a few weeks ago by the hon. member for Labelle
(Mr. Bourassa), the fine spirit and appeal of which were felt and responded to readily by all who heard him. He said:
I submit that neither party would endanger its chances of victory by making some concessions, by trying to create an operating understanding among all parties with regard to a few questions, because thereby they would enhance the confidence of the people in the sincerity of each group, and also do something to restore, what is badly needed, the faith of our people in our parliamentary institutions and in our parliamentary governments.
I regard this matter of debt reduction as one of the matters upon which it might be possible for us to arrive at an operating understanding. If we can do so I believe we will enhance the opinion of the people as to this parliament, because of the good that will be done in a general way to all the people of this country.


Mr. Speaker, before you leave the chair I should like for a few moments to support the request made by the hon. member for Wetaskiwin (Mr. Irvine) that the government deal with this most difficult problem of debts and interest. About a year ago one of the most prominent statesmen and thinkers on this continent, Senator W. E. Borah, made the statement that industry and business were being strang