Eleventh report of the select standing committee on miscellaneous private bills-Mr. Stinson.
I lay on the table a certified copy of the order in council passed on June 20, 1934, consenting to the Canadian Pacific paying off $12,000,000 of the $60,000,000 borrowed

Australian Wheat
from the chartered banks of Canada, releasing one-fifth of the security on which such loan was obtained.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday on the orders of the day I. had unfortunately to leave for the sittings of a committee and I was not present when the hon. member for South Perth (Mr. Sanderson) asked a further question regarding importations of Australian flour. The direct answer to the question, which was answered once previously, though not with complete assurance, is as follows. The question is as to whether or not Australian wheat or flour coming to Canada is subsidized. We cabled the Canadian trade commissioner in Australia and recently received from him a reply in which he states that there is no bounty in force on wheat or flour. The Wheat Growers' Relief Act passed on December 12 last was a purely temporary measure, and it will be recalled that I explained the nature of that on a former occasion, on June 7 last, as appears in Hansard. I do not think I need to repeat that; it does not involve anything in the nature of subsidizing wheat or flour. May I add to what I said then a brief statement regarding the situation in connection with the winter wheat supply and the winter wheat crop of Ontario. There were 630 000 acres of fall wheat seeded last autumn, and it is estimated that there were about 246,000 acres winter killed. The condition of the balance of the wheat crop is not up to last year; in the early part of June, I think, it was estimated at around 45 or 50 per cent. So that the winter wheat crop is certainly behind that of a year ago. In estimating the supplies of winter wheat available for flour-soft wheat flour-consideration must be given to stocks in hand; and upon careful examination and inquiry .it is ascertained that on March 31, 1934. a total of some 3,140,000 bushels of winter wheat was considered to be in the hands of the farmers. There is reason to believe that stocks of wheat on the farms in Ontario at the end of July, 1934, will approximate 1,000.000 bushels which, together with the new crop, will of course supply the requirements. Furthermore, while I have under my hand the exact figures, it must be remembered that a comparatively small proportion of winter wheat grown is used for flour. When I say a small proportion, if my memory serves me aright, it is less than 30 per cent. Therefore there should be ample Canadian wheat for soft wheat flour purposes.
I might make a further statement to the house as to the steps taken by the government in connection with the importation of flour from Australia. It will be recalled that in the Canadian-Australian trade agreement provision was made under article IX for giving notice and I shall read just briefly from the article so that the exact language may appear on Hansard. It reads:
If at any time either party to this agreement gives notice in writing to the other party that, in consequence of the importation of goods of a kind specified in the notice, being the produce or manufacture of the exporting country, intc the other country, the sale of similar goods produced in that other country is being prejudicially or injuriously affected-
And so forth. Then three months' notice may be given by the importing country to the exporting country. If within that period satisfactory remedial measures are not arranged, the article complained of goes under the general tariff.
In respect to the agreement I may say that we have always had the heartiest and most genuine cooperation from the Australian government; in this instance all that has been necessary is to give notice and we are assured that the importation of Australian flour under present conditions is not likely to be of any magnitude. Furthermore, such quantities as are already en route are not sufficient to give any alarm; in fact, there is a certain small quantity that regularly comes in to the Pacific coast and the quantity coming in to the eastern seaboard is comparatively small. The officials of my department as well as other officials of the government, after giving the matter the most careful study, are quite satisfied that nothing will occur that need in any sense give alarm, and I believe from recent advices from the trade the same opinion is shared by it.


I take it from the remarks of the minister the government are still going to permit the importation of Australian flour.


No, the hon. member is wrong; he is not even approaching the fact. We have given notice and the importation of Australian flour has been stopped. I would suggest to my hon. friend that it is not necessary for Canada to be rude to Australia. I repeat that Australia and the Australian government and officials have cooperated with us in the most cordial spirit in this and in other matters. We have had no trouble and further importation of Australian flour will not occur.
Dominion Elections Act


If I misunderstood the minister I am very sorry. Now I understand him to say that importations of Australian flour will be stopped. Am I right in that?


Yes, quite right, with one point which I think any reasonable person will recognize. There was a small quantity en route and naturally we are not under present circumstances going to reject that. But let me make it clear to the house-and I trust the house will accept this and be satisfied with it -the normal imports of Australian flour are not large but there is a considerable quantity; we could not reject flour that was already en route but it is a very small quantity. There is nothing whatever to be perturbed about.


Speaking for the maritime provinces, may I say to the hon. member for South Perth (Mr. Sanderson) and to the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Stevens) that if Australia can send to Canada as good wheat as that produced in this country and at a lower price I want to say on behalf of the consumers of the maritime provinces that they desire that wheat to come in.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to inform the Minister of Justice now that he is in his seat that Bill No. 115 that he introduced on Wednesday has not yet been printed. We are told that it will not be available to-day so that it will not be in the house until Monday and at this stage of the session that is rather a long time to wait for an important bill.


The bill is not important in this way that, as I mentioned before, there is only one real change in it. It is the Elections Act which is to-day on the statute book with, taken out of it, those clauses which refer to the preparation of the election lists. The only change of any importance is the one as to the appointment of returning officers. While I am mentioning the matter, it will be the intention of the government to refer both the elections bill and the franchise bill to a special committee. When they are called to-day I would be obliged if the house would give its consent to the reference of those bills to a committee in order to expedite business.


Hon. HUGH GUTHRIE (Minister of Justice) moved the second reading of Bill No. 101, respecting the franchise of electors at elections of members of the House of Commons.
Mr. Speaker, I understand from what the Minister of Justice said a moment ago it is his intention to ask the house to refer this bill to a special committee. That course is in accord with the suggestion that was made yesterday from this side of the house. It is a step which should help to expedite the consideration of the measure and avoid protracted discussion. In this particular so far as the official opposition is concerned, we are wholly in accord with the course the government proposes. It will be understood, of course, if the second reading is passed at the moment, this is without prejudice to the fullest discussion of all features of the measure when the bill returns from the committee.
I should like to say just a word before the motion for second reading passes. In discussing the resolution at the time of introducing the measure the Minister of Justice made it clear that the present elections act was really three acts in one: a franchise act, an act relating to the preparation and revision of voters lists, and an act relating to the machinery of elections. As I understood at the time the franchise phase was one which it was not intended to alter except possibly in one particular that would be considered and that is the one that relates to the Doukhobors in British Columbia. If that is strictly adhered to, I imagine there will be little difficulty in reaching agreement on the measure. I should like to stress the importance of it being seen to that the bill when it comes back to the house is not a measure that because of its provisions may serve to disfranchise any persons who at present enjoy the franchise but one that will ensure a continuance of the enjoyment of the franchise by all who at the present time enjoy that right.
The bill as originally drafted-and for that the government says it takes no responsibility -would have disfranchised large numbers of persons; it would have disfranchised those who are not able to read and write English or French, Doukhobors and others. However, the government has disclaimed, and rightly, I think, any intention of having had that object

Franchise Act-Mr. Mackenzie King
in view. But the bill as it was presented lacked certain features that are in the present Dominion Elections Act, and this, I believe, would have materially affected the enjoyment of the rights of many of those whose names should appear upon the list. As a consequence they would really have been disfranchised. There was the provision that limited the preparation of the lists to a single enumerator. If that provision had not been altered, and the government had not agreed to double enumerators in the preparation of the basic list, I believe that numbers of names would have been left off the list which under the act as it now stands would have been on it. The measure in such circumstances would have been in reality a disfranchising measure. The arguments urged in support of the employment of double enumerators in connection with the preparation of the basic list are equally applicable with respect to the annual revisions that are to take place. It does not follow that because a revision is to take place every year, the amount of work in connection with a revision will be anything like that required for the preparation of the original list. Double enumerators might very easily go from house to house and check up on the basic list in a way which would avoid the omission of large numbers of names or the possible inclusion of names that should not appear. That is a requirement which I think should be considered by the committee.
Then, as the bill was introduced, there would have been deleted another provision which appears in the Dominion Elections Act at the present time, namely, the right to appeal to a county court judge. The removal of that right would, I believe, have served to disfranchise a certain number of persons. But the government has conceded the restoration of that feature, and to that extent as far as the rights of electors are concerned their chances of having their names appear upon the lists will continue to be what they are under the present act.
There still, however, remain in the bill certain provisions which are new and which if not altered will, I believe, lead to the virtual disfranchisement of a large number of persons. One of these is the provision which obliges those who wish to exercise the franchise to make application and sign a document which will have to be witnessed, and which will state that the signatory has read over certain sections of the act and certain regulations that will appear upon the document itself, and that they are thoroughly understood by him. May I say that, knowing human nature as I think all hon. members
of this house know it, there is reason to believe that if many of the electors are to be obliged to sign documents, no matter how understandable they may be, or how genuine their purpose, they will refuse to sign altogether, and will be disfranchised as a consequence. In this country the franchise-manhood franchise-ought to be considered an inherent right of the citizen. If a man or woman is twenty-one years of age and qualifies in regard to the conditions that have been generally set forth and the requirements that have been generally accepted, citizenship in and of itself should include the right to vote, without any preliminaries or accessories of a kind that are at all likely to threaten or impinge upon that right. It ought to be and is a duty of parliament to see that this inherent right is protected above everything else, and that anything which will tend to take away from an individual who is a qualified citizen absolute freedom in the matter of the exercise of his vote at the time of an election is not countenanced. The fairness of that general statement will I am sure appeal to all hon. gentlemen.
With the alleged objects of the bill, as stated by the government, we are as I have said, in complete sympathy. With the object of shortening the time necessary for an election, the object of reducing expenses, the object of having a clear, clean list which will help to prevent impersonation or what is called "plugging" and "telegraphing" at the time of election-with all those objects we are in complete accord, and they are the objects as set forth by the government. If however they are to be attained in this measure only at the expense of other provisions which will have the effect of disfranchising a large number of electors, then the price to be paid will be too great and the measure should not be permitted to pass. I would think it should be possible for the government to attain the objects it has in view without imposing on the electorate conditions which will involve the possibility of a large proportion of its numbers not having the right to record their votes at the time of an election. I might say that one of the reasons I had for expressing the hope that the government in the first instance would consider this measure by a special committee was that I believed it would take up a great deal of the time of the house to set forth the variety of instances in which it could be clearly shown that under the machinery as at present provided in the bill the voting might be so blocked on the day of election, or electors themselves so terrified

Franchise Act-Mr. Gardiner
or discouraged or nonplussed with respect to preliminary requirements that there would be a very large number who on election day would be deprived of the right of having their votes recorded. I am prepared to accept, and I am sure the house will accept the statement of the government that it really has in view only the objects which have been alleged, and that any measure that we shall be asked to accept after consideration by the committee will not be one which because of provisions not existing at the present time will obviously limit the numbers of those who on election day will be in a position to exercise their right of the franchise. There are other features of the bill which have to be carefully examined, and to which as they stand we would wish to take exception. With these few remarks, however, I am quite agreeable that the bill should pass the second reading and be sent to a special committee.


With some of the remarks of the hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King), so far as safeguarding the franchise of the people is concerned, I am in agreement. I am sure that on all sides of this house the same desire prevails. I am not very fearful that anything will be done in the special committee that is to be appointed to consider this measure which will tend to disfranchise any of the people of Canada who are entitled to vote. There is one point, however, on which I wish to make a few remarks, that is in regard to the proposal for double enumerators, or the appointment of two enumerators for each poll. I believe that we have men and women in Canada, who, if they are appointed to enumerate a polling division, will do it expeditiously and well and satisfactorily to all concerned. In my judgment the statement of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King), both to-day and on the former day when this bill was introduced, does not augur well for the political situation in this country. It almost takes it for granted that we have not got people in Canada who are honest enough to give an honest enumeration. I protest against that idea. Personally I believe that we can get all the enumerators we require who would do the work honestly and well and see that everyone entitled to vote is placed upon the list.
We are supposed both in the House of Commons and in our provincial legislatures to have proper representation of the wishes of the people. Last Tuesday there were two provincial elections held. The results have given some heart to a certain portion of the members of this house-and they are entitled

to take what satisfaction they can on that score-yet when we look over the returns we realize the fact that after all we have not representative institutions in this country. In the province of Ontario for instance according to press reports this morning it required only 8,500 votes to elect a Liberal candidate while it required something over 28,000 votes to elect a Conservative candidate and 94,000 votes to elect one C.C.F. candidate.


It serves them right.


Taking those figures we find that the Liberals elected sixty-five members, the Conservatives seventeen and the C.C.F. one. In the final analysis, so far as the votes of the people of the province of Ontario are concerned, we are going to have a minority government notwithstanding the fact that 65 members were elected to support the Liberal government.


May I ask my hon. friend a question? He has referred to the seventeen Conservative members elected in Ontario. Is it not a fact that if the votes that went to the C.C.F. candidates had gone to the Liberal candidates there would have been only seven Conservatives elected instead of seventeen?


I am afraid that question is beyond me for the moment. Now let me refer to the situation in Saskatchewan, where fifty-four members were elected last Tuesday. According to the latest returns the Liberals elected forty-nine members.


Hear, hear.


Yes, I suppose my hon. friends feel quite satisfied about it. The Conservatives did not elect any members while the C.C.F. elected five. Now let us look at the actual figures. According to press reports -and I must admit, of course, that the returns are not complete as yet-the Liberals received approximately 178.000 votes, which elected forty-nine members out of fifty-four. The Conservatives received 103,000 votes but obtained no representation at all. The C.C.F. received 84,000 votes and elected five representatives. I submit that the time has come when we should consider the idea of securing a more representative house than we have at present or than resulted in the two provincial elections. May I suggest to the government that they refer to the committee the questions of proportional representation and the single transferable vote in single member constituencies. After all is said and done, if we are going to boast about our representative insti-

Franchise Act-Mr. Guthrie
tutions those institutions should be truly representative of the ideas of the people of this country.


With regard to the last remarks of my hon. friend I should like to remind the house that a few years ago, when I was Minister of Justice, I introduced a bill for the purpose of having the alternative vote in this country, in order to remedy the ill my hon. friend has just represented as existing. At that time we were told that if we insisted on proceeding with the bill the session would last all year, and we had to postpone the matter.


Will my hon. friend say
whether he would support such a bill now, if it were introduced?


I certainly would, so far as I am concerned, because it is a Liberal measure.


Mr. Speaker-


The Minister of Justice
will conclude the debate if he speaks now. If any other member wishes to speak he should do so.


I have just a word of
reassurance for my right hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King), and I must confess that I experienced at least some mild degree of surprise when I heard his remarks this afternoon. As I stated when this bill was introduced we had some preliminary discussions, not only upon the principle but upon practically every detail of the bill. My right hon. friend and the hon. member for West Edmonton (Mr. Stewart) were present at those discussions; I was present, as was the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan), and I came away from those discussions with the idea that they had been eminently satisfactory to all concerned. I think there were only three questions left upon which we did not agree. One was the question of double enumerators; another was the question of an appeal from the revising officer, and the third was the question as to the appointment of the chief officer. No agreement was reached on those points. Apart from that, however, I came away with the impression that we were all thoroughly agreed and satisfied. The impression I received today from my right hon. friend's remarks was that someone has been interfering. I am inclined to think an enemy hath done this thing, that someone hath been sowing tares among the wheat.


I do not wish to interrupt my hon. friend at the moment, but perhaps he will allow me to do so later.


Perhaps it would be
better after I have concluded. The bill as introduced has remedied two of the questions upon which we failed to agree. With regard to the language qualification we agreed absolutely; that was struck out. That was the first action of the conference. We agreed in regard to the disqualification of Doukhobors, and the clause in the present bill is an adaptation of the British Columbia act which has been in force for many years. The bill as introduced provides for the appeal which we. discussed at that conference, and I was under the impression that we had met all objections.
I do not think my right hon. friend need have any apprehension as to what either a committee of the house or a committee of the whole may do in regard to this bill. The question of the signed statement was thoroughly discussed at the conference, and when the bill was before the house previously I remember the language of my right hon. friend when he pointed out how satisfactory it would be if two enumerators should sign as witnesses to this statement, what intense satisfaction that would give everyone. I thought that matter was practically settled. Again that is the British Columbia system, adopted by a Liberal government in that province and commended from every side by people in the west as being the best cure for the evils of personation and telegraphing as we know them in other parts of Canada.


I should
like to ask my hon. friend a question with regard to one particular. So far as I was concerned form 7 as provided in the original bill was entirely new; while we did discuss it at some length it was entirely new to us and we asked for some time in which to think over the matter. As to the rest of it my hon. friend is correct.


The form attached to the bill?


The principle of registration.


The principle of registration, if I understood it aright, was approved by everyone. There may be details in connection with the matter which we did not discover or discuss. In a bill of this kind there are always new ideas.


May I ask a question? How
is an absentee fisherman or sailor-and there are thousands of those in the country-to sign a questionnaire or have his name witnessed?
4202	COMMONS
Franchise Act-Mr. Mackenzie King


If they are absent there is provision in the bill to have someone else do it for them. If they are not broad enough they can be broadened, but I think they are broad enough in the bill now.


The hon. gentleman need not worry; I have most of them.


In regard to this bill, and in regard to the other bill appearing on the order paper, namely Bill 115, I propose to make this motion. I shall make it now in regard to Bill 101.


May I answer the minister before he makes his motion. If the house will look at the statement which I made, and which the Minister of Justice and other hon. members accepted at the time it was given, they will see I stated that my understanding of the conference which the hon. member for West Edmonton (Mr. Stewart) and myself had with the Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie) and the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) was that it was to be without prejudice in any particular as to the rights of all hon. members in the house to discuss any and every phase of the measure. We were not agreeing, on behalf of the opposition party, to anything. The conference was to see how near we could bring our minds to meet, and to have eliminated from the bill as largely as might be possible those provisions on which we could not agree. But beyond that there was no understanding whatever.
May I recall to the mind of the Minister of Justice exactly what took place at the first conference, seeing that he has referred to that matter himself. When we began to discuss the matter there were certain features to which my colleague and I took exception. The Minister of Justice said, "I think it is all right that exception should be taken to those matters; we will reserve them for consideration," or words to that effect. We got no farther than that. Later he told us that having considered with the Prime Minister certain provisions it had been agreed to eliminate them. When other features were mentioned the Minister of Justice said, "That is a matter we cannot consider. The government has its policy on this phase of the matter, and it is not open for discussion." He will recall that that position was taken with regard to the very matter of obliging the electors to sign applications. I spent some little time pointing out the extent to which I believed the electors would be disfranchised, if they were obliged to sign a declaration, and particularly one in which they were called upon to assert that they had read what was on the back of the

declaration, and had understood its meaning and consequence. I dwelt particularly upon the extent to which women who for the first time were exercising their franchise would hesitate to sign such a document, and I pointed out the extent to which workingmen would also hesitate. The minister at each turn indicated that so far as that matter was concerned the mind of the government was made up on what he called a closed list and that we could not consider any further that aspect of the closed list. It was after that position was taken that I said, "If that is the government's decision in the matter, it makes stronger than ever the need for double enumerators." I did not acquiesce at all in the provisions which required applications to be made and signed. But, from the discussion which took place there I assumed that the government's mind was no longer open on the point, and that if we wished to consider anything that would make that feature of the bill more acceptable we were only at liberty to make representations. I think the Minister of Justice himself made perfectly clear to the house in his own statement that we were not-


I do not wish to interrupt the right hon. gentleman, but he is making a second speech.


May I say that much to my surprise the Minister of Justice began to discuss what took place at the conference.


I do not wish to interrupt the right hon. gentleman but-


Your Honour
may not wish to interrupt, but you are succeeding admirably in so doing.


Then I now call the right hon. gentleman to order.


I think there are some rights which belong to the members of the opposition in this house and also some rights due the leader of a political party, and I am going to assert those rights.


With all due deference to the right hon. gentleman and not wishing in any respect to slight him as leader of his party, I merely remarked that each member has a right to speak once on this resolution. I called the attention of the house to the fact that in speaking as he began to do the Minister of Justice would close the debate. No other hon. member, even the right hon. leader of the opposition, has a right to speak twice.

Franchise Act-Mr. Bennett


I suppose that applies to the right hon. leader of the government, too?


It certainly does.


Certainly it does.


He has never been called.


Dealing with the point of order may I suggest that I think perhaps the right hon. gentleman, in annoyance, went rather farther than he would wish any leader of a political party to go. The question it seems to me might easily be solved by the right hon. gentleman making his observations on the motion to appoint the committee, and then there would be no question of him being out of order. He would have a perfect right then to make the statement he is now making, but he was speaking in contravention of the rules of the house, and when the right hon. gentleman suggested he might make the statement he was launching into a discussion which would necessitate further discussion. I think he would be the first to say that the Speaker was within his rights and his duty to_ suggest to the house that this debate constituted a violation of the rules. I did endeavour to make myself heard, but I did not succeed. I think the former Minister of Justice did hear me suggest that the observations which the right hon. gentleman desired to make might be made on the motion for the appointment of the committee.


Have I, Mr. Speaker, the same right as the Prime Minister has to talk at the present time?


I am speaking to a point of order.


Then, on a point of order may I also say something? The Prime Minister has told me that my remarks were occasioned by annoyance. May I tell him they were occasioned by nothing of the kind. They were occasioned by the sense that it was right and proper and justifiable to make the statements I did in the present discussion. Before His Honour spoke, the Minister of Justice undertook to say what he had understood at the conference. That conference was understood to be private and without prejudice to anyone. Surely when the Minister of Justice states what his position was at the conference I have the same right to make absolutely clear to this house the position which was taken by my colleague and myself. That is all I did.


Why bring out what was in a confidential memorandum then.


Sit down.


I notice that the hon. gentleman who has just interrupted me always assumes that he is a member of the ministry. He talks about what "we" mean by this and what "we" mean by that, as if he were a member of the government. May I say-


Order.


May I say that if the government has any desire to ask me questions I shall answer them, but I do not propose, when I am replying to a minister of the crown, to be interrupted by the hon. member who is not a member of the ministry, and is not likely ever to be a member.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second time.


That Bill No. 101 be referred to a special committee of this house to consist of Messrs. Guthrie. Duranleau. Hanson (York-Sunbury), Willis, Stirling, Lapointe, Stewart (Edmonton), Power and Irvine to inquire into and report said bill to this house.


I should like to remove from the minds of any hon. members any misapprehension as to what document was before those engaged in what the right hon. leader of the opposition has described as a confidential discussion.


Was it or was it not a confidential discussion?


That is what I thought, but the right hon. gentleman only a moment ago left the opposite impression.


I was replying only to aspects of it which the Minister of Justice had discussed.


As I understand it, the Minister of Justice discussed the conference when he introduced the bill, and I listened to the right hon. gentleman who stood in his place and said that the statement made by the Minister of Justice was an accurate statement. I am using broad terms. After that I made a few observations and I thought it was a very excellent thing that a conference of this kind had been held and that all those present who had spoken were agreed as to what had transpired. That is what took place in this chamber when the Minister of Justice introduced the bill.
What I desired to point out was that the bill introduced was not the document that the members of the conference had before them. There was no bill that had then been introduced. It was merely a memorandum
Franchise Act

which had been prepared by the draftsman, of the measure and was never introduced into this house as a bill although it was so treated by some, and I did make some complaint with respect to that although I have never made any complaint in this house with respect to it because I thought one could rely upon the ordinary amenities of life so that what was a memorandum would not be described as a bill. It was not for circulation. Two copies of it had been placed in the hands of hon. gentlemen opposite, and the Minister of Justice made a statement indicating where the five copies were.
I notice that during the discussion to-day frequent reference was made to that document as a bill. It never was a bill. It was printed in the form of a bill by the draftsman who prepared it, but the only bill that has ever been before this house or submitted by council to this house was the bill which was introduced a few days ago by the Minister of Justice, and the second reading of which he moved to-day. I mention that because of the effect upon the institutions of the country of the very circumstances which have been referred to to-day. Democracy sometimes is laughed at by those who regard it as a very unsound form of government, but if the ordinary amenities of life were observed by some-I am not referring in this instance to the members of the conference themselves -certainly the statement sent abroad from this city would not have been made, for there was no bill introduced or submitted except the bill that is now before the house. I find that the right hon. gentleman in his remarks the other day, at page 3942 of Hansard, said:
Mr. Mackenzie King: Mr. Chairman, since the Minister of Justice (Mr. Guthrie) has made reference to the conference which took place between himself and the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) and myself and my colleague the hon. member for West Edmonton (Mr. Stewart), perhaps I should say a word with regard to the minister's representations in that particular. In a word, though speaking generally, I may say that so far as my recollection of the entire proceedings is concerned, the Minister of Justice has stated the matter accurately.
He referred again to the matter in the same sense. It would take too long to read it all, but he indicates at page 3943 of Hansard that the recollection of the Minister of Justice was correct, and he speaks of his desire then for a closed list.
It is unfortunate perhaps that there should be any misunderstanding now after both parties to the conference have indicated that the expressions by the Minister of Justice of what transpired correctly indicated what had in fact transpired, and the right hon. leader

of the opposition agreed that that was an accurate statement of it.
I desire again to repeat to this house that when an effort is made to induce people to believe that the government introduced a bill to disfranchise people, the government introduced no such bill. The government had a number of points put down for consideration and they discussed them at a conference with the leader of the opposition, and after that conference the only bill that was presented was the bill now before the house.


The Prime Minister has just said that there never was a bill before the conference committee, that there was only a memorandum. I would remind the Prime Minister that time and again I asked him when we might expect to have the franchise bill, and in all the answers which my right hon. friend made to me he intimated that the bill would be ready, that it was being printed, that the government was going to consider it, that we would have it before us in a short time. When I went to see, my hon. friend, at his request, he spoke to me of a bill and said his colleagues would have a bill, and would I manage to have one of my colleagues go with me and consider all phases of it in order to see how far we might be in agreement.
Speaking in this house on June 13 I made the remarks to which my right hon. friend has just referred, and I repeatedly used the expression "bill" and no exception was taken to the word "bill," it was accepted by the Prime Minister. This is the first time we have had any talk of a memorandum instead of a bill.


Oh.


May I read what I said in this house on June 13?


Read what the Prime Minister said.


If hon. members will kindly listen to this, they will see that the Prime Minister in his own mind was thinking of a bill just as much as we were. The only question at issue was whether the government itself had finally passed upon the bill or not. It was a draft bill we had before us, and it was a bill that was-


A draft measure, the right hon. gentleman called it.


May I read what I said in this house on June 13?
As the house will remember, I frequently asked the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. JUNE 22, 1934
Franchise Act
Bennett) when we might expect to have this new electoral measure brought down. Finally, towards the end of April, the Prime Minister stated that very shortly a bill would be printed and that he would see that, as leader of the opposition, I was supplied with a copy. When the bill was printed the Prime Minister had a copy sent to my office, and on the day the copy arrived he stated in the house that it had been so sent. Later in the day, the Prime Minister said to me that he would be pleased if I, together with one of my colleagues, would confer with the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State concerning the measure. The Prime Minister was careful to state at the time that the purpose of the conference was solely that of considering a draft measure-


Hear, hear.


A bill is a draft measure.


Oh, oh.


Of course a bill is a draft measure. Every bill is a draft measure.


Go on, read the rest of it.


I went on to say:
The Prime Minister was careful to state at the time that the purpose of the conference was solely that of considering a draft measure with a view to seeing how much in the way of possible agreement might be arrived at in the introduction of a measure of this kind, and that our conference was to be entirely without prejudice in any direction.
There was no exception taken at that time by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice to my use of the word "bill." There was no reference to any memorandum that had been prepared, but when a question came up about the original measure as it was drafted, concerning certain very objectionable provisions, the Minister of Justice stated to the house that those provisions were merely in the draft and that they had not been finally accepted by the government.
In order to make perfectly clear to the house, from a chivalrous motive, that the government was not responsible for those particular objectionable features I stated that what the Minister of Justice had said, "speaking generally," was correct, and the thanks I now get for it apparently is that the government are seeking to hold me to a position which when we were in conference was never for one minute asserted by the Minister of Justice. May I read the words I used in the house on June 13, and which I have just quoted:
Since the Minister of Justice has made reference to the conference which took place between himself and the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) and myself and my colleague 74726-266
the hon. member for West Edmonton (Mr. Stewart,), perhaps I should say a word with regard to the minister's representations in that particular.
That is, representations as to the nature of the conference and as to these particular objectionable clauses. They were the ones he stressed especially. I went on:
In a word, though speaking generally, I may say that so far as my recollection of the entire proceedings is concerned, the Minister of Justice has stated the matter accurately.
Reading the statement which the Minister of Justice made at that time and comparing it with the statement he has made this afternoon, hon. members will see that there is a great difference between the two. The Minister of Justice did not say, speaking on June 13, that that conference was at all in the nature of a conference which was to arrive at a final agreement between the parties.


I do not say so now. I
never alleged it or even hinted it.


I will ask the Minister of Justice, was it ever understood at any time that with respect to all the provisions my colleagues and myself were not to be free to suggest amendments to them?


Certainly it was.


Well, was it
not true that I took very strong exception to persons being asked to fill out an application form and to affix their signatures? The Minister of Justice knows such to be true.


I thought the right hon.
gentleman gave strong approbation to the proposal, provided there were two enumerators; he undoubtedly did, in my judgment, on the occasion of the first reading of the bill, when he said we could have the witness of two enumerators, and what satisfaction that would give. I thought at that time he was perfectly satisfied.


The Minister
of Justice knows very well that there was no approbation at all. I took the strongest exception from the beginning, as I do now.


I am talking about the
first reading of the bill.


I thought my hon. friend was referring to the conference. Let me make it perfectly clear-and I hope my hon. friend will bear me out-that so far as the conference was concerned I took strong exception there, and the only reason I did not continue that exception was that I was given to understand by him that that was not a phase of the bill we could have

Franchise Act

considered further. When speaking in this house on the resolution, what I stated was [DOT] in relation to what the Minister of Justice had said to me about the government's determination to retain that phase of the measure. I was making clear that, if that phase was to be kept, there would have to be double enumerators. But I wish to repeat now, as emphatically as I can, that any provision of that kind will serve to disfranchise hundreds of thousands of the voters of the country, and if the bill comes back with that provision in it, so far as it is possible to avoid its passing this house, hon. gentlemen opposite may expect to see that that will be done.
Mr. J. S. W00DSWORTH (Winnipeg North Centre): I think the discussion that is now taking place illustrates very well the dangers which this house gets into when it undertakes to do things outside this chamber and when there is a secret arrangement between two parties.


There was no secret.


You may call it what you like; but whether secret or not the fact is that although there is a third group represented in this house-that is very well understood and recognized when it comes to the appointment of committees, and so forth- we find here a discussion of a private conference a discussion of proceedings that took place where a part of the house had no idea at all of what was occurring.


What is the name of the third group?


It is anything but fair to the third group in this house that the government and the leader of the official opposition should get together with respect to a public bill of this kind, and reach a conclusion which as it turns out is not satisfactory, and then bring it before the house, and that we should be listening here to a discussion, back and forth, of what was understood in a private conference. I think a protest has already been lodged in this corner against a practice of that kind, and I want to take this opportunity of emphasizing that position.


The hon. member should have been here to protest.


The hon. gentleman says I should have been here to protest. The protest was made, but I suggest that there were a number of members from the Liberal side who were away a considerable time-


And we made a good job of it.


-and a large number of members on the Conservative side as well, including cabinet ministers. I think, Mr. Speaker, it is a rather ridiculous situation when members of the Liberal party will seek to deny to others privileges they claim for themselves. It is characteristic of them.
Now, with regard to one phase of this legislation, that, I do not think, can be at all justified. It is an adaptation, we are told, of the act now in force with respect to elections in British Columbia. I protest very decidedly against dominion legislation following the lines of some one particular province. It seems to me that if we are acting here on behalf of the dominion at large our legislation should be uniform, and there should be no exception of any kind for the prejudices of some one particular province. I have felt that way for quite a long time with regard to the practical disfranchisement of orientals on the coast. If an oriental in Alberta or Saskatchewan may vote, I think the oriental ought to be able to vote in British Columbia. The issues at stake are very considerable, especially when we think of international affairs, and I do not think that the attitude of one particular province towards a certain matter-


Is the
hon. member in favour of enfranchising orientals in British Columbia?


I am in favour of enfranchising orientals in British Columbia.


Did you say that during the late election in British Columbia?


I did.


I did not hear of it.


Is the
C.C.F. in favour of it?


Yes; there is no doubt about that. I will go into your riding and tell them so; there is no doubt about it. I say that, especially in view of the international situation, it is perfectly absurd that the narrow prejudices of one particular little group in one province should imperil the good relationship between Canada and other countries. It is a ridiculous situation. If we are to have exceptions, and if dominion legislation is to follow provincial lines, I presume that in the province of Quebec we ought to refuse to give the vote to women.


Why?


will so blast the hopes of the Ottawa government and so impress the electorate throughout the dominion that the federal election field next year will provide the C.C.F. with a far better and greater opportunity to become a real force in the dominion.
Mr. Mitchell Hepburn immediately before the election-


Hear, hear.


Liberal members
may cheer. Mr. Mitchell Hepburn immediately before the election proceeded to appeal to the electors of Ontario and especially to the C.C.F. electors to support the Liberal party. He quoted from what he said was the official organ of the C.C.F. The Commonwealth, and he read a paragraph from the paper which I hold in my hand. He made that the ground of appeal

the official organ of the C.C.F.; this is what the C.C.F. says; this is what Woodsworth says, and so on. There is no indication on this document as to who the printers are and I suppose that in itself makes it illegal. I am not in a position to say whether Mr. Hepburn knew it was a fake; I can hardly think Mr. Hepburn who sat in this house for some years and knew the position we had taken could be so innocent as to believe this was a genuine publication but he used it on the eve of an election when there was no chance whatever for us to answer. If the Liberals cheer and rejoice in this thing, I want to say to them that I would rather our party should go down to defeat than that they should win an election by methods such as this.


I rise to a question of privilege. It relates to the point as to whether the understanding at the time of this conference was not that we were considering a draft bill or a draft act and not a memorandum. On page 3001 of Hansard of May 14, the Prime Minister is reported as follows:
Right Hon. R. B. Bennett (Prime Minister}: Resolutions have been sent to the clerk of the house with respect to. first the public works bill, second, the elections bill, third, the bill providing for arrangements between farmers and their creditors, fourth, the bill amending the Farm Loan Act.
Then on page 3002, under the heading " Dominion Elections Act " we find this:
On the orders of the day:
Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King (Leader of the Opposition): The Prime Minister was kind enough to say he would send me a draft of the election act.
Right Hon. R. B. Bennett (Prime Minister): I sent it over Saturday.

The Prime Minister did not say he had sent me a memorandum; he said that he had sent me a draft of the act. That was the only term used in all our discussions. Sometimes it was referred to as an act or bill, sometimes as the elections act, sometimes as the franchise act or bill. There was no mention at any time of any memorandum until this afternoon. With regard to what was said in conversation while in conference in reply to my hon. friend the other day I was careful to draw the attention of the house to the fact that I was referring, in my reply to him, only to the representations which he had made on the floor of the house; that I regarded myself as precluded from saying anything about what had actually taken