Hon. RAYMOND D. MORAND (East Essex) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 35 to amend the Criminal Code (Race Meetings) .
Explain.


The intention of this amendment is simply to permit the present racing time of fourteen days, under the act as it stands, to be on consecutive days on which racing is permitted, instead of having twenty days intervene between the two seven-day meetings. There is no enlargement in the number of days nor in the number of meetings; as I say, it is simply to have permission for races to be held on fourteen days consecutively on such days as racing is permitted.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	What is the name of the postmaster at Iberville, Quebec?
2.	What is his age?
3.	Is he in receipt of a salary or is he paid out of the revenue?
4.	In either case, how much salary has he received per month since his appointment?
5.	What were the revenues of this office for each year since 1928?
6.	Is the appointment at this post office under the jurisdiction of the Civil Service Commission?
7.	If so, did the incumbent pass the examinations ordered by the Civil Service Commission?

Questions
8.	Did the Civil Service Commission make a recommendation as to the appointment to this position ?
9.	What person did it recommend?
10.	If this position does not come under the jurisdiction of the Civil Service Commission, on whose recommendation was the present incumbent appointed?
11.	Is this appointment:	(a) permanent, or
(b) temporary?
12.	When was the present incumbent appointed ?
13.	How long will the present incumbent remain in office?
14.	Is this appointment in conformity with the recommendations of the Civil Service Commission?
15.	If not, why were such recommendations not followed?


1.	Pierre Ernest Thuot is in temporary charge.
2.	Sixty years.
3.	Paid out of revenue according to regular scale.
4.	From date of appointment, December 5, 1932, to June 30, 1933, $153.30 a month. Since July 1, 1933, $132.97 a month.
5.	Fiscal years 1927-28, $3,992.84; 1928-29, $4,091.08; 1929-30, $4,674.08; 1930-31,14,591.09; 1931-32, $5,028.19; 1932-33, $4,220.94.
6.	Permanent appointment rests with Commission.
7.	Yes. In connection with permanent appointment.
8.	Yes.
9.	Wilfrid Denicourt, O.A.S.
10.	See answer to question 6.
11.	P. E. Thuot is acting as temporary Postmaster only.
12.	December 5, 1932.
13.	Pending decision as to the respective qualifications of two applicants who are both returned soldiers.
14-15. Temporary transfer was effected before consideration was given to the permanent appointment by the Commission.


1.	Is Colonel G. C. McLean of Norwood, Manitoba, in the employ of the federal government ?
2.	If so, what is his title?
3.	What is his salary?
4.	What are his duties?


1.	Yes.
2.	Dominion Director of Unemployment Relief for Manitoba.
3.	$2,700 per annum, less the statutory deduction of 10 per cent.
4.	To act for the federal Department of Labour in all matters pertaining to unemployment relief.


Mr. LaVERGNE:
1.	Has the Radio Commission cancelled the licence of station VE9EK of Montmagny?
2.	If so, when and for what reasons?
3.	Were there any protests against this action by the commission, and, if so, when and to whom?
4.	Is the government aware of the fact that this station is the only means of communication with the main land by the inhabitants of l'lle aux Grues and other islands situated on the estuary of the St. Lawrence?
1 and 2. On the recommendation of the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission, whose function it is to determine the number of broadcasting stations in Canada, the Minister of Marine did not renew the licence under which station VE9EK was broadcasting when it expired on the 31st March, 1933.
3.	Yes, by a petition dated Montmagny, 19th February, 1934, addressed to the Minister of Marine.
4.	Radio communication between the mainland and the Department of Public Works wire telephone system on lie aux Grues and the adjacent islands is maintained by a radio telephone station at Montmagny which communicates with a similar station on lie aux Grues. These two stations were established by the Department of Public Works in 1932, and are operated under their jurisdiction.


Mr. LaVERGNE:
1.	Has the Canadian government had' any communication with the government of Poland, or offers from the government of Poland, in connection with a commercial treaty between Poland and Canada?
2.	If so, on what date?
3.	What are these communications, or what offers were made bv Poland?
4.	Will the government inform the house just how this matter stands?
1.	Since the establishment of the republic of Poland at the close of the great war, a number of communications have passed between the Polish and the Canadian governments respecting the question of negotiating a convention of commerce between the two countries. Hitherto it has not been found practical to conclude such a convention. Conversations are at present being carried on between the Polish Consul General in Ottawa and officials of the departments concerned with a view to examining the bases for the conclusion of a convention of commerce between Canada and Poland. No conclusions, however, have yet been reached.
Motions for Papers


1.	What is the total investment of the federal government in post office buildings throughout the dominion?
2.	What rent, if any, does the Post Office Department pay for the use of these buildings?
3.	What rent is paid by departments, other than the post office, for post office buildings not publicly owned?
4.	What amount is paid by the Department of Public Works for fuel, light, water, janitor service, and' other expenses (not including rent) on public buildings used for post office purposes ?
5.	What revenue is lost to the Post Office Department through the carrying of government or franked mail, free?


The hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. Young) approves of this question being dropped from the order paper.
Question dropped.


1.	What are the names of the translators employed at the present time by the federal government ?
2.	What is the salary of each one of them and the place of residence of each one when the house is not in session?
3.	What is the date of appointment of each one?


I think the hon. member
will find an almost complete answer to this question in the return which was brought down on February 21 last and tabled on the 2nd day of March as sessional paper 137 A. With respect to the place of residence of each one of these translators when the house is not in session, I understand that the place of residence of departmental translators is Ottawa or vicinity. I have been unable to obtain any knowledge as to the place of residence of those who are employed by the House of Commons and by the Senate.


Answered.


1.	The number of post offices in each of the following provinces with a revenue of less than $100 per annum: British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island.
2.	The total annual cost of these offices in each province, for (a) salaries and allowances; (b) services.
3.	The total annual revenue in each province derived from said offices?


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams and other documents, exchanged between the Minister of the Interior (Department of Indian Affairs) and any person living in the Spiritwood district or elsewhere during the years 1933 and 1934 till the present time, in connection with the medical attendancs given to the Witchekon and Chitek Indian Reserves located in the North Battleford electoral district.


I am not clear, from a
reading of this motion, as to exactly what information the hon. member desires, but I may say that if it refers to correspondence, letters, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the Minister of the Interior or the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs and others, there is no correspondence. In view of that, I think that the motion might be dropped, and if the hon. member will couch it in some other terms, if there is other information he desires, it might be brought forward again.


All I wanted was the
information asked for in this resolution, and if the minister says that the superintendent general has none, and there is no other correspondence m the department, that is satisfactory.


Speaking to the motion,
I stated that there was no correspondence with the Minister of the Interior or the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs; I did not speak for the department. If the hon. member will look at the motion he will see that it refers to the Minister of the Interior, Department of Indian Affairs, but not to the department, and I said there was no correspondence with the Minister of the Interior or the Superintendent General of Indian Affairs.


Very well I will be more specific and amend the resolution.


Dropped.


That, in the opinion of this house, the Prime Minister should' refrain from recommending to His Majesty the King, the granting of titles, honours and awards to British subjects resident in Canada.
He said: Mr. Speaker, first of all let me, as a memlber of this house', say that I

Titles-Mr. Mitchell
approach this problem, if it may be termed one, in a state of apology, may I say, to the people of Canada. Had this house devoted more of its time to the important matters affecting the welfare of the nation than to the mere granting of titles, conditions confronting at least a million people in this country might 'be different to-day. It is a kind of coincidence that the resolution following mine on the order paper and moved by the hon. member for Brome-Missisquoi (Mr. Pickel) states:
That, in the opinion of this house, the Egg and Hog Grading Acts should be amended.
This shows the diversity of private members' resolutions as they appear on the order paper. One deals with the grading of agricultural products and the other, might I say, with the grading of human beings in this country. I would ask that this resolution be discussed on its merits and that the patriotic appeal should1 not be used as a smoke screen to cover up the implications of the policy of the government in this regard, because frankly I do not think any party in the house has a first mortgage on our national life, on the destiny that this country will inevitably reach in the years to come or in its admiration for the link that binds this dominion to the British commonwealth of nations.
At the end of last session, in view of the statement made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett), I very innocently put on the order paper a resolution, an exact replica of that moved in 1919 by a Mr. 'Nickle who then represented Kingston in the house. There was no secret about it; it was known by everyone from one end of the dominion to the other, and I think, in fairness to the country and to the house, the Prime Minister might just as well have waited until the representatives of the people had expressed themselves on a policy of that character. I hope even now it is not too late at least to get in respect to this particular policy a crystallization of the viewpoint of the 'Canadian people from one end1 of the dominion to the other as expressed by their representatives in this chamber. I am not unmindful of the fact that this is the last day for private members' resolutions, and that this resolution, if it is talked out to-day, will go to the churchyard with all the other private members' resolutions on the order paper, but I would ask that the government give the house an opportunity of reflecting the viewpoint of the Canadian people on this question.


To-day.


Yes, to-day. It has
been said to me that some objection might be made, because of the broad implications of the resolution, to its reference to honours and distinctions. If that stands in the way of the abolition of titles in this country, I am quite ready to have the resolution amended so as to give an expression of the house on the question. Frankly, I think the Prime Minister would have been on much safer ground had he taken the action he did under peace, order and good government, because, after all is said and done, this would have satisfied the hunger of some Canadian people for titles or distinctions from their fellow citizens.
This question has already been discussed from many angles in the house during the present session, but I believe one should look at all sides of the matter. Last summer I visited many countries in Europe and I have been severely criticized because I gave what I thought was the result of my observations, a broad interpretation of what I believed was the best, the worst and the medium in the countries I visited. This afternoon I intend to deal broadly with the question. One side has been given and I intend to give the other. The question of royal prerogative is not open to discussion; it has been clearly enunciated by the Prime Minister from his viewpoint, although I would like to point out that it is not generally understood by the public that the crown, of course with one or two notable exceptions, does not act on its own initiative on questions of this description. I am not going to discuss the legal aspect of the matter, because the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) disagreed entirely with the contention of the Prime Minister, and after all is said and done, legal interpretations in the house are generally decided on votes. If the party putting forward the contention has a majority of the votes, that is the policy that is carried out.
The resolution passed in 1919 was respected by Sir Robert Borden; it was respected by Mr. Arthur Meighen for two years; it was respected by the present leader of the opposition for eight years, and it was respected by the present Prime Minister for three years. In 1919, Sir Thomas White, then Acting Prime Minister, said that the question was in the hands of the members to deal with, and I would like a repetition of that policy to-day. He said:
It is perfectly open to each member here so far as the government is concerned to vote as he may see fit. The same remark applies to members of the government.
Titles-Mr. Mitchell

In his policy in connection with titles the Prime Minister dispensed with the implication of the resolution that had been in effect for fifteen years. In 1929 that resolution had been in force for ten years and at that time the House of Commons by a majority of 114 to 60 refused even consideration of a motion for the appointment of a special committee to inquire into the question of titles.
I would like to quote some observations of members of the party now in power in connection with this question. The first is the hon. member for North Huron (Mr. Spotton), I can just imagine my hon. friend with that magnificent voice of his saying in this house on February 14, 1929:
This question was settled by my party in 1919, and I have heard no person in my county or in the province of Ontario express any desire to return to mediaeval times. This seems to be an innocent matter when we are asked simply to refer the question to a committee for consideration, but there may be leaders of parties who perhaps discern the psychology of the situation. In an old school book there was a verse which read like this: Vice is a monster of so frightful mien,
As, to be hated, needs but to be seen;
Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face,
We first endure, then pity, then embrace.
I think the hon. member can at least be given credit for being a prophet: at any rate, in my judgment, he reflected the opinion of the majority of the party to which he belongs.
Then we have the opinion expressed by the present Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) in 1918, on May 21:
Now before I close, let me say that I wanted to make my position clear on this question before the vote is taken. I regret very much that I felt it necessary to put myself right before this house as to why I intend to vote in a certain way when this vote is taken. I wish to say that, generally speaking, I agree absolutely with the hon. member for Springfield (Mr. Richardson) and the hon. member for Kingston (Mr. Nickle) that not only hereditary titles but all knighthoods should be abolished in this country.
There may be some difference of opinion on the legal aspect of this matter, but I do not think there is any disagreement as to the application, at least in the past, of a policy such as has been set in motion by the government. I have always felt that the genius of leadership is not to domineer, the genius of leadership is to crystallize the opinions of your followers. I am frank to admit that this policy in the former democratic countries of Europe has been changed considerably in the last decade, seventeen of which are now under some form of dictatorship. In Warsaw last summer I made this statement; you have lost all the freedom

gained since the French revolution, and you will have to fight for it all over again.
There was another member of the party now in power who expressed an opinion on titles. It is true that for some reason unknown to myself he is not a member of this house at the moment. I refer to Mr. Thomas Church, who on February 13, 1929, said:
It was pointed out by the hon. member for Fort William (Mr. Manion) who is now one of the leading front benchers in this parliament, that if we wanted to give titles in Canada we should give them to those who served in the trenches for $1.10 a day and to the mothers and widows of those who fought and fell in France and Flanders. Those are the people who should be honoured. How does the government honour those people? Do they get titles? Yes to the poor house.
Now there is something to be said for war decorations-I speak now of course of the three main decorations. They were democratic and there was only one way to get them; that was by going to war. I think it can fairly be said that they could not be bought, as titles have been bought in countries other than this. The recent honours list is predicated upon the fact of class distinction. To substantiate that I will read a statement by Mr. Lloyd George in the House of Commons in Great Britain on July 17, 1922. He stated:
As I have pointed out, in recent years there has been a new order, upon which a very large number of men have been put of the working and lower middle classes, who certainly could make no contribution to any party funds, but who have rendered service at one time or another to the state, mostly in connection with the war.
I take it the decoration he refers to is the Order of the British Empire. No doubt in England that order was bestowed on many members of the working classes and lower middle classes.
I have no objection to the present list on personal grounds. But there is nothing new in the strategy followed by the Prime Minister; it is as old as history itself. Most people who study history know that it was customary for some of the ancient tribes to put the women in front of the armies-


Like the C.C.F.l


-not so that they should be shot but for the purpose of preventing the enemy shooting at the men behind them.
As to our judges, I have often expressed the opinion to my own people that in this dominion a man appearing before a court of law on a criminal charge gets probably as fair treatment as in any country under the canopy of heaven. I believe that no honour that can be given to a man could be higher

Titles-Mr. Mitchell
than to be appointed to the bench of this country. By granting titles to two of its members I do not believe the Prime Minister has raised the status of the judiciary. Judgeships cannot be purchased as titles have been purchased. It is quite possible that in the appointment of some of the junior judges politics do enter into the question, but on no occasion within my memory has the finger of scorn been pointed at any judge because of the allegation that he was appointed on the basis of payment for his appointment.
It must be obvious to all who read the signs of the times that a revolution in thought is taking place in this country. I think it is fair to say that the direction of that thought is against the creation of class distinctions among the Canadian people. I believe the policy adopted by the Prime Minister fundamentally lends itself to trading and abuse. The revelations as to the sale of honours during the Lloyd George regime in Great Britain clearly indicated how corrupt the granting of honours had become. It made possible the accumulation of a huge campaign fund that the Liberals there, or what is left of them, have fought over ever since. In substantiation of my statement that such a condition existed I quote Lord Carson. Speaking in the House of Lords, he said:
I have had more than once in my chambers to advise on eases in which I have examined long correspondence which showed that there was a regular brokerage, however conducted, for the purpose of carrying out and obtaining honours.
If that is not sufficient I will quote another man who I believe is a good Conservative, the Duke of Northumberland, of coal fame. He said:
It has come to his knowdedge that there was a considerable number of persons in this country who wrote to other people saying they were authorized to approach them with a view to their obtaining an honour in exchange for a contribution to the party funds. He had several of these letters in his possession and he could produce them if necessary.
I think that clearly indicates one of the main objections of the Canadian people to the granting of titles. Who ever heard of a workingman or a farmer getting a title? Of course it is not done; one need not argue that point because it is so obvious. Then I should like to quote another authority, and this will be appreciated by those who have read the works of the late Lord Bryce. I am going to refer to that profound study of modern democracy, his American Commonwealth, which I think is one of the best analyses of governmental institutions ever written. This is what he says:
It may seem a paradox to observe that a millionaire has a better and easier social career open to him in England than in America. Nevertheless there is a sense in which this is true. In America, if his private character be bad, if he be mean, or openly immoral, or personally vulgar, or dishonest, the best society may keep its doors closed against him. In England great wealth, skilfully employed, will more readily force these doors to open. For in England great -wealth can, by using the appropriate methods, practically buy rank from those who bestow it; or by obliging persons whose position enables them to command fashionable society, can induce them to stand sponsors for the upstart, and force him into society, a thing which no person in America has the power of doing. To effect such a stroke in England the rich man must of course have stopped short of positive frauds, that is, of such frauds as could be proved in court. But he may be still distrusted and disliked by the elite of the commercial world, he may be vulgar and ill-educated, and indeed have nothing to recommend him except his wealth and his willingness to spend it in providing amusement for fashionable people. All this wdll not prevent him from becoming a baronet, or possibly a peer, and thereby acquiring a position of assured dignity w'hieh he can transmit to his offspring. The existence of a system of artificial rank enables a stamp to be given to base metal in Europe which cannot be given in a thoroughly republican country.
In connection with the United States might I say this: The only way an individual in that country can perpetuate his name, if he be a rich man, is by making some contribution to education or by adding to the numerous foundations that exist in that country, which I think all will agree have at least contributed something to the life of the country and to civilization. I might mention the Rockefeller foundation, the Carnegie foundation and the Russell Sage foundation, and I could go on almost indefinitely.
The Prime Minister may have his own opinions and may express them in an elaborate manner, but I should like to read a passage from Toronto Saturday Night of January 27, 1934, contained in a London letter written under the nom de plume of P. OD.
Everyone over here-everyone English, that is-seems to be very pleased at the reappearance of Canadian names in the honours list. That is natural enough, for the manufacture of titles is a conspicuous British industry, and, like every other industry, it is keen to extend its export market, and welcomes the removal of embargoes. So a great many complimentary things are being said about the courage of Premier Bennett in coming to this decision, though one is inclined to wonder how much of it is courage, and how much the natural desire of a political leader to reward distinguished henchmen in an easy and inexpensive manner. Even Mr. Mackenzie King, if and when he comes to power again, should find it very useful, in spite of his present opposition. And,
Titles-Mr. Mitchell

anyway, he can hardly reverse the decision. To refuse titles again would smack of absurdity.
As a matter of fact, we Canadians are not nearly so democratic a people as we like to fancy ourselves. There are a lot of us who long for titles-oh, just to please our wives, of course!-and a lot more who enjoy addressing their acquaintances as "Sir William"-
You will remember old Sir William.
-or "Lord Thingumbob," as the case may be. And. as for the "Lady This's" and "Lady That's," they simply revel in it, and so do their friends.	_	_
Since that is the case-and how much it is the ease anyone can easily judge by watching Canadian society in London,-
I think they would be better back here giving us a hand.
-or anywhere else for that matter

Mr. Bennett possibly did a sensible thing in recognizing the situation and meeting it. But even British newspapers express the hope that a little more care will be exercised in the future distribution of titles to Canadians than was exercised" in the past. Now that the market has been opened again, they don't want to see it spoiled.
In my judgment this puts the situation very clearly and reflects a very human point of view. I do not think any power on earth can prevent the abuse of this power of creating artificial class distinctions in this country. Perhaps I might mention a story that runs through my mind and which will be familiar to students of Dickens. At the moment I have forgotten the book in which it appears, but it refers to this very point. There was an old dhap who eventually reached his deathbed and who had bragged considerably during his lifetime with regard to his ancestors. He had two maiden daughters who were quite anxious to find out the old chap's antecedents, and as he was drawing near the end they said, "Father, who was your father?" He said, "Lord knows who," and from that time on they claimed that they descended from the aristocracy of Great Britain.
My attention was directed to a remark made by the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) during the debate on the speech from the throne. He said something about one of the French queens who, when told that her subjects had no bread, said, "Why don't they eat cake?" I think the attitude of the government in regard to this matter is somewhat akin to the attitude of that French queen. What thousands of people in this country want is to retain title to their homes, to get title to a job or an order for their next meal. About the only orders they have been granted since this government have been in power have been the orders given out by

the relief officers from one end of the country to the other. I think the time and energy of the government would have been better directed in devising ways and means of providing more and better jobs.
My time is nearly up, but I want to say this in all humility: I was born in England, and I know something about class distinction. Some in this country may boast of their forbears, but I think most of our ancestors came to this great land because they thought it offered better opportunities than the older countries in Europe. I think this might be truthfully said of most of the people who have settled in Canada, and it is nothing to be ashamed of. It takes some courage-and I have passed through it-to pull up stakes in your own land, leave your friends and go to a new country. I do not believe any man or woman should decry their humble origin;
I think anyone who does so expresses the height of snobbishness. I think I express the opinion of the Canadian people when I say that they do not desire to be graded. We pride ourselves, as I think anyone who has travelled this world will agree, on our good fellowship and democratic impulses. I want to say this about Great Britain:
Wbv should Great Britain lag behind Canada and the United States? Hereditary titles are ludicrously out of date in any modern democracy, and the sooner we sweep away all the gimcracks and gewgaws of snobbery the better.
These are the W'ords of that very able old sailor who made possible, from a naval viewpoint, the winning of the last great war. I refer to Lord Fisher, known as Jackie Fisher of the British navy. He goes on to say:
The fount of so-called honour has become a deluge, and the newspapers are hard put to it to find room for even the spray of the deluge.
The war has not begotten simplicity and austerity in this respect. On the contrary, it has made what used to be a comedy a screaming farce. There was a time when the birthday honours list could be printed on one day, but it is now a serial novel.
I hope that in this country we are not coming to that.
The first chapter of the latest birthday list was long, but the Times warned us that it was only "the first of a series which already threatens to outlast the week-quite apart from the gigantic Order of the British Empire."
I did not intend to speak so long, but I shall close with that quotation from the words of a very fine old gentleman. I could quote opinions of Conservatives and Liberals, and of newspapers from one end of the dominion to the other. I believe those opinions should represent the crystallization

Titles-Mr. Bennett
of the viewpoint of the people in their respective communities, which in my opinion is absolutely opposed to the policy which has been set in motion by the Prime Minister. I would ask that hon. members be given an opportunity this afternoon to reflect that which, in my judgment, is the viewpoint of the Canadian people on this particular matter.


Mr. Speaker, it might be well to
direct the attention of this house to the terms of the resolution, after having listened to the speech made this afternoon. It is:
That, in the opinion of this house, the Prime Minister should refrain from recommending to His Majesty the King, the granting of titles, honours and awards to British subjects resident in Canada.
The resolution is that this house should advise the Prime Minister what he should do. The constitutional rule is that this house condemns the Prime Minister for the action he takes. It has never been the custom in this House of Commons, and I trust never will be the custom in this house under our constitution, to endeavour to direct the government of the day as to what it should do-


Oh, oh.


-by a vote of the chamber. If the government gives advice which is open to censure, the government disappears. It is defeated on a vote of want of confidence.
I pointed out the other day-and since then there seems to be no doubt as to the soundness of my suggestion, at least from a legal viewpoint-that one house of parliament is not competent to deprive the sovereign of his prerogative, and that a resolution passed by one house is not effective for that purpose, I further point out that if it was desired to instruct the Prime Minister as to what he should do, it could be done only by the method that has been followed. I also desire to point out now that a resolution such as the one now before us does not embody the constitutional method usually employed to bring either censure or, shall I say a vote of confidence, upon the action taken by the government of the day. So much for the motion.
The speech to which we have just listened might be divided into two parts. The first was the reading of a series of quotations from those who had themselves accepted honours from the crown. Lord Bryce died a member of the Order of Merit, and a viscount. Lord Fisher was a member of the House of Lords, and also of the highest Order of the Bath. The two quotations,
therefore, are not particularly relevant except as indicating that the gentlemen who used them or who made the observations were rather annoyed that the list was becoming swollen by the introduction into it of others less useful than themselves. Let us now proceed to deal with the first point that was made, that the sovereign is the fountain of honour.
In 1922, in consequence of what took place in Great Britain, a committee was set up consisting of Lord Dunedin, the Duke of Devonshire, Lord Denman, Sir Evelyn Cecil, Sir Samuel Hoare, Sir George C-roydon Marks and Arthur Henderson, the present foreign minister, to consider these matters. They made a report, to par); of which I should like to direct the attention of the house:
Before we go further, we think it is advisable to state clearly the position of the King as to the conferring of honours, a position as to which there can be no controversy, but which is perhaps scarcely appreciated by all who have been interested in the matter.
The King is the fountain of honour, and all grants are made by him, but in the selection of the recipients of these grants, as in other things, he is in practice to act not on his own initiative but on the advice of his ministers. The minister responsible for such advice is the Prime Minister except in certain special eases, e.g., in the cases of the Order of St. Michael and St. George, Naval, Military and Air Force honours. Orders of the Star of India and of the Indian empire, where the minister in charge tenders his advice direct. With these exceptions, and that of the Royal Victorian Order, which is a private order and is bestowed by the King alone and upon his own selection, no grant of honour is ever made by the King except upon the recommendation of the Prime Minister. Even in the ease in which the King might wish that an order or a peerage should be given to a member of his own household, the recommendation would appear on the Prime Minister's list.
Then the committee divided the honours into classes.
It will tend to clearness if we make a division into classes of the honours given. There are first, those given on what we may term exceptional occasions which do not often recur; such are Coronation honours and honours in connection with the war. Secondly, there are what may be termed departmental honours, e.g,, those given to civil servants in the home government departments. Thirdly, there are honours given in connection with the Foreign office, the fighting services and the India office, and honours given to persons connected with the dominions, colonies of India, as distinguished from persons connected with the United Kingdom. Lastly, there are honours given to members of the general public for service or distinction, and these may be subdivided into honours for distinction in literature, science and art, using those terms in their broadest sense, and honours given for political services.

Titles-Mr. Bennett

The motion, before the house would preclude the government of the day making any recommendations for recognition by the sovereign of services rendered by the most distinguished servants of the crown in this country. It would also preclude any recommendation being made with respect to those who might achieve great position in literature, art or the sciences. And, as a matter of fact, while it might well be denied by those who do so contend and insist that no such recommendation should be made, I desire to point out, as is indicated in the report, that the conferring of honours upon those who have thus achieved distinction is one of the oldest acts or prerogatives of which we have any record. While it may not be necessary that it should be done, it is a recognition by the state of services rendered to the state or to the world at large.
Now, there are those who say that this is something which should not be done. Why? As great a man as Nelson expressed his view upon it; as great a man as Lord Curzon, in our day, expressed his view upon it; as great a man as Napoleon, whom Gladstone described as the greatest man, with one exception, of whom there was record,-expressed his views when in 1802 he introduced the legion of honour. Just why there should be in connection with the conferring of honours and awards upon subjects of this country the accusation that we are creating class distinctions, I cannot understand. To say that all persons are equal is to say something which everyone knows is untrue. God has not given equal ability to all men and women. They are not all equipped with the same power of thought or with the same intellectual power. That is quite clear. The attainments of all people are not on a uniform level. It therefore follows that if some have rendered great services-and I use the word "great" in its relative sense-there should at least be no harm in a recognition of those services. For instance, turning to the names appearing on the recent list we find that many are the names of distinguished civil servants who have retired from the service. The honour thus conferred, usually, is that of Commander of the Order of St. Michael and St. George. Sometimes if the service has been very long, as it was in the case of Joseph Pope, there has been a recognition by conferring the title of Knight Commander of the Order of St. Michael and St. George. There are other cases which will come readily to the minds of hon. members of this house. These were servants of the crown for fifty years and over; they retired from the service; should the
tMr. Bennett, j
government of the day be precluded from deciding that such a person should have some recognition of a special character accorded to him or her by reason of the service rendered to the state? That is all that is involved. I can readily understand the contention that what are called titles of distinction may be open to a form of criticism or of censure, but that does not apply to honours and awards. I shall say something about these later on. I ask this house whether or not it believes that a man who has served Canada faithfully, honourably and well for fifty years and over, who is retiring, having earned his superannuation, should not be recognized by the conferring upon him of the honour of a C.M.G.
I have no doubt that the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) was a very proud man when his sovereign honoured him by conferring upon him the C.M.G. He is an entirely different man from myself if he would not be proud of it. He had earned it by distinguished service to the state. He had been Deputy Minister of Labour and had rendered very peculiar service in particular ways. The prime minister of the day recommended to the governor general of the day that he should request the sovereign to honour him with a C.M.G. Did he earn it? Was he entitled to it? Why should he not receive that honour? Why should not the prime [DOT] minister confer that recognition upon him? I could give the house countless other instances.
Take the case of women. At the end of the war there was available for distribution among the women of Canada a large number of honours and awards, but the resolution moved in this house was acted upon and they were not thus honoured. Many of them have since died. There were men whose names were on the list and who would have been honoured but who have since died without recognition. In the list to which reference has been made appeared the names of women who were upwards of seventy years of age, some of them being between seventy and eighty. For fifty long years they had continued to give leadership in their communities in social activities. They did it without reward or hope of reward. It does not hurt their position in the community to say that they should receive recognition by their sovereign conferring upon them a slight honour, making them a Commander of the Order of the British Empire or a member of the Order of the British Empire. This is a recognition for a lifetime of work for humanity. What is more, I know of not a single one of those who have

Titles-Mr. Bennett
been named who is not proud of the honour thus conferred. The communities in which they live have been proud that they have been thus honoured. Their fellow-citizens who accorded to them the positions which they held with such public esteem in this democracy are proud that these men and women have had these honours conferred upon them. Was the recognition such that there should be censure of the government of the day? The hon. member for East Hamilton referred to the occasion which arose in Great Britain in connection with alleged abuses in this regard.
Leaving this for the moment, I recall what Kipling has said in one of his stories. The fact that men and women in the public service realize that at the end of a long life of untiring effort and useful service they may have some slight recognition by the head of the state has promoted ambition among men and women in every part of the British world. This has proved a stimulant to effort, particularly in India. Hon. members will recall that Kipling refers to the men and women who are striving to serve the state, hoping that at the end of their service they may be honoured with a C.S.I. or C.I.E. They seek to attain this recognition not because they value the honour as a class distinction but because it means the seal of approval of the head of the state upon the character of the service rendered.
Take literature, for instance. I doubt if there is an hon. member who is not familiar with the story of Lord Tennyson. They will recall that Mr. Gladstone offered him a baronetcy and that he finally agreed to accept it during a long cruise in the Mediterranean. Lord Tennyson gave the reasons why he accepted this recognition.
Most hon. members will remember that distinguished scientist, Mr. Rutherford, at one time professor at McGill. He was honoured by his sovereign for the great contribution he had made to science, and he is now Lord Rutherford. Take art. What hon. member does n'ot recall Lord Leighton, the president of the Royal Academy? They will recall the joy with which the conferring of this peerage was received. Take medicine. Who does not recall the honour conferred upon Lord Dawson of Penn and upon Lord Horder. In these cases the state was giving slight approval for a long lifetime of effort in preventive medicine.
Take our own country. Who is not familiar with the life of Sir George Cartier and the recognition accorded to him and to Macdonald? They will recall the ultimate action taken in conferring a baronetcy. Who does 74726-94 J
not recall the position taken by men in days gone by with respect to honours conferred in the maritime provinces, in upper Canada, and upon members of the judiciary and of other walks of life? It was felt that they should not accept these honours for the purpose of class distinction but that they should receive recognition from the head of the state for the services they had rendered to the whole state.
For instance, take the knighthood conferred upon the head of the meteorological service in this country by the Duke of Connaught as a farewell honour. Who does not remember the circumstances? Does any hon. member for one moment recall Mr. Stupart as a man of money or as a man who made any pretence to money? He had no claim to fame other than that which came from the contribution 'he made to the welfare of his fellows through long years of service. He received a knighthood from his sovereign, a recognition of the service rendered by the man to the state.
When I hear laughing in the house, when I hear an hon. member rise in his place and compare this matter to the motion of the hon. member for Brome-Missisquoi (Mr. Pickel) with respect to the grading of hogs, I say it does him no credit and is a reflection and an insult upon the citizenship of this country. It indicates that much midnight oil has been burned in the preparation of a speech that had to be delivered while this motion was still upon the order paper.
It 'has been said that the government of the day took action at a very inopportune time. If hon. members will take the trouble to peruse that list and consider the service which hias been rendered during the last three and a half years of this great depression by those whose names appear thereon, I think perhaps they will modify their judgment. Was there class distinction with respect to any of those names? It is true that one of them was a messenger in the governor general's office, whose faithfulness, loyalty and devotion to duty for nearly half a century-I think, for oyer thirty years-warranted in my judgment his receiving the approval of the head of the state for services thus rendered.
Take the names of women who in these days of stress, in these terrible days, have been caring for the poor, looking after those who could not care for themselves, going down into the slum sections of cities, looking after babies and mothers, engaging in prenatal work with respect to children, the feeding of them and caring for them-the recognition of such work by the state was intended to be, what in fact it is, the placing of the
Titles-Mr. Bennett


Mr. Speaker, I
do not believe the country is interested in listening to a prolonged debate on the merits of the question of t'he restoration of titles in Canada. What the country wishes to know is what this House of Commons feels on the matter, and what the country will expect of the government is that it will give the House of Commons the right to vote on this question. As no one is better aware than Your Honour, the rules of the house provide that if a debate takes place on a Wednesday afternoon on a resolution by a private member and the debate is not concluded by six o'clock, then the resolution goes to the bottom of the list of private members' resolutions that prior to that time have been discussed and in all probability will not be reached again during the session. That being the case, unless the Prime Minister is prepared to say that he will set apart a day when this resolution will be taken up again and the debate resumed upon it so that a vote may be taken in the house, I think I would ask all hon. members on this side to refrain from further participation in the discussion in order that we may come to a Vote at the earliest possible moment.
I myself will follow that course by replying simply in one or two words to whait the Prime Minister has said with respect to the matter of procedure. It will be recalled that when my right hon. friend took the step of recommending to His Majesty the restoration of the granting of titles in Canada, he did so on the ground that an address from this house to His Majesty with respect to an important matter such as that of titles was not the proper way to proceed; that suloh procedure was an indignity to His Majesty. I believe the Prime Minister was wrong in thait. I shall give just one quotation to indicate what I believe it was that actuated the House of Commons in 1019 to proceed by a resolution in the form of an address to His Majesty with respect to this matter. The quotation is from Redlich. The Procedure of the House of Commons, 1907, volume 2, page 246, as follows:
It is, of course, impossible to enumerate all cases in which an address is appropriate. There is no definite sphere of applicability; the common element is a desire on the part of the house, as representing the nation, to record its views on some events in a peculiarly impressive manner. This may be desirable as to events both of domestic and of foreign concern. There seems to be only one direction in which any limitation has been laid down; no address may be presented in relation to any bill depending in either house. .

There is no doubt that when hon. members of this house last spoke on this matter, they adopted the form of presenting an address because, as Redlich says, in their opinion that was the most impressive manner of presenting a matter which the house deemed of great concern to the country.
The Prime Minister, as I said, was opposed to that method, took exception to what had been done and proceeded with the restoration of titles on the score that that had not been the proper method for the House of Commons to follow and that a resolution of this kind applied to the parliament that passed it and that he could not be bound by what any previous House of Commons may have been bound by. He was then asked very pointedly by an hon. member on this side, the hon. member for North Waterloo (Mr. Euler), what was the proper method of procedure, and I purpose to give, because I think it has governed the action of the hon. member who has introduced the resolution in the form and words in which he has introduced it, the answer which the Prime Minister made to that question. I am reading from Hansard of January 30, 1934, at page 99:
Mr. Euler:	If instead of requesting the
sovereign directly not to exercise its prerogative, the House of Commons had expressed its desire that the Prime Minister himself should not make any recommendation, would the Prime Minister in that case feel himself bound ?
Mr. Bennett: The hon. member is coming to the point I was about to make. Rarely have I found an argument adduced against a position I have taken which so completely supported m