I have the honour to inform the house that I have received a communication from two members notifying me that the following vacancy has occurred in the representation, namely, of the Hon. Murray MacLaren, member for the electoral district of St. John-Albert, by acceptance of an office of emolument under the crown.
I accordingly issued my writ to the chief electoral officer to make out a new writ of election for the said electoral district.


I have the honour to inform the house that the clerk has received

Hudson Bay Route
the resignation of T. L. McEvoy, Esquire, a committee clerk, House of Commons, which has been accepted, subject to ratification by the house, and that I have directed the clerk to lay upon the table the correspondence and my recommendation in relation thereto.


On the orders of the day:
On the orders of the day, on February 8, at page 668 of Hansard, the hon. member for Nelson (Mr. Stitt) asked the following question:
What steps is this government taking to have these rates, which are now five times greater than those from Montreal out of Churchill, brought somewhere near a parity with those prevailing out of the port of Montreal.
The Prime Minister in reply stated that Mr. Stitt's question would be taken as a notice and, after giving the position of the imperial shipping committee with regard to the matter, he further stated that it would be looked into carefully and an answer given by the Minister of Marine.
I am sorry that the hon. member for Nelson quoted only part of paragraph 13 of the fifth report of the imperial shipping committee on Hudson bay marine insurance rates for 1934. The last sentence of section 13 of that report, reads as follows:
We recognize, however, that underwriters conduct their business on the basis of recorded results and it must be admitted that, as long as the route is used by comparatively few vessels, a total loss may more than account for the whole profit of a season.
Section 15 of the same report reads as follows:
At his annual interview with the chairman of the joint hull committee, our chairman pointed out that the disparity between the rates for the suspension of warranty in respect of Montreal and Churchill would still be considerable in the coming season, but the chairman of the joint hull committee urged that, owing to the loss of the Bright Fan the loss ratio on the Hudson bay route was such that a further reduction in the rates of premium was not feasible for the present. The chairman of the joint hull committee, however, indicated that, if a considerable number of vessels visited Churchill during the 1934 season and there was no serious loss, the joint hull 92582-464
committee would be prepared to give favourable consideration to the question of a further reduction in the rates of premium.
During the 1934 season of navigation to and from Churchill, thirteen different cargo steamers used the route. Two of them made two voyages each making fifteen voyages in and out of Churchill. All ships made good voyages and the logs of the ships furnished by themselves do not record any accidents or casualties in Hudson bay and strait this year.
The Marine department's report on the navigation conditions in Hudson bay and strait during the season of navigation 1934, has just been completed and copies of it have been transmitted to the imperial shipping committee and a letter has been sent to the High Commissioner for Canada in London, who is Canada's representative on the imperial shipping committee, requesting him to have the committee do all possible to obtain further reductions in Hudson bay marine insurance rates.


Hon. E. N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to provide for the refunding of maturing and callable financial obligations of the Canadian National Railways and for the issue of substituted securities therefor, guaranteed by the dominion, in an amount not exceeding $200,000,000.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I would like to ask either the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister whether the press dispatches are correct that representations have been made by the British government to this government with respect to the attempt that is now being made to lower the rate of interest on outstanding bonds of the city of Vancouver.
Farmers' Creditors Act


The British government through the usual channels asked this government for the facts with respect to the situation. We advised them that the provinces were autonomous and they have taken such action as they thought advisable. We have had no communication other than through the usual channel, the High Commissioner, who inquired what the facts were so far as this government was concerned.


On the orders of the day:
In view of the proposed legislation on unemployment insurance, as the second reading of the bill is fixed for to-day may I ask the Prime Minister to lay on the table of the house the draft convention adopted at the international labour conference at Geneva last year with regard to a scheme of unemployment insurance.


I assume that the hon. gentleman has seen the draft convention which comprises many matters in addition to unemployment insurance. I have not it beside me, but I will lay it on the table.


There are fewer matters in the convention than there are in the bill of the right hon. gentleman; there are only twenty-three sections as against forty-five in the proposed legislation.


This is not the appropriate time to enter into a discussion, but surely the ex-Minister of Justice knows the details of legislation in each country are not entirely the same as those contained in the draft convention.


Surely the Prime Minister knows when he introduces legislation like that, he should give to the house the draft convention regarding it.


On the orders of the day:
Have any
representations been made to the Minister of Pensions and National Health regarding the prohibition of the importation and use of the drug heroin. Has he any statement to make in regard to the matter?


I was not
very clear as to the question, but I shall read it and give the hon. member an answer to-morrow.


On the orders of the day:
Has the government received a
report from the commission headed by Sir Thomas White with regard to maritime claims, and if so, when will the report be made public?


No such report has been received.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. CAMERON R. McINTOSH (North Battleford):	I have a question to direct to
the Minister of Finance. It arises out of a communication from Mrs. S. Ferguson, secretary of the rural municipality of Great Bend, No. 405, Saskatchewan. In the letter there is this resolution endorsed by the council of that municipality:
That we recommend to the proper authorities that a capable lawyer be appointed by the government to represent farmers in cases of applications for debt adjustment brought before the provincial board of review.
My question is as follows: In view of the fact that loan companies and other corporations in every debt arrangement case passed on to the provincial board of review will be represented by able legal counsel, will the minister, to avoid placing farmers in a position of disadvantage and discrimination, consider the advisability of providing them with competent counsel before the board?
This matter was brought to my attention some two or three weeks ago by wire from one of the larger agricultural organizations in western Canada. I advised them immediately in reply to the effect that if it was demonstrated in practice that solicitors for the farmers were required to be appointed,

Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
they would be, but that until such time as it was demonstrated that they were required, they would not be. I may say that this is a matter that I cannot discuss at this stage on the orders of the day, but when we are discussing the details of the farm loan measure I shall be glad to go into the matter at greater length.


On the orders of the day:
On January 24, the Prime Minister, on the discussion on a proposed national housing policy, said that at a later date he would state whether a special or a select standing committee should be named to consider the matter. Is he in a position to say when this question will be brought up?


I gather from inquiries made that
the house will be satisfied with a select committee and it is proposed to appoint a committee of fifteen. I have asked the government whip to confer with the whips of the other parties for the purpose of securing the names of their representatives on the proposed committee.


Hon. R. B. HANSON (Minister of Trade and Commerce) moved the second reading of Bill No. 18, to amend the Electricity Inspection Act, 1928 (French version).
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, considered in committee, reported, read the third time and passed.
Right Hon. R. B. BENNETT (Prime Minister) moved the second reading of Bill No. 8, to establish an employment and social insurance commission, to provide for a national employment service, for insurance against unemployment, for aid to unemployed persons, and for other forms of social insurance and security, and for purposes related thereto.
He said; Mr. Speaker, Bill No. 8 standing in my name, the second reading of which I now
have the pleasure of moving, has been printed in English and in French for some days, and ample opportunity has been afforded to members of the house to make themselves familiar with its provisions. Gur rules do not contemplate the discussion of sections of the bill seriatim on its second reading, but rather a discussion of the principles underlying the measure submitted to the house for its consideration. Therefore I shall content myself with endeavouring to keep within the rules, and shall confine my observations to the general principles of the measure.
It will be observed that the words used are "unemployment insurance." Therefore it is well at the outset to realize that this is an insurance measure, and not a relief measure. Insurance means that on the payment of a sum of money, usually called a premium, and most frequently paid in advance, the person paying such premium is entitled to a benefit if certain events happen or certain contingencies arise. The right to that benefit is dependent usually upon the insured person satisfying certain requirements. That is the essence of unemployment insurance; a sum paid for the purpose of securing a future benefit. In this instance the sum is to be paid by the employer, by the employee and by the state jointly, the sum total of these contributions constituting the premium which actuarially ensures to the beneficiary the benefits mentioned in the measure. To that extent it is not materially different from an ordinary insurance policy, which contemplates the payment of stated sums to the person named as the beneficiary upon certain contingencies or events happening, such payments to be made on conditions named in the insurance policy itself.
The discussion therefore is narrowed down to a consideration of what may be regarded as the basic principles upon which this insurance benefit is to be paid. I have already indicated that the premium is to be paid by three contributors, and that the benefits accrue upon the happening of certain contingencies, and on the condition that the insured has met certain requirements.
Leaving that for the moment, the question of administration becomes of paramount importance. Is an insurance plan of this character to be administered by the state itself, or is an organization to be set up clothed with the powers necessary to discharge the
726	COMMONS
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
functions of administration? We have followed the British system in many of the provisions of the bill, but as far as administration is concerned the scheme provided by this bill, as will be observed by hon. members who have read it, is to be administered by a commission. The commission will consist of three persons. They will represent the great mass of employees, the employers, and the government. The provisions that enable labour and the employers to be represented are set out at length in the measure. In addition there is to be set up an advisory committee, which in essence is to be the watchdog of the fund. The function of the advisory committee is indicated by its name. It is expected that there will be a measure of voluntary service, and it has been found in most countries that there are, citizens so well-disposed towards social problems as to render their services gratuitously, but whether gratuitously or otherwise I am not at the moment concerned, beyond saying that the advisory committee will consist of a body of men of the highest possible type, to ensure that the fund is maintained in its integrity and that in every respect the terms and provisions of the statute are observed. In practice I think it will be found, as it has been found elsewhere, especially in England, that such a committee will ensure the commission discharging its duty free from any political considerations.
Then going a step further, it will be found that local committees for advice and assistance are to be provided, and on all these committees both employers and labour will have representation. The bill itself sets forth how these details are to be worked out. Section 36 is important in explaining the functions of the advisory committee. There are three great divisions with respect to administration, namely the commission, the advisory committee and the local committee. The purpose is that, subject to the sufficiency of the fund being maintained, which of course is a matter guaranteed by the membership of competent persons upon the advisory committee, benefits can be either high or low as the premiums paid may ensure. That is, the benefits may be larger if larger premiums are paid, the benefits may be diminished if the premiums are less than those mentioned in the measure. In other words it is the duty of the administrative bodies to see that the fund is maintained in its integrity, that it is sound aetuarially, and that the benefits paid are such as the premiums paid by the insured will purchase.

The next question that might be asked would be, who are to be insured under this measure? The first part of the schedule indicates clearly who are to be insured; I do not think it serves any useful purpose to read the provisions at length, beyond pointing out that they are set forth at page 31 of the draft bill:
Employment within the meaning of part III of this act,-
.	(a) Employment in Canada under any contract of service or apprenticeship, written or oral, whether expressed or implied, or whether the employed person is paid by the employer or some other person, and whether under one or more employers, and whether paid by time or by the piece, or partly by time and partly by the piece, or otherwise.
(b)	Employment under the dominion, or under any province of Canada with the concurrence of the province, or under any municipal or other public authority, other than any such employment as may be excluded by special order of the commission.
(c)	Employment outside of Canada, or partly outside of Canada, for the purpose of the execution of some particular work, by persons who were insured contributors immediately before leaving Canada, for an employer resident or having a place of business in Canada, being employment which if it were employment in Canada, would make the persons employed therein employed persons within the meaning of this act; subject however, to any prescribed conditions, modifications or exceptions.
I read that as indicating the persons included within the purview of the measure. Then in part II the excepted employments are included. It is hardly necessary to point out to this house that all are not insured under this act. There is no measure in any country that insures all persons who may be employed. That, of course, is elementary; it need hardly be mentioned to bring it to the attention of hon. members. The excepted employments are:
(a)	Employment in agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
(b)	Employment in fishing.
(c)	Employment in lumbering and logging.
About that I shall have something to say a little later.
(d)	Employment in hunting and trapping.
(e)	Employment in transportation by water or by air, and stevedoring.
(f)	Employment in banking, mortgage, loan, trust, insurance or other financial business.
(g)	Employment in domestic service, except where the employed person is employed in a club or in any trade or business carried on for the purposes of gain.

Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
(h)	Employment as a professional nurse for the sick or as a probationer undergoing training for employment as such nurse.
(i)	Employment as a teacher, including teachers of music and dancing, whether engaged in schools, colleges, universities or institutes or in a private capacity.
(j)	Employment in the permanent active militia, The Royal Canadian Navy, the Royal Canadian Air Force and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
(k)	Employment as a member of dominion, provincial, or municipal police forces.
(l)	Employment,-
(i)	in the public service of Canada pursuant to the provisions of the Civil- Service Act; or
(ii)	in the public service of Canada or of a province or by a municipal authority upon certification satisfactory to the commission that the employment is, having regard to the normal practice of the employment, permanent in character.
(m)	Employment as an agent paid by commission or fees or a share in the profits, or partly in one and partly in another of such ways, where the person so employed is mainly dependent for his livelihood on his earnings from some other occupation, or where he is ordinarily employed as such agent by more than one employer, and his employment under no one of such employers is that on which he is mainly dependent for his livelihood.
(n)	Employment otherwise than by way of manual labour and at a rate of remuneration exceeding in value two thousand dollars a year or in cases where such employment involves part time service only, at a rate of remuneration which, in the opinion of the commission, is equivalent to a rate of remuneration exceeding two thousand dollars a year for full time service.
Provided that any person in respect of whom contributions have been paid as an insured contributor for not less than five hundred weeks may continue as an insured contributor notwithstanding anything in this paragraph contained.
(o)	Employment of a casual nature otherwise than for the purpose of the employer's trade or business.
(p)	Employment of any class which may be specified in a special order made by the commission, and declared by the commission to apply for the purposes of this act, as being of such a nature that it is ordinary adopted as subsidiary employment only and not as the principal means of livelihood.
(q)	Employment in the service of the husband or wife of the employed person.
(r)	Employment for which no wages or other money payment is made, where the person employed is the child of, or is maintained by the employer.
The list is long, but in reality it may be divided shortly into two classes. One class is
composed of those who, by reason of their employment, are assured of certain benefits; that is, those who are in the civil service and who are entitled to allowances or those who are employed in the militia or the police forces of the country, using those as illustrations. The second class includes those whose employment may be classed as more or less casual and therefore not such as might be anticipated to be within the provisions of an unemployment insurance act. With respect to the latter class, I referred to persons engaged in the logging industry. In some parts of the country that is a very seasonal employment, and it would not be possible for employees to be engaged continuously for a sufficient number of days to bring themselves within the act. But apart from the fact that it may be desirable, during the progress of the bill through committee, to amend its provisions in that regard, I think I should point out that in one part of Canada the occupation of logging extends over the whole year, in which event provision might be made to meet such a case. But apart altogether from the power to amend in committee if it is thought desirable so to do, section 7 contains one of the most important provisions in the act. It enables the commissioners to propose plans or schemes that will enable those who do not come within the purview of the act to be brought within its operation either directly or by means of a special scheme. That is, if on inquiry it is found that, from an actuarial standpoint, the employment is such as would warrant provision being made for that class of employees to which I have referred, then under section 7 provision is made by which that may be done.
Those are the general provisions as to those who may and those who may not come within the operation of the act. It may be a matter of interest to ascertain what the numbers were according to the census of 1931. I use the census figures because there has been so much doubt and conjecture as to the numbers in other cases, and I think it desirable to accept the census of June 1, 1931, for the purpose of indicating to the house the numbers that will be affected by the measure, as indicated by those census figures. The total employees in Canada as shown by the census returns, as of June 1, 1931, were 2,566,001, of whom 2,018,334 were male and 547,667 female. Within the industries that I have just mentioned under part 1 of the act,
728	COMMONS
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
according to the census figures of 1931 the total number affected by this bill would be 1,701,834, of whom 1,406,930 would be male and 294,904 female. According to the same figures the number excluded would total 864,187, of whom 611,404 would be male and 252,763 female. Itemized, the figures from the census bureau are as follows:
Excluded Males
Agriculture	 200,468
Fishing and	trapping	 10,379
Logging	 41,480
Finance	 57,627
Miscellaneous, and excluded occupations in	included industries..	301,450
In the finance division 24,822 were female and 227,941 were included in the miscellaneous and excluded occupations in included industries, making a total of 252,763, which added to those males employed in the industries I previously indicated gives a total of 864,167 not included. It will be observed, therefore, that this measure does not include those employed in banks, insurance companies, trust companies or loan companies or under the general designation of finance; those are not included under the operation of the bill, to the extent of the number I have just given.
Having indicated those who are included and those excluded from the operation of the bill it might be thought desirable to ascertain what premiums they must pay; ordinarily that would be the next question that might be asked. That will be found at page 33 of the bill in detail.
In order that there may be a clear appreciation of contributions, I shall call attention to them as I go along. If a male employed person is aged 21 years or upwards, the employer will pay 25 cents a week, and the employed person himself will pay 25 cents per week. A woman would pay four cents per week less, and the employer would also pay four cents less each week. If a young man between the ages of 18 and 21 years is employed he will pay 18 cents per week and the employer will pay a similar sum. A young woman between the same ages will pay three cents per week less, or 15 cents, and the employer will pay the same amount. Between the ages of 17 and 18, which is the lowest class except one, which
I	shall presently mention, the boy will pay
II	cents per week and the employer a similar amount. Girls will pay nine cents and the

employer nine cents per week. Boys aged 16 years but under 17 will pay seven cents per week, and the employer will pay seven cents. Girls of the same age will pay six cents, and the employer of those girls a like amount.
Then if hon. members will turn to page 35 in the bill they will find what the payments of those premiums, plus the amount paid by the state, will enable the people affected to secure by way of benefits. A man aged 21 years or upwards will receive $1 per day or $6 per week. A woman will receive 85 cents per day or $5.10 per week. A young man aged 18 but under 21 will receive 70 cents per day, or $4.20 per week, while a young woman of similar age will receive 60 cents per day or $3.60 per week. Under the classification of 17 years and under 18, boys will receive 45 cents per day or $2.70 per week, and girls 35 cents per day or $2.10 per week. A boy aged 16 years and under 17 will receive 30 cents per day or $1.80 per week, and a girl 25 cents per day or $1.50 per week. There is a provision also for dependents. An adult dependent will receive 45 cents per day or $2.70 per week, and a dependent child 15 cents per day or 90 cents per week.
Those are the benefits to be derived from the payment of the premiums I have indicated. I have already stated that the employers and employees do not make the complete contribution. There is a contribution made by the state, and those who are interested will observe in the measure that the administration costs are to be paid by the government of the country. They will find at page 24 of the bill that the contribution by the government in addition to administration costs, is to be 20 per cent or one-fifth of the sum paid by the aggregate deposits from time to time made by the employers and employees. That sum is to be deposited to the credit of the fund by the Minister of Finance. We propose to keep the closest possible record of the costs of administration. It is but fair to say that in England the cost of administration has been about 12£ per cent. To what extent that may be lessened in this country it is difficult to say, but I should say that having regard to distances it would be highly improbable that the cost would be less, and in my judgment it will be more.

Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
Perhaps at this point some hon. members may be interested to know the benefits paid under the English plan, converted into our money at the proper rate of exchange, plus 25 per cent which is supposed to represent the difference in living costs between this country and Great Britain. Whether or not that is an accurate statement I cannot say, but that is the figure which economists and
actuaries are prepared to support. The table is an interesting one, and although it is perhaps not desirable to take too much time to read it at length, I shall read a portion of it at any rate. I shall place the complete table on record, and deal in greater detail with those parts which I believe are of interest. The table is as follows:

labinr™nrin^t<uesfif tklfirate?-°f 1^° *ime Pai.d under the British unemployment insurance scheme; also those benefits converted to Canadian currency at S4.86f to £1 and increased by 25% to allow approximately for the difference in cost of living. On the final line are shown the benefits in Bill No. 8.								
Date when benefits became effective	Men	Women	Young men	Young women	Boys	Girls	Adult dependent	Dependent child8/1/13	Ages 18-64 7/- $2.13	Ages 18-64 7/- $2.13	Included under "men" until 1928	Included under "women" until 1928	Under 18 3/6 $1.06	Under 18 3/6 $1.06	No benefit until 1921	No benefit until 192125/12/19	11/- $3.35	11/- $3.35	5/- $1.52	5/- $1.52	
8/11/20		15/- $4.56	12/- $3.65			7/6 $2.28	«/- $1.82		
								
3/3/21		20/- $6.08	16/- $4.87			10/- $3.04	8/- $2.43		
								
30/6/21		15/- $4.56	12/- $3.65			7/6 $2.28	6/- $0-182		
								
10/11/21		Do.	Do.			Do.	Do.	5/- $1.52	1/- $0.30
								
14/8/24		18/- $5.47	15/- $4.56			Do.	Do.	Do.	2/- $0.61
								
19/4/28		Ages 21-64 17/-$5.17	Ages 21-64 15/-$4.56			Under 18 6/- $1.82	Under 18 V-$1.52	7/- $2.13	Do.
								
2/7/28		Do.	Do.	Age 18 10/- " 19 12/-" 20 14/-	Age 18 8/-" 19 10/0 " 20 12/-	Do.	Do.	Do.	Do.
			Age 18 $3.04 " 19 3.65 " 20 4.26	Age 18 $2.43 " 19 3.04 " 20 3.65				
								
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
Ages 18-20	Ages 18-20	9/-	2/-13/3/30	Do.	Do.	14/-	12/-	17	9/-	17	7/6	Under	Under	$2.74	$0.6117	6/-	17	5/-	$4.26	$3.65	17	$2.74	17	$2.28	Under	Under	17	$1.82	17	$1.52	10/8/31	15/3	13/6	12/6	10/9	17	8/-	17	6/9	8/-	Do.Under	Under	17	5/6	17	4/6	$4.64	$4 11	$3.80	$3.27	17 Under	$2.43	17 Under	$2.05	$2.43	17	$1.67	17	$1.37	1934 	17/-	15/-	14/-	12/-	17	9/-	17	7/6	9/-	Do.Under	Under	17	6/-	17	5/-	$5.17	$4.65	$4.26	$3.65	17	$2.74	17	$2.28	$2.74	Under	Under	17	$1.82	17	$1.52	$6.00	$5.10	$4.20	$3.60	17	$2.70	17	$2.10	$2.70	$0.9016	1.80	16	1.50	
Note.-The benefits shown above in Canadian currency are the equivalent of the benefits in English currency increased by 25% to allow approximately for the increase in the cost of living.
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
732	COMMONS
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
This table shows the weekly rates of benefits from time to time paid under the British unemployment insurance scheme, converted to Canadian currency at the rate of $4.86j cents to the pound, and increased by 25 per cent to allow approximately for the difference in the cost of living. On the bottom line of this table are shown the benefits as they would be under the bill which I now sulbmit to the house. I need hardly say that commencing with the year 1913 there is a steady increase in the benefits payable under the British act. When the act began operation in 1913 men between the ages of 18 and 64 received the amount of $2.13; as I have said this money is converted into our currency and 25 per cent added. Women between the ages of 18 and 64 received the same benefit. Boys under 18 received $1.06, and girls received the same amount. Adult dependents did not receive anything in England when the act originated, and in fact did not receive anything until 1921. Nor were there any provisions made for dependent children until that year. After the amendment of 1919 men between the ages of 18 and 64 received $3.35 per week, and women of a similar age received the same amount. Boys under 18 and girls under 18 received the same benefit, namely $1.52 per week.
Then there was the further amendment in 1920 as a result of which men between the ages of 18 and 64 received S4.56, and women received $3.65. Boys under 18 years received $2.28 per week, and girls at that time suffered a lessening, as compared with the figure then paid to men, by being reduced to $1.82.
In 1921 there was a further amendment which brings the sum payable to men between the ages of 18 and 64 up to $6.08 per week, in our money, there were then no dependents' benefits. Women receive $4.87. Boys of 18 and under $3.04 and girls $2.43. Then came the later amendment of 1921 whereby men between the ages I have indicated, namely 18 and 64. reach $4.56 and women $3.65. Boys under 18 received $2.28 and girls $1.82.
Then for the first time provision was made for dependents, and adult dependents are shown at $1.52 per week, and for dependent children there is a further payment to the family head of 30 cents per week. This continues until 1924 at which time there was a further amendment regarding benefits. In that year benefits are brought to $5.47 for men between the ages of 18 and 64 and $4.56 for women. There was no change with respect to boys or girls under IS and no change with respect to dependents except in the case of :hildren. It was then provided that for each

dependent child there should be paid an additional sum of 61 cents-not 30 cents per week.
Then came the amendment of 1928, at which time there was a change with respect not only to ages but to benefits. In that year those who received benefits under the act and were between the ages of 21 and 64 would receive, if men, the equivalent of $5.17 each week, and if women, the amount is S4.56. In the same year boys under 18 receive $1.82 and girls $1.52 per week. The benefits for adult dependents are raised to S2.13 per week, while those payable with respect to dependent children remain at 61 cents as before.
Further and special provisions were made in that year for those of the ages eighteen, nineteen and twenty, for as I have just pointed out under the act of that year provision was made for those between the ages of twenty-one and sixty-four, and not between eighteen and sixty-four; and so special provisions were made for those of eighteen and nineteen and twenty. Boys of eighteen received per week S3.04; nineteen, $3.65; twenty, $4.26; girls of eighteen received $2.43; nineteen, $3.04, and twenty, $3.65.
The law thus remained until 1930 when it was again amended, there being no changes however with respect to men and women but a slight change with respect to those of the ages of eighteen, nineteen and twenty, who were lumped in one class and received a benefit of $4.26 per week for the young men, and the girls received $3.65.
Special classifications were made of those of seventeen, and under, both for the boys and the girls. The boys under seventeen received $1.82, and $2.74 if seventeen years old. The girls of seventeen received $2.28, and under that age $1.52.
There were also certain changes made that year with respect to the benefits payable for adult dependents, the amount being increased to $2.74 per week in our money.
In 1931 there was a further amendment to the statute so that men between the ages of twenty-one and sixty-four entitled to benefit received $4.64 per week, and the women $4.11; the men between eighteen and twenty, $3.50, and the girls between eighteen and twenty $3.27 per week. There were special provisions for girls of seventeen, and under seventeen, the former class receiving $2.05 and the latter $1.37 per week, while boys of seventeen received $2.43, and those under seventeen $1.67 per week. The adult dependent rate was decreased to $2.43 per week.

Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
In 1934, that is last year, the final amendment to the act was made consequent upon the report of the royal commission which investigated the whole question, to which report I referred a few days ago. In that year parliament once more legislated and provided that men between the ages of twenty-one and sixty-four entitled to the benefits would receive in our money $5.17 per week, and women S4.65; the young men $4.26 if between the ages of eighteen and twenty, and the young women between eighteen and twenty $3.65 per week. Boys of seventeen received $2.74 per week and under seventeen SI.82; while girls of the age of seventeen received $2.28, and under that age S1.52. Again the adult dependent rate was increased from S2.43 to S2.74 per week.
Comparing the figures under the British act of 1934 plus an increase of 25 per cent to offset the difference in living costs between the two countries with the figures under Bill No. 8 now submitted to the house it will be observed that the benefits under the Canadian bill for men between twenty-one and sixty-four are $6 per week as against $5.17 under the British bill of last year, and $5.10 for women as against $4.65 for women under the British bill of last year; and for men between eighteen and twenty $4.20 per week in Canada as against $4.26 under the British bill, and for females between the ages of eighteen and twenty $3.60 per week here against $3.65 per week in Great Britain, converted into Canadian funds. For boys of the age of seventeen the rate in Canada is $2.70 and $2.74 in Great Britain at par of exchange. For boys under seventeen, $1.80 in Canada and $1.82 in Britain; and for girls $2.10 in Canada as against $2.28 in Britain; $1.50 for those under the age of seventeen in Canada and $1.52 for those under seventeen in Britain. The dependent payment to adults in Canada is $2.70 per week as against $2.74 in Britain, and the payment for each child in this country is 90 cents per week as against 61 cents under the British act.
May I ask the right hon. gentleman if with these changes in the benefits in Britain the rates of contribution were changed in proportion?


The hon. gentleman has asked a question about which the royal commission had to make most careful inquiry in Britain because it will be within the memory of my hon. friend from Labelle that the British fund owing to abnormal unemployment had to borrow large sums from the state, and the rates of contribution were not
sufficient to enable the benefits I have indicated to 'be paid. Therefore the British bill was entirely revised and rearranged, and the contributions placed upon a basis that was believed to be such as could be maintained and be actuarially sound under the bill of 1934. That is the reason it has taken considerable time to prepare carefully the measure now before the house and have the actuaries perfectly satisfied that the contributions made will without question pay the benefits provided. I do not know that I could do better perhaps than to read one or two sections from the report of the royal commission which reported on this question. I noted them as being important perhaps from the standpoint of the house, although the report is in the library. The report touches upon the very question which the hon. member for Labelle has just raised, beginning at paragraph 407, which reads:
467. We have considered the desirability of reintroducing the principle of directly relating the period for which a claimant should be allowed to draw benefit to his contribution record. The weakness of a fixed limit of benefit for all contributors is that there is no discrimination between the worker with a good employment record over many years and the w-orker who has paid only the minimum number of qualifying contributions. If the risk of unemployment to which different persons were exposed was entirely free from influences within their control, it might be justifiable to allow all claimants an equal maximum period of benefit, though even then there would be a strong case for favouring the claimant with the better record. As we have stated, this is not the case, and it is necessary to devise practicable safeguards which will at the same time do justice to the general body of insured persons.
408. The alternatives are either (a) as at present to allow a short period of benefit on a uniform basis for all contributors; or (b) to find some automatic method of selecting the claimants who may reasonably be given a title to a longer period of insurance benefit. The second alternative is the one which, in our view, is preferable. As a general proposition, the claimant with the better record of employment in the past is less likely to make unreasonable claims than the claimant whose contribution record is hardly more than sufficient to pass the qualifying test. We are, accordingly, in favour of restoring the principle of relating the period of benefit to the record of insurable employment over a recent period. For administrative purposes, it is desirable that the period to which reference is made should not extend beyond' five years or some such period.
I might make some short observations as indicating the general operation of the English act, as reported in Glen's Unemployment
734	COMMONS
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
Assistance, which at page 112, answers perhaps in a single word the question that the hon. member for Labetle has asked with respect to the English provisions:
(1) Ar. insured contributor who is between the .ages of sixteen and sixty-five years and is unemployed shall, if he proves that the statutory conditions are fulfilled in his case, and if he is not disqualified under the Unemployment Insurance Acts for the receipt of benefit, be entitled, subject to the provisions of those acts, to receive in a benefit year, benefitso and so and so. I shall not take up time in reading it all.
In Canada we have followed the same principle, and the contributions, we are informed by the actuaries, will produce the benefits provided.
It will be observed that there is also a provision whereby the person who is continuously employed and who later finds himself out of employment may be entitled to additional benefits. That is, by his contributions he has earned additional benefits under the provisions of the statute. His good record of employment, so to speak, has operated to increase for him the number of payments that he is entitled to receive under the statute.
I have indicated what benefits are paid, and the next question to ask is this: What are the conditions under which benefits are to be received? Just as in the case of accident insurance one has to ask oneself, looking at the policy, what the conditions are under which benefits are received in the event of suffering accident, so in the event of suffering unemployment we must ask whether or not the conditions imposed by the statutory policy have been complied with. They will be found in section 20 of the bill. It is provided first- of all that contributions for not less than forty full weeks-exclusive of any unemployed days for which he is entitled to a refund of contributions paid by him-shall have been paid in respect of him while employed in insurable employment during a period not exceeding two years immediately preceding the date on which a claim for benefit is made. Secondly, he must have made application for unemployment benefit in the prescribed manner, proving that since the date of the application he has been continuously unemployed. And in the third place, he must show that he is capable of and available for work but is unable to obtain suitable employment. There must be a combination of these three factors to enable him to become a recipient of benefits under the policy he has. The details I do not propose to amplify on the second 
reading of the bill because they are rather numerous and it will take some time to deal with them.
I have thus stated, without going into a mass of details, the conditions under which benefits accrue or attach to the insured person; the sum he is entitled to receive per week for payment of premiums he has made; and the conditions under which and the period for which he will receive benefits. The next point is: How will his claim be settled? The provisions for settlement of the claim are set out in the act, so that the claim can be settled on the spot locally by the insurance officers.
Then there is provision with respect to a board of referees and ultimately the umpire. There is a provision here, to which the trades and labour council indicated the other day they were opposed, for appeal to the exchequer court, not for the purpose of determining the amount to be paid, but questions of law that may arise as to the status of a person under the act. If it is thought desirable when the bill is in committee that such a provision should not be made, I am quite content; but it is placed in the bill in order to ensure judicial interpretation, if doubt arises, as to the insurability of any one affected by the measure. Sometimes judicial determination of the meaning of a section becomes of the utmost importance to maintain uniformity in the interpretation of any measure. I remember that once in my more youthful days, when visiting London, I heard argued in tihe House of Lords a case that involved a small sum of money, but it was important from the point of view of determining the meaning of a statute in order that it might be applied to all cases that might arise; and the acute differences of judicial opinion made apparent to me at once the necessity for judicial interpretation, which sometimes is highly desirable in dealing with certain matters. The provision is inserted in the statute to enable judicial interpretation by the exchequer court to be obtained. If the house in committee thinks it undesirable to pursue that course, it is quite satisfactory, so far as we are concerned, that it should not be proceeded with.
The provisions with respect to settlement of claim will be found in section 27 and succeeding sections of the act. There is one other provision contained in this bill which I think is of very great importance. It is one which in a measure we have acted upon since
1919-20-that is, the setting up and maintenance in efficiency of unemployment exchanges. Obviously, in a country of great distances such as this, it is difficult if not

Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
impossible to move labour, notwithstanding the fact that the hon. gentleman from Lisgar (Mr. Brown) said that one might be in Halifax to-day and in Vancouver to-morrow. It is not easy to move labour from one part of Canada to another, though it is not difficult to shift it from one part of a province to another; and the maintenance of labour exchanges throughout the country is therefore one of the most important provisions of this legislation. It is intended thereby to ensure that where there is a surplus of labour at one point and a deficit of labour at another, the surplus labour may be made available for supplying the point at which there is a deficit. In my judgment, a complete exchange system in this country will be of the utmost value. I do not desire in any sense to overestimate it. It will be necessary to subdivide the country. Just as in 'England, Scotland and Wales, with a population of forty millions, there are seven divisions in connection with labour exchanges, so there will have to be divisions here; though in a country such as Canada, where distances are great, it will be for the commission to determine what is a reasonable number. I do not think that as large a number as seven is at all necessary or desirable; but that these labour exchanges can and will discharge a most useful and salutary service goes, I think, almost without saying.


Will they interfere with provincial services?


I was going to ask whether this was intended to supersede the offices now in existence in the various towns.


After four years.


Someone suggests four years. If the hon. gentleman had been through the four years I have been through, he would not be talking about anything other than the conditions that obtained during those four years.
I might make it clear that if during the years preceding 1930, from 1922 to 1928 or 1929, we had had a measure such as this, we would by reason of the conditions prevailing in a new country as distinguished from an old, have an entirely different situation from that which we find in an older civilization. I need hardly point out to every hon. member that in a new country with the development of its resources, with employment steadily mounting and increasing, the contributions would also have been mounting and becoming greater and as the claims upon the fund would be fewer because of increased occupation, the surplus which would have developed would have been very
736	COMMONS
Unemployment Insurance-Mr. Bennett
considerable. But we have faced a situation in which we have paid out very large sums of money for the purpose of assisting the provinces in the discharge of their obligations. Through the provinces we have assisted the municipalities and there has been no fund from which the unemployed have been able to draw excepting by way of relief. I repeat: this measure is not submitted as a relief measure; it is submitted as an earnest effort on the part of the government to provide machinery whereby the condition which has obtained will not again prevail, that such measures as those which have been taken in other countries to meet the situation to which I have referred will be available in Canada, and that by the joint efforts of indvidual workmen, their employers and the state, a condition will be created that will make it impossible to have a recurrence in this country of what we passed through during the last four years. It is for that reason this measure is submitted to the house and without detailing it at greater length I invite in committee a careful scrutiny of its provisions and an examination of its sections so that by constructive efforts made by members on either side we may be able to ensure that the legislation meets the conditions with which we are faced and will be able, as I say, to prevent the recurrence in this country of the sad conditions through which we have passed during the last few years.


Mr. Speaker,
the bill which is now before us for second reading is entitled:
An act to establish an employment and social insurance commission, to provide for a national employment service, for insurance against unemployment, for aid to unemployed persons, and for other forms of social insurance and security, and for purposes related thereto.
I should like my first word to be that with respect to the principle underlying social insurance, I am most heartily in accord. I would like also in particular to say that I am heartily in favour of the principle underlying a national system of unemployment insurance. The Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) in the concluding part of his remarks asked why it was that we had not introduced a similar measure some years ago, or rather he put it in a more pointed way, so far as hon. gentlemen on this side are concerned, when he said that, if we had placed an unemployment insurance measure on the statutes some time between 1922 and 1928 or 1929, he would not have had to be meeting the difficulties of the present situation. I

shall take advantage of the Prime Minister's remarks in that connection to place before the house the situation with which the Liberal administration was confronted when it came into offic