Mr. G. D. STANLEY (East Calgary) presented the first report of the select standing committee on industrial and international relations, as follows:
That five hundred copies in English and two hundred copies in French of the minutes of its proceedings, and of the evidence to be taken before it, together with papers and records to be incorporated with such evidence, be printed from day to day; and that standing order 64 be suspended in relation thereto.
Mr. STANLEY moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
price spreads and mass buying
['1. (Soldier\tSettlement of\tCanada)-\nSoldier settlers\t\t\t.. .. 10,892\nCivilian purchasers.. .\t\t.. .. 5,783\nBritish\tfamily settlers.\t. .. 2,077\nRepaid loans\t\t\t.. .. 2,792\n\t\t21,544\n2. 25,000.\t\t\n\tInvestigations\t\nGeneral land\tfor other\tTotal\nsettlement\tdepts.\t\n$288,133 43\t\tSI.300,327 55\n213,000 00\t\t1,035,474 51\n213,000 00\t$18,000 00\t818,325 27243,000 00\t28,000 00\t740,692 80', 'Fraser River Salmon Fishery\n4.\nFiscal year\tAmount\n1930-\t31\t\n$2,379,845\t701931-\t32\t\n1,765,663\t691932-\t33\t\n1,338,725\t841933-\t34\t\n1,492,124\t36']
Had the Prime Minister seen or was he aware of the contents of the pamphlet entitled "Price Spreads and Mass Buying" issued on July the 27th. 1934, by the Hon. H. H. Stevens, at the time Minister of Trade and Commerce, before it was released for distribution?


The answer to this question is no, if the words "released for distribution" are used in their ordinary sense; that is, that there were copies of the pamphlet in question in circulation. If, therefore, the words "released for distribution" mean that copies were in circulation, I understand a limited number were, the answer is no.


What is the amount of all charges collected by the government for assaying, refining or any other charge or fee collected from the producers of gold, during the calendar year 1934?


The amount collected to cover the cost of melting, assaying, refining and handling, was $337,53321.
3.
Fiscal	Soldier land
year	settlement
1930-31			 81,012,194 12
1931-32			 822,474 51
1932-33			 587,325 27
1933-34			 469,692 80
WHEAT SHIPMENTS VIA UNITED STATES PORTS*


Has there been any understanding arrived at between the governments of Great Britain and Canada, since the Ottawa conference, to the effect that wheat going via American ports should not be accorded the preference?


This question as framed would seem to indicate that there was necessity for some understanding with reference to the matter referred to. The truth is that all that was necessary under the provisions of the British regulations was that there should be a through transit indicated by the documents accompanying shipments to show that the country of origin was Canada if the grain in question went through the port of New York or any other United States port. So that there is no question of understanding. But I make that statement in order that there may be no difficulty.


If the Prime Minister reads the speech of the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Hanson) he will see the reason I asked the question.


I only answered the question according to the facts. I know of nothing else.


1.	How many soldier settlers remain in occupation of land's under the soldier settlement scheme as at January 1, 1935?
2.	What was the largest number of settlers occupying land under the scheme?
3.	What are the total expenses of the soldier settlement board for the years 1931, 1932, 1933 and 1934?
4.	What are the total collections for the years 1931, 1932, 1933 and 1934?


1. (Soldier	Settlement of	Canada)-
Soldier settlers			.. .. 10,892
Civilian purchasers.. .		.. .. 5,783
British	family settlers.	. .. 2,077
Repaid loans			.. .. 2,792
		21,544
2. 25,000.		
	Investigations	
General land	for other	Total
settlement	depts.	
$288,133 43		SI.300,327 55
213,000 00		1,035,474 51
213,000 00	$18,000 00	818,325 27243,000 00	28,000 00	740,692 80

Fraser River Salmon Fishery
4.
Fiscal year	Amount
1930-	31	
$2,379,845	701931-	32	
1,765,663	691932-	33	
1,338,725	841933-	34	
1,492,124	36


1.	What was the total number of relief camps in Canada and in each province on January 31, 1935?
2.	What was the total number of men employed in each of said camps by provinces, on January 31, 1935?


Return tabled herewith.


1.	Were any appointments made to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in the province of Nova Scotia during the years 1933 and 1934?
2.	If so, what are the names of those appointed during each of the said years?


What are the names and addresses of the registrars appointed by the federal government in the province of Alberta under the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act?


Return tabled herewith.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau). It is based on a front page article which appeared on Tuesday in the Toronto Telegram, to the effect that the government proposes to abolish the radio commission and to abandon the field of radio broadcasting entirely to private enterprise. I should like to know whether there is any truth in the report.


If one were called upon in this house to answer every statement made as to what is contemplated by the government one would be constantly engaged in answering questions, not transacting the business of parliament. As far as I know there is no warrant for the statement in question.


You ought to know.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question to direct to the Acting Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Stirling). Has the attention of the minister been drawn to the announcement made recently in the speech from the throne at Victoria that a reserve for power purposes has been placed on the waters of the Fraser river between Lytton and Ques-nel? If so, is the government taking steps to see that the salmon industry is protected, and that no rights are given that would interfere with the spawning of the fish in that river?


The hon. member was good enough to give me notice that he desired to ask a question of this nature. The attention of the department has not been particularly drawn to the matter to which he refers, but in November last the provincial Minister of Lands of British Columbia did write to the Acting Minister of Fisheries explaining that the portion of the Fraser river between Lillooet and Quesnel had been reserved by the lieutenant-governor in council for power purposes. It does not necessarily follow that a dam will be built there. But I draw his attention to the fact that authority for the building of dams across non-navigable waters comes within the purview of the province. The only authority we have under the Fisheries Act is when a dam is being built, or afterwards, to require the construction of a durable and efficient fishway which must be built and maintained by the owner or occupier, the place, form and capacity of which must be approved by the minister. If, however, the dam is of a character to make a fishway not feasible, then the minister may require the owner or occupier of such dam to pay him, from time to time, such sum or sums of money as may 'be required to construct, operate and maintain such complete hatchery establishment as will, in his opinion,, meet the requirements of maintaining the annual return of migratory fish.


On the orders of the day:
I desire to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Weir) arising out of a report appearing in the newspapers the last day or two with regard to the bonus that is being given to cattle raisers in Great Britain. I see by the statement that the arrangement is to be continued limiting dominion shippers
Price Spreads

to no more than the average shipments for the corresponding quarter of the past three years. That I take it is the quarter commencing April 1. I would ask the minister what number has been shipped in each quarter commencing April 1, for the last three years, and to let us know whether this may mean a restriction this year below the number that were shipped last year?


The hon. member was good enough to give notice that he was going to ask this question. We were unable to get the imports for the corresponding period without cabling to the old land. All we have is our exports. The information I have is this; the suggested quota covering imports of beef, veal and pork into the United Kingdom from Canada for the second quarter of 1935 is:
Pounds
Beef and veal	 504,000
Pork	 472,640


On the orders of the day:
I
desire to ask the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) a question. In view of the fact that last year the special committee on railways and shipping did not convene until very late in the session, can he give the house any information as to when that committee will start to sit this year?


As a matter of fact I was speaking to
the whip yesterday in regard to the appointment of the committee. There is no use in the committee sitting until they have something with which to deal. The report of the Canadian National Railways never gets in until some time after the middle of March, and I have information that it will not be any earlier this year. There will be a bill shortly dealing with the estimates, and as soon as that is introduced probably we shall appoint the special committee; in other words as soon as it has something with which to deal.


On the orders of the day:
I would ask
the Prime Minister if he happens to have seen what appear to be inspired statements that have been appearing from time to time in the press, concerning what we may expect in the report of the price spreads and mass 
buying commission, their recommendations and the like. I know that the commission is a law unto itself, but it does seem to me that the matter is one that sufficiently affects the privileges of parliament for the Prime Minister to say a word about it.


I can only say to my right hon.
friend that the inspiration has not come from me. I have no knowledge of any terms of that report in any way. The commission is to report to the minister in charge of the Department of Trade and Commerce, the report to be laid before the governor ia council. It is not a parliamentary committee, although it was at first, and was continued by this parliament in the form of a commission. I suppose to that extent at Iea3t this parliament looks to it that the first knowledge that is given should at least come to the governor in council. In this case I am in exactly the same position as the right hon. gentleman; all I know of it is what I have seen in the press. As a matter of fact, when I was out of the city I picked up a newspaper and saw the statement as to what the recommendations were, and on inquiry upon my return I found that no report had been made, nor could I find the basis of the statements to which the right hon. gentleman has referred. I shall make further inquiry. But it is a commission reporting to the governor in council and not to this house or this parliament.


I assumed
that the Prime Minister would disapprove of the commission giving out any part of its report. Albeit it does not report to the house itself, it ought to make its report to the minister.


I wholly agree with what the right hon. gentleman has said, that any commission appointed by the governor in council should make its report to the governor in council and not give any public intimation of the contents of the report until the governor in council has had opportunity to release the report to the public.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. CAMERON R. MelNTOSH (North Battleford):	I have a question to direct to
the Minister of Labour (Mr. Gordon). It bears on the future economic and financial welfare of the soldier settlers throughout Canada. Amending legislation was introduced

Unemployment Insurance
in August, 1931, May, 1932, May, 1933 and June, 1934. May I inquire whether or not any amending measure will be presented to parliament this session?
Mr. Speaker, of course I cannot foretell what legislation may come before parliament. If necessity arises and it seems desirable I assume legislation will be introduced, but at the moment I think not.


On the orders of the day:
A Canadian press cable this morning states that the Hon. Mr. Runciman, president of the British Board of Trade, is to make a statement to the British house with regard to the agreement between Timber Distributors Limited and the Soviet government. It also indicates that the Canadian government has protested the agreement to the British government. Inasmuch as that statement will be made to the British house this afternoon could we also have some statement from the Prime Minister so that we can deal with the matter concurrently?


Mr. Speaker, I think on reflection the hon. gentleman will see that his question goes slightly too far. As I indicated the other day the position is that the Canadian government, through its high commissioner, had filed a protest against the inclusion of the fall clause in the contract between the Soviet union and Timber Distributors Limited. The result of that protest has not been made known to the government, and I am not in a position to make any further statement than that already made.


The house resumed from Tuesday. February 19, consideration in committee of Bill No. 8, to establish an unemployment and social insurance commission, to provide for a national employment service, for insurance against unemployment, for aid to unemployed persons, and for other forms of social insurance and security, and for purposes related thereto-Mr. Bennett-Mr. Morand in the chair.
On section 27 (as printed; now section 26) -Determination of questions by commission concerning the rights of persons and appeals to the exchequer court.
Perhaps before we proceed with this section I should answer certain questions that were asked the other day by the hon. member for Antigonish-Guyshorough (Mr. Duff). I have checked with the department of statistics, and the information is that the number of persons over ten years of age gainfully employed in fishing and trapping, according to the actual census figures of June 1, 1931, was 47,917, and the number of persons over ten years of age employed as wage earners in 1931 was 10,421. The explanation given is that on the form of question put by the census enumerator the large number to which the hon. gentleman referred indicated that they had a share or interest in the enterprise.


That is in fishing?


Yes, and they were not
employed in the sense in which that term was used by the census bureau. Therefoie the answer to the first question was that the total number of persons so emploj'ed was 47,917, according to the actual figures given on June 1, 1931, in answer to the request made by the census enumerators, but of those people only 10,421 were employed in the sense in which we have been using that term here.


Certainly there must be something wrong in the answers that have been supplied the Prime Minister by the census commissioner or the bureau of statistics. I hold in my hand the report of the Department of Fisheries for last year, signed by the acting minister, and on page 7 I read:
The total number of persons employed in the industry was 79,328, of whom 05,391 were engaged in catching the fish and 13,927 employed on shore in canneries and fish curing establishments.
The information given by the Prime Minister a moment ago differs from the information with which he was supplied previously.


No, it is the same.


It differs in one particular.
The only information he had previously was that there were only 10,421 people engaged in fishing and trapping. Now he gives us the figure of 47,917. I do not want to be critical because I realize that it is not the Prime Minister's mistake, hut I think what has happened is this. It will be noticed that
103S
Unemployment Insurance

the figure of 10,421 was for fishing and trapping. My belief is that the fishermen referred to here are those in connection with inland fisheries who are commonly known as the Izaak Waltons of the fishing industry; that is, the fishermen who fish by rod as compared with those who fish by net or line either in the great lakes or the ocean. It appears to me that they have classed them together; this number must refer to the men employed in trapping and in fishing by rod, not in the way we fish, by nets or lines, in the great lakes or in the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. It does not make very much difference; I think there is a mistake, and I think that is proven by the report of the Department of Fisheries which gives the number as 79,328. From my own experience I should think that figure would be more correct.


I expressed the point that the hon. gentleman has referred to, that the report of the department showed nearly 80,000. As far as I could ascertain that included all persons who were in any way associated with the industry, including those who were concerned with canning, curing and matters of that sort in addition to those actually engaged in fishing. The figure 10,421 is repeated in the statement given to me as being a correct indication of the exact number of persons who, on the first day of June, 1931, reported that they were employed as wage earners in fishing. I think the difference lies in the fact that we are dealing only with wage earners as distinguished from those who had either a partnership or a participating interest in the industry itself.


That is quite possible.


The Prime
Minister intimated that he hoped to be able to give me a statement as to the number of employees likely to be appointed under this measure, and also a more definite statement as to the cost. Has he been able to get any further particulars under those two heads?


That information is not
complete as yet. I do not propose to ask that the bill be taken out of committee until that information is available.
Paragraphs (a) to (d) inclusive agreed to.
On paragraph (e)-Proviso: appeal.


This is the section to
which I raised objection the other evening and the Prime Minister said he would permit it to stand so that both sides of the house could study it. I have not changed my opinion

in regard to submitting matters of this description to the courts. I believe that when questions of this character are taken to the courts invariably the workingman is at a distinct disadvantage, because the power and financial position of the employer permits him much easier access to the courts as well as the engagement of skilled counsel. I believe the commission itself should be the final court, but if an appeal is to be made to a court I believe that those making the appeal should appear in person rather than by counsel. I do not believe the employers should be placed in the position of being allowed to appeal from the decision of the commission, and to have counsel to represent them. I think they should be there personally to state their positions so that if necessary they might be cross-examined by the representatives of the workers. There have been many suggestions of appeal boards in connection with workmen's compensation, and t'he labourers of Canada have always opposed the institution of such boards because the worker would be at a distinct disadvantage and there would be brought into the administration of matters concerning workmen's compensation legal battles which in the judgment of the average working man would be to his distinct disadvantage. I should like to oppose sending appeals to the court, in the practical application of this measure.


As the hon. member
knows, in Great Britain it was thought desirable to provide for an appeal. His Majesty in council names a jmige who shall take the appeals under the employment insurance act. Usually, in practice, a member of the high court has been designated for that purpose. In this country however that would not be possible because it is not a unitary system of government, so far as the judges are concerned, and we might have varying decisions with respect to the same matter, a condition which would be unfortunate. Therefore we thought we were meeting the situation by providing for an appeal to the exchequer court.
A few days ago I listened with great interest to the statement made by the trades and labour council with respect to this matter, and I gathered that they were of the opinion that if the question of appeal were taken away under subsection (i) of the proviso, then the commission itself might refer to the court any question which was of sufficient importance to warrant a reference being made. I am rather inclined to think that that would meet the difficulty the hon. member has raised, and it seems to me it would be fair

Unemployment Insurance
to all parties. If that suggestion meets with his views we would accept an amendment to delete subparagraph (i) leaving it so that:
The commission may, if they think fit, instead of themselves deciding such question, refer the question for decision to the exchequer court.


I would move, in amendment, that subparagraph (i) be deleted.


Amendment agreed to.
Then the letters (ii) will be deleted, also.


May I ask the Prime Minister if under the measure there is an appeal from a ruling or decision of a regional board? I understand there are provisions for a regional board. If there are appeals, do they appeal to the commission, and will the decision of the commission be final?


If the hon. member has followed the provisions of the first part of section 27 he will observe that the first point to be determined is whether:
Any employment or any class of employment is or will be such employment as to make the person engaged therein an employed person within the meaning of this act, or whether a person is or was an employed person within the meaning of this act.
That goes to show whether or not the employed person is covered by the statute at all; the commission decides that. It is not a question for a regional board to decide or to deal with. Then we come to paragraph (b):
Whether a person or class of persons is or is not, or was or was not, a person or class of persons to whom a special or supplementary scheme under this act applies or applied.
I endeavoured to make clear the other day that that is one of the provisions that was found in section 20, and this is the section which confers upon the commission the exact power to deal with that point. Then we come to any question arising:
(c) As to who is or was the employer of any employed person.
The difficulty may arise when you have certain types of industry operating under the one roof. Then, subparagraph (d):
As to the rate of contribution payable under or in pursuance of this act by or in respect of any person or class of persons or as to the rates of contribution payable in respect of any employed person by the employer and that person respectively.
That is a question to be decided by the commission. So far as I am at present advised those are the only questions, except the matte '[DOT]s of operation and administration, with
which they have to deal-and not the appeals from regional bodies. The regional body determines with respect to some of the questions covered by regulations in a subsequent section, which probably the hon. member has read. But these questions are all to be settled by the commission. Then we have the question of appeal, which is now being deleted; but the commission may, if it is thought desirable, state a case. Then it will be observed that subsections 2, 3 and 4 determine the principles upon which the commission act. So that, so far as I can answer the question by memory, and having in mind my memory of the subsequent section, the answer would be no.


Would not the words "an appeal" in subsections 3 and 4 be deleted? I understand that the appeal provided in the former subparagraph (i) is being abolished. The Prime Minister will observe that in subsections 3 and 4 the expression "an appeal" appears. Strictly speaking, I believe if the appeal has been abolished, and there is only reference for a decision-


The hon. member is right.


The
words I have mentioned in subsections 3 and 4 should, I believe, be deleted.


Yes, the hon, member is quite right. We had not reached subsection (3), but we will deal with it. First, however, has the hon. member for Bow River any further questions?


Yes. The view expressed by the Prime Minister respecting paragraph (a), (b) and (c) of section 27 is very clear. Obviously the commission would decide in those, cases. I am not quite clear however as to the functions of the advisory board or the regional boards, if the commission itself is to set up the rate of contribution payable and to decide definitely in those matters. Further, I am not satisfied as to whether it will have the final say as to whether a worker was or was not employed. What are the functions of the regional boards? Are they simply to act as agents for the commission? Can an appeal be made to the commission from a decision of a regional board, in connection with these matters?


My answer to that was no, that the advisory board does not exist for the purpose of deciding in all these matters,
Unemployment Insurance

Its functions, as will be observed later, in the section establishing it, are entirely different. As to the regional board, it is what I might call a local or domestic body which exists for the purpose of dealing promptly with problem* arising within the region. So far as my memory goes there is no provision for appeal to the commission from a regional board. Rather, the regional board gives any information which may be obtained for the purpose of enabling a decision to be made on any local matters. The decisions are the decisions of the commission and not of the regional board. That is my recollection. However, as we proceed, if I find anything which will change my view I will point it out to the committee.
Then, with respect to subsection 3-


Before the Prime Minister proceeds to discuss that subsection I should like to make some observations. The Prime Minister proposes to strike out subparagraph (i), on the suggestion of the hon. member for East Hamilton (Mr. Mitchell). The object the hon. member had in mind, as I understood it, was that of shortening the procedure and preventing undue expense. It seems to me however that the procedure suggested by the Prime Minister will not have the effect of shortening the procedure, but will take away from the worker the privilege of appealing, and will leave the factors of expense and delay. The commission may refer questions for decision to the exchequer court, involving exactly the same delay as if the man himself had appealed. The exchequer court sits only at intervals, and it is 3,000 miles from the Pacific coast, there will be the same trouble and delay to the man, whether he or the commission appeals. I would respectfully suggest that the commission's decision in these matters-matters which after all are mostly of a personal nature, such as that of deciding whom a man's employer may be-[DOT] should be final. I would suggest that instead of saying as it does in paragraph (ii) that the commission may, instead of themselves deciding such question, refer it for decision to the exchequer court, it should be merely left in such a way that if there is any question of law on which the commission want guidance they can themselves refer it in a general way to the exchequer court. But questions of fact, such as whether Tom Jones is the employer of Bill Smith, should not be thrown into the delays of the exchequer court.

I would also point out that section 28 seems to provide a ready procedure for having any appeal and also what I would call a regulated sequence from one body to the other. So why is it necessary to have a sort of parallel procedure under section 27?


The question as to
whether or not under any circumstances there should be a judicial determination of any issue arising under this act is the question that has to be dealt with. I think it will probably be agreed by all the members of the committee that it is desirable for the purpose of removing doubt and maintaining uniformity that there should be a provision for a judicial determination of certain questions that create difficulties and sometimes are of great moment to the insured. We say that there shall be no appeal from the commission against any of its decisions, thereby meeting I thought the views which were expressed by the trades and labour council and the fears expressed by the hon. member for East Hamilton; that is, that the insured should not be put to the trouble and expense of having to deal with questions of litigation and the employment of counsel. But we do provide that the commission may, if they think fit, instead of themselves deciding such question, refer it for decision to the exchequer court.


That will put the man to the same expense as before in presenting his case before the exchequer court. It makes no difference whether the man initiates the appeal.


Very much difference, because in that case the commission would assign counsel, if they follow the usual practice, to argue the point, not on behalf of the commission, because the commission has not arrived at any decision, but the question to be decided is how the matter shall be decided. That is a question of law, not of fact.
Under clause 4 we provide that the governor in council may make regulations prescribing the procedure governing appeals under this section and those regulations should provide for limiting the time within which appeal or reference may be brought, and for the determination in a summary manner of any such appeals or references and for requiring notice of any such appeals to be given to the commission. The commission merely makes a reference and I would assume that the course usually followed would be followed in this case; that is, that counsel would argue, not on behalf of one class or the other but as to what should be the interpretation of the law.

Unemployment Insurance


That would entirely meet my ideas if it were on a question of law, but when it is a question as who is or was the employer of such and such an employee, is not that a question of fact?


I am sorry it is not. It is a question of law.


As to whether I employed Bill Jones on a certain day or at a certain period?


It might be a mixed question of law and of fact, but ultimately on the facts it would be a question of law.


It might be either.


In a bill of this kind I think it is desirable to get away from the court if we possibly can. I think that in a large number of years of experience in the administration of workmen's compensation law it has been found on all sides that it is a desirable thing that the board in charge of the administration of workmen's compensation legislation should always give the final decision, and the board's decisions have usually been accepted by all parties to the case. Now if we are going to appoint a commission which I presume will be comprised of very capable men, I myself would be quite content to allow the commission to be appointed to take full responsibility for the administration of the act, for if we are going to have beyond this proposed commission the exchequer court which is going to give interpretations of law, and possibly decide questions of fact as well, I can see that it is quite possible that the commission as a matter of shelving their responsibility may be only too anxious to pass it on to the exchequer court. So if it were possible I would far sooner see the principle adopted in this act that has been adopted in practically all workmen's compensation acts, and make the commission entirely responsible for the whole administration of this act.
Mr. MacINNIlS: I wish to concur in everything that has 'been said by my hon. friend from North Winnipeg (Mr. Heaps). One member of the commission is to be appointed after consultation with the employers, and another member after consultation with employees or employee organizations. That being the case, the point of view of the two classes is represented. But if there is to be an appeal to the court, although it is generally accepted that the courts of this country are eminently fair, yet after all the employees will feel that they have no particular representative in the courts, and for that 92582-66
reason I am sure it would be much better to leave the final decision except on points of law with the commission. I am sure that that would be much more satisfactory to the employees. As has been pointed out by the hon. member for North Winnipeg many attempts have been made in the past to secure appeals from decisions of workmen's compensation boards, and these have always been opposed by the workers. They have been willing rather to have the compensation board, whether they are composed of men with or without legal training, make the final decision in every case.


Paragraph
(ii) which still remains in the bill reads:
The commission may, if they think fit, instead of themselves deciding such question, refer the question for decision to the exchequer court.
Since we have deleted paragraph (i) it is very clear that the only appellants to the exchequer court under the provisions of this bill will now be the commission itself, and there is a danger that that provision may be misunderstood or misrepresented. I think for the sake of the commission, as well as for the sake of the operation of the act it would be just as well if there were no appeal rather than leave it on a one-sided basis like this because the power of the commission to refer the question for decision to the exchequer murt really means that they have power to pass the buck to the exchequer court, and there is no doubt whatever that there will be the greatest temptation in the event of conflict between employer and employee to do just that very thing and escape responsibility. I believe that hon. members who represent labour distinctly in this house have raised a mighty good point, and that all appeals to the exchequer court should be eliminated.


As the act as printed came to the house it provided that either party aggrieved might make an appeal. The hon. member for Bow River is in error in suggesting that as it n-ow stands, the committee having deleted paragraph (i), the commission would 'be the appellant. It is to prevent that, that the section reads as it does. It is not an appeal that is taken; it is the statement of a case for the opinion of the court. Under our Summary Jurisdiction Act magistrates have the right to state a case of law for the opinion of the court, and that is frequently done.



Unemployment Insurance


On request, is it not?


Yes, on request, and sometimes I think they have the right to exercise their own judgment in the matter. But the question that is at issue is whether there shall be a judicial interpretation of the legal implications of this act. To say that there should not be because there is not in the workmen's compensation acts is to overlook the fact that in many cases actions may be brought for damages regardless of the workmen's compensation act, and in that connection you still have litigation against corporations carried in many instances to the court of last resort to have determination of the law. It would seem to me, if there is any doubt about this provision being against the interests of the workmen, that we might do this. In paragraph (ii) we say that the commission may, if they think fit, instead Of themselves deciding such question, refer the question for decision to the exchequer court. He might rewrite that and provide that the commission may refer any question of law for the decision of the exchequer court. That would obviate any difficulty such as that to which the hon. gentlemen have referred. I think the commission should be able to determine any question of fact as well as any other body in the world. If the hon. gentleman will let the rest of that subsection stand I will redraft it and provide that it shall apply only to a question of law, and then the commission themselves will decide whether or not that question of law is of sufficient importance to be referred' to the exchequer court for an opinion. That will relieve the workman of having to argue the case either as appellant or as respondent, placing the onus on the commission of bringing to the attention of the exchequer court the point of law at issue, and leaving it to the court to decide what it may be. There is no appellant involved when there is a reference to the court.


I suggest that subsections 3 and 4 stand.


Yes.


Has the Prime Minister
considered the question of costs before the exchequer court? I know it is a somewhat luxurious court.


In fact, the hon. gentleman knows it indicates that.


Well, that is a euphemistic
way of putting it. If the question arose as to thp payment of costs by the insured it

would be a case of the game not being worth the candle, because the amount involved in these insurance matters is usually small compared to the costs in a court of that kind, which usually sits in Ottawa where expensive counsel are engaged as a rule, and so on. It does seem to me that if the case is to go to the exchequer court some provision should be made whereby the commission in its quality as such should bear the costs, and not the parties involved.


That is exactly the position in which it stands at the moment. The hon. gentleman did not perhaps follow the discussion that has taken place. We have eliminated the appeal of either party and have provided that the commission may state a case in law, if there is such, for determination by the court, which of course involves the commission presenting a case to the court. No costs can, be awarded against anyone, and if it is thought desirable by any body of employees that they should be represented, of course the court always provides that they can be heard. As it stands, the very difficulty *which the hon. gentleman properly points out will be met. I agree with him, although I have not had the same experience in the luxury of that court which the hon. gentleman has had.


I suggest that when the
Prime Minister reconsiders these clauses the question should be considered whether it would not be wise to abolish all appeals beyond the commission. I say that for this reason. The moment you start to refer questions of law to the exchequer court and questions of fact to the commission there will arise a fine distinction as to what is law and what is fact, and sometimes the line of demarcation is so thin that it is hard to determine which is the one and which the other. There is one other question I would refer to and that is as regards the workmen's compensation act where individuals still have the right to resort to the common law. But it is also a fact that when a person entitled to compensation for injuries sustained resorts to the common law he forfeits all rights through the workmen's compensation act. That is embodied in all the acts. What I wish to impress upon the Prime Minister however is the desirability, when he reconsiders these clauses, of considering the question, after consultation with those who are responsible for the drafting of the bill, of abolishing all appeals beyond the proposed commission.

Unemployment Insurance


I am sorry I cannot
adopt that view. There are three parties to the creation of this fund. It is a national fund created by contributions, enforced by this statute, from the employer, the employee and the- state; and on a question of law, involving the question of liability, it is desirable that there should be a determination of that question of law in some instances by a judicial tribunal. In England there has been no modification of that feature since 1920, so far as I can find, and I speak subject to correction; I see no notice given in any of the books of any complaints made with respect thereto. The provision in England is that the question may be decided on appeal by the high court, or that the minister may refer it to the high court, and the other subsections in the English act are provisions that are incorporated in our act except with respect to the terminology that is to be used in dealing with the question of jurisdiction in England as compared with Canada. I cannot conceive that any difficulty could arise or any injustice be done to those- who are interested in the proper administration of the act; and now, having removed the possibility of appeal, it seems to me that we have placed the matter on a basis on which every citizen has a right and the state has a right to have the words that are used in the statute judicially interpreted for the purpose of determining exactly what they mean in their context and with relation to other parts of the bill. I am sorry I cannot accept the suggestion of the hon. gentleman, but I think I have gone a very long way in meeting his views by limiting it to a stated case on a point of law.
Section stands.
On section 28 (as printed; now section 27)- Insurance officers.


It seems to me there is no
provision made for paying the insurance officers.


That is covered.


Section 29, subsection 5,
provides that the commission may pay such remuneration to the chairman and other members of a court of referees, and such other expenses, and so on; but I see nowhere any provision that the insurance officers shall be paid. These people are not appointed by the civil service commission and they do not come under section 8.
925S2-661


The hon. gentleman has overlooked the provision that the commission may employ such officers and clerks as may be necessary.


That is section 8, which
provides that such persons shall be under the civil service commission, but these men are not.


They do not all have
to be under the civil service commission. Section 8, subsection (2) provides:
For the purposes of any investigation, or for any other purpose of this act, the commission may, subject to the approval of the governor in council, from time to time temporarily employ such persons of technical and professional attainments as the commission may deem necessary.


But these insurance officers
,vill not be temporary. They will not be employed by the commission. This section which we are now considering provides that the commission may in each regional division employ such number of persons as the governor in council may approve, to be insurance officers for such division. I submit that they do not come under section 8.


It would not be necessary to provide specifically for their being paid because the act makes such provision, however, if there is any doubt we can look into it.


Has any estimate been made of the number of insurance officers that will be required?


That has not been done
yet.
Subsection (1) agreed to.
Subsection (2) agreed to.
On subsection (3)-Umpires, and deputy umpires.


Is there one umpire or
more than one?


It is provided in subsection (3) that the governor in council may, from amongst the judges of the exchequer court of Canada and of the superior courts of the provinces, designate an umpire and such number of deputy umpires as may be deemed necessary. There will be one umpire and such deputy umpires as may be necessary for the purposes of the act. This is taken largely from section 12 of the English act of 1920.
Unemployment Insurance

Mr. MeINTOSH:	Will there be one umpire for each regional section or for the whole of Canada?


One for each regional
section.


Is it necessary to have a
distinction made between umpire and deputy umpire? There does not seem to be a distinction between the duties of the umpire and the deputies.


As the hon. gentleman
knows, the precaution is taken to provide that in case an umpire is ill he may remain an umpire and a deputy umpire would act. We have such a provision in every office from the highest down to offices of much less distinction in the state. It is always desirable to make provision for maintenance of continuity. A man might not be so ill as to necessitate the relinquishment of his duties, but on the other hand it is desirable to have someone act as deputy during the time he is temporarily incapacitated. That is the general rule.


I could understand that, if
the provision were for appointing a number of umpires. But the governor in council is to designate an umpire-that means one- and such number of deputy umpires as may be deemed necessary, if the deputy umpires have to do certain duties and then a report lies from them to the umpire, I could understand the situation, but there is no provision for the umpire doing anything different from the ordinary duties of the deputy umpires. It would seem that the office of the deputy umpire is not necessary. Why not say:
Designate such number of umpires.


The only explanation I can give, having reference to the English act, is that this is done for the purposes indicated:
The governor in council may, from amongst the judges of the exchequer court of Canada and of the superior courts of the provinces of Canada, designate an umpire and such number of deputy umpires as the governor in council may deem necessary for the purposes of this act, and, subject to the provisions of this act, may prescribe their jurisdiction.
This bill as it stands at the moment, copied from the provisions of the English act, provides for three separate estates in considering claims: the insurance officers; the courts of referees and the umpire. To that extent it follows the general provision of the English act. The number of insurance officers rests with the governor in council depending upon the necessities of the case, and the appointments rest with the commission. That is
CMr. Bennett.l
a case in which the commission makes the appointments. It is the intention that there should be at least one insurance officer at each employment office, one or more at each divisional office, with of course the staff that has to be maintained at the capital where the commission will reside.	This staff and
machinery we confidently believe will provide uniformity of practice and procedure in dealing with cases and claims that may come, so that we may have the same sort of practice in British Columbia as we have in Nova Scotia. If there is any doubt about the matter-I have looked at the English act and I have looked at my own notes with respect to it-the clause may stand, and if on looking into the matter further there seems to be any necessity for clarification, I shall see that the necessary steps are taken.


What is the difference
between the duties of the umpire and those of the deputy umpire?


None whatever.


Then, why would it not
do just to say:
Designate such number of umpires.


That is what the hon.
member for Comox-Alberni has just been saying, and I said that it follows the English act of 1920, section 12, which provides for the appointment of one or more deputy umpires. Presumably the draftsman has taken that from that section, as my notes indicate. The clause may stand and if there is any reason for change that I have not seen, I will redraft the clause.
Section 28 (now section 27) subsection 3 stands; remainder of section agreed to.
On section 29 (as printed; now section 28) subsection (1)-Court of referees.


How
many courts will there be? Will there be one in each divisional area or one central court?
Mr. BEN'NETT:	Necessity is usually the
governing factor with respect to that. The provisions of the measure are broad enough to permit of the widest possible establishment of courts to enable claims to be dealt with without delay and on the spot so to speak. I use the term "on the spot" in its proper sense.


These courts of referees will not be a permanent body; they will be appointed from time to time as the occasion warrants. Am I correct in that interpretation?

Unemployment Insurance


I would think the bill as it now stands does not contemplate the changing of the courts of referees as one proceeds; they will have to deal only with cases as they arise. The clause reads:
A court of referees for the purposes of this act shall consist of one or more members chosen to represent employers, with an equal number of members chosen to represent insured contributors, and a chairman appointed as provided in the next preceding section of this act.
That is to enable them to deal with cases that may come before them under the provisions of the measure. I do not think their duties will cease when they have dealt with the number of cases immediately before them, but they will be a continuing body.


Will it be a travelling court that will move around from point to point?


I explained some days
ago that the bill contemplated dividing the country into districts and within the districts are established facilities to enable cases to be handled with the greatest promptitude and the least possible delay. If it were less expensive for the court to go to a point where there was a considerable number of cases, the court could do so. There is no limitation on their doing so. That is the shortest way to put the matter.


Am I right in assuming that under the clause there would be a chairman of the court of reference for each divisional district, but there may be as many courts set up in various districts as circumstances require?


That is what I was trying to say.
Subsection (1), agreed to.
On subsection (2)-Panels of members of courts of referees.


What will be the procedure for selecting the panels?


Once more I would say, having regard to the practice in Great Britain, if a court of referees were fully engaged at one spot, the procedure would be that you would take from the panel an additional number for the purpose of setting up another court to deal with problems that might arise there.


But as to the constitution of
the panels them