That the petition of Isabella H. Sadler Rice, presented on the 14th ultimo, praying for a bill of divorce from James Bedford Rice, together with the report of the clerk of petitions thereon, be referred to the standing committee on standing orders for the purpose of considering the suspension of standing orders 92 and 93 (3) (a) and (c) in relation thereof.


Motion agreed to.
Right Hon. Sir GEORGE PERLEY (Acting Prime Minister) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 60 respecting radio broadcasting.
Explain.


This bill has one section only and provides for the extension of the life and the powers of the radio commission for a couple of months in order that this matter may be dealt with more fully upon our return.


Mr. Speaker, this might be an appropriate moment to refer again to the designation of the introducer of this bill. This bill appears on the order paper in the name of the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) and my right hon. friend who has just introduced the bill (Sir George Perley) is either the Prime Minister or the acting Prime Minister, he cannot be both. I see no reason why bills should not appear on the order paper in the name of whoever may be the acting Prime Minister if he is responsible for the measure so that the records may be complete. I looked up the votes and proceedings of the house to see what had been done in 1919 when Sir Robert Borden was unfortunately indisposed and unable to be present in the house for a time. Sir George Foster was the acting Prime Minister at the time and I notice that bills and resolutions were introduced in Sir George's name when he was the acting Prime Minister. It may be the modesty of my right hon. friend which has caused him to omit putting in his own name when acting as Prime Minister, I have no doubt he has been appointed acting Prime Minister by order in council of the cabinet and that he is the acting Prime Minister. Measures that are brought in by my right hon. friend should be in his name. Further on, on the order paper, we have a notice for adjournment and it again is in the name of the Prime Minister. My right hon. friend did tell us the other day that the Prime Minister was keeping in touch with matters in the house, but I submit that that is not sufficient. The procedure with respect to public measures where it is of permanent record should not be designated otherwise than as is strictly accurate. I mention this again though I do not want to make any particular point of it except to see that the proceedings of parliament and particularly of this house are kept and of record in the regular way.


I have no particular objection to what my right hon. friend says except that when he accuses me of undue modesty he is making a great mistake.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Bill No. 57, for the relief of Albertine Roberte Montpellier de Beaujeu-Mr. Bell (St. Antoine).
Hon. ALFRED DURANLEAU (Minister of Marine) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 61, to amend the New Westminster Harbour Commissioners Act.
Explain.
Soldier Settlement Act


The object of this bill is to empower She governor in council to determine a remuneration for the harbour commissioners of New Westminster for their services out of the revenue of the harbour. Hitherto the commissioners have served without remuneration and the business has been increasing every year since their incorporation. During the year 1934 they have made a splendid showing. They have met their operating expenses, the interest on debentures both to the public and the government, and they had a surplus of many thousands of dollars. I have not the particulars here but when the bill is in committee I will give the exact figures.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. W. A. GORDON (Minister of Labour) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 62, to amend the Soldier Settlement Act.
Explain.


Strictly spealdng, and in
order to keep the record correct, this bill should not be in the name of the Minister of Labour but rather in the name of the acting Minister of Immigration and Colonization. The bill is designed to make permanent employees of the Department of Soldier Settlement Board. I think it is pretty well known to all members of the house that the employees of this department have always been deemed to be temporary, and the department has been functioning now for some sixteen years. In the last few years the department has taken on a great many duties with which formerly it had nothing to do-duties which will undoubtedly continue for many years to come. Their work has been, I think, highly satisfactory and it is my view and the view of the government that the time has come when these employees should be made permanent and given a chance to enjoy the benefits of the Superannuation Act.


Is it also
proposed to put them under the operation of the Civil Service Act?


Yes.


How
many are affected?


A good many of us are
interested in this matter, and in order that we may the better discuss this bill when the time comes I would ask the minister to furnish the house at the appropriate time with answers to the following questions:	1. What

are the names of the employees of the soldier settlement board who have been dismissed or removed from office since the present government came into office, giving positions held, salaries paid and where employed? 2. What are the names of the employees in this department who have been engaged since this government came into office, giving positions they hold, salaries paid, and where located? 3. Who made the survey in connection with the department and on whose recommendation were the dismissals and appointments made? The house will be better able to discuss the matter if the minister gives us this information at the proper time.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Will any announcement be made by the government before the close of this session as to the present position of negotiations between the government of Canada and the government of the United States regarding the proposed treaty (a) as to the St. Lawrence waterway;
(b)	as to a treaty to preserve the scenic beauties of Niagara falls?


Perhaps I might be allowed to answer this question orally. It is impossible at the present time to give an answer to the question asked by the horn, gentleman, but I hope we shall be able to speak more definitely when the house reassembles after the adjournment.


Mr. VEiNIOT:
1.	Who was in charge of patrol boat Bebee when she was ordered from Halifax to patrol work in New Brunswick in 1933?
2.	How long did the captain, then in charge, remain in charge of said boat?
3.	If any change took place in the position of captain, when did such change take place, and' why was the change made?
4.	Who was in charge during the season of 1934?
1.	Gwyn WTlliam Pritchard Jones.
2.	From April 24, 1933, to June 22, 1933.
3.	Reginald Ray Kennedy was appointed coxswain of the 'Bebee on July 3, 1933, and actually took charge of the boat on July 5, 1933. Gwyn. William Pritchard Jones was discharged for cause.
4.	Reginal Ray Kenney.

Questions
BOARD OF RAILWAY COMMISSIONERS*


1.	Have any instructions been issued to the board of railway commissioners instructing them to revise or change or review the present railway freight structure in Canada or portions thereof?
2.	If so, does any such order cover the railway rates existing between British Columbia and the other provinces?
3.	If not, is the government considering issuing such an order to the board of railway commissioners as suggested by the hon. the Prime Minister, and will any such instructions include the railway rates on grain and grain products for use in the province of British Columbia from the three prairie provinces?


I think I can answer this question orally. No instructions have been issued to the board o<f railway commissioners to revise or change or review the present railway freight structure. The whole matter is under consideration.


1.	Were tenders called for repainting and interior decoration of post office at Granby, September, 1934?
2.	What is the name of the lowest tenderer and' what was his price?
3.	Who got the contract and at what price?
4.	Was a clerk of works appointed and who was he?


1.	Is Miss A. M. Bouchard, analyst, seed division, Department of Agriculture, Montreal, permanently employed?
2.	If so, since what date?
3.	Who signed her recommendation to the department and what members of the Civil Service Commission approved of same?
4.	How many days of sick leave did such person take since June 1, 1934?


Return tabled herewith.


1.	What percentage of interest has the Canadian government paid and still pays for the amount spent for the building of a Canadian legation in Tokyo?
2.	What was the percentage of interest of the last issue of dominion bonds?


Return tabled herewith.


Mr. MoGIBBON:
1.	Up to and including December 31, 1934:
(a)	What was the total capital cost of the Canadian government railways?
(b)	What was the total amount of cash loans to the Canadian National Railways for capital expenditures?
(c)	WThat was the total amount of cash loans to the Canadian National Railways for refunding and retirement of its obligations due the public?
(d)	What was the total amount of cash loans to the Canadian National Railways for deficits?
(e)	What was the total amount of contributions to the Canadian government Railways for cash deficits which have been absorbed in consolidated revenue fund?
(f)	What was the total amount of contributions to the Canadian National Railways for cash deficits of eastern lines which have been absorbed in consolidated revenue fund?
(g)	What was the total amount of contributions to the Canadian National Railways for other cash deficits which have been absorbed in consolidated revenue fund?
(h)	What was the total amount of interest absorbed by the government in the consolidated revenue fund on account of money spent for items (a) to (g) inclusive?
2.	(a) What was the amount of cash deficit of the eastern lines for the year 1934, which was absorbed by the government in the consolidated revenue fund?
(b)	What was the amount of remaining deficit of Canadian National Railway system for the year 1934 which was so absorbed?
(c)	What was the amount of interest absorbed by the government in the consolidated revenue fund during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1935, on account of money spent for items detailed in classes (a) to (g) inclusive, of question 1?
3.	What was the amount of non-cash items of Canadian National Railways not taken up by the government for the year 1934 and what were the principal items?
4.	What was the amount of non-cash items of the Canadian National West Indies Steamships not taken up by the government for the year 1934 and what were the principal items?
Questions
st. john's, que., unemployment belief camp
1.	How many unemployed were admitted to the unemployed relief camp at Saint-John's, from November 1, 1933, to March 1, 1935?
2.	How many were dismissed from such camp?
3.	In each case, who recommended such unemployed ?
4.	Were some of them employed on construction work on the grounds of the Saint-John's barracks?
5.	Was the wage paid in excess of 20 cents per day?
6.	If so, what are the names of the persons so employed, their occupation and their hourly rate of pay?
7.	After the completion of such works, did they return to the camp as unemployed at 20 cents per day?
st. John's, que., militaby school


1.	Who supplied the materials for all the works carried' out at the military school at Saint-John's, and any other _ building erected on the grounds of the military school (a) cement; (b) stone; (c) sand; (d) lumber; (e) paint?
2.	Were tenders called for in connection with these various materials?
3.	What are the names of the tenderers and their tender prices?
4.	What other persons were employed in connection with such construction works, apart from the unemployed, and what wage was paid to each such person?


What amount did the government realize by reason of (a) the deductions made from the salaries of the civil servants only, under the provisions of the Salary Deduction Act; (b) the withholding of statutory increases; (c) the stopping of promotions, during each of the years 1932, 1933, and 1934?


In. this connection I would like to point out that question (b) and (c) cannot be accurately answered. We will make the estimate as accurate as possible.


1.	How many royal commissions have been appointed since August 7, 1930?
2.	What was the purpose of each?
3.	What did each such commission cost?


1.	How many permanent or temporary commissions other than royal commissions have been set up since August 7, 1930?
2.	What was the purpose of each?
3.	What did each such commission cost?
4.	How many are still functioning and at what annual cost?


In this connection may I ask the hon. .member for Prescott (Mr. Bertrand) who placed the question on the order paper, whether he wishes the information with regard to all commissions permanent or temporary. Several departments have inquired whether in the answer are to be included single commissioners, such as in commissions of inquiry under the Combines Investigation Act, commissioners appointed by a minister for the investigation of matters relating to his own department or commissioners appointed to inquire into charges of partisanship. Does the hon. gentleman wish all these commissions inquired into or only the general commissions such as those inquiring into matters concerning the provinces?


I am sorry I could not quite catch the sense of the explanation made by the minister. After I have read what he has said, I shall get in touch with a member of his department and arrange to get what is needed.


Both of these questions relating to commissions will stand as orders for returns.


If agreeable to my right
hon. friend, I would move the following resolution that stands in the name of the Prime Minister:
That when this house adjourns on Wednesday, April 17th, it stand adjourned' until Monday, May 29th next, at three p.m., daylight saving time.


I am pleased that my
right hon. friend has seen his way to follow the correct procedure in the matter of the introduction of the motion, but I am not pleased with the resolution asking for such a long period of adjournment and the little regard that is paid thereby first of all to the wishes of the house, but more particularly to the needs of the country. I do not think it would be proper to let the motion pass without making another protest against the length of time asked for in this adjournment. I am not going to go over the arguments that were advanced in the course of debate a few days ago on this matter, but I wish to say that I do think the character of our political institutions is little by little being very materially changed. There was a time not so very long

Easter Adjournment
ago when it was believed at least in theory that government was carried on by the consent of the governed, but it can hardly be said that such has been the view entertained by the present administration since it took office. There is nothing more apparent than the fact that the government for a long time past has not enjoyed the confidence of the people of the country.


No, no. The right
hon. gentleman is entirely mistaken.


I hear some
hon. gentlemen opposite saying: No, no. I do not know whether it is their hearing or their eyesight that is defective, but certainly after losing nine by-elections in succession they must have had some intimation of the fact that the country has completely lost confidence in them. Not only have they lost nine by-elections in succession, but their party has lost several provincial elections all of which have been fought largely on federal issues.


I do not want
to interrupt the right hon. gentleman, but I must say I am rather surprised he is starting to discuss this again. We had it under debate for two days. This is simply a reiteration of debate that took place before.


No, no.


This is a
specific motion dealing with the question of adjournment and apparently the discussion of two days has fallen on deaf ears. I am trying, as I have said, not to reiterate what has been said, but simply to emphasize in a few words the seriousness of the indifference which the government apparently is showing to the needs of the country, to the public interest. A long adjournment at this time does mean-


Order.


I notice hon.
gentlemen opposite seem to think I am out of order. If I am, I shall stop, but I do not think I am. It is quite in order to discuss this motion.


My right hon. friend has been so kindly in his reference to the question of order that I would not have risen to a point of order because the widest latitude is shown to the leaders of the respective parties especially under circumstances such as this, but I feel if my right hon. friend proceeds at any length to debate this motion, other hon. gentlemen could claim the same right. As a matter of fact my right hon. friend is debarred from further debate, because this subject has been 92582-173
debated and decided at this session of parliament.


No, the debate was on an amendment to a motion to go into committee of ways and means.


That was the vehicle,
but nevertheless it was a debate. The rule is with respect to debate.


I am quite
prepared to abide by the ruling of the Speaker, but I should be surprised if his honour ruled against me in regard to this motion, which is a substantive motion, and I am speaking immediately to it. However, I will relieve my hon. friend's anxiety by saying that I am not going to speak at any length. The point to which I wish to direct particular attention is this, that the public interest is the interest to which this parliament should give first consideration. I submit that the longer we delay permitting the public to express itself with respect to the government that is to carry on the business of this country for the next few years, the more we are going to prejudice the public interest in Canada. Hon. gentlemen know very well that until a general election is over it will not be possible for business to settle down in any normal way, nor will it be possible to hope for the normal and natural revival which we trust will come after a general election. I say this irrespective of the particular government that may be returned. The other day I heard someone refer to the presidential election year in the United States as a year in which very little progress is made with business, because of uncertainty as to what may result at the end of the election. Unfortunately next year will be the presidential year in the United States, there will be uncertainty there, from which this country will suffer in part. But if we are to wait until after midsummer and on into the fall of this year before the general election takes place business in Canada is going to be very materially prejudiced.
One pretext after another has been used by the government for continuing itself in office. After the by-elections of last fall, when we had what was spoken of as a miniature general election and government candidates were not only defeated but slaughtered everywhere, we were told that it was impossible to have a general election then because voters' lists were not ready. When parliament reassembled I spoke about the lists and my hon. friend the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) told us that the lists would not be ready until about April 15, but

Easter Adjournment

that they would be ready by that time. To-day is April 15. I think at that time the country had reason to hope that the lists being ready by April 15 it might expect a general election towards the end of April or early in May. Now the revision of the lists is being made, and I suppose we shall be told later that until the revision is completed we cannot hope to have a general election. The revision will probably take until July or August. That means that it will possibly be some time in September when the new government that is elected assumes office or the present government is confirmed in office.
Whether hon. gentlemen opposite are returned to office or another government is elected, it will take some little time after the election before the new administration whichever it may be, can begin to introduce and enforce its policies for the improvement of employment, the relief of unemployment, the furtherance of trade and the like. Also until after there has been a general election there will not be opportunity for any government satisfactorily to negotiate agreements with respect to trade. Until after a general election nothing can be done, for example, with respect to the revision of the Canada-United Kingdom agreements, nor is it likely that anything can be done satisfactorily with respect to a reciprocal trade agreement with the United States. Nor is it probable that any government in Europe, America or Asia will negotiate with the administration in this country until after the people have spoken. That means that with respect to the bringing about of such changes in conditions as can be effected through negotiations with other countries all this will be delayed until on into the fall. Being delayed that long means that winter will be approaching, and that the effect of any arrangements will not be felt until the year following. It will be too late for new markets. I think it is most unfortunate that such should be the case. The election should have been held last year, as hon. gentLemen well know. Now we are prolonging the session, not with a view of suiting the needs or interests of the country, or even considering the interests and the wishes of parliament, but simply to enable a moribund government to perpetuate itself longer in office in the hope that, not yet being able to win as far as they can see yet, something may turn up before the last moment arrives which will help to save the day.
I protest again against this delay because t means that we shall come back at the ..atter part of May, be held here possibly

through the greater part of the summer, and then there will be further delay before the general election. I think there is material enough, with the business on the order paper and what we have now before us in the form of reports, to enable us to continue after a recess of a few days, and thereby expedite the moment at which the people will come into their real and long denied right of expressing their wushes in a general election.


I do not propose to answer the argument of the right hon. gentleman again or to traverse what we went through the other day. I feel very definitely that the remarks of the right hon. gentleman are entirely out of order, but we simply did not wish to interrupt him, on account of the latitude that is given to the leader of the opposition. Therefore in order not to continue a debate of that kind I do not propose to discuss the matter any further.


I was paired with the hon. member for Kent, Out. (Mr. Rutherford). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Laprairie-Napierville (Mr. Dupuis). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for South Oxford (Mr. Rennie). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Richelieu (Mr. Cardin). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.
Mr. MacDONALD (Cape Breton South). I was paired with the .hon. member for Colchester (Mr. Urquhart). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion,.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. James (Mr. Rinfret). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Sherbrooke (Mr. Howard). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Ontario (Mr. Moore). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I w.as paired with the hon. member for Norfolk-Elgin (Mr. Taylor). Had I voted I would have voted for the mlotion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Jean). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for V&ncouver-Burrard (Mr. Hanbury). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Casgrain). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.
Easter Adjournment


I was paired with the hon. member for North Wellington (Mr. Blair). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Toronto West Centre (Mr. Factor). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Bortneuf (Mr. Desrochers). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Medicine Hat (Mr. Gersbaw). Had I voted I would have voted for the motion.
Mr. ST-PERE: I was paired with the hon. member for South Hastings (Mr. Tummon).
' Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Hastings-Peterborough (Mr. Embury). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I
was paired with the hon. member for Toronto South (Mr. Geary). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Wentworth (Mr. Wilson). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Champlain (Mr. Baribeau). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Toronto-High Park (Mr. Anderson). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Victoria (Mr. Plunkett). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for East Middlesex (Mr. Boyes). Had I voted I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Lotbiniere (Mr. Verville); otherwise, I would have voted for the motion.
TMr. Simpson.]


I was paired with the hon. member for Drummond-Arthabaska (Mr. Girouard); otherwise, I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Joliette (Mr. Fer-land); otherwise, I would have voted for the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Levis (Mr. Fortin); otherwise, I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Stanstead (Mr. Hackett); otherwise, I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for St. John-Albert (Mr. Bell); otherwise, I would have voted against the motion.


I was paired with the hon. member for Toronto-Northeast (Mr. Baker); otherwise, I would have voted against the motion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to draw to the attention of the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Stirling) a complaint which I have received from persons residing in the district of Quebec to the effect that owing to the activities of the unemployed quartered at the Val-cartier camp a large number of summer residences in the vicinity have been broken into and acts of vandalism committed, and I am asked to transmit the request of respectable citizens of Quebec and vicinity that these activities of the unemployed at Valeartier oamp may cease forthwith.


Mr. Speaker, I would draw the hon. member's attention to the fact that prosecutions of acts of depredation such as he has referred to are entirely in the hands of the Department of Justice of Quebec.


I call the attention of the
minister to the fact that he is responsible for having 1,700 men there, and he cannot get away from it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I

Bank of Canada
should like to direet to the Minister of Marine (Mr. Duranleau) respecting orders in council tabled by him on April 12 under the Public Works Construction Act. In orders in council Nos. P.C. 1843 and P.C. 3224, references are made to contracts annexed thereto being made 'by the minister on behalf of His Majesty with the St. John Drydock and Shipbuilding Company, Limited. I direct the attention of the minister to t)he fact that the exhibits are not attached to the copies tabled, neither are they found in the return. I should like him to be kind enough to supply me with copies of these two contracts as well as with the correspondence referred to in such orders in council, and which should have been attached thereto, passing between the auditor general, the comptroller's staff, the Department of Marine and Fisheries and the Department of Justice.


Mr. Speaker, I shall be pleased
to look into the matter, see what has been tabled and if necessary complete the file.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Rhodes).
On April the 11th, page 2622 of the debates, the hon. Minister of Finance, answering a question from the hon. member for Swift Current (Mr. Bothwell), said:
I find that the master of the Royal Canadian Mint, acting on behalf of the Royal Mint at London, has received a quantity which he has arranged to be distributed through the ...
The names of five English Canadian firms are then given.
I do not know what the authority of the Finance minister in this matter may be, as far as the master of the Royal Canadian Mint is concerned, but may I ask the minister if he will be kind enough to see the master of the Canadian Mint and make sure that the latter will extend to French Canadian firms the same privileges as those granted English Canadian ones.


Mr. Speaker, the house will appreciate that the Master of the Mint is not in the habit of merchandizing, and the distribution of the silver jubilee medals was not a merchandizing proposition. He was acting upon the request of the royal mint in London to distribute
medals for sale in a quantity which it was felt the market would consume, I do not quite understand how the question would arise as to having distribution through French Canadian firms, because my hon. friend will appreciate that those who are distributing the medals are incorporated companies, all of them. I believe it would be fair to assume that those companies would have French speaking employees and French speaking shareholders. If the companies were French I take it, conversely, that English employees and English shareholders would not be debarred.
I do not know that the subject could be elucidated any further by making inquiries from the master of the mint, although I shall be happy to do so. In conversation with him he advised me there1 were now some people desirous of distributing the medals and taking advantage of the advertising, which is being paid for by those companies who have the distribution in hand, although when approached by the master of the mint in the first place they were not interested.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance a question, the answer to which may remove some misunderstanding which exists. I notice that according to articles appearing in some French Canadian newspapers notes of the Bank of Canada printed in the French language are hard to obtain. Would the minister tell me what the rule is regarding the printing of bills in both languages, so as to remove any ill feeling which may develop in the matter?
Hon.E.N.RHODES (Minister of Finance): The statute provides that notes in both the French and English languages shall be available to those requesting them. If the circumstance exists whereby any particular branch of a bank is not making those notes available it is a matter which should be directed to the attention of the bank. I imagine a condition such as the hon. member has described must have arisen through sheer inadvertence, because the statute is there,


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,

C.NJt.-Denial oj Statement
before the adjournment on Wednesday will the acting leader of the government be able to advise the house as to whether or not when we resume there will apart from what appears on the order paper be legislation in addition to the bills based on the report of the price spreads commission and the housing committee, and if so of what nature such legislation may be? May I ask, further, after the house adjourns and before it reassembles if it would be possible to let me, as leader of the opposition have copies of such bills as the government may intend to introduce, and as may be drafted, a little in advance of the reassembling of parliament. That is a practice which on former occasions has been followed by governments, and might help to expedite business.


It might get into the newspapers.


I shall answer the right hon. gentleman to-morrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. E, R. E. CHEVRIER (Ottawa) (Translation) : Mr. Speaker, as the Postmaster General (Mr. Sauve) is not in his seat for the moment, I will address my question to the Solicitor General: Is it true that, owing to a ruling of the Post Office Department, Easter Monday, the King's Birthday, June 3rd, and Remembrance Day, November 11th, will not be holidays this year for employees in that department? If instructions have been given to that effect, have they been given with the Postmaster General's approval?
As the Postmaster General is not in his seat, with the hon. member's consent, I will call my colleague's attention to the question, so that the hon. member may receive a prompt answer.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, when I asked the acting Prime Minister (Sir George Perley) a moment ago if he would favour me with information in connection with any legislation which might be drafted during the recess in advance to the reassembling of parliament, I was asking for the granting of a courtesy frequently extended by the government to the leader of the opposition in order to facilitate discussion
(Mr. Mackenzie King.]
later on. However, as I heard the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Hanson) say at the time I made the request that it might mean that information concerning the legislation might get into the press, I now ask that my request in this connection be disregarded by the government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct the attention of the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) to an article which appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press of Saturday, April 13. This article makes a brief reference to the interruption by the minister of the speech of the financial critic of the opposition (Mr. Ralston) on the budget, and states:
But it is not hard to guess what Colonel Ralston intended to say. He was about to make a statement that after Judge Fullerton made a statement in Halifax last summer defending the Canadian National from the attacks of Mr. Beatty and the other advocates of "unification" (a blessed word this, so different from "amalgamation"!) he was told by the government not to offend Mr. Beatty and the government in this respect again.
It will be remembered that at the time various ministerial newspapers were scandalized at Judge Fullerton's temerity in talking back. They were, it now appears, reflecting the views of Mr. Bennett and Dr. Manion.
I should like to know if that statement is founded either on fantasy or fact.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member was good enough to let me know that he was going to ask this question and I checked up the statement made by Judge Fullerton last year in the railways and shipping committee. As a matter of fact, I had already done this as other newspapers had taken somewhat the same attitude with regard to the statement made this year in the committee. I should like to quote a couple of sentences from the statement made in the committee last year by Judge Fullerton, I am glad to have this opportunity as I do not like being painted as a traitor to my country, as I have been in articles of this sort. Judge Fullerton is reported on page five of the minutes of proceedings of the committee held last year as follows:
There is one other matter to which I must
refer. Reference was made by a member of the committee to public addreses delivered by

C.N.R.-Refunding
the president of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and I was asked to comment on these. It had not been my intention, for reasons which I shall later state, to refer to these speeches or to the efforts which are presently being carried on to promote the idea of amalgamation or, failing that, unified management of the two great railway systems, but since the matter has been raised in the committee I feel it my duty to make a brief statement.
Later on he speaks of having sent out some propaganda to the employees of the Canadian National Railways, and he says:
The results, it is believed, have been a strengthening of the morale of the employees. There is, however, a different attitude to be taken towards public discussions of these questions on the part of the trustees.
And again:
The trustees of the Canadian National Railways felt that if they were to carry out the obligation thus imposed upon them by parliament itself, they could not, consistently with their duty, enter into any argument or discussion in reference to subject matters which were expressly forbidden by parliament itself,-
He then goes on to state that section 27 of the Railway Act forbade such discussion and the trustees did not feel that they had any right to discuss the matter. On the following page he says:
The trustees have by their oath of office assumed the responsibility of carrying out on their part the terms of the act of parliament, and any attempt by them to publicly answer propaganda urging amalgamation or unified control might, and probably would, place them in a false position.
There might well be an even more serious result. The essence of all cooperative plans is goodwill and earnestness towards the accomplishment of the object in view. The public controversy of the nature indicated, as well as being improper on the part of the trustees, would, because of its futility, raise obstacles in the way of the plan of cooperation.
What I am seeking to do is to make clear the reasons which, even if I were minded to do so, prevent me from combating propaganda in a battle of words.
A little later the hon. member for Van-couver-iBurrard (Mr. Hanbury) and the horn, member for North Waterloo (Mr. Euler) complimented Judge Fullerton on his statement. Apparently this is the reason why Judge Fullerton has not been making any replies. I make the positive statement that Judge Fullerton has never at any time been instructed by me or the government, to my knowledge, to refrain from making any speech which he might choose to make. I say here publicly that Judge Fullerton is as much at liberty to make any speech as is Mr. (Beatty. The statement made in the Winnipeg Free Press is false in every word and line and merely illustrates the general perverted attitude of the editor of that paper.
I am not referring to the representatives of that paper located in Ottawa, but when the editor of the Winnipeg Free Press writes upon political matters he never tells the truth if a falsehood will serve.


Mr. Speaker, since my name has been brought into this matter may I be permitted to point out to this house that my reference was not to what was said last year in the committee by Judge Fullerton in connection with amalgamation or unification; my reference was to Judge Fullerton discussing the situation in Halifax with regard to the 'Canadian National Railways. I felt that Judge Fullerton had not been given the opportunity which he ought to have been given to explain fully this situation and to answer some criticism which had been made not only by the public generally but by the minister himself.
Mr. MAN'I'ON:	The hon. gentleman is
almost charging me with stopping Judge Fullerton from making a reply.


With criticizing the Canadian National Railways.


I never criticized; I
helped to cure the condition of the Canadian National left by my hon. friend and his hon. friends. Judge Fullerton is just as much at liberty to make a statement in connection with the matter referred to by my hon. friend as he is in connection with any other matter. In fact, we have not the power to stop Judge Fullerton from making any statement he likes at any time and at any place.
Mr. MAR0IL:	Would such statements be
binding on the government?	.


Certainly not.


Hon.E'.N. RHODES (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee on Bill No. 24, respecting the Canadian National Railways and to authorize the provision of moneys to meet expenditures made and indebtedness incurred during the calendar year 1935.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Morand in the chair.
On section 1-Power to issue notes.
I forwarded to the Minister of Railways (Mr. Manion) a copy of a protest which I had received from em-
C.N.R.-R ejunding

ployees of the Canadian National Railways against certain work being done outside of the shops which could have been done by the railways. Is the minister ready to make a statement in this connection?


I assume the hon. member is referring to equipment orders?


Yes.


Other hon. gentlemen have sent me similar representations. Representations have also been received from different shops of the Canadian National and the Canadian Pacific railways. I might say that in the public works bill to be introduced the government will be given power to deal with these matters in so far as equipment is concerned. Of whatever money is spent in connection with equipment, a certain proportion will be kept for repairs so that the shops of both the Canadian National Railways and the Canadian Pacific Railway will have an opportunity to increase the work of their employees.


I hope they will have the first opportunity.


On a previous occasion
money was given outright to the railways to afford them assistance in connection with unemployment. Does the bill before us contemplate anything of that kind or will the guarantee relate entirely to debts which it is hoped will be repaid if the money is actually lent or guarantees in full are released? Are you making a gift of any sort to the railways in connection with unemployment relief by providing labour in railway shops?


I doubt whether I should give that at the moment because it will come up later on, but I have no objection to giving the information now. The only thing that will be given either of the railways directly will be interest for two years on the money supplied for the purchase of equipment. The government intends to give to both railways the interest for two years, but outside of that both railways are expected to pay back the money. Needless to say the C-anadan National Railways in its present financial position will not be able to do that unless business increases to. a very large extent, and therefore in all probability this equipment over a period of fifteen years will be paid for completely by the government of Canada.


Take the Canadian Pacific Railway. Are they going to issue bonds

which will be guaranteed by the Canadian government, or what form does the guarantee take?


That matter is being canvassed at the present time between both railways and the government. It wall probably be in the form of a guarantee of notes of some kind, but I should not like to go too definitely into the question because the details have not been completely worked out.


Will the bill contain that?


I do not think so. I- shall be glad at that time, if we have worked it out, to give complete information, but I think the bill will be in general terms.


As regards new equipment for the Canadian National Railways, I have asked the minister several questions this session and I have certain remarks to make. I do not want to detain this bill; I should prefer to wait until the other matter is being discussed.


That is appropriate.


Will the minister give the committee some particulars in connection with expenditures under paragraph (a)? Is that for equipment already bought or new equipment?


Any money in this connection will, I assume, be for equipment purchased in the past. There is nothing dealing with equipment in the future.


Does that apply to paragraph (b), so far as construction and betterments are concerned?


This is only the funding bill,, comparable to the bill passed last year. It has already been passed on by the committee on railways and shipping.


Section agreed to.
Sections 3, 4 and 5 agreed to.
On the preamble.
I do not want to enter into any long discussion of this matter, but I do not hold the Minister of Railways responsible, in connection with the question I am going to discuss, because he has repeatedly declared on the floor of the house that he has nothing to do with the administration of the Canadian National Railways-the whole thing rests with the trustees and the management of the road. In justice to my constituents, and in view of the resolution adopted a few days ago by the county council of Bonaventure, I must protest once more against

C .N.R.-Refunding
the policy followed in that constituency. First of all, as regards the shops, it is claimed that the work is being removed gradually from the shops at New Carlisle and the day is not far distant when those shops will be closed entirely. A good deal of the work that could be done there is being done at Camp'bell-ton or Moncton, to the great disadvantage of the railway men who have settled at New Carlisle. It is unjust to these men who have their residences there and have settled in the district. They are being turned away gradually, one after another, and the day is not distant when the shops will disappear entirely. The people of that constituency were under the impression, when the Gaspe railway was taken over, that what work could be done not only in Bonaventure but in the Gaspe district would be done in the shops at New Carlisle, and these men have protested that this is not being followed out. Work that could be done at New Carlisle is being done either at Campbellton or at Moncton. That is the first point.
The second point of complaint is as regards the terminus at Matapedia. When the Chaleur bay railway was built, with provincial subsidy, it was stated in the act that the terminus of the railway would be in the province of Quebec on the banks of the Restigouche river. For thirty or thirty-five years the terminus was at Matapedia in the province of Quebec, but the road was subsidized by the dominion and ultimately taken over by the Canadia National Railways, and they have transferred the terminus from Matapedia to Campbellton, New Brunswick. When the train reaches Matapedia it goes back eastward thirteen miles to Campbellton where the terminus is now located. The whole population of Matapedia valley and the county of Bonaventure, irrespective of party, have protested time and again against this action. The hon. member for Matane (Mr. Larue), a strong supporter of the government at the present time, as he has been for the last five years, attended a meeting held at Matapedia where I was present and he protested strongly against this change being made. It is an injustice to that part of the county and should be remedied. The government may say that the administration has been handed over to the Canadian National Railways, and so on and so on; but when voting day comes along-and that day will come soon now-they will be held responsible for what has been.' done in Bonaventure county in the last five yearn.
I think some pressure should be brought to bear on the administration of the Canadian National Railways to give the people on the Gaspe coast their fair share of the work that is being done. That is the second point.
The third point is as regards the purchase of railway ties. A few days ago I wrote to Mr. Hungerford, asldng for information in regard to all tenders for ties in Bonaventure county .and the reply I .received, which was similar to the reply given the year before, was that it was contrary to the public interest to give figures, but he gave me the figures for the previous year. The people of St. Charles de Caplan, St. Alphonse de Caplan, New Richmond and Bonaventure, and all that district where these ties are being bought, claim that they are underpaid. They say that the price paid the contractors is out of proportion to what is received by the farmers who supply these ties. The claim is that the fanners are not getting a fair price. Is that so? I am not in a position to say, but as the representative of that county I think that when we are called upon to vote millions of money to a company who refuse to give us elementary information-, we have a right to protest, because we are entitled to have that information.
This is another instance of the ill feeling which is being created in that part of the country against the administration of the Canadian National Railways. I do not want to blame the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Stewart, Leeds) at the present time for the very extensive outlay that he is and has been carrying on in the county of Bonaventure in the last four years. Public wharves that have been built in my time during the last thirty years are being improved in order to bring them to a state of efficiency, and in addition to that he is building a number of new public wharves. Those wharves of course will be required for water transportation, but the water transportation there works contrary to the interest of the Canadian National Railways, and that railway will probably show a large deficit this year as it did the year before on the administration of the Gaspe line. I cannot protest against those wharves being kept in repair and others being built if they are necessary, but if such large amounts are being spent to enable water transportation to be carried on, surel