Second report of the select standing committee on marine and fisheries.^-Mr. Ernst.
The house resumed from Wednesday, April 3, consideration of the motion of Mr. Turnbull for the concurrence in the second report of the standing committee on industrial and international relations, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Cotnam.
Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to add to what I said when on a former occasion this motion was discussed, and at which time the hon. member for North Renfrew (Mr. Cotnam) moved an amendment to the effect that the report be returned to the committee from which it came.


Amendment agreed to.
Motion as amended agreed to.
Hon. C. H. CAHAN (Secretary of State) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 58, to amend the Copyright Amendment Act, 1931.
Explain.


Bill No. 56 for the relief of Emma Gelfman Goldman Stokolsky-Mr. Heaps.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
How much has the government paid to Mr. Elzear Beauregard, solicitor of Montreal, for professional services between 1921 and 1930?




MR. ELIE BEAUREGARD *


What amount has been paid by the government in legal fees to Mr. Elie Beauregard, solicitor of Montreal, between 1921 and 1930?


There may be duplication here, Mr. Speaker, I gave an answer to question No. 3, asked by the same hon. gentleman, and that question appears to be repeated as question No. 5. I think both questions may now be answered with the information I have given.


No. 3 is answered, but No. 5 will stand.


1.	Referring to sessional paper No. 200, reference No. 91 of February 25, 1935, when was the plan contained therein and showing proposed inside extension of Riviere-du-Loup wharf (a) drafted; (b) signed, and (c) received by the Department of Public Works in Ottawa?
2.	Before or after the said plan showing proposed coppered steel sheet piling was drafted, signed and received in Ottawa, were any soundings taken around the said proposed piling?
3.	If so, when and what are they?
4.	If not, why, and how did the government (a) figure out, and (b) approve the estimated cost of that work, as it appears from vote No. 114 of the estimates for 1935-1936?
5.	Is there any regulation in force in order to have plans drafted for the extension of wharves without preliminary soundings being taken ?
6.	If so, since when?


1.	The plan contained in sessional paper No. 200, reference No. 91 of February 25, 1935, is a photostat made from a print submitted .by the district engineer to illustrate his report .dated March 15, 1934. It is a copy of the plan which accompanied his report dated August 30, 1930, and showing soundings of dredging operations in front of the wharf at Riviere-du-Loup. He used a copy of this old plan, on which he added in outline the proposed extensions in. front and in the rear of the landing-head of the wharf, dealt with in his report of March 15, 1934.
2.	Soundings were taken in connection with dredging operations in 1933, which information was available to the district engineer in preparing his comparative estimates for wharf extensions, including the steed sheet piling projects.
3 and 4. Answered by No. 2.
5.	Plans for wharf extensions are always based on preliminary soundings.
6.	Answered by No. 5.


1.	Does the plan of the proposed coppered steel_ sheet piling of the proposed extension to Riviere-du-Loup wharf contained in sessional paper No. 200, reference No. 91 of February 25, 1935, show the length of the western side of that piling (a) outside the wharf; (to) inside the wharf?
2.	If not, what are they?
3.	Does it show the length of that piling from east to west?
4.	If not, what is it?
5.	What is the proposed length of the east side of the head block of the wharf including that of the proposed piling?
6.	Has the department ascertained the nature pf the bottom of the river right over which it is proposed to construct such piling, in order to describe the nature of the footings required for its structure?
7.	If so, when and' what is it?


1 to 5. The plan shows in a general way the existing landing-head, measuring 50 feet in width at the east and west ends, and 260 feet long to be enclosed, as well as the proposed triangular extension to the rear, with steel sheet piling extending around a length of some 620 feet of wharf face.
Questions

6.	Borings have been taken around the landing-head of the wharf.
7.	Barings made in May 1933; bottom for penetration of steel piling consists of sand, clay and stones.


1.	What dry docks in Canada are receiving aid from the Dominion of Canada?
2.	What amount was paid to such dry docks authorized by statute or otherwise in each of the years 1921, to date?
3.	When do the grants authorized by statute cease ?


Bank of Canada
3.
Dry Dock	Termination of Subsidy
Saint John, N.B	January 1, 1959-date of payment of last instalment of $24,520.27.
Montreal, P.Q	December 31, 1948-date of payment of last instalment of $52,500.
Port Arthur, Ont	October 5, 1937-date of payment of last instalment of $2,100.
Burrard Dry Dock at
North Vancouver, B.C. April 1, 1960-date of payment of last instalment of $9,429.55. Prince Rupert, B.C.. .. March 10, 1943-date of payment of last instalment of $76,970.88.


1.	What are the totals of the income tax collected in each of the years 1929 to 1934 inclusive?
2.	What is the amount collected in each province for each of the said years?


Return tabled herewith.


On the order of government notices of motion:	[DOT]
Mr. Speaker, unfortunately I am responsible for the preparation of this address, and I find there are two slight corrections I should like to make. I therefore suggest that I should hand to the clerk of the house a corrected copy and have it reprinted to-morrow, so there will be no doubt as to the actual terms of the address.


Carried.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. PIERRE F. CASGRAIN (Charlevoix-Saguenay):	In an article appearing in today's newspapers it is stated that the convention of mayors, which met some time ago in Montreal, has sent word to all the mayors of Canada stating that so far they have not received any answer from the dominion government. I think this has reference to the proposal made by that conference that the government should assume the entire cost of unemployment relief. I should like to ask the government if they have an answer to give and, if so, when it will be given.
I may say, Mr. Speaker, that I sent an answer to Mr. Houde, mayor of Montreal, who is chairman of the continuing committee-*


Louder.


I sent an answer to His Worship the Mayor of Montreal, who is chairman of the continuing committee of the conference, which I think must have crossed the statement appearing in the press. That answer will have been received by now.


Might I ask the leader of the government if he would be good enough to give the public and the house the answer he has sent the mayor of Montreal. It is in the public interest, I believe.


Certainly it will be made public. I have not the letter with me at the moment.
BANK OF CANADA REPORTS On the orders of the day:


I should like to present a request to
the right hon. leader of the government. In the last four issues of the Canada Gazette there have appeared the weekly reports of the Bank of Canada, in English only. Would the right hon. gentleman be good enough to see if it would be possible to have these reports published in both languages?


I will cause inquiries to be made of the Bank of Canada, and give the hon. gentleman the information as soon as we obtain it.
DATE OF BY-ELECTIONS On the orders of the day:


May I ask the
acting leader of the house whether the report appearing in the press this morning is correct, that the date for the six by-elections to fill vacancies existing in this house has been fixed as August 19?


That is quite
correct.

Imports oj Butter


I should like
to say to the government that I am sure the electors of these constituencies will be tremendously pleased to learn that their only opportunity of being represented in this parliament will come after parliament itself is dissolved.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Swift Current (Mr. Bothwell) made inquiry with respect to the distribution of silver jubilee medals which will be available for public purchase. I find that the master of the Royal Canadian Mint, acting on behalf of the Royal Mint at London, has received a quantity which he has arranged to be distributed through the T. Eaton Company Limited, the Robert Simpson Company Limited, the Henry Morgan Company Limited, the Hudson's Bay Company and Mappin and Webb of Canada Limited.
RUMOURED JUDICIAL APPOINTMENT On the orders of the day:
Mr. PIERRE F. CASGRAIN (Charlevoix-Saguenay):	On page I of the Montreal
Gazette of to-day's date I read the following: M.P. slated for bench. Montreal judgeship may go to Sullivan or Duranleau.
Has the government any information to give the house as to wTho is likely to win this race?


No information.
IMPORTS OF BUTTER On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to make a short statement in reply to questions asked by the hon. member for Laprairie-Napierville (Mr. Dupuis) and the hon. member for Compton (Mr. Gobeil). Imports of butter into Canada from the United Kingdom are not due as suggested by the hon. member for Laprairie-Napierville, to the butter being "exported in transit," if by that the hon. member means shipped from an exporting country on an alternative bill-of-lading. Shipments of butter from exporting countries to the United Kingdom are not diverted to Canada while in transit.
In reply to that part of the hon. member's question as to whether imports from the United Kingdom are due to the fact that the United Kingdom is "producing more butter than they can consume." the answer is in the negative. The reason butter is imported from the United Kingdom is as follows. The tariff on butter entering Canada by direct shipment from New Zealand and Australia is, under the agreements with those dominions, 5 cents per pound while the British preferential rate of tariff applicable to shipments of butter from the United Kingdom is 8 cents per pmind. Six to eight weeks are required to secure delivery in Canada of butter on direct shipment from Australia or New Zealand and deliveries in Canada of butter from the United Kingdom may be secured in about ten days time. For this reason buying from the United Kingdom is less speculative and if imports of butter into Canada during the late winter or spring months are necessary, Canadian importers prefer to pay the higher rate of duty and import from the United Kingdom rather than to risk buying so far ahead as is necessary in order to secure the lower tariff rates on direct shipments from either New Zealand or Australia. Below is a statement showing monthly imports into Canada of butter from the United Kingdom and other countries, and exports from Canada for the eleven months ending February 28, 1935, as requested by the hon. member from Laprairie-Napierville; also similar information for the year ending March 21, 1930. asked for by the hon. member from Compton:
[Sir George Perley.j

_______________________________________________Privilege-Mr. McKenzie
Imports of Butter into, and Exports of Butter from Canada, Years Ending March 31st
			Imports					
Month	From United Kingdom	From United Kingdom	From Other Countries	From Other Countries	Total	Total	Exports	Lbs.	Lbs.	Lbs.	Lbs.	Lbs.	Lbs.	Lbs.	Lbs.1929	1934	1929	1934	1929	1934	1929	1934April	873,264	396,872	1,625,477	320,038	2,498,741	716,910	54,300	13,300May	248,024	34,832	2,395,543	3,352	2,643,567	38,184	110,200	3L600June	90	33,432	423,966	750	424,056	34,182	135,300	51,300July	
August	
September	
October	
November	
December	350 5,600	5,600 11,200 21,112 8,400 11,216	146,589 383,258 414,950 1,907,870 3,022,730 6,268,028	442 611 628 1,803 1,135 1,051	146,939 388,858 414,950 1,907,870 3,022,730 6,268,028	6,042 611 11,828 22,915 9,535 12,267	142.900 150.900 195,000 150,300 101,700 78,800	43,500 47.800 32,700 64,100 36,900 32.8001930	1935	1930	1935	1930	1935	1930	1935 ,January	
February	5,656 5,600	7,537,195 8,037,006	313 544	7,537,192 8,637,006	5,969 6,144	61,300 56,100	35,800 30,000March	1,344	Not available	8,028,091	Not available	8,029,435	Not available	71.S00	Not availableTotal	1,128,072	533,920	40,790,700	330,667	41,919,372	864,587	1,309,400	419,800


On the orders of the day:
'Mr. JEAN FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata):	As the minister is dealing with
butter, perhaps he will give me the information asked for in question number 19 of the orders of the day of yesterday. When this matter was under discussion yesterday I directed attention to the fact that this question had been answered twice by the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Matthews). I do not want another answer from that minister, I would like one from the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Weir). I should like full information for the period from 1930 up to the present.
During the discussion on my estimates I stated that of the butter shipped to tthe United Kingdom from this country something in the neighbourhood of 3,465 boxes had been reshipped to Canada from the old country. These boxes would not appear in the records of the Department of National Revenue because the butter had not changed ownership. I believe the information given on that occasion was correct and as the butter had not changed hands it would not be dutiable when returned to this country. This is all the information I have on the hon. member's question.


The minister has no further information about the matter.


That is right.


I might tell him that this did not occur on the estimates, it was a question asked on the orders of the day.
PRIVILEGE-MR. McKENZIE (Assiniboia)
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege:	A
return was tabled yesterday in reply to a request from me for the names of those appointed by the government since they came into oflice at salaries of 85,000 and over, and also the increases in salaries of $500 and over made since July, 1930. The return made is incomplete and inaccurate. The information from the Department of National Defence states that there were no increases in salaries but in this connection I should like to refer to the discussion which took place when the estimates of that department were under consideration. At that time the hon, member for South Perth (Mr. Sanderson) asked if the chief of staff had been given any increase in salary and the minister replied, as reported on page 1547 of Hansard, as follows:
With regard t<5 the chief of the general staff, his salary was increased two years ago from $8,000 to $10,000, less ten per cent.
I should like to know why that information does not appear in the return. In connection with the radio commission, the return gives three appointments which were made at salaries of $5,000 and over but it does
2624	COMMONS
Privilege-Mr. Woodsworth


not mention the three commissioners who receive salaries over the amount stated. The return does not mention the appointments made to the Bank of Canada. If the information appearing in the press is correct the salaries in this case are very much in excess of S5,000. No mention is made of the appointments made to the supreme court or to judgeships throughout the various provinces. I am not blaming the Secretary of State (Mr. Cahan) for the incompleteness of this return but I ask him to endeavour to give the house the accurate information.
I will direct the attention of the various departments to the criticism of the hon. gentleman.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on a question
of privilege. Just before I entered the house last Monday the hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. Lapointe) rose to a question of privilege and quoted a speech which I had made in Montreal. I do not think that this should have been introduced as a question of privilege as the statement was not made in the house. However, the statement was put on record and I desire to say now that the newspaper account was very abbreviated and not altogether correct. 'What I had tried to say was that on three recent occasions the Liberals had voted with the government in opposition to certain policies which we in this corner thought fundamental. I gave as one occasion the request of the mayors to address the house and I tried to point out that it was technically a point of order.


Order, order.


The statement was made and I have the right to set myself right in this matter. The fact is that the mayors were prevented from appearing before the house. The second occasion was the amendment moved by the hon. member for Macleod (Mr. Coote), and the third was on the motion of the hon. member for Wetaskiwin (Mr. Irvine) for the nationalization of not only the central bank but the chartered banks. I do not like to reflect on the newspapers but in this case the report was very abbreviated.


I am pleased to accept the apology as far as it goes.


No apology whatever.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I intend to put in a
notice of motion to-day which will appear in to-day's votes and proceedings to the effect that when this house adjourns on Wednesday, April 17, it stands adjourned until Monday, May 20, at three p.m. daylight saving time.


Lost.


I protest against this long adjournment as I think it is very unfair to the members from western Canada. It will take them four days to get home and an adjournment on Wednesday evening will prevent them from participating in the Easter exercises. If the house adjourns at all, I think it should adjourn on Saturday evening.


I concur entirely in what has just been said by the hon. member for Vancouver Centre (Mr. Mackenzie). It would appear to the members from British Columbia that the only members whose convenience is being considered in connection with this recess are those from Ontario and Quebec. If the members from British Columbia are to have a recess, or as some call it a holiday, they should be given the same consideration as other members. I hope the government will reconsider this motion and let the house sit on Saturday to adjourn on Saturday evening, if they insist on an adjournment at all.


I regret that the
hon. gentleman finds some difficulty in connection with this matter. There is before the house sufficient business to occupy us until Wednesday if we are to have as much as possible accomplished before the recess. I suggest to members from British Columbia that they pair with each other. There is no reason why they should not pair on both sides and go home for the holidays.


Get rid of them.


I suggest to the leader
of the government that the members from British Columbia are interested in what takes place in this house and wish to be here when the house is in session.

Price Spreads Commission


On the orders of the. day:
I wish again to
raise a question of privilege-not a matter of personal privilege but one affecting the privileges of the house. A few days ago, I directed the attention of the government to what appeared to be a serious violation of the privileges of the house in the giving out, to a portion of the press of the country, of some of the report and the recommendations of the royal commission on mass buying and price spreads. In reply the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Hanson) mentioned that the government would look into the matter. I have been expecting to hear from the government as to the results of its inquiries. I think this house is entitled to know how the recommendations of the commission were given in advance to a portion of the press. May I say that since I raised the question I have had an opportunity of comparing what appeared in the press with what is in the report, and it is perfectly clear that the press must have obtained the report from someone who had the report in his possession. I think we are entitled to know who that person was, and I would ask the government if they have inquired into the matter.


All I can say is that the
question is still under consideration.


May I say to my right hon. friend, I do not want to have to make many inquiries, but I shall inquire each day until I get a definite reply.


I would ask the right hon.
gentleman under what circumstances he got a copy of the report. It has not been tabled, and not distributed.


It was published in the press.


But my
right hon. friend said he had a copy of the report. I shall have to inquire into that.


As given in
the press, yes.


No, no.


As given after tabling in this house.


We know where it came from.


That would make it
worse, not better.


Just one word on this. I agree entirely with the attitude taken by my right hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) in regard to the publicity that has been given this report, but I understand that a question has arisen as to whether the commission, not being a committee of this house, is bound by the rules of parliament.


The rules of ethics.


No, but the rules of parliament. Now, I am inclined to think that it is merely a matter of propriety on the part of the commission, and I think it is very improper to give out that information. I was consulted by a royal commissioner on one occasion as to whether he might make public, a few days in advance, certain findings that had been signed by the commission, and I told him distinctly no, and he did not make it public. That would be my view. But it is not a parliamentary rule because it is not a parliamentary committee, and judging it only as a matter of propriety, I suppose the commission would have a right to exercise its own judgment. But personally I think it is very improper-


Absolutely.


-and we should find out how it happened.


The members of a royal commission are sworn on entering upon their duties, and I am informed that the oath was administered to each member of this royal commission.


On a matter of privilege, as chairman of the royal commission on price spreads, I wish to refer to a statement made by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) in this house on Tuesday, relating to the matter of reports as to the deliberations and findings of the commission getting into the public press. Without reading it in full, I wish to refer to this part of the right hon. gentleman's remarks. Speaking on the 9th instant, the leader of the opposition stated:
I should like to suggest also when the government are considering the legislation that is to be based upon the recommendations of this commission, with respect to unfair practices and unethical proceedings, it might consider whether it is not possible to enact some legis-
Price Spreads Commission

lation which will prevent unfair practices and unethical proceedings on the part of the chairman of committees of this House of Commons when dealing with price spreads and mass buying, and on the part of some member or members of royal commissions when they are dealing with the same subjects.
In the first instance, I wish to point out that I was not chairman of the special committee of this house dealing with the matter of price spreads and mass buying. I was appointed chairman of the royal commission on price spreads on October 29 last, and throughout the deliberations of that commission I continued to act as chairman. The commissioners met on Tuesday morning last and signed their report at eleven o'clock. At four o'clock on Tuesday afternoon the report of the commissioners was handed by me to the Hon. Mr. Hanson, Minister of Trade and Commerce. Up to that time no authority was given by the commission as such, or in any way as a commission, for the release of any portion of that report or anything in respect to its deliberations. Since the question is raised in the house, naturally it reflects upon all members of the commission. It reflects upon the staff of the commission. I think that at this time it would be unfair for me to enter upon any denial or any statement, so far as I am personally concerned, inasmuch as such a statement would just bring it down to ten more members of the commission who would have to make statements. But I am in entire accord with the point of view expressed by the leader of the opposition and as expressed by the Minister of Trade and Commerce as to the impropriety-


The
Minister of Justice.


-the Minister of Justice-as to the impropriety of such a report getting into the press before it was tabled. Speaking for myself-and for the members of the commission, as far as I know -I would welcome a complete investigation into the question, by what method or through what channels that report was published. I would point this out also. Not only was the publication of it unfair to the commission as such, and unfair to the staff personnel, but it was unfair to a large section of the press as well. Representatives of the press came to me as chairman, time and again, pointing out that certain information was appearing in the press and asking for reports. I told them my views on the matter, and those views I have maintained throughout. Yet some sections of the press obviously had exact copies of parts of the report and published them, while other sections of the press had not the

same facilities. Let me say this. Personally, as chairman of that commission, I regret the publication of its report in part, in advance of the complete publication. I would welcome a full and complete investigation.


I think I should be permitted to add a word. I am wholly in accord with the sentiments expressed by the chairman of the commission, the hon. member for Winnipeg South Centre (Mr. Kennedy). I think I am expressing what is in the minds of myself and my colleagues on this side, the hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. Young), the hon. member for Toronto West Centre (Mr. Factor) and the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Boulanger), when I say that we would like to have an investigation into this whole occurrence, so that the public may know in what way this matter got into the press prematurely.


May I add this word? When I
was in Toronto on Monday night, I read in the Toronto Daily Star of that same afternoon a complete report of all the recommendations of the price spreads commission. I want to assure the house that so far as I am concerned I at no time gave any information to any member of the press in reference to any of the contents of the report or the proceedings of the commission.


Who is the Judas?
Mr. OSCAR L. BOULANGER (Bellechasse) :	Lest some hon. members may think
I am the guilty party, I wish to assure the house that I am not guilty.


Mr. Speaker, I wish
to assure you that I am not the guilty party and I would welcome an investigation to find out who he is.


We are
proceeding by elimination!


As this seems to be a sort of testimony meeting, as a member of the royal commission I want to say that I have not yet seen the summary that appeared in the press and I do not expect to see it until the report is tabled in the house. I know nothing at all about these reports that have got out.


As the
member of the commission who has not signed the report, I wish to express my hearty approval of everything that the chairman and the other members of the commission have said.

Butter Returned to Canada
Mr. M. C. SENN (Haldimand) I just want to add my word. This process is rather a narrowing down, and if I do not, as the rest have done, make a categorical denial, I am afraid some suspicion might fall upon me. However I want to say, as the rest of the members of the commission have done, that at no time have I given out any information regarding the character of the report.


As I think I am the last one on the list, I may be considered guilty if I do not make a denial. I am heartily in accord with the remarks made by the chairman of the commission.


Following
up my .previous observations, I think the action of the other members of the commission in themselves individually making denial, relieves me from the reservation that I made at the opening of my remarks when I said that I did not want to enter a denial because I thought that to do so might carry some implication. I feel myself relieved now from that reservation, and I beg to state to the house without evasion, equivocation or mental reservation of any kind that as chairman of the commission I neither gave out any report nor any authorization therefor, nor had I any personal knowledge in any way, shape or form of how any report or reports got into the press.


Are there any other members of the commission who have not yet declared in the house where they stand on this question?


Peace River.


I have not given out any part of the report nor have I discussed it with anyone.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. ECCLES J. GOTT (South Essex): If I might be jtermitted to change the subject, I would like to direct to the government a question which concerns thousands of farmers in the counties of Essex and Kent. It is necessary that I should make some explanation. Last year we grew in those two counties six million bushels-
I would ask the hon. member to put his question.


In view of the fact that the Argentine is going to have 400.000,000 bushels
of corn available for export during the season of 1935, will the government take ample precautions to protect the corn growers of Essex and Kent counties?


Of all Canada.


Yes, of all Canada. Will the government prevent the Argentine from flooding the Canadian market with cheap corn?
I do not expect an answer to-day. I would like them to give consideration to the matter.


On the orders of the day:
For the sake of getting a proper understanding of the situation, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Matthews). The Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Weir) stated that because butter shipped from Canada to the old country and reshipped to Canada had not changed ownership, it would not appear in the records of the Department of National Revenue. What I want to know is: Is that really the practice? My experience as a former collector of customs has been in past years and is that no matter what the goods may be that are shipped to England or any other country and then returned to Canada, even if they do not change ownership, they must come in on an export entry from Great Britain and an import entry through the customs of Canada. I understand that is the law.


The information I gave to-day
was the information obtained through my department.


My question was directed
to the Minister of National Revenue. He should give the information.


I repeated the
information to-day for the benefit of the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot).


I want the information
from the Minister of National Revenue.


I feel it my duty to renew my request of yesterday for interim supply. I would ask for the unanimous consent of the house to go into supply.


Now that the Acting Prime Minister
(Sir George Perley) has given us an intimation that at some time in the near future he will introduce a motion to adjourn for the Easter
Interim Supply Bill

recess, I have much pleasure in consenting and agreeing with my colleague from Nova Scotia, the Minister of Finance, to grant him interim supply or anything else he may ask in reason.


Mr. Speaker, before you leave
the chair, I would like again to submit to the acting leader of the government that he take into serious consideration the situation of hon. members from British Columbia. I see no reason why, if he wishes to meet their convenience in any way, the house could not sit to-morrow morning and all day Saturday so as to let the members conclude the business and this house begin the recess on Saturday night. I would like to have an answer from the government.


The house in committee of supply, Mr. Morand in the chair.
1.	Resolved,	that	a	sum	not	exceeding
$16,058,144.05, being one-twelfth of the amount of each of the several items to be voted as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, be granted to His Majesty on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936.
2.	Resolved,	that	a	sum	not	exceeding
$820,889.37, being one-sixth of the amount of each of the several following items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, be granted to His Majesty, on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936, namely:- _
Vote No. 33, Administration of justice;
Votes Nos. 35 and 36, Legislation;
Vote No. 67, Canadian Pension Commission;
Vote No. 154, Topographical and air service bureau;
Vote No. 189, Government of the Yukon Territory;
Vote No. 190, National Parks and Migratory Birds Convention Act;
Vote No. 196, Sheltered employment;
Vote No. 200, War veterans' allowances;
Vote No. 205, External Affairs (Paris);
Vote No. 226, Miscellaneous unforeseen expenses.
3.	Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $278,083.33, being one-twelfth of the amount of each oi the several items to be voted as set forth in the estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936, for Canadian National Steamships and Maritime Freight Rates Act, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, be granted to His Majesty, on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936.


Mr. Chairman, I have just one observation to make regarding what the hon. member for Gloucester (Mr. Veniot) has

said about butter. There were some shipments of Canadian butter to England which are called Canadian exports to the United Kingdom-


I rise to a point of order. I asked for unanimous consent, and unless unanimous consent is given we may not proceed. If my hon. friend the member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot) proposes to exercise under these ciroumstances the right to enter into debate it follows that every other hon. member of this committee can do the same*, therefore we would not have unanimous consent and could not proceed. In these circumstances I ask my hon. friend to bear in mind the amenities that arise in respect to a matter of this character, otherwise I shall have to move the committee out.


In reply to the hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Rhodes) let me assure him that once more I am ready to oooperate all I can, and will not insist for the moment on the matter of shipments of Canadian butter from Great Britain. But may I ask the hon. minister if the public works estimates will be taken afterwards? If so I shall dispense with further remarks now.


Certainly this interim supply has no bearing on, nor does it impair in the slightest degree the right to discuss these items in supply.


But may I ask the minister if the public works estimates will come after this .to-day?


I think that is the intention.


Motion agreed to.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.
Mr. RHODES moved that the house go into committee of ways and means.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Morand in the chair.
Resolved, that towards making good the supply granted to His Majesty on account of certain expenses of the public service for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1936, the sum of $17,157,116.75 be granted out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada.


Motion agreed to.

Resolution, reported, read the first and second time and concurred in. Mr. Rhodes thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 59 for granting to His Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of the financial year ending the 31st of March, 1936.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first and second time.
Mr. RHODES moved that the house go into committee on the bill.
I have just one question to ask the hon. gentleman. I understand this supply is for the month of May, one-twelfth of the total for the year, and that it is understood that there will be no governor general's warrants issued while parliament is in session or during the adjournment?


I can give my hon. friend no undertaking with respect to the issue of governor general's warrants other than to intimate that none may be issued while parliament is in session, and parliament will be in session although adjourned.


Thank you.


Motion agreed to, bill considered in committee, reported, read the third time and passed.
Hon. ROBERT WEIR (Minister of Agriculture) moved the second reading of Bill No. 55, to provide for the rehabilitation of drought and soil drifting areas in the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Morand in the chair.
On section 1-Short title.
Is the bill published in
French, as well as in English?


I am advised that it is.


Mr. Chairman, I do not wish .to delay proceedings in the committee, but I should like to mention a certain matter affecting the Red river. In the last few years the flow of water in that river has been so small that the situation is becoming serious, so far as the residents along the river are concerned. I believe the minister knows the district very well and would appreciate the conditions. In that Red river area it is very
________Rehabilitation of Drought Areas
difficult to get water, unless it be obtained from the river. I should like to know if under the present measure action would be taken towards damming the river at different points so as to raise the water level. If the river were dammed at points twenty-five miles distant it would be possible to have at least three or four feet of water in the river at all points. The situation is very serious, due to the water being at such a low level. The river water is about the only water available to the residents along the Red river, because the well water is not of good quality, due to the fact that it contains quantities of iron and salt. Could the minister give any information as to whether or not anything could be done, and whether or not he would take this matter into consideration.


This matter will be placed before the advisory committee which will deal with all points mentioned.


Will they have power
under this measure to investigate a situation such as I have described?


I cannot say whether or not the point raised by the hon. member would come under provincial jurisdiction. If that were the fact some authority would have to be received from the provincial government. The hon. member will note that a representative of the provincial government will sit on the advisory committee. All matters, with the exception of those which it has been considered should not be proceeded with in the present year, will be placed before the advisory committee before any work is done. The matter about which the hon. member has spoken will be brought to their attention.


The river is still classed as a navigable stream. Any time bridges are built permission has to be obtained from the federal government. I have no doubt the matter I have raised could be considered under the present measure.


I am not rising to oppose
the bill because as a matter of fact I strongly favour it and realize that something must be done. Section 1 states: "This act may be cited as The Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act." As I understand it it will have the effect of caring for drought areas and conditions of sand drift. I should like to see this work extended. There are certain sections along the Atlantic coast of the maritime provinces where sand storms take place, and when that occurs sand drifts on to the farms, in some instances

Rehabilitation oj Drought Areas
rendering the land unworkable. I should like to see a provision placed in the bill whereby a situation such as I have described might be considered. Would the minister kindly consider the point before the bill passes.


Yesterday afternoon, when the minister was discussing the resolution I wondered how the commission or the authoritative body would be in a position to have actual control of or to carry out some of the regulations which might interfere with the ordinary plans of individuals in particular areas. In other words how will the commission obtain power to deal with these matters?


Is the hon. member
referring to farmers?


Yes.


Only by their consent.


What will happen if they do not cooperate?


No work would be done and no action taken in that particular part. However may I say we have received applications from entire municipalities and from councils -promising to cooperate. We do not expect any difficulty in that regard. As a matter of fact, due to the great number of applications, the difficulty will be to decide which would be the best ones to take. I would assure the hon. member however, that there will be no compulsion in the matter.


Of what nature are the applications?


They are from municipalities asking that those municipalities or townships be chosen as the areas in which the demonstrations might take place.


I understood the minister to state yesterday that he proposed to set apart one township in each province.


Fractically a township.


Working within a township regard could be had only for cultural methods and some tree planting. Within the boundaries of a township they could scarcely carry on work such as the damming of streams which, of necessity, would -have to be conducted over a larger area. They could^ not perform any conclusive experiments within the small area.


In that small area there would be individual farms or groups of farms which -could ibe benefited by small dams to collect the run-off of water. Or, on the other hand, such work might be done in connection with small streams.


Following up the interrogations of the hon. member for Provencher may I ask i-f the commission will have power to deal with conditions such as those obtaining in the Red river area. The hon. member mentioned that some miles south of the city of Winnipeg this river formed the water supply for the people in that part of the province. However there is no possible chance in the wide world of the Red river forming a water supply for the people north of the city of Winnipeg, because from that city, on to lake Winnipeg, the river is simply a cesspool of sewage and infection. As a matter of fact just now -the Red river is not capable of carrying away the sewage from the city of Winnipeg. That is a very great menace. I was going to say it is a very obnoxious matter, but it is -more than that. The Red river of Manitoba has become a cesspool from the city of Winnipeg -to lake Winnipeg. Generally speaking I believe our whole country is drving out. At one time Manitoba was the site of a tremendous lake, but all that remains of that lake at present is a couple of comparatively small lakes, lake Winnipeg and lake Manitoba, and they are shrinking yearly. Hundreds of -thousands of acres of swamp land once covered with water are now as dry as the proverbial whistle. I believe it will be necessary for this federal government to deal not only with a limited portion of the country, as it is proposed at present, but that in the near future we will have to take into consideration this very serious situation in the province of Manitoba, to say nothing of the other western provinces. We will have to try to find some way to provide more moisture for the country.
The question I wanted to ask the minister was whether this commission will have power to investigate the conditions that exist in regard to the Red river.


I should say they would have power to investigate and recommend, but if hon. members will notice the amount that is to be expended in connection with this scheme they will appreciate that very little of a practical nature can be done with regard to a problem so vast. At least, however, the setting up of this committee

_____________Rehabilitation of Drought Areas
will provide a medium which will bring this serious condition, together with the need for some action, to the attention of the people of Canada as a whole.


Before leaving the matter I believe it cannot be too strenuously and forcefully impressed on the commission that will be formed that there is need to deal with the conditions that exist along the Red river in the province of Manitoba. Certainly at the present time that river is stinking to heaven, and it is a very decided menace to the health of the people of that province.


As I understand the
minister a committee will be appointed to investigate and recommend, to certain districts or certain people, what should be done. I understand that there will be three districts set aside in the province of Saskatchewan, and the minister also said he had received applications from a number of municipalities and that it was the intention to take over a whole township. Will this committee only give information to the people who own and work the land; will they pay these individuals to do what they recommend or will they only supply them with seed? Will the minister give us some information as to how this will be worked out? Will the commission just tell the farmers what to do and not pay any more attention to the matter; will they give them some remuneration, or how is it proposed to do this work?


The officials of the department have been collecting information in connection with this area for some time, and they have carefully gone over the applications that have been received from different councils and public bodies suggesting that the work be undertaken in various localities.
I think this whole matter has been boiled down as well as it can be at present. It will be submitted to the advisory committee set up under this bill, and under that advisory committee there will be an executive committee. This work will be administered by the experimental farms branch under the Department of Agriculture, and they will have their own officials there to supervise it. In the illustration stations and farms-not the townships-the same principle will apply as has applied in the past to illustration stations. That is, men will receive certain remuneration for which they will agree to carry out certain work, and they will be supplied with seed. Previous to the introduction of this bill very careful consideration was given whether that should not also apply to all these farmers in the townships. It was
felt that due to the extent of the area, the necessity of having the cooperation of every person in it, and the fact that undoubtedly some farmers in almost every township will have a good deal of summer fallow in excellent condition, in the first year it would not be fair to ask these farmers, for instance, to give up part of that summer fallow and follow some definite, hard and fast rule with reference to farming. We have different types of contracts drawn up which will be considered when we go to western Canada. We feel that everything is in the best possible shape to expedite the work. In regard to the townships, recommendations are to be made to the advisory committee in order to obtain their best advice as to the steps that should be taken, and it is also hoped that in each township there will be set up a committee, either elected or appointed, of the best farmers, to cooperate with the officers of the experimental farms branch.


It has not been decided definitely whether or not the township work will be taken up this year?


Yes, that will be
taken up this year in cooperation with the farmers, but we felt that we could not come to a definite decision this year until we consulted the farmers in the townships, as to how far we should go in trying to carry out one definite plan. It is different with an illustration station, of course; in that case only one or perhaps two farmers would be involved, and if we could not agree with them we could get another location and find other farmers who would agree to our terms.


With regard to these
illustration stations or these private individuals, are they to be picked out here and there, or how are they to be selected?


This whole field
has been carefully surveyed and studied during the entire drought period, and particularly during the last two or three years, with a view to selecting the farmers who have met with the greatest success in their work even under these conditions. We have lists of those farmers, and from those lists the selections will be made.


May I say that I think the best hope of success for this scheme lies in the commission devoting their greatest attention to cultural methods such as strip farming and the reintroduction of grasses that will put fibre back into the land. I think the commission would be wise to devote the greater part of their energy to that end. In

Rehabilitation of Drought Areas
speaking on this matter yesterday I intimated that I had very little faith in the efficacy of either tree planting or the damming of streams, with regard to bringing about any increase in precipitation. While the planting of trees is a good move undoubtedly it will mean a number of years before any results can be achieved. No doubt the damming of streams will be all to the good also, but I do not think we can hope for any great result with regard to the amount of precipitation. I do think, however, we cannot lay too much emphasis on the need of experimenting, with the aid of the experience and help of the best farmers, along the lines of better cultural methods, such as strip farming and the introduction of grasses. I think in that way we may obtain the best results.


The minister
referred to certain petitions he had received from municipalities urging that something be done, and even volunteering the use of farms.
I understand that where a township or other area is selected, this commission will be in position to go in and take charge of the work undertaken.


With the consent of the farmers in the particular area.


Would the petitions already received indicate that that consent will be forthcoming