On the orders of the day.:
I notice in the press an item stating
that the government proposes to put out a new loan. Perhaps the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) would like to give the house some particulars-if not to-day, to-morrow-regarding it.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance):	I have not the details before
me. They appear by advertisement in the press of Canada to-day. There are three maturities between now and the first of November for which it is designed to give an opportunity for exchange immediately if the holders are willing to take advantage of it; also S20.000.000 of new money is being asked for. Some of the issues maturing are short date, low interest issues, and one, if my memory serves me aright, is $79,000,000 of five per cent securities. The opportunity of exchange is being given on the basis of either four year bonds to yield to the purchaser 1-63 per cent or thirty year bonds to yield approximately 3-30 per cent. The short term issues for which the exchange is being offered are mostly in the hands of the banks, who, of course, require short term issues for their purposes, and it is hoped that they will be largely surrendered for the new short term issue of four year bonds.


Would the minister give
the interest rate which is borne by the bonds that are being retired?


I am relying upon "my
memory: some are two per cent short term; the largest rate is five per cent, being a loan made in 1931. There is one other, the rate of which I cannot a* the moment state definitely.
DOMINION HOUSING ACT On the orders of the day:


Is the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) aware that applicants for loans in British Columbia under the Dominion Housing Act, 1935, are now being advised that loans outside the limits of the city of Vancouver are not permitted by the Department of Finance? If so, is it possible for the minister to encourage the approval of loans in suitable suburban areas, such as West Vancouver?
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance!: My hon. friend was good enough to speak to me about this matter. After looking into it, I can assure him that there is no departmental regulation which would prevent the granting of loans under the Dominion Housing Act outside the city of Vancouver, or for that matter, anywhere in Canada. The loan companies, of course, are the contributors or lenders of the major portion of the loans, as my hon. friend, who is familiar with the act, will know, and the decision as to whether a loan of their own money shall be made rests with them. At the same time the department is endeavouring, through cooperation with municipal authorities and others interested, together with the loan companies, to ensure the spreading of the benefits of the housing act as widely as possible. Everything the department can do to encourage loans in districts such as that mentioned by my hon. friend is being done and will continue to be done.
LOANS TO FISHERMEN On the orders of the day:
Mr. NORMAN J. M. LOCKHART (Lincoln) : May I ask the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) or the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) if there is any indication that the moneys granted to subsidize or promote the fishing industry throughout the Dominion of Canada will be made available soon. I understand that regulations have not been adopted as yet, and that disposition of the money has been held in abeyance until such time as these regulations are passed by the governor in council. May I ask if that is likely to take place in the very near future so that the fishermen may obtain loans under the provisions of this measure?


In reply I may tell my hon. friend

Employment of Youth

that the matter is still under consideration. Regulations are being worked out and will be made public shortly.
OTTAWA RESTAURANT EMPLOYEES On the orders of the day:


I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers). I have been advised that certain restaurants located in the city of Ottawa, whose employees up to the present have enjoyed one day off per week, have advised their employees that, with no increase in wages, they will be required to work seven days a week, with one day off every two weeks. I should like to know whether there are any steps the minister can take to investigate this situation, and, if he finds that such a condition does exist, whether there is anything he can do to remedy matters.
Hon. NORMAN McL. ROGERS (Minister of Labour): I shall be glad to take note of the statement of my hon. friend and have proper inquiries made.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Secretary of State (Mr. Rim fret) when I may expect the return ordered on February 20, about which I spoke to him in the house a few weeks ago.


I can only say to my hon. friend that I will again direct his question to the attention of the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Cardin), whose department is supplying part of that return.
EMPLOYMENT OF YOUTH On the orders of the day:


I should like to direct a question to the government. Two motions by private members, one by myself and the other by the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Massey), having to do with youth employment and reconstruction, were withdrawn on the promise that the government would consider what might be done. What has been the result of these studies; what action is going to be taken? It is nearly the dying days of the session, wo hope, and I should like to ask the government what has become of this study, what has been studied and what is the result.


Order.


I can bring this up on a motion to go into supply and take up far more time than I am taking up now. I think when a member asks a question, he should have an answer.


The minister was about to reply to the hon. gentleman.
Hon. NORMAN McL. ROGERS (Minister of Labour): In reply to my hon. friend I may say that provision was made under the national employment commission bill for the creation of an advisory committee which is to include two special committees, one of which is to address itself to the problem of youth employment. The national employment commission has been established, and we are considering with it the personnel of the advisory committee. I can assure the hon. gentleman that the government is by no means indifferent to the importance of the question he has raised, and the whole subject is receiving and will continue to receive careful attention.


May I say in reply to the minister-


Order.


Order.


The minister talks and chatters at banquets. That is the sort of chatter that has been going all around the country.


Order.


Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING
(Prime Minister) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to provide for a Department of Mines, Resources and Colonization, to comprise the present departments of Interior, of Mines, of Immigration and Colonization, of Indian Affairs and the administration of the Northwest and Yukon Territories, and to provide also for the transfer from time to time to the minister of such existing or subsequently established boards, public bodies or services as may be assigned to him; and to provide further for the employment and transfer of such officers, clerks and employees at present employed in the departments of the government above mentioned as are necessary for the proper conduct of the department.

Department of Mines and Resources
He said:	Mr. Speaker, the object of the
bill to be based on this resolution, is, as indicated by the resolution, to organize in one department of the government, under the direction of a single minister, four existing departments and the several public services related thereto.
The policy of effecting, wherever possible, economies in the public service is one which is an aim of the present administration. The government believes that circumstances not only permit but necessitate, for purposes of efficiency as well as economy, the consolidation into a single department of the various departments mentioned in the resolution. The proposed consolidation is a part of the policy of reducing the cost of government as it existed at the time the present administration assumed office. When my right hon. friend the present leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) retired from office the cabinet was composed of twenty-one ministers in all, seventeen of whom were holding portfolios Under the present administration the number of ministers has been reduced to sixteen, fifteen of whom hold portfolios. This reduction has been effected by reducing the number of ministers without portfolio; by placing under the direction of one minister the Department of Railways and Canals and the Department of Marine and by abolishing the office of Solicitor General and assigning the functions of that office to the Attorney General and Minister of Justice.
The present bill will place under the direction of one minister of the crown, to be known as the Minister of Mines, Resources and Colonization, the departments of the Interior, Indian Affairs, Immigration and Colonization and Mines. During the past few years there has been a haphazard assignment-
(At this point Hon. W. E. Rowe, recently elected leader of the Conservative party in Ontario, entered the chamber).
May I pause, Mr. Speaker, personally to extend and to extend on behalf of all hon. members on this side of the house, and I believe with equal assurance on behalf of hon. members in all parts of the house, very warm congratulations to the hon. member for Dufferin-Simcoe (Mr. Rowe) on his having been selected as leader of the Conservative party in the province of Ontario, and upon what his selection for that high and responsible position signifies of the confidence reposed in him by his fellow members of 12739-211 £
the Conservative party. I need scarcely add that I hope and believe there will be no necessity for his occupying the position of premier of the province, at least for a long time to come. I do, however, most sincerely congratulate him, and wish him long continued opportunity of useful public service.
I was saying that there had been in the past a more or less haphazard assignment of portfolios with respect to the different departments which I have mentioned. They will now be brought together into a single department. There was a time when, for a while, they were all under the one minister. Latterly, however, while the Department of the Interior and the Department of Indian Affairs were under the direction of one minister, the Department of Immigration and Colonization and the Department of Mines were under the direction of another minister, who happened also to be the Minister of Labour. There did not seem to be any special reason why the Department of Immigration and Colonization should have been combined with that of Labour, or for that matter why the Department of Mines should have been assigned at one time to one minister and at another, to another. There is, however, a strong reason, because of their related activities, why the Departments of Immigration and Colonization, Indian Affairs, the Interior and Mines should all be brought together into one department.
The present proposed consolidation accords with the policy followed when a Liberal administration was previously in office of consolidating departments the activities of which were correlated. In 1922, the different branches of the public service related to Defence were brought together into one department of National Defence. Previously there had been a Department of Militia and Defence. A separate branch of the public service known as the naval service was under the Minister of Marine and Fisheries. There was also the air service which came under the direction of an air board, a semi-autonomous organization attached to the department of the Secretary of State and later to the militia department. The chairman of the air board was the Minister of Defence. These three branches of the public service were, as I have said, brought in 1922 into a single department known as the Department of National Defence, and have since been administered by tho one minister, the Minister of National Defence.
3308	COMMONS
Department oj Mines and Resources
Similarly there was effected under the late Liberal administration a consolidation of all the revenue departments of the government. That consolidation had been previously begun in 1921 by the bringing together under one minister of the Department of Customs and what at that time was called the Department of Inland Revenue. The new department came to be known as the Department of Customs and Excise. The income tax however, was collected by the Department of Finance, as was also the case with the sales tax. In 1927 there was created the Department of National Revenue, under the direction of one minister, the Minister of National Revenue. The customs, excise, income tax, sales tax and other branches of the service that had to do with the collection of revenue were all brought into the one department of national revenue. There was in 1928 a consolidation of the Departments of Health and soldiers' civil reestablishment into the Department of Pensions and National Health. As hon. members will have observed, the resolution that appears next in order on the order paper provides for the consolidation into one department, to be known as the Department of Transport, of three departments that relate to transport, the Department of Railways and Canals, the Department of Marine, and the civil branch of the aviation service.
The historical sequence of the departments mentioned discloses how their relative importance has changed with the development of the country. A few years ago the Department of the Interior was a very large and important department of the government. It had to do with the administration of lands in the Northwest Territories as then constituted, which at the time of the creation of the department in 1873, comprised all that part of Canada lying west of the great lakes, excepting only the province of British Columbia and the original small province of Manitoba. It continued to have to do with all the crown lands and the development of the natural resources of this area, such as forests, water power and the like, which were under the control of the federal government as well as with land settlement and immigration. But with the creation of the western provinces and the transfer to those provinces of their natural resources, and to British Columbia of the railway belt and the Peace River block, the relative importance of the Department of the Interior became less and less, and it was found possible to carry on the present activities of the department with a staff reduced from 2,500 to approximately nine hundred.

After confederation the administration of Indian Affairs, which previously had been under the management of the several provinces came under the control of the dominion. From that time until 1873 Indian Affairs was attached to the department of the Secretary of State. In 1873 it became associated with the Department of the Interior. That association will continue under the consolidation about to be effected.
From Confederation until 1892 matters relating to Immigration were under the control of the department of Agriculture. From that year till 1917 they formed a branch of the department of the Interior. In the earlier years of this country immigration had an importance much greater federally than it has to-day. What has now become of increasing significance relatively is the work of colonization as between different parts of our own country. It has been felt that that work relates itself very closely to the development of our resources, and might very well be brought under the purview of the minister who has charge of this particular field.
The Department of Mines was created in 1907. From its inception it has been under the minister of some other department of the government. Though a separate and distinct department of government it has never had a minister of its own. However, with time the development of the mining resources of Canada has been such that this industry has come to have a place second to none in importance in the economic activities of the country. The government has felt that the present day relative importance of the industry in relation to the other departments with which it will be associated will be well brought out if in the name of the new department special mention is made of mines as a part of the new organization.
I shall have to leave until the bill itself is introduced an account of the particular organization it seeks to effect. Hon. members will see that to best advantage in the bill itself. At the moment, however, I should like to indicate some of the economies which it is hoped may be effected by this consolidation. It is not possible to do this by way of a definite statement, but in a general way economies will be apparent. In the four departments there are at the present time three deputy ministers and one deputy superintendent general, three assistant deputy ministers and one assistant deputy superintendent general, four legal advisers, two editorial staffs, three publicity staffs, four translation staffs, two architects' offices, four sets of secretarial and stenographic and other staffs, purchasing agents, four officers engaged in accounting for revenue and expendi-

Department oj Mines and Resources
ture, three photographic establishments, three departments in which land business is carried on and four in which surveying is carried on; doctors are employed by two departments; welfare of natives is a concern of two departments, maps are prepared in two departments At the present time there are eighteen branches all told in these four departments. Under the proposed legislation the number of branches will be limited to eight. Another direction in which considerable economy should be effected is in the housing of these various departments. We hope before very long, it will become possible to bring the various units together, into a single building where staffs will be more immediately under the supervision of those who are at the head of the different branches and of the department as a whole. At the present time the four departments are housed in twenty-four buildings throughout Ottawa. More than half of the office space now rented is in privately owned buildings, and the yearly rent exceeds $215,000. The consolidation will reduce the office space required and eliminate the time and expense of communication between the different branches.
The law officers are of the opinion that the Public Service Rearrangement and Transfer of Duties Act is not sufficiently comprehensive to permit of the consolidation of these various departments, and they advise that to achieve that end new legislation is necessary. This, apart from other considerations, is the reason why the government has thought it well to introduce special legislation to effect the amalgamations contemplated.
In conclusion may I add, it is hoped the proposed designation of the new department may serve to emphasize the place it will hold in the national economy. In selecting a title the government has sought to look to the future more than to the past. We have sought not so much to enumerate departments to be administered as to express those activities which are likely to contribute to the future development of the Dominion. By placing mines as the first unit in the designation of the new department, emphasis is being given to the importance the administration attaches to that branch of the public service.
It is thought that the term "resources" is sufficiently comprehensive to cover all the resources of the crown under the control and management of the present Department of the Interior, including the Northwest Territories, the Yukon territory and all Crown lands, and to include all that is being done by the government in the administration of crown lands, forests, water powers, parks, geodetic and geological surveys, and work of the kind. With respect to colonization, emphasis will be given to a greater national
development in which more attention than formerly will be paid to the movement of people within our own country, while permitting sufficient attention to be paid to what may be needed when the time again arrives to encourage immigration. It will, I believe, be agreed by all that the public interest will be well served by bringing into one department of government the^e various public services which require uniform and correlated administration.
Mr. Speaker, at this stage of the proceedings it would seem unnecessary to say much about the resolution; full discussion will be more appropriate later. May I assure the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) that he could not be more anxious than hon. members on this side of the house for economies in the public service, nor can he be more anxious than we were when in office.
In the list of ministers my right hon. friend has included four of us who did not receive salaries, and when he included us I do not think he helped his argument. It is true that he did reduce from seventeen to fifteen the number of ministers with portfolios, and speaking only for myself I would say that he has taken a step in the right direction. We will learn more about the economies effected as time goes on. There was a time when the Prime Minister said he was going to appoint under-secretaries. If he makes those appointments I doubt very much whether he will effect much economy. However the measure has not yet been introduced, and perhaps never will be. I think possibly it will not be introduced but if so we shall have something to say about it when the time comes.
May I suggest that the name of the raw department is too long and cumbersome. It is to be known as the Department of Mines, Resources and Colonization, but I believe the Prime Minister will agree that results are more satisfactory if we have shorter names for departments. Persons who come to Ottawa to interview ministers are not at all likely to remember departments with names as long as the one proposed in this measure. They find difficulty in knowing where to go, and I suggest that the name be shortened.


What is my right hon. friend's suggestion?


I think "Department of Mines and Resources" would be sufficient. The Prime Minister has left out the Departments of the Interior and Indian Affairs, and to those deletions I do not object.


And Immigration.
3310	COMMONS
Department oj Mines and Resources


Yes; but from
my point of view a short title is better than a long one. I wonder if he could not give the matter further consideration, and whether he would consider it advisable to have the department known as the Department of Mines and Resources.
The proposal is to bring four departments under one minister. As the Prime Minister has said, the Department of the Interior used to do extensive work, but the scope of its operations was narrowed and the size of the department reduced accordingly. Under present conditions it is true that the mines activities will be of greatest importance, and fn my judgment the government is acting properly in having mines mentioned first in the title.
The Prime Minister has stated that the four departments in question are housed in twenty-four buildings, half of which are privately owned. I agree with him entirely when he says that another office building should be erected by the government to house this department. I believe that in renting large numbers of buildings we are making a great mistake. From experience I have learned that even for me, one who has lived in Ottawa all his life, it is difficult to find the particular section of a department with which I may wish to get into communication. For these reasons I am entirely in agreement with the idea of bringing the different departmental branches together in such a way that they may be more easily controlled and supervised, and more closely in touch with the minister in charge.
My right hon. friend has said that the legal department has advised him the general act providing for the transfer of duties from one department to another is not sufficient to effect the desired end. I do not know anything about that phase of the matter, but whether or not it is sufficient I believe he is taking a proper course when he brings in new legislation. In my opinion it would not have been wise to rely on a general act to effect changes of such magnitude as are indicated in this measure.
I believe I have said all that I wish to say at this stage. When we have seen the bill and know more about it we shall be able to discuss it with greater intelligence and understanding. I hope the details of the bill will be such as to commend themselves to hon. members. With these few observations I am content to let the resolution pass so that the bill may be before us and be considered in the regular course, to-morrow or the next day.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
[Mr. E. Lapointe. 1


Would the Prime Minister feel at liberty to indicate more in detail the nature of the organization which is proposed under the bill?


I was hoping that the committee would prefer to wait until the bill was introduced before discussing the proposed organization in detail. I might leave it to my colleague the minister who is at present administering the department to say a word or two on this subject, if the committee so desires, as he is more familiar with all the details of the measure.


Broadly speaking, Mr. Chairman, the objective is to have one deputy minister and the work of all these departments arranged probably under eight directors. The precise manner of the classification of the work in the existing departments has not yet been completely worked out, and it is possible that we might be able to effect it with seven directorships, and then work through the directorships down.


Does not the bill state how many directors there are to be?


Yes, not more than eight. I might add what I am sure is perfectly obvious to the committee from the remarks of the Prime Minister in introducing the resolution, that there is to-day in these departments a very considerable amount of duplication. My theory of efficient administration rests largely on the importance of having competent men in the responsible positions, and in the carrying out of the work of reorganization that will be our aim. I feel quite certain from the survey I have been able to make of these departments that a very considerable economy can be effected in the course of time, and probably the efficiency of many branches of the departments increased.
The Prime Minister has touched on one point which to my mind is a very important one. It is extremely difficult to get economy and complete efficiency in administration when the units of your departments are scattered throughout more than a score of office buildings in the city. It makes for loss of time and a lack of actual contact in the direction of affairs, and undoubtedly adds to the expenses of administration.
I shall be very glad, Mr. Chairman, to supply any further details that may be required when the bill is before the committee.


The soldier settlement board is not mentioned here. Will it come under this new department?

Department oj Mines and Resources


Yes. The soldier settlement administration, which is a separate administration, will be under the combined department.


I fail to see, Mr. Chairman, what is going to be effected by this particular measure. True, it may affect some official salaries, but a country with the natural resources of Canada, with our magnificent products of the sea, of the forest, of the soil and of the mine, with our immense water powers, a potential forty-two million of horse-power and only seven million or one-sixth, developed, deserves something -better. I doubt whether this country could have existed through the last five or six years had it been less bountifully endowed with natural resources. But -how have we been conserving and using these natural resources? In the maritime provinces they gave away under successive governments for over thirty-two years the natural resources of the forest, of the soil and of the mine just like Santa Claus handing presents off a Christmas tree. To somebody was given a coal mine, and to somebody else fisheries and timber lands.
What did the Drury government do in the province of Ontario? I see my good friend from Dufferin-Simcoe (Mr. Rowe) is back in the house, and he will alter things, but he will probably not get the opportunity for a year or so. What did the so-called Farmer-Labour government in Ontario do? It gave to Backus, a multi-millionaire, a principality of timber limits half the size of Belgium.
Another thing that is affected in this amalgamation of departments is immigration, which is one of the three great problems of our empire to-day, trade, defence and migration. We are not able to provide work for our own people, let alone bringing in people from continental Europe and all over the world.
Another department that is to be included in this amalgamation is the Department of Mines. Was there ever a country, Mr. Chairman, with the natural resources of Canada that had its natural resources squandered to such an extent? Do you remember the Beauharnois? The Lord never intended the magnificent resources of the river St. Lawrence for the gentlemen on St. James street. He intended those natural resources for all his people. Why have we unemployment in this country to-day? Whenever we have a policy proposed in this house to cure unemployment, we have minister after minister getting up and saying, "I will study the question." Much study on the part of the cabinet I may say is a weariness to the flesh.
I fail to see, Mr. Chairman, what good is going to be effected by this measure, a glorified omnibus department. When everything is put in its pigeonhole-natural resources over here, mines over there-anybody can go to the cupboard and help himself as has been done so far. Immigration? Walk over to the deputy and get a permit. This parliament might as well close up, for all we have done this session for the benefit of the people. I am wondering what we have a parliament for. Our parliament is supposed to do something, and the goverment is supposed to carry out its pledges. What did this government say all over the province of Ontario they would do if they got into power? They were going to conserve our natural resources, but there has been no conservation at all. The question of the natural resources is one of the main issues across the border to-day. It was an issue in our election campaign last fall, and is going to be an issue in the future, and here is the government proposing to hand over our natural resources to a deputy minister and assistant deputy minister, and no doubt there will be a whole retinue of under-secretaries. Just wait till you see the list of undersecretaries. Every private member will be an under-secretary in this new omnibus department under the control of the Minister of the Interior. The hon. gentleman who did so much for the prairies and for the farmers on the prairies in free trade in wheat and grain is now to have delivered over to him a whole kingdom of natural resources. A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse! Mr. Backus got a whole kingdom of timber limits given to him, a principality half the size of Belgium, handed to him by the Drury government over the heads of the legislature. Is this parliament going to do something to help conserve our natural resources? I say this country will be bankrupt, Mr. Chairman, if we do not put on the brakes in the handing out of its resources in the way we have been doing. I say here and now that a country less abundantly endowed than Canada could not have existed in the past ten or fifteen years, the way we were handing out our natural resources. There will be economy in respect of a few clerks transferred here and a few deputy ministers transferred there, while one person will be grabbing another Beauharnois, somebody else will be grabbing timber limits, and so on. Under this new department our resources will be a happy hunting ground for American millionaires.
Sir GEORGE PERLE-Y: Will the directors provided for in this bill have access to the minister himself or only through the deputy?
3312	COMMONS
Department nj Mines and Resources


So long as I have been
in charge of any department it has always been the practice for the head of a branch or a subdepartment to have access to the minister. That I think has always been the practice and it will certainly be the practice here.


I would remind
the minister that in the Department of National Revenue, to which the Prime Minister referred, there are three branches and they have no deputy. These three commissioners have each direct access to the minister and not through anyone else. If that is to	be	the case in this	department I	amwondering why there is a deputy minister at	all.	If the directors	are to be in	thesame position as the commissioners are now in	the	Department of	National Revenue,
what will be the function of the deputy?


Of course, the two are
not altogether analogous. I have already said to	the	committee that	the legislation	will
provide for not more than eight directors; I think it quite likely that there will be at least seven. The purpose of having a deputy minister is to coordinate all the work; he is in a sense the general manager of the department.


Of all the
branches.


Of all the branches, yes;
and the work of coordination in a department of that size is very important. In the national revenue department, I understand that the present arrangement obtaining there has worked out very well. However, I have no hesitation, after studying the matter, in recommending that this department should have a deputy minister.


Of course, when the minister says that the position in the national revenue department is not analogous to the position here, I suggest there is much more reason why a deputy might be appointed to that department than to this proposed new department. After all, the Department of National Revenue has three branches all having to do with the collection of revenue, whereas in this new proposed department all the different branches have to do with entirely different subjects not in any way related one to the other. The mines branch and the branch with respect to Indian affairs are not related in any way. It seems to me much more difficult to coordinate seven or eight branches, all of which have to do with different subjects, than to coordinate
, 
the sections of the national revenue department. However, I will wait and see what reasons the minister has for having a different setup in this proposed new department than we have in the national revenue department. I submit that he ought to be able to give us better reasons than he has advanced this afternoon why this plan should be adopted.


I drew the attention of the house to the organization which was effected in the Department of National Defence. In that department there is one division which has to do with the military forces, another which has to do with the naval service, and a third which has to do with the air force. The three main divisions or branches of the department are coordinated under one deputy minister of National Defence. I believe successive Ministers of National Defence have found that it facilitates the coordinating of the work to have one permanent head who has complete supervision over all parts. It serves to bring the minister himself and the permanent head of the department more immediately into touch with defence as a whole than would be the case if the minister were obliged separately to consult all the heads of branches. When it comes to the special work of any branch of the department, or to special spheres of activity, the minister will certainly wish to see individually the heads of the various branches; but for purposes of general administration, of keeping a survey over large staffs, of preventing duplication of services on the part of clerks and the like, the presence of one deputy head is obviously a great advantage.


Does not the Prime Minister agree that the correlationship between the branches of the Department of National Defence is much closer than it could possibly be between the branches of this department, which covers so many varied fields of activity?


I am inclined to think that, as in the case of the Department of National Defence, all branches or divisions have to do with defence, so in this department all branches and divisions have to do in the main with the development of the resources of the country which are under federal control-resources relating to mines, forests, lands, water powers, parks and certain classes of the population. Altogether, it is essentially a department concerned with such of the country's natural resources as are not already assigned to other departments of the government.

Department of Transport
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Mackenzie King thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 79 respecting the Department of Mines, Resources and Colonization.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING (Prime Minister) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to provide for a Department of Transport to comprise the present Department of Railways and Canals and the Department of Marine and the civil aviation branch of the Department of National Defence, for the organization of the department, and the appointment and transfer of the required officers and staff.
He said: The bill to be founded on this resolution is similar to the bill founded on the resolution which we have just been considering, in that it brings together under the direction of one minister three or more departments or branches of the public service which have hitherto been separately administered. In the present instance the intention is to bring into one department, to be known as the Department of Transport, the existing Departments of Railways and Canals and of Marine and also the civil aviation branch of the Department of National Defence. All of these departments are obviously concerned with transportation. The government believes that the public interest will be better served by having one department concerned with transport in a manner which will enable the minister and his staff to view the transportation problem as a whole, to think in terms of transport facilities and interests as a whole rather than to have them viewed, as is too often the case to-day, as individual services with rival and possibly conflicting interests, jurisdiction and regulation.
As hon. members well know, transportation is of importance in our national life and in foreign trade. There has been constant change in the methods of transport, which has now four important divisions. For a long time transportation by rail was considered of chief importance from a government standpoint. It was considered necessary, Canada being the size it is, to have a separate department to deal all but exclusively with railways. Some of the railways, as government owned, were in fact operated by a department of the government. Water transportation was considered of such importance as also to necessitate the existence of a separate department concerned
specially with marine matters. In addition to transportation by rail and by water, transportation on highways, especially in the individual provinces, has come to have an importance which it did not have before, and to constitute a competitive element with both the railways and waterways. Finally there is transportation by air which is fast coming to be of equal if not in some particulars of greater importance than any of the other forms of transportation. There are the four kinds of transportation, being respectively railways, waterways, highways and airways. It is obviously necessary that the problem of transportation which thus presents itself should if possible be viewed as a whole. It is believed that, by consolidating the departments mentioned in the resolution that great objective will be served, as well as the aims of economy and efficiency, and the better regulation and control of transportation activities generally. The new act will place under common direction, as far as constitutional limits permit, all federal activities concerned with railways, waterways, highways and airways.
As to the selection of the name, here again, as with the department of mines and resources, it has been difficult to decide on a designation that would be as acceptable to some as it is to others. It has seemed to the government that the term "transport" would express better than any other the field we are endeavouring to bring under the purview of a single minister. It was suggested, I think by the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) that "department of communications" might be a better title than "department of transport." When my right hon. friend came into office I spoke to him about the desirability of some departments being consolidated immediately if they ever were to be consolidated. I think at the time I suggested the wisdom of bringing together into a department of communications the different departments having to do with communication. However, after considering the matter more carefully, it has seemed that "communications" would more properly be related to those services which have to do with the carrying of information, either by postal services or by telegraph or telephone, while "transport" has rather to do with the carrying or transporting of commodities or persons from place to place. It is not possible to draw a sharp line between the two. The radio, for example, might seem to relate more appropriately to communication than to transportation. Radio, for the time being at least, will be one of the services to be included in the Department of Transport. It is desirable to have the radio
Department of Transport
linked up in an effective way with transportation services because of the many agencies it serves so well. The importance of the radio to civil aviation, the meteorological service and the like will be apparent. The government feels the more secure in suggesting the designation "Department of Transport" for the new consolidation in that this is the title which is used in Great Britain for the ministry which has to do with transportation affairs there. In 1919 the act to establish the Ministry of Transport and for purposes connected therewith was passed. A reference to the powers and duties assigned to the Ministry of Transport under the British Act will disclose that they are very similar to those which are being assigned to this new department in Canada.
The financial benefits to be derived from the merging of the Department of Railways and Canals and of Marine are impossible of precise estimate at this stage. Nevertheless, there are bound to be considerable savings. As will foe indicated by the bill itself, there will be a single minister where formerly there were two, and one deputy minister where at the present time there are two. The administrative staff of the Department of Railways and Canals, at Ottawa, inside staff, numbers 88; of the Department of Marine, 256; and of civil aviation, 15, a total of 359. It is intended, of course, to effect such economies as may be possible without injury to the public service, and without unnecessary hardship, and at the same time to increase the efficiency of the service generally. In both respects this will be a gradual development which will require to be carefully worked out.
The set-up of the new Department of Transport, and the reorganization and classification of the staff, will afford opportunity for the coordination of a number of services. It will be possible, for instance, to bring the engineering and drafting forces together so that there may be no overlapping or duplication of engineering activities. This headquarters engineering service and advice will also be available for outside work within the scope of the National Harbours Board, where heretofore local engineering activities have had little or no relation to a general coordinated scheme of development.
In other directions as well there will be definite and distinct advantages. A single purchasing branch will be set up; one legal staff will be sufficient; stenographic services can be pooled and rendered more effective; records arrangements consolidated, systematized and brought up to date. In other words, a more efficient and compact departmental

machine will in due course be evolved with a considerable saving in expenditure and an all-round increase in efficiency.
There are, of course, benefits and advantages not to be measured in dollars and cents. The chief will be as already mentioned those arising from the fact that all matters of transportation within the federal ambit will be under one department and the uniform direction of one minister, who will be able to think in terms of transportation interests as a whole rather than of individual services. Due provision will be made in the new department for the development and expansion of the latest form of transportation- the commercial air services. In addition to the inside service headquarters staff at Ottawa, both the departments of Railways and Canals and of Marine have large outside staffs which,' as they are connected with navigation services, expand in summer and contract in winter. All of these services will come, like the inside service, under the direction of the Ministry of Transport.
I think I may assume that hon. members opposite and in all parts of the house will take towards the present measure the same attitude of general approval which was adopted by my right hon. friend the acting leader of the opposition towards the previous measure, and that the house will welcome a consolidation which obviously makes for better regulation, for control of transportation activities generally as well as for economy in the public service.
All I wish to say at the moment is that this measure, when it comes before us, will receive our most careful consideration. I hope it will make for economy and for the better administration of the public service. As far as the name is concerned it is a matter of opinion. The Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) says he has given it careful consideration and in his opinion the title should be "Ministry of Transport." I know that my leader thinks "Ministry of Communications" would be a better name, and he will be here to speak for himself when the bill comes up on a later occasion. On that point I would submit only one thing to the Prime Minister, and that is that "transportation" sounds as if it had something to do with railways. The Canadian National railways are supposed and intended to be administered apart from the government and not by the Minister of Railways.


We are changing all that now.

Customs Act


Yes, but the use of the word "transport" would lead people to think it was intended that this department really should have something to do with running the railways, so I think it would be wiser to use the word "communications." That is all I have to say at the moment, but I think the Prime Minister might consider that aspect of the question, since it will surely be brought up for discussion at a later stage.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.


In reply to what my right hon. friend said a moment ago as to the designation "transport" suggesting that the department would have something to do with railways, may I point out to the right hon. gentleman that at the present time we have a Department of Railways and Canals, which even more emphatically expressed the relationship of the government to the railways. Under the present consolidation it is not intended to do other than take over such functions with respect to the railways as at present are under the direction of the Minister of Railways and Canals.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Mackenzie King thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 80, respecting the Department of Transport.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. J. L. ILSLEY (Minister of National Revenue) moved the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 11, to amend the Customs Act.
I think the minister might make
some explanation as to these amendments.


I shall be very glad to do
so. Two words are changed, I think. On page 3, line 8, section 6, the word "person" is substituted for the word "party." Then at the top of page 4 there is a change in the arrangement of the words in a sentence, without changing the meaning. As originally framed the sentence read:
Whenever information has been given under oath to any officer alleging conspiracy to defraud the revenue or that goods or things have been unlawfully imported or entered . ..
This has been changed so that the words *"has been given under oath to any officer"
appear after the word "entered" instead of as they appeared originally. The changes made by the senate do not affect the meaning of the bill in any way; they are simply minor changes to improve the draftsmanship.


Are those the
only two amendments?


Yes.


What is the
amendment on page 5?


That is the penalty section, which repeats the section on page 4.


These amendments by the Senate are not printed, and often they go through without the house knowing what they are. Then later we find that they lead to u