Mr. GEORGE W. McPHEE (Yorkton) presented the first report of the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills.
Sir EUGENE FISET (Rimouski) presented the first report of the standing committee on railways and shipping owned, operated and controlled by the government, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. A. L. BEAUBIEN (Provencher) presented the first report of the special committee appointed to inquire into the operations of the Canadian radio commission and its administration of the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Act of 1932 and amendments, and the regulations made under authority thereof, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Bill No. 48, respecting The Pension Fimd Society of the Bank of Montreal.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 49, for the relief of Birdie Louise Coleman Wilson.-Mr. Jacobs.
rSir George Perley.]
Bill No. 50, for the relief of Solomon Hyman, otherwise known as Saul or Sam Hyman.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 51, for the relief of Lewis Gould.- Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 52, for the relief of Hyman Stot-land.-Mr. Reid (for Mr. Hanson).
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Will the government give consideration to a definite national civil aviation policy during this session of parliament?
2.	If so, will it consider representations that such policy be administered and developed independently of any aeronautical development for military purposes?
3.	Has any agreement been made with Imperial Airways for the trans-Canada transportation of transatlantic passengers and mail on all Canadian route?
4.	Will it be possible to provide for substantially increased inspection of, and supervision over, all aircraft flying in Canada?
5.	Will the government be able to make a substantially increased use of the facilities of the municipal airport in Regina during 1936?


1.	Under consideration.
2.	The development of civil aviation will, as it has in the past, be administered and developed independently of any aeronautical developments for military puiposes.
A resolution is now before the house, providing for the civil aviation branch of the Department of National Defence forming a. part of the proposed department of transport.
3.	No.
4.	Yes.
5.	No, as i.t is not expected that the construction of the trans-Canada highway will be far enough advanced to permit of any regular air services being operated during the year 1936.


1.	How many postmasters were dismissed for political partisanship, upon the recommendation of Mr. C. N. Dorion, ex-member for Quebec-Montmorency, from August 1, 1930, to October 14, 1935?
2.	What are their names?

Questions


1.	Seven postmasters were dismissed on the personal statement of Mr. Dorion, former member for Quebec-Montmorency.
2.	Name-Post Office Mrs. E. T. Hebert, Callieres.
Jos. Leclere, St. Pierre d'Orleans.
Eugene Gariepy, Ange Gardien Est.
Aime Goudreault, Les Saules.
F. X. Jobin, Chsurlesbourg Ouesit.
R. Gaulin, Boischatel.
Mrs. Martha Hayes, Riviere aux Pins.


1.	For what periods, respectively, were audits made by (a) J. S. deBilly and (b) by Albert Allaire, of the books of the Hervay Chemical Company of St. Basile, Portneuf county, Quebec, to ascertain the amount of sales tax owed by that firm?
2.	Were the books of the firm accurate?
3.	If not, who discovered that some of the entries in the said books were incorrect?
4.	Were the books of the company seized and conveyed to the office of the collector of inland revenue at Quebec, and, if so, by whom?
5.	Did any employee of the firm admit under oath that entries in the books were false; if so, who was he, and upon what date did he make the statement?
6.	Have any proceedings, for violation of the law, been taken against the company, its directors, or employees?
7.	Have any politicians endeavoured to stop legal proceedings; if so, who are they?
8.	What reasons were advanced for the resignation of Albert Allaire?
9.	Who went to see him relative to the signing of his resignation?
10.	What is the date of said resignation'


1.	(a) May 19, 1920, to February 28, 1927. (b) August 1, 1923, to May 1, 1933.
2.	The books produced by the firm for Mr. deBilly's inspection were accurate. Additional books were produced, on demand by Mr. Allaire, for the period covered by his audit.
3.	Answered by No. 2.
4.	No record.
5.	A declaration was made by E. A. Savery, accountant for the company, on May 18, 1931, before a commissioner of the superior court, which reads in part as follows:
"I declare that 50 per cent of the amount of tax and arrears appearing in the report from Mr. Allaire made in April and May, 1931, was not charged by the Hervay Chemical Company to the purchasing customers.
That 50 per cent of the tax which was charged to the different purchasers was not paid by the latter to the Hervay Chemical Company."
6.	Action taken for refusal to produce books, but discontinued owing to defendant producing same before date fixed for return of writ into court.
7.	No record.
8.	Resignation requested because of neglect of duty.
9.	J. S. deBilly, then supervising auditor for the province of Quebec, on instructions from the department at Ottawa.
10.	Resignation dated March 5, 1934, to become effective March 16, 1934.


1.	Who represents the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission as censor of broadcasts in the city of Quebec?
2.	What is his salary or remuneration?
3.	What are his duties?
4.	Was he appointed by the Civil Service Commission, and if so (a) who were the other candidates, and (b) who determined their qualifications?
5.	By whom was the said censor recommended?


The following information has been supplied by the Canadian Radio Broadcasting commission:
1.	Jean Blais.
2.	No salary or remuneration yet recommended.
3.	To inspect continuities for political broadcasts for observance of article 90, rules and regulations, Canadian Radio Broadcasting commission.
4.	No. See No. 2.
5.	By the vice-chairman, Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission.


1.	Who is the manager of radio station CRCK in the city of Quebec?
2.	What is his salary?
3.	Upon what date was he appointed?
4.	Was he appointed by the Civil Service Commission, and if so (a) who were the other candidates, and (b) who determined their qualifications?
5.	By whom was the said manager recommended?


The following information has been supplied by the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission:
1.	Position of manager, Station CRCK, Quebec, has not yet been authorized. The duties are performed by Mr. A. H. Houde, supervisor of studios.
2,	3, 4 and 5. See No. 1.
C.N.R.-Refunding

HAMILTON RIFLE RANGE On the orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, before the orders of the day are called I should like to ask a question if the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Mackenzie). To-day I received a copy of the special supplementary estimates, and in looking through them I find no provision for a matter discussed some time ago regarding the establishment of a rifle range for militia units at Hamilton. I should like to ask the minister-


I do not think that is
a proper question to put on the orders of the day.


I should like to put it
in the form of a question.


A question of this kind
should be placed on the order paper, or asked through communication with the government.


The only question I
should like to ask is-


Order.


-whether it would be included in additional supplementary estimates.


The question should not
be asked on the orders of the day. When the estimates are under consideration the matter may be taken up.


It will be too late then.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution :
That it is expedient to bring in a measure respecting the Canadian National railways, to authorize the provision of moneys to meet expenditures made and indebtedness incurred during the calendar year 1936, and to provide for the refunding of certain maturing financial obligations.
He said: The object of the resolution is to provide for capital expenditures and the refunding of capital obligations during the current fiscal period. The 1936 budget of the Canadian National Railways calls for a total amount of 849,859,000, made up of the moneys mentioned in the resolution plus $39,900,000 for net income cash deficit. The provision for the net income cash deficit is being made by way of vote in the special

supplementary estimates. In regard to the bill founded upon the resolution now under discussion, the intention is to follow past practice and to refer it to the special committee on railways and shipping.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Johnston (Lake Centre) in the chair.
This would seem to be the proper time to ask the government as to its policy with respect to the Canadian National Railways. We are now asked to vote a large sum of money for the purpose of providing for the deficit of 1936. It is true that in the supplementary estimates tabled yesterday there is an item dealing with anticipated deficits, but it will be observed that this resolution is to authorize provision of moneys to meet expenditures made and indebtedness incurred during the calendar year 1936, as well as to provide for the refunding of loans. That raises at once the acute question as to the policy of the administration with respect to this publicly owned property. If by this resolution we are to authorize, as we are, the payment of money to provide'for the 1936 operations, it does seem to me that at least we should know something about them, what is involved in them and the general principle and practice that is to be pursued by the government in dealing with this problem.


The question of the right hon. gentleman is a perfectly proper one and will be dealt with fully by the house when it considers Bill No. 21 now standing as item 18 on the order paper. If it is desired to delay proceeding further with this resolution until Bill No. 21 has been dealt with, the government will raise no objection, although it would facilitate the proceedings generally to be able to get this measure before the special committee on railways and shipping in order to enable it to be advanced. Whatever the policy of the government may be as revealed by Bill No. 21, obviously capital expenditures on the railway will require to be made and certainly parliament will desire to make provision for the refunding of maturing obligations. But I shall not insist on pressing the matter if my right hon. friend desires that the question of general policy should be discussed prior to this measure being dealt with and referred to the special committee.


Mr. Chairman, the minister's answer is a very fair one, but there is a consideration which I think he overlooks. First, the budget of the railway is to be studied
by the special committee. Obviously the details of that budget are prepared by the gov-

C.N.R.-Refunding
ernment officials, and upon the acquiescence of this house in the budget requirements of the railway depends the willingness of the house to enact the legislation contemplated by this resolution. Therefore it is not essential that the resolution or the bill founded upon it should be before the committee while they are studying the details of the budget requirements of the railway, because the bill is to give effect to the conclusions of the committee as to the amount of money that must be provided by this country to enable the railway company to meet its requirements. I think the minister will realize that the budget requirements of the railway are considered in detail by the committee, and when that has been done the bill founded upon it will be the logical sequence of such action on the part of the standing committee when its report has in turn been considered by the house. Let us assume the committee recommends that a capital expenditure of ten million dollars should be reduced to seven millions, or that some special expenditure which the budget contemplates should not be provided for this present year; in that event the budget requirements and the measure to be founded upon them would be correspondingly modified. That in my judgment is the sequence of events so far as we are concerned.
It does become important that the policy of the government should become known before this final action is taken-, and I cannot see that the ministry would in any sense be prejudiced by this resolution standing until such time as the special committee has had- the opportunity to consider the budget requirements of the railway as prepared and submitted to the government -by the railway officials. I think the hon. gentleman's desire to expedite his measure will not in any sense be interfered with if he delays it until such time as the special committee has considered and reported- upon the budget requirements of the railway.


Mr. Chairman, I thought as a former member of the standing committee that I was following the procedure which has usually been adopted, that it was customary for the budget of the railway to -be considered by the committee concurrently with the legislation necessary to give effect to it. However, I do not desire to take up the time of the house to press the point. No interest will suffer in the immediate future by delaying the introduction of the bill founded on this resolution, and- rather than have a long discussion about it I think I had better move that the committee rise, report progress, and ask leave to sit again.


Before the motion is put will the minister permit me to ask one question? It may be a reflection on myself but I do not quite recall the exact procedure in the past. My impression is that in the past we have dealt only with deficits in the year following the year in which the deficit was incurred. But it would appear by this resolution that this year the ministry is anticipating a deficit for 1936 and proposes now to make provision for it. Am I correct in that?


The hon. gentleman is
correct. He will remember as a former member of the standing committee that the budget of the railways as presented to that committee always contained provision for an estimated deficit. That deficit was dealt with by the house not in the current session but in the succeeding session when the actual deficit became known. Inasmuch as a deficit will actually arise during the current calendar year the government deems it desirable to make provision for it now in the estimates, and to establish the practice of dealing with the estimated provision for it in advance. Then next year what comes before the house with respec-t to the calendar year 1936 will have to do with the extent to which the officers of the railways were in error in presenting their estimated deficit figure for this year. My own recollection of the procedure in the past is that the Canadian National Railway budget came before the house in rather a peculiar manner. The provision made in the estimates was for the deficit of a previous year, whereas the budget under consideration by the committee on railways and shipping was the estimated deficit of the current year plus provision for capital requirements and refunding such as is contemplated in the measure now under discussion. I really thought I was providing for the committee having before it the complete Canadian National bud-get when, on the one hand, we had yesterday provision in the supplementary estimates for the estimated deficit and to-day we are introducing a measure providing for the balance of the Canadian National Railway budget, being the amount required on capital account for new construction and other works and for refunding. To my mind the complete budget of the Canadian National Railways is not officially before the committee on railways and shipping until this measure, plus the provision in the estimates for the deficit, is before it.
C .N.R.-Refunding

However, if -the committee desires to see it delayed until Bill No. 21 has been discussed, I shall, as I have stated, raise no objection.


I want to make it clear
to the minister that at the moment I am not particularly criticizing the change. Personally I would like a little time to consider it, because it is a distinct departure. It involves, for instance, in this particular year, providing in the estimates for two years' deficits, and in subsequent years, if this method is followed, the deficits would be anticipated and provided for. There is just one point in that connection that occurs to me as worthy of consideration. If parliament, which is always looked upon as a sort of Santa Claus, actually in advance anticipates and provides for a certain estimated deficit, is there not a danger that parliament having provided, say, for a forty million dollar deficit, six months afterwards when the financial authorities controlling the railway find they have a deficit perhaps of only fifteen million dollars, they may say to themselves: "We are doing very well. We have not exhausted the forty million deficit provided for." Would there not be a tendency for the management of the road, good as it may be, to become a little less exacting in its efforts to reduce deficits and build up a sound system? Would there not be a tendency to encourage, shall I say, a little laxity? It is psychological; the point may be rather narrow, but I am inclined to think it should be considered carefully before this change is authorized. That is one reason why I would suggest

I am not objecting at all to the minister going ahead with this measure- that we should very carefully study and have a complete explanation of this departure from the practice that has obtained in the past.


The point of view expressed by my hon. friend has of course been very carefully considered by the government in the light of past experience on the part of the committee on railways and shipping. My 'hon. friend will remember, as a former member of that committee, that the committee was always faced with fait accompli -the deficit they were considering was one which they had to v-ote anyway because it had been incurred. There was only a restricted opportunity for the committee to say to the railway officers: "You are anticipating that you are going to lose so much money; show us why it is necessary, and show us whether it is not possible to reduce the loss." If this method is adopted the committee will

always be dealing with an anticipated deficit and will not be hampered as it has been in the past by the statement: "The money is gone; you might as well make provision for it." I appreciate the point made by the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Stevens) when he says that to set up an anticipated deficit in advance might have a psychological effect, but I am inclined to the view that it would be very bad for this country if the Canadian National officers looked at a figure which they themselves had arrived at presumably as the outside figure of their deficit and then figured they could coast along so long as they were close to it. I believe most railway operators would feel a certain pride in being able to improve upon a figure which in their dealings with the committee they had anticipated as the company deficit.


As a matter of fact, did
not the officers of the railway disclose to the committee what was their anticipated deficit? I think that is always done in any case, although we do not actually provide for it. In other words, we do not sanction it. That is the difference between the minister's point of view and my own. As I say, the matter has come before me only at this moment and I am not prepared to dogmatize, but it struck me that this is rather a serious change in principle which ought to be very carefully thought over and studied.


The minister is entirely
in error in his statement. When I asked for a statement as to policy I had in mind the fact that we voted $41,000,000 just before the Easter recess to take -care of the Canadian National deficit for 1935. That was a deficit which had been examined into, in part, by the special committee.


Only in part.


It dealt with it in part,
but it could not deal with the question of interest and so on. The budget was examined in detail for the puipose of ascertaining how they made up their expected deficit, but parliament has never voted money for an expected deficit, the money has never been voted until the deficit has arisen. It will be within the memory of eveiy hon. member that we voted money this year to take care of that deficit. The minister explained that inasmuch as the financial arrangements made by the railway company contemplated their being provided with money to meet their deficit at the end of the year, he wanted this vote to go through in its entirety so that they might be able to meet their financial arrangements.

National Harbours Board


My right hon. friend
will remember my embarrassment at the lack of opportunity for the standing committee to examine it under the circumstances.


The standing committee examined the budget for 1936-that budget was prepared last year-and it examined the budget for 1935. The minister brought in the legislation that was essential for the purpose of providing for capital expenditures, refunding and matters of that kind, but the railway company was on its toes, to use the language of the street, to make that deficit as low as possible. As a matter of fact it succeeded in making it much less than was anticipated at one time. To vote money in advance in anticipation of a deficit is something which I do not think is ever done in ordinary business enterprises. I was not going to discuss this matter until after the standing committee had discussed the budget, but I am bound to point out that when this is done one of two things happens. The amount estimated is usually an outside figure which it is not expected will be reached, or the figure is one which it is known is too low. Very often such a figure is put in so as to impress the committee with the fact that it has been pared down to the last sou, and then they find that conditions necessitate its being larger. On the other hand, if you take a figure of $50,000,000 and do not expect that your deficit will be that great, you are inviting, as the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Stevens) has said, an effort to spend it on deferred maintenance and matters of that kind. I do not think this departure is a sound one, but I shall discuss it later when the budget of the railway company has been considered by the standing committee. I think the resolution might stand until the budget has been considered.


My right hon. friend would prefer that it does not go to the standing committee as yet?


Let them see the budget first, because the figure may be different from what it now is.


The railway budget is down.


It may be reduced by the committee. The budget is only before the committee; it has not been presented to the house.


It never is.


It reaches the house indirectly when the committee brings in its report.


I am content to move that the committee rise, report progress and ask leave to sit again.
Progress reported.


The house resumed from Wednesday, April 22, consideration in committee of Bill No. 17, respecting the national harbours board-Mr. Howe-Mr. Johnston (Lake Centre) in the chair.
When the committee rose last evening we were dealing with section 4, subsection 1.
On section 4, subsection 1-Officers, clerks and employees.


Before we proceed to the consideration of this section, I would like to ask the Minister of Marine (Mr. Howe) if he will lay on the table the opinion of the Department of Justice to which he referred in the discussion yesterday in connection with *the necessity of inserting subsection 2 of section 3 in this bill. I have looked over the farm loan acts of 1927, 1934 and 1935, and I cannot see that the insertion of certain words in the farm loan acts necessitates the insertion of this subsection 2 in this bill; there does not appear to be any proper relationship between the two pieces of legislation.


No specific written opinion was given on that point. The bill was drawn up by the solicitor of the department working with the solicitor of the Department of Justice. The representative of the Department of Justice assured me that there had been an opinion of the department, and I have no doubt the department would be glad to submit a written opinion if the hon. gentleman so wishes.


I inferred from the statement made by the minister that an opinion had been given, that the minister had referred to the department the suggestions I made on the second reading and that the department had decided against the views which I had then expressed. I do not wish to raise any irrelevant issues, but I have looked at the Farm Loan Acts of 1927, 1934 and 1935 and I
National Harbours Board

have found that the farm loan board, so far as I could ascertain, was not empowered by any of these acts to sue in its own name; therefore I could understand that for the purposes of suit on behalf of the farm loan board it might be deemed expedient to make a declaration that the farm loan board was the agent of His Majesty the King acting in the right of the dominion. I could understand that in that particular case such an innovation-I think it was an innovation- should be declared by statute; but I can see no analogy or relationship between the two bills which would render it necessary to insert in this bill, in section 3, subsection 2, that:
The board shall be a body corporate and politic-
With that I agree, but it goes on:
-and be and be deemed to be, for all the purposes of^ this_ aet,_ the agent of His Majesty the King in his right of the Dominion of Canada.
I cannot think that that novel declaration should now be inserted in a bill of this kind constituting a commission which is empowered to sue and be sued in its own name.


Would it be satisfactory to my hon. friend if there were obtained from the department and laid on the table an opinion with respect to the point he has raised?


Certainly, that is all I ask; I do not wish to embarrass the hon. gentleman.


Has the minister had time to consider the point we discussed a good while yesterday in regard to the best way of appointing the staff of the harbour board? I may say again that the only object we had in mind was to endeavour to have this board, which is really going to be a large new department, started in the best way, so that those who are employed might consider themselves permanent. In that way we should get better service than if they were subject to dismissal whenever there was a change of government. Has the hon. gentleman had time to consider this question further?


I have thought the matter over carefully and I cannot agree with my hon. friend that we are making this board a department of government. There is no change in the administration of the harbour commissions except for the substitution, at the port, for a board of three, of a manager who is an expert in port management, and the creation of a link between the minister and these managers in the shape of a board

of three experts who will supervise the work of the seven commissioners. As I pointed out before, the set-up was indicated in Sir Alexander Gibb's report, which is word for word as we have it here. Sir Alexander was firmly of the opinion that the board should be free to make its own appointments and to control its own staff. I have before me a bill which I found on my desk entitled "An Act respecting the National Harbours Commission," dated March, 1933. This I believe was not presented to parliament in 1933 but it no doubt embodies the views of the government of that day, and there again I find that the provision is exactly the same as the provision in the present bill. I must say I am unable-


If the hon. gentleman will allow me to interrupt him, I would point out that, as he will find as he goes through the years, draft bills are brought in for the consideration of the government, and a draft bill does not necessarily embody at all the wishes or the ideas of the government. It is my own opinion that it is unreasonable for the minister to bring draft bills into the house and quote from them; it is a highly improper thing for him to refer to a draft bill which had no official existence and certainly cannot be said to embody the opinions of the government.


I did not intend to make any improper reference to the bill in question; we were simply looking for all the information we could find bearing on the subject and I was hoping that the draft bill might contain some further information. I am unable to improve on the present wording of the bill.


There is involved in this a question of far-reaching importance.


Louder.


I am going to refer in a moment to the harbour of Halifax and I will speak loud enough for the hon. gentleman to hear me. The question is this: Is the port manager to appoint anybody he is told by the sitting member to appoint? That is the real issue. There have come to me during the last two weeks from various parts of the country reports indicating that members of parliament sitting on the government side have told port managers that they must appoint given people and dismiss given people in connection with the work of the ports, and I will give the names of the ports if it is thought desirable. These communications are supported by a wealth of testimony and are unquestionably sound so far as the facts are concerned. I have no desire to embarrass the minister or to

National Harbours Board
take up unnecessary time, but I would ask what is going to be the use of this scheme if, for instance, a member of parliament says, "I have seen the minister and Mr. Hawken and it is arranged that the port manager will receive instructions as to whom he shall appoint." That may or may not be true; but if he is to appoint John Smith because a member says, "Dear Ralph: You will appoint so and so to that particular job; you must do it because I have seen the minister and I have seen Mr. Hawken," where is that going to lead us?
I have heard the observation that we did not introduce this bill in pursuance of Sir Alexander Gibb's report. That is perfectly true.
I did not introduce it and it is prefectly true also that I could not get it through-I wish to be quite frank with the house. The opposition of that day from Quebec was opposed to the bill as it now is. It was opposed to it then, and added to that the fact that our own friends were not in favour of it, dictator though I was I could not get this bill through-as I say, I want to be frank about it-and that is the reason why on the first occasion that offered I congratulated the Prime Minister in connection with the speech from the throne upon introducing the bill. I did so because I believed that unless it was done at the very first session it could not be done at all and would not be done. Had the fortunes of war been otherwise an effort would have been made to do it. Whether or not that effort would have succeeded I cannot say, but the hon. gentleman has succeeded and when he talks about a draft bill, immediately after the report we began to consider what form of bill might be utilized. But there never was submitted to council a draft bill in the sense of having finality, though there were discussions. I found, however, opposition among our own people as well as opposition from this side, led at that time by the present Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), so that it would be absolutely impossible for us to get the bill through. When I say "impossible" I mean impossible in that sense.


I do not want to contradict the right hon. gentleman, and the Minister of Justice is not here, but I have no recollection of his having opposed any proposal to introduce a bill based on the Gibb report. I am speaking subject to correction, but I do not remember it.


Merely an expression of
his disapproval of the report,-that is what I am referring to. I am not going into details, because no bill was submitted to parliament. Not only did it come from one particular
man on this side of the house, but we knew from expressions of opinion made to the then minister of marine that hon. gentlemen were unalterably opposed to the legislation, and the speech made the other evening by the hon. member for Outremont (Mr. Vien) represented a view taken by many of our own people. Now this bill is before the house.
I say it means just one thing: it means the substitution of the port managers for the commissioners for the purpose of recording the views of the member for that particular constituency. Is that sound or not? That is the whole issue.


That is not so; R. W. Hendry's appointment was sound as port manager.


The senior member for
Halifax says it is not sound. I am inclined to agree that it is not right. What has been put forward by us here is this, that it is idle to say all the positions should be filled by the civil service commission-no one suggests it for a moment; it would be both unfair and unjust to suggest that that should be so. On the other hand there are positions that should be so filled in order that continuity may be obtained and permanency secured, and in order that the service may be in keeping with what the minister has said is desired by reason of this bill being submitted to the house. If for instance an appointment to the harbour of Vancouver is to be made merely on the say-so of members of parliament directed to the port manager, then the port manager is not managing the port, he is managing patronage; that will be his job, and it will take too much of his time, too much of any man's time, to deal with it. There is nothing new about this condition. I was hoping that the result of this new measure would be to eliminate in part that very unfortunate state of affairs. I have been told of ports where there have been a thousand applications for employment-that has not been unusual during the last five years- and that men would get a chit from a member or a minister and thereby would immediately be given a position. I was hopeful from what the minister said when the bill was introduced that that condition would disappear. Of course I realize that it cannot be removed in its entirety, but it should disappear with respect to positions that are so important that in the public interest they should be filled by men who would enjoy an assurance of permanence and of continuity in the service, in order that we might get the best results. I submit to the minister that if the effect of this bill is merely to substitute the port manager for the commissioners in receiving
National Harbours Board

chits and instructions and directions, he will find that he has not accomplished what Sir Alexander Gibb in one of the paragraphs of the report refers to in connection with the "political" administration of the board. If the harbour is to be administered as a political unit, this bill has accomplished no purpose. The purpose might 'be accomplished by an order in council. How, for instance, does the minister function with respect to the engineer of the railway department and the employee of the marine department? What position do they occupy to-day? They have been going around the harbours giving instructions and directions. Under what authority?


They were the commissioners, appointed by order in council.


Appointed by order in
council to succeed the present commissioners. The same commissioners are commissioners for all the harbours, without regard to residence or anything of that sort; they are merely administering each of these harbours. That indicates the reason, I suppose: the question of who shall determine what men work in a harbour is more or less in the hands of these three gentleman who are resident long distances away. Although long distance telephones are very useful, it is difficult to have Vancouver harbour entirely officered at the instance of the three men who are here. Therefore some one locally must determine that matter, and you get back to the same condition that you have had for years.
If the minister will look at the records and see the number of men that have been dismissed in Vancouver since October 23, he will find that the usual practice has prevailed, that whenever there has been a change of government there has been a change of personnel. If it is a new Conservative government that comes in, they insist on certain men losing their positions and those positions being filled by others; and when a Liberal government comes in, vice versa. Now one hoped, and I think the people hoped, that there was going to be a retention in the service of fit men. If it were desirable I could give the names of two or three such, regardless of their political complexion-some had no politics at all, but they were appointed within the last five years, and that in itself was held to be such a deterrent to their continued employment that they were let out of their positions. I put it to the minister that if the effect of this measure is merely that certain members of parliament are to say to the port manager: This man must go to work and the other man must 
not go to work, depending entirely on their political views, the last state of this harbour is going to be worse than the first. That is a consideration that I do urge upon him; I think the public expects it to be regarded and it must be regarded if this bill is to become effective. The whole burden of one phase of Sir Alexander Gibb's report was the difficulty of making the operation of a port effective under political administration. No one suggests that all these positions should be filled by the civil service commission, but some effort should be made to secure men who have technical knowledge. For instance you have an acting manager at Saint John; you have a manager put in at Halifax. Each of these men may have admirable qualities, but his political associations are not unknown, and in the very nature of things he is supposed to give effect to the recommendations he receives. The same thing is true with respect to other parts of the country.
I can only urge the minister to realize that if we discuss the matter in this way it is not merely for the purpose of making political capital out of it, but with the earnest desire to see this experiment succeed. I am as anxious as the minister is to see it succeed, because it was the late government that asked Sir Alexander Gibb to come here; we discussed the matter with him fully; he went over it carefully and, realizing the difficulties, made his report after very mature consideration. If we are not to make any advance, but merely, as I say, to substitute the port manager for the former commisioners as the recipient of advice and to run the port as a purely political machine, then the very worst will follow instead of the best that we had hoped for.


I find it rather difficult to
discover the real position of my right hon. friend. In speaking to this bill the other day I was severely criticized by him for not giving the local managers more authority over hiring. I will read what he said about it:
The other day there was a snow-storm in Montreal.
I cal! attention to that line because that is the only line that is correct as far as I can discover.
The question of the removal of the snow was referred to Ottawa, as I am informed, and certain delays took place before the question was finally dealt with.
An hon. Member: No.
Mr. Bennett: I only know that those who were charged with responsibility in that port so informed me. There is no reason why this should not be known, and there were certain delays.

National Harbours Board
The question of how much authority the port manager should have is rather difficult. We are trying to set up a new order with reasonable permanence. The authority the port manager should have is something to be decided. Our first view was that he should have none, that he should not be able to hire or to dismiss men. He should be able to suspend men for cause, and notice should be given to the central board. The purpose is obvious; it is to stop the sort of thing my right hon. friend refers to. My right hon. friend criticized us for a situation that he assumed arose in Saint John, which if it had arisen would have been very wrong-


Montreal.


In Montreal, rather, and there was criticism from other sources. We therefore relaxed the regulations in some cases. A case may have occurred in Halifax. As a matter of fact we did in Halifax and Vancouver give authority to the port managers to employ men on hourly wages. They have free authority in that regard, and the situation my right hon. friend spoke of might have arisen; I do not know whether it did or not. In any event, as I say, we have not the machinery set up, and until this bill is enacted and we get our board organized, we have very little chance of instituting a system that will work. We feel that the main consideration is not to interfere with the business of the ports; that has been the paramount consideration-we must keep the wheels operating. As to permanence, no one wishes permanence more than I do. Sir Alexander Gibb made a thorough study of the matter, and his opinion deserves weight; he is an excellent man and made an excellent report. He stated that the board-
-should have wide discretionary powers in the matter of rates, salaries, terms of service, the settling and administration of contracts, the engagement of special technical assistance, the sanctioning of emergency capital expenditure, and the control generally of all construction and port operations.
I take the same view. It is a matter that has been under study for a long time, and that is what we hope to work out. We are working towards greater permanence of employment. I believe if the thing is allowed to work out as recommended by Sir Alexander Gibb we shall, over a period of years attain the certainty of service that they have in the Canadian National Railways and other well managed corporations. It is hardly fair to criticize us too severely if at the moment the wheels are not clicking just as they should. We are trying to change from one system to another; as long as we have no 12739-134
permanent legislation we are unable to make a permanent set-up. But I can assure the committee that if my intentions had not been along the lines that the other side are advocating I would not have brought this bill to the point it has now reached. I must say I am getting a bit fed up with it and my resistance is getting at a rather low ebb.


The last observation of the minister indicates that he has not been long experienced in the position he occupies, because he will learn by and by that he will get very weary of many things he may have to do. Patience is a virtue that far transcends all others in dealing with matters of this kind. He cannot deal with this as he would with a plan or design in a drafting room; one has to remember that there are 245 members of this house and they all have a right to express their views if they so desire.
I believe the hon. gentleman really has a desire to accomplish the purpose he has indicated. It was because we felt as we did about it that we asked Sir Alexander Gibb to come and make a report, and it is because we believe that report is a sound one that we are here to-day. When I spoke the other evening about local authority I was referring to the inadvisability of bureaucracy or centralized authority with respect to trifling matters. The minister now says he agrees with my view that the question of removing snow should not have to be submitted to Ottawa.


It never was.


I said I was so informed.


You said "by people in authority," and I questioned all the people in authority and all of them assure me that it was not. The decision was exactly the opposite.


Did they telephone to Ottawa for the purpose of receiving authority for removing snow? Is that true or not? They telephoned to Mr. Hawken, if you must know about it.


Yes, that is true.


Well, that is my point. Why deny that there is any truth in it, when I know and oould give the particulars?


He did not call up for that; he simply asked in the conversation: "Is it all right to take on some men?"


The minister has a trained mind; surely he does not for a single moment-


I am taking what the officers in charge said.

National Harbours Board


I heard the deputy say that the man was carrying on a conversation with Mr. Hawken about something else and asked for authority about removing the snow. I said I was so informed, and I said I did not believe the port manager should have to use the long distance telephone to get authority with respect to a matter such as that.


Does my right hon. friend object to his asking the question when he was talking on the telephone?


No, but non constat he would not have done it anyway, but he saved two calls by doing it in one. The minister is not an inexperienced man, and I am surprised that he should endeavour to split hairs by making an observation such as that.


I am surprised at the right hon. gentleman bringing up in the committee such a matter as snow shovelling.


It was to illustrate a point which the minister says is well taken, namely that the port manager should have authority to deal with such matters immediately without reference to Ottawa. I shall put a motion on the order paper asking for information as to the long distance telephone calls from Halifax since the situation came into being. As a matter of fact he did ask authority to remove the snow; that was my information and it turned out to be correct. The minister does not think I believe he rang up and asked if he could remove the snow, because probably the sun would have done it before he made up his mind. The point is. simply that I believe the local manager should have reasonable authority, and I use this as an illustration.


How much authority?


The question of the fixing of an arbitrary line where the authority of the port manager begins and ends is the reason we are pressing now for the civil service commission to exercise its authority to prevent hiring and firing, to use the language of the minister, with respect to all the appointments. It is idle to say that the men who keep the books and accounts should be subjected to the haunting spectre of being removed from their job at the instance of some politician or member of the House of Commons. It is idle to say that a man who is a policeman in Halifax shall be dismissed because a member of parliament says: "I want that job for someone else," and gives his name. That is the position that I say is wrong; that is what we are endeavouring to overcome. I certainly would not suggest that the port manager should be

able to commit the port of Vancouver to a large capital expenditure, or that the port manager at Saint John should be able to enter into a contract for the construction of a new dock, nor yet that it should be necessary that men who are engaged from day to day or from hour to hour in the port should he permanently appointed. But when it comes to men employed in the keeping of the accounts and records, men who have to do with the technical administration of the port, there should be a certain permanency in their positions; for continuity of service makes for efficiency of administration. The earnest desire that industrial companies have to prevent change of employees finds sound application here. It seems to me that in all positions that involve continuity of service for longer than six months or a year or two years there should be some security. Mark you, the very definition added as to the power of the board is one reason which makes it essential that we assert this position. We say the board is a corporation capable of being sued and to sue, and that it is an agent of His Majesty the King. During the last fifteen or twenty years in Canada we have generally propounded the position that those who are employed by the crown in the class of service to which I refer shall have permanency and security of employment. It is only that; and because we make suggestions to the minister he must not assume that in any siense we are desirous of embarrassing him in the passing of his bill. Rather we desire to help him, and the suggestions we make are not of a political character. Only a- few days ago his colleague sitting beside him placed a measure before the house. We read it and suggested the addition or deletion of a word here or another word there. He leaves the chamber thinking that perhaps the suggestions would improve the bill. We do not ask him to do it at our instance. His colleague then moves the suggested amendment.
We have a duty to discharge in this chamber. I have one for which I am paid, and I am bound to give the best I have to the country which pays me. Part of my duty is to make suggestions as to how I believe we can best attain an end. My suggestions may not be acted upon. I merely make them for what they are worth, and in no capricious or political spirit, but with the hope that they may be accepted for itihe purpose of improving legislation. Sometimes they are accepted by the government, and sometimes they are not. We urge them as strongly as possible, but the minister must not say he is almost prepared

National Harbours Board
to abandon his bill because people make suggestions. That stand would be an invitation to those opposed to the bill to keep up the fight a little longer in the hope that his already frayed nerves may become completely destroyed.


We have now found what
the right hon. gentleman wishes to know, and I believe I can help him considerably. If he has studied ithe bill he is aware that the accounting is to be under the Minister of Finance, and that the men doing the accounting are in the civil service. So far as the dismissal of engineers is concerned, I know of no 