I have the honour to inform the house that I have received the following message:
Ottawa, June 18, 1936.
Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that His Excellency the Governor General will proceed



Agriculture-Implement Prices
to the Senate chamber Saturday next for the purpose of proroguing the present session of parliament.
I have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
F. L. C. Pereira,
Assistant Secretary to the Governor General.


Mr. W. G. WEIR (Macdonald) moved that the fourth report of the standing committee on agriculture and colonization, laid1 on the table on Thursday, June 18, be concurred in.
I desire to make a few observations with respect to this report. The course which has been taken by the committee is one that certainly does not commend itself to me, in view of the fact that a tariff board has been set up for the purpose of considering the very matter that has been referred to the committee and we have been expending substantial sums of money without obtaining, it seems to me, any real result. I think it desirable to make a few observations also because of the fact that in 1930 we increased the tariff on agricultural implements, and the action taken at that time by the manufacturers was, as has been represented to this house on more than one occasion, an undertaking not to increase the prices. During the period of time that elapsed from 1930 to 1935 they actually reduced the prices; in 1936 the prices were increased to the point from which they had been reduced, and I had hoped that there would have been a little clearer appreciation of and fairness to the interests upon which the west so largely rely for sustenance and support when they are bankrupt. I say that with great frankness. These western provinces are coming to the dominion, asking for money, asking the dominion to find it by borrowing from the people of the country, and then denying to industry the right that it should have to compete in its own territory upon at least even terms with those who would take its market from it.


That is hardly correct.


It is hardly correct?


It is not correct at all, Mr. Speaker, but I wanted to be polite. I knew I was out of order but I wanted to be polite.


Then, if the hon. gentleman knew he was out of order there is no reason why he should depart from his usual custom and be polite.
IMr. Speaker.]
I want to point out a few facts that I think should be borne in mind by every Canadian. First, we cannot build our country if we are going to do it on a sectional basis. I referred to that the other day in connection with another matter. The Canadian manufacturers have at no time during the depression used the tariff to exploit their customers, the farmers. Why have they not done so? Because, having given an undertaking that they would not increase their prices, they have maintained that undertaking and kept their honourable word to the people of this country. Second, the Canadian prices have not been materially, if at all, higher than the United States prices despite the advantage they have in regard to mass production. Third, Canadian prices of implements, as a whole, are not higher to-day than they were in 1930, despite the small increases that took place this year. Fourth, these increases only restored, in any event, reductions that were made in 1932 when the position of the farmers was so difficult. Anyone who is familiar with agricultural conditions in western Canada and who knows the extent to which the farmer has more or less relied1 upon credit for the purpose of obtaining his implements, cannot help but be aware of the fact that the implement companies took enormous losses and wrote off hundreds of thousands of dollars-I am not sure that in the aggregate it would not run into the millions-'because of the depression. Then in 1932 they reduced the prices and the increases of 1936 only put them back on substantially the same basis.
The fifth point is that the Canadian companies made special provision for the wheat producers when conditions were at their worst, providing cash discounts and also reducing the receivables, that is, the obligations of the agriculturists, by very large sums of money when the situation was found to be at its most acute point, in 1933. Sixth, the Canadian companies, as I have pointed out, have taken great losses in notes due and interest due and have given the greatest possible consideration to their debtors as compared with that given any other class in this country. Add to that the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act, and you have a situation that is not similar to that in regard to any other class in the country.
There is a seventh point to which I think attention should be directed, and it is this: In opening our markets to the large United States concerns without Canadian plants we have simply further divided the market, lessening the employment in Canada and rendering it more difficult for the Canadian manufacturer to reduce his cost of production. As to that

Agriculture-Implement Prices
I think there is no reasonable doubt. Then there is a further point, the eighth point, that Canadian companies carrying stocks of machines and parts give service and extend credit to those who desire it on terms that are somewhat different from any other enterprise of which we have knowledge.
These seem to me to be compelling reasons why we should at least consider this matter on as favourable a basis as we consider any other enterprise. I am not arguing that any preference should be given these people but I do argue that they should have the same right that is accorded to others. While to others we accord an opportunity to appear before the tariff board to present their case, however, this committee now recommends that this shall be a continuing inquiry. The companies have already intimated that they desire to apply to the Minister of finance for the opportunity to appear before the tariff board.


No, my right hon. friend is quite wrong. I have had no such intimation.


I certainly saw in the press that they proposed to ask for the opportunity to appear before the tariff board, and I remember passing down, the street with one of the representatives of the companies whom I met. I asked him, "Are you going to the tariff board?" And he said, "Yes, if we get rid of this committee." That is as far as I can go. I certainly accept the minister's statement that no formal application has been made, but my understanding was that they intended to avail themselves of the offer the minister made the other day, when he said if they asked to have this matter considered by the tariff board he would permit that to be done.
Now let us look at it from another angle. Almost every other agricultural industry has some measure of protection in this country. Fruits have an ad valorem protection in the vicinity of 15 per cent. On cereals we have a protection ranging from 15 per cent to 80 per cent. Poultry has an ad valorem duty of between 15 per cent and 20 per cent. Dairy products are protected to the extent of from 15 per cent to 50 per cent, and the ad valorem duty on live stock runs all the way from 15 per cent to 70 per cent. These are the ad valorem duties dealing with farm products, and is there any member of this house who does not recall the agitation in connection with the increased duty on butter coming from New Zealand? The Minister of Finance of that day and' of this day (Mr. Dunning)
12739-252J
was compelled to give notice terminating the New Zealand treaty because the Canadian dairy farmer said he was not able to compete under the uneven terms that resulted from the imposition of so low a duty as that which then prevailed. The then government, the then minister who is the present minister, took steps to terminate the New Zealand treaty and on the very day that the succeeding government came into office the treaty was terminated.
I should like for just a moment to put this from the point of view of one who has been charged in eastern Canada, and especially in these two large central provinces, with having been unduly friendly-in the sense of giving public support-to the wheat grower. There was a time when wheat was sold in the markets of the world on a supply and demand basis, but with the support of various kinds that was given the wheat growers of other countries the Canadian position became such that steps were taken at the public expense to endeavour to improve the position of the wheat grower in this country. We have many things. In the first place we have a duty against importations of wheat from other countries, which is unimportant because we are an exporting country. Then we have the Crows-nest pass freight rates, which involve a very large sum of money per annum, being lower rates than those prevailing in the United States of America. Then we have the stabilization operations which were carried on under the aegis of the government which involved this country, on the application of the Minister of Finance, in an expenditure amounting to in the neighbourhood of $7,000,000. Further, we have the fact that last fall we fixed the price for wheat at 87J cents, which price witness after witness has said is not an unreasonable price to have fixed for Canadian farmers. Wheat is now being sold at from seven and a half to ten cents a bushel less than the price paid for it. The Canadian people must bear the loss. I differ from the policy of the present government which makes that inevitable, but I just want to put it this way: the wheat eaters of Canada do not consume more than one-fifth of the wheat grown and sold. If by reason of the fixed price of 871 cents that we now have we are involved in a loss of five cents a bushel, it means that the taxpayers, that is the wheat eaters of Canada, will pay a premium of 25 cents on every bushel of wheat they consume. That is what it means. And if the loss is 10 cents it means that for every bushel consumed in Canada a premium of 50 cents a bushel is imposed upon the consumers of

Agriculture-Implement Prices
Canadian wheat. That is a matter of computation. I repeat, we do not consume more than one-fifth of our wheat. If it means that we have a loss of five cents a bushel, that is 25 cents a bushel imposed upon the wheat eaters of Canada, the taxpayers; and if the loss is ten cents, it means fifty cents. Now, that will amount to many millions of dollars, $10,000,000, $15,000,000, whatever it may be. I put it to the house whether it is quite fair for the agrarians in the west to say to the manufacturers in the east that they, being in the centre of the most populous part of the country, where the larger part of the wheat is consumed, shall pay an added tax burden of 25 to 50 cents a bushel for what they consume, and expect them to contemplate with satisfaction their market being taken away from them by those who are outside of Canada. Is it fair? That is my point. I leave it at that.
One word more. This country according to the last census is no longer an agricultural country. Over half our population is now in cities and towns. We have become an industrial country, and we are taking our place now as the sixth trade country in the world- last year or thereabouts. That being so, can we contemplate with equanimity a situation which, without a hearing, reduces such measure of protection as was afforded to the manufacturers of implements, who had not raised their prices beyond what they were in 1932. and whose prices were not substantially different from what the prices are in the United States of America? It is true we exported some farm implements to the United States during recent months. Why? Because with the revival of agricultural production they found themselves short of implements, and we were sending implements to them as we did to other parts of the world.
I mention this at this time only because I cannot give concurrence to a report that contemplates sending back to a committee of the House of Commons, which has never been a useful body for the purpose of studying tariff matters, a question of such importance to every part of the country as that which has been under review. When I found the report of the tariff board on other matters accepted by the minister-and I cannot recall any reports made by -the tariff board since it came into being which successive ministers of finance have not accepted and crystallized into legislation-


Not in whole, in all cases.


Well, substantially that is so. What is the exception?
IMr. Bennett.1


The exception is one of the reports this session.


To which does the minister refer?


I refer to the report which recommended that the government use its powers to increase the tariff when necessary.


Oh, that is only a matter of procedure.


That is a very important exception.


I quite appreciate that point. The point is this, that the board thought the government should be in a position where if conditions varied it could increase the tariff so as to maintain the basis upon which the recommendations were made. That is a matter of governmental policy which the government, with its expressed view of policy, of course would not adopt. But that has not to do with the point I was making. As far as tariff changes in ad valorem and specific rates are concerned I know of no case in which the rate recommended has not been adopted, substantially at any rate. That is the reason I suggest that this report, contemplating a further review by the committee, is not in the public interest.


May I say a word?


Certainly.


Might I remind the right hon. leader of the opposition that there are other than tariff matters which must be inquired into in order to carry out the investigation entrusted to the committee by the house.


The hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Thorson) indicates that other matters are to be inquired into. My impression of the reference was -that it was for the purpose of ascertaining whether the tariff was adequate or inadequate.


It did not mention tariff.


The discussion in this house was about prices. It was said that there had been an increase in the price structure by the implement producers which was unfair, when there had been a reduction of duty; therefore there should be an inquiry into the matter. That is how it came about.


No, the reference is to inquire into the causes underlying the high prices of agricultural implements, with particular reference to the advance in prices in 1936.


But undoubtedly in operation it has meant an inquiry into tariff matters.

Agriculture-Implement Prices


That is only one of the subjects of the inquiry.


One point more and I shall have concluded. We had before the price spreads committee and commission under oath a most complete inquiry, which may be found embodied in the minutes of that body. The matter was gone into in great length and detail. I have no desire to limit inquiries by any body that has to do with the conduct of the business of Canada, but why multiply them, when it accomplishes no useful purpose? There is the evidence before the price spreads commission; there is the report of the commission; here is the tariff board, and if it is desired certainly the minister has power under the tariff board act to direct that the board shall extend its inquiries, make them sufficiently wide to reach the very points that the committee has in mind. I can only say from observation during my experience in the House of Commons that I have never seen a House of Commons committee deal adequately with a matter of that kind, nor do I believe in the very nature of things it is equipped to do so. That is the reason the government, in dealing with wheat, said: We will have a royal commission. The very government that now is asking this house to vote concurrence in a report which contemplates the continuance of a committee to deal with the problem of implements of production, a matter closely allied to the wheat problem, asked the house to accept the view that there should be a royal commission to deal with the wheat problem, and not a committee of the House of Commons. I certainly agreed with them in that regard, and I do yet. I have no doubt that a royal commission is better able to deal with such a matter than a committee of the House of Commons. Why have two policies, one with respect to wheat, the other with respect to implements, which have already been investigated, and which the tariff board can deal with? As a matter of fact, dealing with the question of textiles, to which reference has been made-I can only pass it by because the report has not been made-no House of Commons committee but a royal commission was appointed to deal with that. If it is desired to appoint a royal commission to deal with this matter, well and good; I can understand that. But from what one sees and from the preconceived attitude of mind of those who have to deal with these matters in a committee of the House of Commons, is there any chance of being able to arrive at fair conclusions?
I have ventured, Mr. Speaker, to make these observations, because when in 1930 we
dealt with an exceptionally difficult situation and had to do something to redress the adverse trade balance and deal with other acute problems connected with currency and finance, the duty upon agricultural implements was increased to a very high point. It was increased to a high point on one understanding, that it would not involve the payment of higher prices by those who used implements. And because the implement producers kept their word and maintained their honour in that regard, I do not think it is fair, in view of our present conditions, of the contributions we have made to the wheat growers in the west and to western Canada as a whole, and of the present economic conditions in the western provinces, that we should not afford some opportunity to the implement industry to present its case to an independent, fair-minded tribunal rather than to a politically constituted committee of the House of Commons.


Mr. Speaker, it has already been pointed out by the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Thorson) that the reference to the committee made on March 2 reads as follows:
That an immediate inquiry be made by the standing committee on agriculture and colonization into the causes underlying the high prices of agricultural implements, with particular reference to the advance in prices in the year 1936.
There is no direct reference in that statement to the tariff question. Tariffs of course have an effect upon the prices of products, and, as has been often said, if tariffs did not have the effect of making an increase in price possible there would be no necessity for putting them on.


Oh, no; nonsense.


It is evident to almost any one that the intention of those who advocate tariffs is that there should be an increase in. prices.


Quite the opposite.


It is not my intention at this time to go into a discussion on the question of tariffs. J wish only to point out to the house in the first place, the subcommittee of the agriculture committee was unanimous and in the second place the full committee was unanimous in its findings. There was only one point of difference in the committee and that was as to whether this investigation should be committed next year to the whole committee on agriculture or whether there should be a smaller select committee. The final finding was that it should be a small select committee.

Agriculture-Implement Prices
I am surprised that the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) should take exception at this stage to the adoption by the house of the finding of the committee, andi I am astonished at the reasons he gives for taking that position. This is the first committee of this chamber upon which I have had the privilege of serving, but I believe I can say-and in this I think all hon. members of the committee from both sides of the house will agree-that we had the full cooperation of the implement companies in the investigation so far as it has gone. Representatives of the International Harvester Company came here in numbers from their head office in Chicago; others were here from Hamilton, and there were representatives from the Massey-Harris Company. They answered in every particular, so far as it was possible for them to do so in the time at their disposal, the questionnaire which was sent out by the committee, and they made no objection whatsoever to giving their evidence to the committee. The only reason a finding of a definite nature was not made by the committee was recognized by every member of the committee, and' by those who represented the companies, namely that the evidence was not by any means complete. But I have no record, and I am sure the committee has no record, indicating that the representative of any of the companies objected to giving evidence to the committee, either during this session or at the next session.


It has never been suggested they had.


How could they object?


It was suggested a few minutes ago that while walking down the street someone had said it should be before the tariff board.


That is different altogether.


That suggestion was
not made to the committee, so far as I remember the representations made by the gentlemen who appeared before it. They gave their evidence without objection, and raised no objection to the committee hearing further evidence with regard to it.


Is that not the proper attitude of witnesses before a committee of this house?


Certainly it is the proper attitude.


Is it their business to suggest that some policy should be followed other than that adopted by the government?
[Mr. Gardiner.!


But is it not the proper attitude for every member of this house to accept the position taken by the representatives of the implement companies as being the position that we can expect them to take before a committee at the next session?


Certainly.


All the evidence available will be given to the committee.


They would have to take that position.


The whole speech of the leader of the opposition presupposes that some finding will be made by the committee on agriculture that will not be favourable to the implement companies.


Not any such thing, nor did I say it. I will not be misrepresented by this gentleman. I made no such suggestion.	[DOT]


Well, hon. members will have within their memory the words of the right hon. gentleman, and I shall go on to deal with a few of them at length, in order to indicate to him that some such suggestion was made. In beginning his argument the right hon. gentleman founded much of what he had to say upon the statement that the western provinces of Canada were bankrupt.


That is not so, of course.


Of course they are not any more than in other places.


Of course it is not so; but it has been inferred in this house on another occasion during this session, by the leader of the opposition, that the western provinces are not in a position to finance, and I think some explanation of their position is due to the house. It was also stated by the leader of the opposition that this country is no longer an agricultural country. I do not suppose he will deny that statement.


Yes; what he said was that this country is not an agricultural country solely, or only, or primarily.


Never was.


I wrote down the exact words of the right hon. gentleman as he uttered them. His statement was that this country is no longer an agricultural country.


And followed with a sentence afterward.


Yes; true, he followed it by that statement. But his statement was

Agriculture-Implement Prices
that this country is no longer an agricultural country. I submit that will be news to many inside and outside of Canada. This country is still an agricultural country, and while probably no more than fifty per cent of our people are actually living upon the land, the right hon. gentleman's government, while it was in power, tried in every possible way to get a larger percentage of the people of Canada back on the land, because he realized it would* probably be much better for us if more than fifty per cent were still on the land. In other words, this country from that point of view is preeminently an agricultural country. Then, in addition to that, the railways which have been built from one end of Canada to the other, the ships that are plying down the lakes and canals from the eastern ports to western Canada, those who are engaged in taking supplies into every agricultural community in the dominion are, in every proper sense of the term, concerned with the development of agriculture in Canada. All those who are interested in extending financial assistance to the people across the prairies, the people in the agricultural areas of eastern Canada, the farmers in British Columbia and the farmers in the maritime provinces-all these make their living from the pursuit of agriculture in some of its spheres.
I suggest that while oply fifty per cent of the people are living upon the land, at least seventy-five per cent of them owe their living directly to the fact that agriculture is pursued in Canada. And for anyone even to suggest that Canada is no longer an agricultural country, when these facts are admitted by every member of the house and every person who has made a study of the situation in Canada, is to suggest a situation which does not exist.
I was astounded, too, at the statements made to the effect that agriculture has had more consideration from the governments of Canada than have the industries for which the leader of the opposition was speaking a few minutes ago.


Mr. Speaker, I said no such thing, and I am not going to be misrepresented in this house in this way.


I am not going to take so long to make my points as my right hon. friend took, but that was the point he made.
Mr. BENNETT; It was not the point.


Order.


You can call "order" as much as you like.


What is the point of order to which the hon. member for Calgary West (Mr. Bennett) is addressing himself, I should like to ask, Mr. Speaker?


Mr. Speaker, the statement attributed to me was not made. I ask therefore that it be withdrawn.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman argued a few moments ago that the paying of 87| cents a bushel on wheat under conditions where only one-fifth of the wheat of Canada is consumed in Canada meant the compelling of the payment with respect to the other four-fifths by those who were consuming that particular commodity in Canada of anywhere from 5 to 10 cents a bushel; or he indicated that if it were 5 cents a bushel it would be a certain amount, if it were 10 cents a bushel it would be a certain amount, and this was assistance which was going to the farmers of Canada at the expense of all the population. He pointed over to this side of the house-I do not know Why, because there are members from western Canada sitting on the other side-and called the attention of the house to the fact that western members were making certain requests in spite of the fact that they were getting this assistance from the people of Canada through the government of Canada. Well, if there was any point at all in placing an argument of that kind before the house it was to try to convince hon. members that some consideration was being given to the farmers in addition to the consideration which is being given to people in other parts of this dominion. I suggest to the hon. gentleman, when he speaks of butter coming in from Australia, that the government of Canada for years has been subsidizing boats to bring butter from Australia into Canada to compete with our farmers. I suggest to him also that the government of Canada, whether Liberal or Conservative, has since the time of confederation been assisting other lines of industry. I am standing in my place to-day not for the purpose of objecting to the assistance that has been given, but for the purpose of pointing out to the leader of the opposition that when he contends that agriculture is getting more consideration than some other lines of industry in this country-


I did not say that or contend that.


Order.


No, I am not going to permit that statement to be made. I have tolerated this long enough.


Tolerated it, oh!
3968	COMMONS
Agriculture-Implement Prices


Yes, tolerated it-that is what I said.


Some of us think we have tolerated the hon. gentleman for quite a long time.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a point of order. You had to deal with this thing the other day. No member from his place can attribute a statement to another member which he did not make.


Mr. Speaker, I have been following the argument of the hon. gentleman-


That is not the point. The question is the statement.


-and I think the conclusions I drew were reasonable inferences.


I am not complaining of conclusions. I am talking of the statement which the hon. member said was made by me, which I did not make, and which every member of the house knows I did not make.


What is the statement?


I wish to have that statement withdrawn, Mr. Speaker.


I would ask the hon. gentleman what the statement is that he did not make.


That is easily answered. The member Stated-


Order.


Mr. Speaker, now that order has been restored, I wish to conclude. I was just observing that the member stated that I had said agriculture was receiving more consideration than was accorded to other lines of activity. I made no such Statement, and I desire that statement to be withdrawn.


It will be within your memory, Mr. Speaker, that what I stated was that his argument led to that conclusion.


No, that is not what was said at all.


I do not think the hon. gentleman has any more right to say what I said than I have to say what he said.


You can make this house ridiculous, Mr. Speaker, by a little effort, but I press the matter, Mr. Speaker. Do not for a moment, sir, think that I am going to yield on this point, for I am not. I did not make the statement that agriculture was receiving more consideration than anything else, neither did I argue it. On the contrary, I
[Mr. McLean.J
argued something else. I cannot question conclusions but I can question what the hon. gentleman says I said. As a member of this house I have certain rights which cannot be taken from me very readily, and I would ask therefore that I receive at your hands, sir, those rights which you have always accorded to others.


Mr. Speaker, if Hansard shows I made the statement which the hon. gentleman has just now said I made, I am quite prepared that it should go on Hansard that I withdraw. But I think he will find when he reads Hansard that the statement he infers I made was not made.


That is just the sort of thing that brings the house into a condition that we had not long ago. If the hon. gentleman conceives that to be a withdrawal, and you accept it, Mr. Speaker, it is not for me to question it, but it is for you to determine, as the custodian of the rules and conduct of this house, whether it is a withdrawal or not.


I would remind the house that there is a rule in Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms, No. 313, page 193, which says:
It has been formally ruled by Speakers ill the Canadian Commons that a statement by an hon. member respecting himself and peculiarly within his own knowledge must be accepted, but it is not unparliamentary to temperately criticize statements made by a member as being contrary to the facts; but no imputation of intentional falsehood is permissible.
And there are references to Bourinot, pages 352 and 365. It is sometimes difficult to determine the exact words that were used by an hon. member, and different interpretations may be given. I did not understand the Minister of Agriculture to attribute motives to the leader of the opposition, and as he has said that he is willing to withdraw his statement if it was contrary to the facts, I think he should be considered to be within the rules of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to
refer again to the point raised by the leader of the opposition. I was discussing the statement that this country is no longer an agricultural country and the arguments that were based upon that statement. I should like now to deal with the first remarks made by the leader of the apposition when he took the floor. At the beginning of his remarks he sought to imply that this investigation before the agriculture committee was being carried on largely as a result of discussions

Agriculture-Implement Prices
which had taken place in western Canada and as a result of requests from western members on this side of the house. In dealing with that he referred to the condition of the western provinces. This is not the first time this session that he has inferred that the western provinces of Canada are in a condition of bankruptcy, and in referring to them to-day he used the word "bankruptcy."


Hear, hear.


And now he says, "hear, hear." I should like to suggest that at least one province in western Canada has taken action to indicate to the people, both inside and outside the province, its exact position. I realize that when we look at the public debt of Saskatchewan we cannot help but see that it is of considerable proportions. I do not need to dwell upon the reasons for the proportions of this debt, but I think it is very suggestive that the greater part of it was added during the years between 1929 and 1934. At the moment I am not so much concerned about the public debt of Saskatchewan as a province, the debt which has been incurred by its government, as I am with the position of the people generally and their ability to pay as they go along and to liquidate their debts.
A great deal has been said from time to time about the condition of the municipalities in the three western provinces. I venture to say that the western provinces, and more particularly the province of Saskatchewan, will compare favourably with the oldest and most highly industrialized province in Canada, especially when a comparison of the financial positions of the different municipalities is made. When I make that statement I am not saying anything that is contrary to the facts. Inquiry was made into the debt situation of the people of Saskatchewan, and that inquiry is not yet twenty-four months old. As a result of that inquiry it was determined- I speak from memory and the figures may vary a little, but only a little-that two-thirds of the school districts in Saskatchewan had no debenture debt whatsoever, and over one-third of the school districts had no indebtedness. A condition of that kind is not so bad.
It was found also-again I speak from memory

that only 16 out of 301 rural municipalities had an indebtedness of more than 8200,000. The increased indebtedness of these sixteen, and much of the indebtedness of many of the others which had a debt under $200,000, was because of the relief payments during the last four or five years.
As far as individual indebtedness is concerned, the last census showed that something in the neighbourhood of fifty per cent of the people in the province had no mortgage indebtedness against their property. I do not know that anyone is justified in getting up in this house when we are dealing with a report that has to do with the price of farm implements and stating, with regard to a province with such a record, that after all the consideration that has been given to a part of the country where bankruptcy prevails, we should not be passing the inquiry in connection with this matter to a committee to meet in a succeeding year.
I scarcely understand the argument of my right hon. friend when he suggests that a committee of the house cannot investigate a matter of this kind, at least to the stage of obtaining the facts. Publicity would be given to the evidence presented from day to day in the press of Canada; it would be broadcast over the country, and irrespective of what finding might be made by the committee, the people of Canada would formulate an idea as to what that finding should be at all stages before the committee. If the committee to be appointed next session found, after all the evidence was before it, that they could not come to a conclusion, there would still be sufficient time to refer the matter to the tariff board or to some other board that might be able to inquire further along certain lines. The tariff board certainly would not inquire along the same lines as the committee has already started to inquire.
For the benefit of hon. members who were not on the committee, I may say that in view of the intricacy of the matter referred to the committee, the house was asked to consent to the appointment of counsel and) accountants in order that the necessary information might be gathered. That was agreed to. Under the instructions of the committee, the accountants and counsel prepared a questionnaire which was sent to all the important implement companies. They in turn consented to make a return. As we drew towards the end of the activities of the accountants and the counsel, it was evident that the house would conclude its session before a report could be made. The implement companies were asked to come before the committee and answer such parts of the questionnaire as it was possible for them to answer. This they consented to do. The answers to the questionnaire which had been placed in the hands of the counsel and the auditors constituted only from sixty to eighty per cent of the information asked for. The companies indicated their willingness to present the other twenty to forty per cent to a committee on a future

A griculture-Implement Prices
occasion. The committee thought it highly important that evidence should be heard at a succeeding session, in view of the fact that the companies could not be brought back this session.
According to the report of the committee, the questionnaires and the answers received have been placed in the custody of the Minister of Agriculture. The instructions of the committee are that the officials should receive the remaining replies or any other information which may be available as a result of the sending out of the questionnaires during the interim. AH this information is to be submitted' to the house through a committee at the next session. I do not know of any more reasonable way of dealing with the situation. I suggest to the leader of the opposition that for the time being we forget any argument we might like to present with regard to tariff matters, or any argument we might like to advance with regard to other matters, and that this report be allowed to go through in its present form. At the next session, when all the information is produced to the committee, the house will be in a position to determine whether there should be a further inquiry by a committee or whether it should go elsewhere. At the moment the committee is of the opinion, and I think it is unanimous, that the proper thing to do is to have this investigation submitted to a smaller committee to meet at the next session. That committee can receive the evidence in full and either make a report or recommend something further.


In my remarks with reference to this subject, Mr. Speaker, I shall endeavour to be brief. The reference to the standing committee on agriculture and colonization was in these terms:
That an immediate inquiry be made by the standing committee on agriculture and colonization into the causes underlying the high prices of agricultural implements, with particular reference to the advance in prices in the year 1936.
I confess that I was astonished when I heard the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) oppose the adoption of this report. I thought from his argument that there was a misunderstanding in his mind as to the terms of the reference. As I see it, the tariff in its various phases is only one of the fields of inquiry that the committee should explore. Not only the tariff on the finished agricultural implements, but also the various tariffs that apply to the materials that go into the manufacture of such implements should be investigated. There is a wide field relating to the tariff that ought to be explored,

but the tariff field is not the only field that is of vital concern to the farmers of this country, and when I speak of the farmers of this country I mean not only those of western Canada but also those of Canada as a whole. All of us who represent agricultural constituencies in this house know intimately the deplorable condition of agriculture at this time throughout the whole length and breadth of Canada. There are other fields of inquiry that, as I have said, should be explored There is for example the whole question of the efficiency and the capacity of the industry which serves this country in the matter of agricultural implements. We must go into the question of capital set-up, of possible overcapitalization. We must consider the equipment of the various plants engaged in this industry, with a view to determining whether such equipment is in excess of normal, ordinary demand or is adequate to the demand that might be expected. We must also investigate the very wide spread which exists between the price of the machine at the door of the factory and the price the farmer must pay for it when it is delivered to him. The whole field of distribution of agricultural implements is one that needs to be explored. All of these are important lines of inquiry.
I have a high opinion of the tariff board, but that -board is not equipped for the conduct of an inquiry of this kind. Its duty is to determine what should be the tariff to be put into effect on any particular commodity. But as I have pointed out, the scope of this inquiry is very much broader than that of tariffs alone. Nor has the tariff board either power or jurisdiction under the statute to undertake an inquiry of this sort.
I believe all the members of the agriculture committee were convinced that not before in the history of this parliament has there been a reference to a committee so involved and intricate as the subject matter of this inquiry. There must be a detailed and careful search into all the factors that enter into the cost and the present price of agricultural implements. The committee was fortunate in having the services of counsel and an accountant, and in the course of preparation for the purposes of their inquiry they prepared a most exhaustive and thorough questionnaire. Everyone realizes the value of careful and intense preparation for the prosecution of such an inquiry as this. That exhaustive preparation has been made. Copies of the questionnaire have been sent to the companies. The companies have sent their replies to the questionnaire-in some cases fairly complete replies; in others replies not quite so complete. In addition, not all the

Agriculture-Implement Prices
Teplies that have come in to the questionnaire are wholly upon the same basis, and it will be necessary for the purposes of a continued inquiry to coordinate and correlate the information supplied by the various companies.
It is highly desirable that this inquiry should continue. It is in the interests of the farmers of this country, and of the industry itself. I believe that if it is thoroughly and properly made it will benefit both the farmers and the persons who are engaged in the agricultural implement industry, because the interests of the two groups are related. If the farmer is not able to pay, how can the agricultural implement industry prosper?
The committee approached this inquiry in no spirit of hostility towards anyone, but rather with the desire to ascertain as completely as possible the essential facts. There were no preconceived ideas in the minds of the members. There was the desire to ascertain facts, so that upon the ascertainment of the facts a report could be prepared that would be of real value to the people as a whole, both to the farmers and also to the persons engaged in the industry. The fields of inquiry are important. Never yet have they been properly explored by any parliamentary committee or by any agency instituted by parliament for the purpose. In my opinion this is the most important inquiry that parliament has had to deal with for a number of years.
I would be inclined to agree, with qualifications, with one suggestion made by the right hon. leader of the opposition. I thought he was wrong in suggesting that this inquiry should be made by the tariff board, but perhaps that error was due to a misunderstanding on his part as to the terms of the reference. However, I do agree with him that a royal commission might conduct the inquiry with greater thoroughness than could a committee [DOT]of the house, whether the standing committee on agriculture or a special committee to which the subject might be entrusted. I agree with the leader of the opposition in that expression of opinion because of the involved and intricate nature of the proposed inquiry. But while a royal commission could explore the fields of inquiry that have been opened to us by the exhaustive and careful preparation that has already been made, it by no means follows that a committee of the members of this house could not make a proper and thorough inquiry. It would be difficult for such a committee to carry out the investigation that should be made in this sphere, but it is not impossible, if hon. members would devote to it, with its intricacies and its difficulties, that intense application, that careful
study, and that willingness to ascertain the facts which are requisite for the purposes of a report that would be of any value.
I think there will be agreement in the house, as there was in the committee, that this inquiry is such an important one that it ought to be continued. Frankly I would have preferred to have the inquiry made by a royal commission, but next to a royal commission I would like to see it carried on by a committee of the house. I think members of this house may be trusted to give such an important inquiry the study and application it deserves. Therefore I support the motion for concurrence in the report, and I hope that in view of the statements that have been made the right hon. leader of the opposition will withdraw his apposition to the motion so that the house may be as unanimous in adopting the report as the members of the standing committee on agriculture and colonization were in presenting it to the house.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to say just a word, as a member of the committee and perhaps also because of my association with the little group in this corner. We want to see as thorough an investigation as it is possible to make into this question of agricultural implements. I believe it is always difficult to get a commission which will command the confidence of all the people of the country, but having listened to a great deal, though not quite all, of the evidence, it seems to me that the matter is tremendously involved. Early in the inquiry I was greatly impressed with the very efficient work that was being done by our own bureau of statistics. I think if I had known as much about the bureau of statistics earlier as I did later I would have expressed myself as unfavourable to engaging any other assistance in order to bring out the facts in relation to this matter. However, that was done and I concurred in it because, in common with most of the members of the committee, I thought it the best thing to do.
With regard to the recommendations of the committee, Mr. Speaker, I think it is doubtful whether a large parliamentary committee such as has 'been going into this matter can arrive at a unanimous or nearly unanimous decision, because there are political streams which we must recognize. If the government could appoint a body that can command the respect of the producers and the people of Canada generally I believe it would be well worth while, even with the expenditure involved.
With regard to the tariff board, I think that perhaps the board has the confidence of the people of Canada to a greater extent

Agriculture-Implement Prices
than such boards have had in the past; nevertheless the tariff board views a problem from the standpoint of the tariff, and, that being the case, I do not think it is altogether fitted to look into this matter as we wish to have it looked into. There are so many factors involved. When I listened to certain evidence, to which I am not going to refer because we are more or less under obligation not to do so, I could not help thinking that this is something of a tangled skein and it strikes me that the tariff board is not the body to look into questions of capitalization, the various methods of doing business, the profits as between different parts of an organization, and so on. Consequently I am going to support the motion for concurrence in the recommendations of the committee.


Mr. Speaker, before the motion is dealt with by this house I should like to say just a few words. The hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Thorson) has read to the house the terms of reference in regard to this matter, which apparently were misunderstood by the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett). The terms of reference provided that an immediate inquiry should be made by the standing committee into the causes underlying the high prices for farm implements, with particular reference to the advance in price for the year 1936. In my own mind I am sure the right hon. leader of the opposition misunderstood these terms, because he embarked on an abusive harangue to some of the members on this side of the house.


I rise to a point of order. I am now going to protect my rights in this house as far as I can. I direct your attention, Mr. Speaker, to the fact that the hon. member used the words "an abusive harangue," which are offensive words and must be withdrawn. It might also be well to direct the attention of hon. members to the fact that wh