Third report of the standing committee on industrial and international relations-Mr. McIntosh.
Hon. T. A. CRERAR (Minister of Mines) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 102, respecting the establishment of a national park in each of the provinces of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island.
He said: The purpose of the bill is to establish parks in the provinces of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island. Under the Parks Act legislation of this kind is necessary. When the estimates were under consideration there was some discussion concerning the proposed national parks. There are practically no details in the bill to explain, beyond the fact that in Nova Scotia the park will be in the northern end of Cape Breton Island, while in Prince Edward Island the exact location has not yet been definitely established. There is a choice among three or four sites, and it is expected a decision will be made shortly.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What was the total cost of the commission appointed by the present government to inquire into employment camps?
2.	What amount was paid to each member in salary, and, or, per diem allowances and expenses?


1.	$6,423.28.
Allowance
at $20
2.	per diem

Mr. W. Humphrey Mitchell	 1,720 00
Dr. E. W. Bradwin	 1,720 00
Mr. R. A. Rigg	
Burr Motors, Princeton, B.C	
Transportation for the three members of the committee.
Travelling
Expenses

1,037 09 1,056 25 859 94 30 00
Note.-Mr. R. A. Rigg, director of the employment service of Canada, who was a member of the committee appointed to make a survey of the relief camp situation, received no additional remuneration for his services in that connection.


1.	What inscriptions will be engraved on the Canadian War Memorial at Vimy?
2.	Will they be bilingual?


Four inscriptions will be engraved on the Canadian War Memorial at Vimy: Two in both English and French; one in French; one in Latin. These inscriptions are as follows:-

Main inscription on westerly face of pylons:-


On the inner face of the second front wall:-
THE CANADUN CORPS, ON APRIL 9th, 1917, WITH FOUR DIVISIONS IN LINE ON A FRONT OF FOUR MILES ATTACKED AND CAPTURED THIS RIDGE.

Questions
On front of one pylon, near the figure of sacrifice:-
FRERES D'ARMES FRANQAIS ET BRITANNIQTJES LE CANADA SE SOUVIENT!
Note: These words are intended as a tribute to French and British troops who suffered so heavily on this ground.
On the Tomb in front of the memorial:-
IN MEMORIAM SEXAGINTA MILLIUM CAN ADEN SIUM QUI ANNO DOMINI MCMXIV-MCMXVIII IN ARMIS ULTRA MARE VITAM PRO PATRLt ULTRO DEDIDERUNT.
Note: This may be rendered in English as follows:
1.	Has the attention of the government been called to working conditions of the red caps at the Union Station, Toronto, under the employ of the Toronto Terminal Company, made in the house last Thursday by the hon-ouraMe gentleman for West Hamilton (Mr. Wilton), reported on page 3678 of Hansard?
2.	How many red caps are employed by this company at this terminal?
3.	How many are single and how many married men?
4.	How many of them are returned soldiers?
5.	What is the wage schedule, if any?
6.	How many are receiving no pay, only tips from the public?
7.	Will the government institute an inquiry into it?
8.	What are the wages per week paid by this company for the ten only out of sixty who receive any pay?


The government has no information on this question. Red caps are employed by an independent corporation which acts for both railways, and details of its management are not available to us.


1.	Were tenders called for certain government work at Baie St. Anne, Northumberland county, New Brunswick, in the year 1935-36?
2.	If so, who were the tenderers, what was the amount of each, and to whom was the contract awarded?


1.	Yes, for construction of wharf.
2.	(a) and (b)
To tal as per unit prices quoted in form of tender
James T. Forrest... $16,049	00
J. Willard McMulkin..	..	19,977	00Diamond Construction Company, Limited..	..	21,840	00Abraham Asoyuf	
22,270	00J. E. and D. P. Connolly..	22,643	00Harold N. Price	
22,985	00Thos. P. Charleson	23,006	50
S. A. Doyle and W. A.
McKay	 23,531	00
(c) No contract awarded.


1.	Were weir privileges applied for and granted to C. V. Rawding at Black Rock, Kings county, Nova Scotia, in the year 1935?
2.	Has Mr. Rawding applied for these privileges again this year (1936)?
3.	If so, have they been granted?
4.	If not granted, for what reason or reasons were they refused?
5.	How much has Mr. Rawding spent for purchasing equipment, etc., in expectation of being granted this privilege?


1.	A licence to operate a weir at Eaton Point, which is immediately adjacent to Black Rock, was applied for in 1935 by C. V. Rawding. A licence was granted on condition that it would not be renewed if it detrimentally affected the operation of the existing weir at Black Rock.
2.	Yes.
3.	No.
4.	Because it did detrimentally affect the Black Rock weir.
5.	No information.


1.	Was the federal government officially notined by the province of Quebec of a change to the Trans-Canada highway in Temiseouata county ?
2.	If so, on what date, and by whom?


1.	Yes.
2.	Under date of June 9, 1936, Jos. L. Boulanger, Esq., Deputy Minister of Highways for the province of Quebec, forwarded to the honourable the Minister of Railways and Canals a copy of executive order of the Province of Quebec No. 1630, approved
Questions

I would much appreciate receiving from you definite information regarding the correctness or otherwise of the above referred to newspaper item and a copy of the order in council if such has been passed.
Yours very truly,
W. M. Dickson,
Deputy Minister.
The Honourable Emile Cote,
Minister of Roads,
Quebec, P.Q.
The Honourable the Minister _ of Public Works	reports for	the	information	of the
committee of the executive council:
That he has received a request from the Right	Honourable	R.	B. Bennett,	Prime
Minister of Canada, that the right-of-way of the Trans-Canada Highway through the province of New Brunswick be definitely designated;
The	Honourable	the	Minister of	PublicWorks now recommends that the route of the Trans-Canada Highway through the province of New Brunswick	be	definitely fixed and
designated as the route ordinarily known as route No. 2 and generally described as follows: -

"Beginning at a point from the boundary line between the province of Quebec and the province of New Brunswick where the main trunk highway route No. 2 intersects the said boundary line of the western side of the Madawaska river; thence following the main trunk highway on the west side of Madawaska river to Edmundston; thence along the eastern side of the St. John river to Grand Falls; thence along the western side of the St. John river to Andover crossing St. John river to Perth; thence down east side of St. John river to Hartland; thence down west side of St. John river through Woodstock, Fredericton, Oromocto, Gagetown, Westfield to St. John; thence from St. John through Sussex, Moncton and Saek-ville to the Nova Scotia boundary near Aulac." This route shown as route No. 2 on the attached map.
And the committee of council concurring in said report and recommendation,
It is accordingly so ordered. Certified passed.
August 15, 1931.
M. B. Dixon,
Clerk Executive Council.

Questions
Translation
Copy of the report of a committee of the honourable the executive council, dated October 1, 1931, approved by the Lieutenant-Governor October 2, 1931.
Concerning the Trans-Canada Highway
The Honourable, the Minister of Highways, in a memorandum dated October 1 (1931), recommends:
That a road be built across the province of Quebec, said road to be known as the "Trans-Canada Highway";
That said highway be made up as follows:
Highway No. 2 from the boundary line of New Brunswick, between Saint-Jacques, New Brunswick, and Sainte-Rose-du-Degele, province of Quebec, to the city of Levis, passing through the town of Riviere du Loup and following the river road between the village of Andreville and Sainte-Anne de la Pocatiere;
Highway No. 3, from the city of Levis to the intersection of highway No. 1;
Highway No. 1, by way of the Quebec bridge, from the intersection of highway No. 3 to Quebec city;
Highway No. 2, from Quebec city to Montreal following the river road connecting Saint-Sulpice and Charlemagne.
Highway No. 8, from Montreal to Hull.
Certified true copy.
A. Morrisset,
Clerk of the Executive Council.
Translation
Copy of the report of a committee of the honourable executive council dated June 7, 1933, approved by the Lieutenant-Governor, June 8, 1933.
Concerning the Trans-Canada Highway
The Honourable the Minister of Highways, in a memorandum dated June 7	(1933),
recommends:
That the alignment of the Trans-Canada Highway as determined by order in council No. 2510, dated October 2, 1931. and modified by order No. 524 on the 25th March, 1933, be further modified so as to follow the section of highway No. 2 which passes through the town of L'Assumption, instead of the river road, connecting Saint-Sulpice and Charlemagne.
Certified true copy.
A. Morrisset,
Clerk of the Executive Council.
Translation
Copy of the report of a committee of the honourable the executive council dated March 24, 1933, and approved by the Lieutenant-Governor on March 25, 1933.
Concerning the Trans-Canada Highway, in the province of Quebec
The Honourable the Minister of Highways, in a memorandum dated March 24 (1933),
recommends that the order in council No. 2510, approved October 2, 1931, in connection with the alignment of the Trans-Canada Highway, in the province of Quebec, be amended so that the alignment of said Transcontinental highway, between Montreal and Ottawa, follow highway No. 8 as far as Grenville, to cross thence to Hawkesbury by the new Interprovincial bridge over the Ottawa river, and proceed towards the federal capital on the Ontario side.
Certified true copy.
A. Morrisset,
Clerk of the Executive Council.
Ontario
Executive Council Office
Copy of an order in council, approved by The Honourable the Administrator of the Government of the Province of Ontario, dated the 26th day of August, A.D. 1931.
The committee of council have had under consideration the report of the Honourable the Minister of Lands and Forests, dated August 26th, 1931, wherein he states that the government of the Dominion of Canada have signified their intention of joining with the provinces in the construction of the Trans-Canada Highway as a national road and have agreed to make contributions to the construction of the said highway by the provinces;
Whereas the route of the said Trans-Canada Highway across the province of Ontario has been fixed by the province as to parts thereof and surveys are now in progress so as to obtain the necessary information to enable the Government of the Province of Ontario to designate the route of the balance of the said road;
And whereas it is desirable to designate by order in council such parts of the route of the said road as are ascertained so that work may proceed thereon promptly.
The Minister, therefore, recommends that the route of the proposed Trans-Canada Highway in Northern Otnario be designated as follows:
Section 1. Commencing at the northerly or westerly boundary of the Town of Pembroke in the County of Renfrew, and there connecting with Highway No. 17 of the King's Highway System of the Province of Ontario, and following the valley of the Ottawa River on a relocation of the existing road easterly and northerly on the south shore of the said Ottawa River to the Town of Mattawa, and thence westerly on a new survey to the easterly limit of the City of North Bay in the District of Nipissing, and
Section 2. Commencing at the westerly boundary of the town of Schreiber in the District of Thunder Bay and thence westerly following the northerly shore of Lake Superior to the Village of Nipigon, thence southwesterly to the Cities of Port Arthur and Fort William, and thence westerly through Upsala, Dryden and Kenora to a point 23-11 chains south from Mile Post 24 on the Interprovincial Boundary between the Province of Ontario and the Province of Manitoba and there connecting with the Trans-Canada Highway now being constructed by the Province of Manitoba.
The Minister further recommends that the Minister in charge of the Department of Northern Development be given authority to continue the survey and reconnaissance now being made to ascertain the most desirable route for the Trans-Canada Highway between the said City of North Bay and the Town of
Questions

Schreiber, and upon the completion of the said survey to make a recommendation to Council as to the route of the said Trans-Canada Highway in the said territory.
The committee of council concur in the recommendation of the Honourable the Minister of Lands and Forests, and advise that the same be acted on.
Certified,	_
C. F. Bulmer,
Clerk, Executive Council.
Ontario
Executive Council Office
Copy of an order in council approved by The Honourable the Lieutenant-Governor, dated the 23rd day of November, A.D. 1932.
Upon consideration of the report of the Honourable the Minister of Highways wherein he states that by an order in council dated the 25th day of September, A.D. 1931, the route of the Trans-Canada Highway was designated from Ottawa easterly to the Quebec border, following King's Highway Number 17;	_
Whereas the Province of Quebec is desirous of having this link in the Trans-Canada Highway designated along the north shore of the Ottawa River within the Province of Quebec;
And whereas it would appear that a reasonable compromise between the original plan of the Ontario government and of the Quebec government should be adopted.
The Honourable the Minister of Highways recommends that the order in council passed on the 25th day of September, A.D. 1931, be repealed, and that the route of the proposed Trans-Canada Highway in eastern Ontario be designated as follows:	.
Commencing at the Perley Bridge m the Village of Hawkesbury and continuing westerly on King's Highway Number 17 in the province of Ontario through the towns of Hawkesbury and Rockland to the city 9f Ottawa; thence continuing in a westerly direction on King 8 Highway Number 17 through the Village of Carp, the towns of Arnprior and Renfrew, via the village of Cobden, to the town of Pembroke, with such deviations as may be necessary to permit of improvement of the said road.
Certified,
C. F. Bulmer, Clerk, Executive Council.
Ministere de la Voirie Province de Quebec
Quebec, le 9 juin 1936. Honorable C. D. Howe,
Minister of Transport,
Parliament,
Ottawa, Ont.
Dear Sir:
The Honourable Minister of Highways directs me to enclose you, herewith, a certified copy of order in council No. 1630 passed on the 3rd and approved on the 5th instant, changing the location of Trans-Oanada Highway in the lower part of this province.
I trust that you will see your way clear to recommend that such a change be approved by the federal government.
Thanking you, I remain,
Yours very truly,
J. L. Boulanger,
Deputy Minister.
(Translation)
Copy of the report of a committee of the honourable executive council dated June 3, 1986, approved by the Lieutenant-Governor, June 5, 1936.
Concerning the change in the route of the Trans-Canada Highway.
The Honourable the Minister of Highways,. in a memorandum dated June 3	(1936),
recommends:
That the location of the Trans-Canada Highway, determined by order in council No. 2610, dated October 2, 1931, and amended by order in council No. 524, dated March 25, 1933, be further amended so as to replace section of highway No. 2, from the boundary of New Brunswick to Riviere-du-Loup, by section of highway No. 6, between Matapedia and Sainte-Flavie, and highway No. 10, from Sainte-Flavie to Riviere-du-Loup.
Certified copy
Wm. Learmonth,
Assistant Clerk, Executive Council.
June 11, 1936.
Dear Sir:	-
I hiave yours of the 9th instant with enclosed certified copy of order-in-council No. 1630, passed on the 3rd and approved on the 5th instant, changing the location of the Trans-Canada Highway in the lower part of the Province of Quebec. I am referring your correspondence to the Minister of Labour as this is a matter which comes under his jurisdiction. Yours very truly,
C. D. Howe.
Jos. L. Boulanger, Esq., Deputy Minister, Department of Roads, Quebec, P.Q.
Office of
The Minister of Railways and Canals Ottawa, Canada
June 11, 1936
My dear Colleague:
I am attaching hereto letter received from Jos. L. Boulanger,- Deputy Minister, Department of Roads, Province of Quebec, with copy of order-in-council referred to therein. As this is a matter earning within the purview of your department, I have advised Mr. Boulanger that his communication was being referred to you for attention.
Yours faithfully,
C. D. Howe.
Honourable Norman McL. Rogers,
Minister of Labour,
Ottawa.


Did the dominion government approve any change in the course of the Trans-Canada highway in the province of Quebec this year?


No.


1. Referring to return S.P. 171Q of June 12, 1936, and the statement of the office of the

Questions as Orders for Returns
privy council to the effect that "among the special prerogatives of the Prime Minister is that of making recommendations in any departments of the government," is that a prerogative of the Prime Minister to make recommendations to council on behalf of any other head of department when he is not acting head of such department?
2.	If so, since when, and in virtue of what authority?
3.	What is the quorum of the privy council?


1.	Yes.
2.	For at least forty years, in virtue of orders in eouncil passed from time to time.
3.	Four.


1.	How many men are employed on the seasonal or temporary staff at the port of Fort Churchill at the present time?
2.	What are their names, and home addresses, and who recommended each of them?


1.	Did the government determine the valuation of certain market gardening products with a view to the imposition of customs duties thereon ?
2.	If so, upon what date, and upon what products?
3.	Were these valuations imposed by order in eouncil, and were the customs duties fixed in like manner?
4.	If so, at whose request were these valuations made, and the rates of duty determined?


1.	Who have been appointed to the national employment commission?
2.	What are their addresses and occupations?
3.	What amount is to be paid each member by way of salary, and, or, per diem allowance and expenses?
4.	Who are employed under the commission and what salaries are paid such employees?


Return tabled herewith.


1.	Has another royal commission been appointed to investigate the coal question in Canada?
2.	If so, who is the commissioner?
3.	Will a copy of his commission be laid on the table?
4.	What knowledge of the coal business does the commissioner possess and what are his qualifications?
5.	What action has been taken regarding .a recent report of a prior commission on the same subject?
6.	Have any prosecutions resulted from this report, or to give effect to its findings?
7.	Will the report of the new commission be received before coal is purchased by consumers for next winter?


1.	What persons or companies were awarded contracts for the supplying of coal for the dominion public buildings in New Brunswick for the coal year 1936-37?
2.	What tonnage was given to each contractor, what building or buildings was each to supply, what grade of coal, and at what price per ton?


1.	What rate, per car, is charged for inspection of table potatoes in New Brunswick?
2.	Who collects this inspection fee?
3.	Has every inspection account in New Brunswick' been paid to date; if not, what amount is outstanding?
4.	If any amounts are outstanding, what are the names of the firms and their respective amounts?


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams * and other documents respecting the dismissal of Mr. M. P. Graham of Napanee, Ontario, as official receiver under The Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act; also a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents relating to the appointment of one Stuart Simmons, former tax collector for the township of Ernesttown to the aforesaid position.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY-LOAN OF $60,000,000 Mr. POULIOT:
For a copy of all correspondence between the Minister of Labour, from May 31, 1933, to October 23, 1935, and one or any of the chartered banks or any railway company in connection with the guarantee given by the dominion government for the $60,000,000 loan to the Canadian Pacific Railway Company.


For a copy of all correspondence in the possession of the government with regard to the dominion guarantee of a Newfoundland loan between August, 1930, and October, 1935.


Would the Prime Minister indicate on what day the estimates for the Department of External Affairs will be brought down?

Franchise Act


Mr. Speaker, it is the intention, of the government to proceed with the various bills on the order paper before taking up further estimates. I do not give that as an order to be followed too rigidly, but it is our desire at as early a stage in this week as possible to get over to the Senate as much in the way of legislation as we can. I see no reason why the item to which the hon. member refers should not be among the very first to be considered when we reach a further consideration of estimates. Possibly Thursday at the latest might be fixed as a suitable day, if that is agreeable, and I hope that perhaps Wednesday may be arranged.


The house resumed from Friday, June 12, consideration in committee of Bill No. 81, to amend the Dominion Franchise Act (dominion by-elections)'-Mr. Rinfret-Mr. Sanderson in the chair).
On section 2-Qualifications.
Mr. Chairman, when we
dealt with this bill the other day the leader of the opposition suggested that we let stand subparagraph (c) of paragraph (B) of section 2, which deals with the qualifications of the voter, and in the last lines of which appear the words "and has continued to be ordinarily resident therein until polling day." The right hon, gentleman very properly pointed out that this condition could not be foreseen. Evidently the intention was to cover the case of the rural voter who can always present himself at the poll at the last moment, but that case is already covered by the Dominion Elections Act. There seems to be no purpose in having this provision here, and I would ask the chairman of the special committee to move to strike out those words.


I move:
That section 2, subsection (b), paragraph (c), be amended by striking out the word "before" in the twenty-first line of the page and substituting therefor the words "immediately preceding"; and by deleting therefrom the following words, "and has continued to be ordinarily resident therein until polling day."


Amendment agreed to.
The leader of the opposition also directed our attention to paragraph (H) on page 24 of the bill. Evidently it is a useless section because the case is already covered by the first lines of section 2, which says that this bill applies only to by-elections. Why it was repeated here we were

not able to find out, and I will ask the chairman of the special committee to move that it be removed.


I move, Mr. Chairman, that subsection (H) on page 24 of the bill be deleted.


Will that quite cover the situation? You see, you are retaining part of section 55. Is (I) dealt with separately? The whole of (H) comes out?


Section 55 was struck
out at the last sitting, and section 54 is now completely struck out.


Mr. Chairman, the point
made by the right hon. gentleman is that the letter (I) will now be replaced by (H).


Amendment agreed to.
Section as amended agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
Hon. C. D. HOWE (Minister of Railways and Canals) moved the second reading of Bill No. 99, respecting the appointment of auditors for national railways.
Motion agreed to, bill mad the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
On section, 1

Auditors appointed.
The only point I find
it difficult to understand, Mr. Chairman, is that the act says that the auditors shall be appointed by resolution. There is no objection to proceeding by way of a bill, but it was originally intended that a resolution of both houses would be all that was necessary to appoint auditors.
The other point to which I would direct attention is that practically six months of the year have gone; presumably, as was the case on the other occasion, there has been a continuous audit by the present auditors, and some provision should be made to compensate them for their services during that period of time if they have, as I believe they have, continued the audit of the company's books during the last six months. It is now the middle of June. I intended to look up over the week-end the statute that appointed the Clarkson firm as auditors. I have not it beside me at the moment but I will look it up.

C .N.II.-Auditors


It has been the practice to pass a bill for the appointment of the auditors. The difficulty is that the act says there shall be a resolution of parliament, and unfortunately there is no such thing.


Yes there is.


A resolution of parliament?


A resolution
of both houses of parliament but not of parliament.


A resolution of parliament is a resolution of both houses.


The crown is part of parliament.


A resolution of parliament has usually been construed to mean a joint resolution by both the Commons and Senate. I think such a resolution would fulfil the requirements of the statute.


The previous government as well as the present government found that the only practical method of complying with the act was to pass a bill. We have been so advised by the Department of Justice. As far as compensation is concerned, there has been no work done in 1936 relative to the accounts for that year. There was some work in preparing the annual report for 1935, but it has been thoroughly understood that no work shall be done until the appointment is made. While it is a continuing audit, I am told that usually no work is done until the last half of the year.


There is a misprint in the next to the last line.	There is a word
spelled "thf" which no doubt should be "the."


Section agreed to.
On the title.
If the Prime Minister will look at section 17 of the British North America Act I think he will find it conclusive with regard to the matter in controversy between us. This section reads:
There shall be one parliament for Canada, consisting of the queen, an upper house styled the Senate, and the House of Commons.


Yes, parliament consists of the three, the Sovereign, the Senate, and the Commons.


Title agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed
Hon. ERNEST LAPOINTE (Minister of Justice) moved the second reading of bill No. 83, to amend the Judges Act.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
On section 1-Salaries of judges of Supreme Court of Ontario.
Mr. Chairman, I informed the minister when we were discussing the resolution in committee that I thought, as I still do, that the necessity for increasing the personnel of the high court in Ontario would disappear if those who had attained a condition which rendered it impossible for them to discharge their duties as they should were to resign their positions. I hold that opinion very strongly. I trust that the reports which have appeared in the newspapers as to the purpose of this legislation are not accurate and that there is some real necessity for this bill beyond political needs. After carefully considering the matter, I do not think it would serve any useful purpose to go through the various provinces and name those whom it is quite apparent should retire.
I would point out that we endeavoured to meet the situation some years ago by offering a bill to the house providing for retirement at seventy-five years. However, the Senate thought it undesirable that a change should be made without conditions, and the bill did not pass. The Minister of Justice of to-day took the view that some provision should be made to safeguard the interests of those who were affected by the legislation, to which my answer then was, and now is, that there is an implied condition in the appointment of a man to the bench that he shall be reasonably efficient for the purposes for which he is appointed, and if through physical or mental disability he is unable to discharge those duties, he has forfeited his position and should resign. The present Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) is responsible for the provision that ultimately found its place in the statute books. For the reasons which he gave the other day, and which I believe are cogent reasons, it is very undesirable to have a commission appointed to inquire into the physical or mental condition of those who hold judicial office. Such a procedure would be calculated to drag the judiciary into a certain measure of contempt. Having regard to what I consider to be the larger phase of the question, namely, the public interest, I shall refrain from making any criticism beyond saying that I do feel it is almost an intolerable condition in a country such as this that there should be men willing to accept positions on the implied condition that they will be able to continue to discharge their duties and who, despite the fact that they are not-even on their own
Judges Act Amendment

admission-continue to hold office and draw the emoluments of their positions. I shall be much censured for making these observations by those who belong to that favoured class, the judiciary, but that is not going to deter me in any sense from discharging what I conceive to be my duty.
Had it not been that the bill to which I referred was destroyed in the Senate, the necessary arrangements would have been made and it would have been unnecessary to appoint these two judges. If every man was functioning according to the implied condition of his appointment, it would be wholly unnecessary that there should be any additions made to this court. There will be incurred an annual expense of $18,000, in addition to travelling expenses, which need not be incurred were the duties of office discharged to the extent to which I believe there is an implied undertaking that they should be.
I repeat that I make these observations with some reluctance. I believe that the larger public interest should induce me to refrain from going into details. I indicated the other day that. I would give much thought to this matter. I have, and I have concluded that the larger public interest is more important than the interest of the individuals in question. There would appear to be a seeming unwillingness on the part of these men to realize their obligations to the public in the same way as they compel litigants appearing before them to recognize their obligations. If an action were brought by a trained and skilled man to recover his salary, if it could be proven that he was in either the physical or the mental condition of some members of the courts, he could not recover, and it would be the duty of those who now continue to hold office to decide that he could not recover on the ground that he had not fulfilled that condition of special knowledge and fitness which is the very essence of the appointment. That is all I have to say.


With
some, even most, of the points raised by my right hon. friend when this matter was before the committee on the resolution that preceded the bill, and with what he has just said, I agree. But I think the question presents itself to us in this simple way. The legislature of Ontario, in the exercise of its undoubted jurisdiction, and for reasons which I think are valid, has increased by two the number of judges in. the high court, trial division, of that province. Are there any reasons for our refusing to implement the wish of the province in the matter, even if some of us think that possibly, by some other arrangement with regard to the superannuation of old

judges or in some other way, these two additional judges might be done without? Can we tell the province of Ontario that we refuse to implement their legislation, which. they have the right to pass, because we have not yet made up our minds os to what we ought to do with respect to judges who have reached old age or are afflicted with some physical infirmity that prevents them from doing all that they could do on the bench previously?
In the first place, what the province says is that it wants two additional judges for the trial division. I do not think the condition my right hon. friend mentions applies to the trial division of Ontario, according to information given me by members of parliament who are practising law in that province. There are at the present time eleven judges in the trial division. As I said on the resolution, two of them cannot work very well on the ordinary business of the court for the reason that one of them is working continuously on the board under the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act, devoting all his time thereto, while the other is engaged entirely on bankruptcy matters demanding the whole of -his time. Then we have increased the work of the judges in Ontario. Two years ago we increased it by handing over to them the adjudication of matrimonial cases and I understand that, notwithstanding what was said here at the time-that this new method would result in a diminution of divorces- divorce cases have as a matter of fact vastly increased since this law was passed, and a great part of the time of the judges is taken up with these cases.
Now that the attorney general of Ontario has given 'his reasons to the legislature, which they find to be valid, may I repeat, just for the purpose of giving information to the committee, certain facts with respect to the courts.
There are forty-seven county and district towns-that is, outside the city of Toronto- where at least two courts a year and in many cases four are held. In the majority of cases the duration of the court is about one week. In Sandwich, Hamilton, London and Ottawa the jury- courts, of which there are two each year, usually last for at least three weeks and the non-jury courts, of which there are two each year, also usually last for at least two weeks. In some of the other county and district towns to which a judge is assigned for one week it often happens that a longer period than a week is required to dispose of the cases that are ready for trial. A weekly court is also held at London and Ottawa on Saturday morning, and this necessitates a judge going to each of these cities every Saturday.

Judges Act Amendment
In the city of Toronto a jury court sits three times each year and is usually engaged about eight weeks. At each of such sittings it usually happens that some of the civil cases are not dealt with and it is necessary that they stand over until the next court. The non-jury court at Toronto is a continuous court and sits the year round except for the period of court vacation. In this court the work is particularly heavy and in an effort to reduce the list to a size which will permit the hearing of cases within a reasonable time after they have been set down, it has been necessary for some years now to have two courts sitting. The Toronto weekly court, in which most of the time of the court is devoted to the hearing of motions, sits continuously the year round except- for the court vacation periods, and the court usually lasts the better part of a day, five days a week. Then the questions of bankruptcy and the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act are dealt w-ith.
I believe that the duty of this parliament and my duty as Minister of Justice is to see that the administration of justice in Ontario should be carried out reasonably, and those who have the responsibility there are those who know whether or not we should proceed in the way provided for in this bill. As to the other question, which arises incidentally- and I know my right hon. friend has this in mind-there is in two or three provinces more than room for improvement in view of the conditions that exist there. But as my right hon. friend knows, I have given this matter a good deal of attention, and I am inclined to agree with the members of the Canadian Bar Association, who have been specially charged with the investigation of this matter and who recommend that we should revert to the condition that existed before the amendment of 1920 and permit judges who have reached the age of seventy-five and who have been for a stated number of years on the bench-twenty years-to retire with the salary which they received on the bench. This was changed in 1920. The committee of the Canadian Bar Association favour this change. They suggest that we might require judges who have retired under such a provision to serve in emergency casies, or when there is need of their services, at the request of the chief justice of their court, and that they should retain their rank in the judiciary.
There is much to commend this to the favourable consideration of parliament. I have said that I am inclined to favour it. I submitted the matter to my colleagues, and, while I do not want to betray any secrets, . I may say they thought that this is no time for increases of pensions or things of that kind, and in my private conversations with
my right hon. friend (Mr. Bennett) I learn he also thinks that this would have no chance of getting through parliament at the present time. Possibly that is so. The hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Ca'han) not only suggested but almost sought to impose upon us the necessity of adopting the drastic method he advised; he accused all the ministers of justice of lack of moral courage in not having taken advantage of a provision in the statute under which, if it is believed that a judge is not physically fit to do his work, an investigation may be held, a regular trial at which witnesses may be heard, and on a report being made accordingly, the judge in question would cease to receive any salary. I do not think this would increase the dignity of the bench and enhance respect for the courts.
When my hon. frie-nd said that it was while I was Minister of Justice that this provision was put on the statutes, I did not remember it, and I investigated the matter. I found that it was done in 1922 when Sir Lomer Gouin was Minister of Justice, and he was responsible for it in a peculiar way. There had been amendments to the Judges Acts, and when they were being discussed by the other house it was Senator Barnard who moved that amendment, and he was supported by members of that house who were strong opponents of the government. At the time, as my hon. friend knows, the party which now sits on this side of the house was in power, but very little so in the senate, as is the case at the present time. However, when the amendment came back to the house the then Minister of Justice merely said that he had no objection to it. That hardly supports the view of my hon. friend that this is my work, or even that of the government of the time.


I was not pressing that
point. I was just trying to recollect.


However, that has never been applied up to the present time. Of course in the provisions of the law affecting county court judges there is a stipulation of this kind, although not so drastic, of which advantage has been taken. I myself recommended a few years ago an investigation in Manitoba, but I must say that before I did it I had received an application from the bar association of that province, and it was because complaints were officially placed before the Department of Justice that this extraordinary method was adopted. I think I may say that if either the Canadian Bar Association or the bar association of any province-because they know the facts better

Judges Act Amendment

than anybody else-would officially ask for action as provided for in the section mentioned by my hon. friend, I woidd deem it my duty to take the necessary proceedings. But as it is, could the Minister of Justice act proprio motu or merely because he hears rumours and because certain newspapers have published some reports? It would be a very dangerous thing to do, and if the judge concerned had been in years gone by an opponent of the party in power, possibly the minister would be accused of having his actions dictated by political considerations. We must leave the bench absolutely outside of any possible suspicions about politics, and especially so with regard to any action that could be taken by the Department of Justice with regard to judges. A law could be made, as it applies to the Supreme Court of Canada and the federal courts, so that when a judge reaches a certain age he has to leave the bench. My hon. friend from St. Lawrence-St. George objects to age being taken into consideration. He says that in some cases old men are better than young men. I agree with him-


I was objecting to age
being the sole consideration.


-but I think the exceptions confirm the rule and that is being done in other countries. My right hon. friend was right when he said the other day that seventy-two years had been recommended as the age limit by the commissioners in England who considered that question. As a matter of fact at the present time county court judges are retired at seventy-two years of age, but there is a provision that if the Justice department considers their services could still be utilized, their term of office may be prolonged from year to year. I do not approve of the department intervening in the matter; I think retirement should be provided for without the executive having anything to do with making the decision. However, all that will have to be considered and will have to be dealt with. I do not like the drastic section of the Judges Act which was placed in the statutes in 1922 and which has never been acted upon. But we must do something to prevent possible abuses, and if my right hon. friend is correct-and I think he is-there are certain abuses. I submit, however, that this is only incidental to the present bill; we are merely asked to give effect to the statutes of Ontario, and they have the right to ask us so to do.


The Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) was entirely right in saying he was not the author of the provision in the statute of 1922. If anything I said would

indicate that he was, I knew better, because I took the trouble to follow it up. It was introduced in the other chamber, as he suggested, and it came to this chamber and was accepted by the Commons. The present Minister of Justice was then, if I remember, Minister of Marine.


Yes, I was a sailor at the time.


Well, he has been in stormy seas since. This statute, being a statute of the province of Ontario, is being acted upon with greater celerity than usual. It was late in April when the statute increasing the bench by two was passed, and during my short time in parliament I have seen a year or more go by without any action being taken by the federal authority to implement an increase, for economic or other reasons. I remember one occasion when no provision was made for quite a considerable time, on the theory that there was really no necessity for the increase. I had thought that the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act ' would not be permanent and would not engage a judge's entire working hours for very long. In respect to bankruptcy, the registrar really does most of the work, but the judge must take certain steps because he does the final act.
I quite agree also that the discussion with respect to the tenure of office is but incidental to this question. I brought it up because there might be no other opportunity except on the estimates to refer to it, and I thought it well to refer to it. The answer I make to my hon. friend, and I am sure he had had it in mind-it was in the mind of those with whom I have discussed it-is that to provide at this time that all judges of a certain age should receive full pay would have the effect at once of inducing all those who had been superannuated and had attained that age to demand equal treatment, and I have not seen any answer that I could reasonably make to that request. I did look into the matter very carefully during the time we were in office, and I gathered from discussions that I had in various parts of the country that there was a general feeling that to undertake to increase pensions of the judiciary at this time would be an impolitic thing to do. I should be sorry if my hon. friend should conclude that I suggested he could not put the amendment to the Judges Act through if he so desired, for his majority is ample for that purpose. What I did mean to convey was that I do not think it carries the general approval of the country or of parliament, for reasons that I need not discuss. The very

Judges Act Amendment
suggestion of members of the judiciary holding on and continuing in office when they must know of their own limitations is an effort to induce parliament to do something under duress, if I may use that word-wrongly in that sense, perhaps-but under compulsion or of necessity. To be compelled by that method to provide pensions would not be a nice thing for this parliament, and would be resented I think by many people in every part of the country.
I was not able to look up the royal commission which investigated the matter in England; I am glad the hon. gentleman has done so, because my memory was that the age of retirement recommended was seventy-two or seventy-three, I was not sure which.
I should like to refer briefly to one point to which the minister directed attention, namely the ability to utilize the services of those who have retired but who are in good health. In England a retired judge frequently goes down at Christmas to help out in the divorce, admiralty and probate divisions. The late Lord Mersey used to do it frequently, helping the courts to dispose of arrears before the Christmas vacation. But in this country where you have the double jurisdiction there is that difficulty. The dominion would have to provide that they should be paid no salary beyond their retiring allowance. Clearly the province could not confer jurisdiction upon a retired judge to act, and clearly we would have to amend our statute to provide for it. There are grave complications. The matter was looked into once by a minister of justice and by one of the officials of the Department of Justice, and no conclusion was arrived at. I favour the proposal, and if the minister could work out any plan by which retired judges might be enabled to render service as judges through cooperative action on the part of the provinces and the dominion, I think it would be very desirable and would serve a useful purpose, permitting the attorneys general, with the aid perhaps of the Minister of Justice, to call upon a retired judge in times of stress to render further service without the payment of any further compensation than travelling expenses. Certainly in England where they have the unitary system, it is feasible, but under the complex system of the provinces determining the number of judges and the dominion providing their salaries it might require joint legislative action.


There is no doubt about it.


Can the Minister of Justice give the committee information as to the number of judges in each province who are appointed by the federal government?


In Ontario in the high court there will be, when this bill becomes law and is acted upon, twenty-one judges. In Nova Scotia there are 8-chief justice, judge in equity, judge in divorce, and 5 puisne judges. In New Brunswick there are 8 judges of the high court.


The judge in divorce is also a judge in the same manner?


Yes, I include him. In Manitoba there are 11 judges; in British Columbia, 11; in Saskatchewan. 12; in Alberta, 11 judges of the high court. There are 3 in Prince Edward Island, and there is one in the Yukon territory. I will come to Quebec in a moment.
In addition to these there are the county court judges, who are also appointed by the federal government. In Ontario there are authorized-I do not say they are all appointed, but almost all-75 judges of the county and district courts. In Nova Scotia there are 7 county court judges; in New Brunswick, 6; in Manitoba, 9 and one junior county court judge. In British Columbia there are 14 judges and junior judges; in Prince Edward Island there are 3. In Saskatchewan there are 18 district court judges, and in Alberta, 12.
In Quebec the high court judges do most of the work that is assigned to the county court judges; there are no county court judges in Quebec. There are 12 judges of the court of king's bench as the appeal court, and there are 37 judges of the superior court. There are no other judges appointed in the province of Quebec by the federal government.


Is there not a smaller
court?


Yes, I should mention the circuit court of the district of Montreal.


Which is similar to the county court.


Yes; there are 4 judges, consisting of a senior judge and three other judges. The senior judge is paid $8,000 per annum and the three others are paid $7,000 per annum. Those judges are sitting in addition to the high court judges of the province of Quebec.


Is it a fact that there are only forty-nine judges appointed by the federal government in the province of Quebec?


Yes; there are magistrates appointed by the provincial government.


How is there such a wide discrepancy between Quebec and Ontario?
Juvenile Delinquents Act


Because the systems are altogether different. In Quebec there are no county court judges, while Ontario has a large number of them. But as the hon. member will have noticed, there are. less high court judges in Ontario than in Quebec. There are only twenty-one high court judges in Ontario and th