First report of the committee on standing orders.-Mr. Jacobs.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
What was the total cost in the financial year of 1935 of the Civil Service Commission for all purposes?




federal taxation by provinces


What is the total amount of the actual cash taxes paid to the government per annum by provinces, deducting federal subsidies, for the last year of record?
fMr. Mackenzie King.]


With reference to this question I find that a similar question was asked in the 1932 session. The then prime minister answered in a manner of which I wholly approve, and I quote his answer:
The question which the hon. gentleman asks I submit should be dropped. It is impossible to tell what sums have been derived from each province for the last five years, and by what department of the dominion government. It is possible to ascertain, as is known to every hon. member in this house, sums collected at the customs houses and income tax offices in each of the provinces. Obviously however, imports at cities like Montreal, Quebec, Saint John, Halifax, or other cities at the seaboard do not always show their destinations, and questions which have been asked in times past in this connection have not produced results. The bureau of statistics have not been able to get the information. It is not a question which the government could accurately answer, and an inaccurate answer would be worse than none at all.
For the same reasons I suggest that the question be dropped.


Dropped.


1.	Why did the Hervay Chemical Company of St. Basile, Portneuf county, as already stated to the house, refuse to produce its books to Mr. Allaire, the auditor, if the said books were correct?
2.	How was it that this company in bankruptcy in the spring of 1931 owed the government $21,079.62 for arrears of sales tax if its books were correct and its returns were truthful?
3.	Why has the company been prosecuted for refusing to produce its books, if the said books were accurate?
4.	Why did Mr. Savary, accountant for the company, make the statements credited to him by the Department of National Revenue in its reply to previous questions, if the books and returns were accurate and truthful?
5.	Has the company's indebtedness of $21,079.62 been settled by the Department of National Revenue for $5,227.65 and has the department given the company a receipt in full for the balance of the debt?
6.	Who was the legal representative who made the settlement for the company with the Department of National Revenue?
7.	Why did the Department of National Revenue allow the company's arrears of sales tax to reach the sum of $21,079.62?
8.	Who is responsible for the fact that the sales tax owing by this company to the Department of National Revenue had not been paid and that the tax arrears were permitted to accumulate to the amount mentioned?


1.	It has not been previously stated that the Hervay Chemical Company's books were correct. It has been stated, however, that books submitted to auditors were accurate.

Questions
2.	It has not been, stated that returns were truthful. After threatened prosecution by the department concealed records were produced from which Mr. Allaire established his assessment of $21,079.62.
3.	Prosecution proceedings were instituted but were withdrawn when concealed records were produced.
4.	Mr. Savary's declaration does not deal with accuracy of the company's records.
5.	The company went into liquidation in 1932 and the department received $5,227.65 on account of its claim from the trustee in bankruptcy. No receipt in full was given to the company.
6.	A settlement was not made. The company went into liquidation.
7.	The department had no knowledge of the arrears until the concealed records were discovered.
8.	Certain records were concealed. No departmental official was responsible.


1.	Is it the intention of the Department of Railways and Canals to operate the ferry at Port Maitland this year?
2.	What is the name of the operator of the ferry in former years?
3.	How many years has he served in this capacity ?
4.	Has the appointment of an operator been made for this year?
5.	If so, what is his name?
6.	Upon whose recommendation was the appointment made?


1.	Yes.
2.	Allan David Ross.
3.	Regularly, each season, from 1912 to 1929, inclusive. In March, 1930, ferry service was ordered discontinued, and Ross granted two months' retiring leave with pay.
In July, 1930, ferry service resumed for balance of season only, and George Siddall temporarily employed. Siddal resigned following the 1930 election, when Ross was reemployed. Since 1930, ferry service has been maintained from season to season on a temporary basis, and Ross' services continued in similar capacity up to and including 1935 season of navigation.
4.	Yes.
5.	George Siddall.
6.	Frank Laidlaw.


1.	Has the Borstal system been established in any of Canada's penal institutions?
2.	If so, where?
3.	What has been spent on this to date?
4.	Will the government lay on the table of the house a copy of a report made by one of its departmental officers on this whole question after his visit to England last year?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Nil.
4.	The report referred to is included in the annual report of the superintendent of penitentiaries which was tabled on February 10, 1936.


1.	Has the province of Ontario any federal national park?
2.	If so, where is it located?
3.	Has the government received during the last two years any correspondence or application with reference to establishing a federal national park in the Muskoka, lake Simcoe, Georgian bay and lake of Bays districts? _
4.	Has any action been taken on the said request ?


1.	Yes-three.
2.	St. Lawrence islands national park comprising part of the Thousand islands in the St. Lawrence river.
Point Pelee national park comprising all the crown lands as shown on the plan of the naval reserve at Point Pelee in the township of Mersea, as surveyed by Alexander Baird, provincial land surveyor, dated September 10, 1881.
Georgian bay island national park comprising Beausoleil island and 28 other islands or parts of islands in the Georgian bay lying opposite the townships of Freeman, Baxter and Gibson. In addition Flower Pot island near Tobermory is also administered as part of the Georgian bay islands national park, although not yet formally added to the park.
3 and 4. No record.


1.	Is James M. Douglas a stipendiary magistrate for the Northwest Territories?
2.	If not, was he removed from office, and when and for what cause?


1.	No.
2.	Yes, by order in council dated March 30, 1936. He was not removed for cause but for purposes of economy and good administration. His successor is an officer of the Department of the Interior, who performs the duties without additional remuneration.
Questions as Orders for Returns


1.	Has the west half of section 30, township 44, range 18, west of the 2nd meridian, been acquired by the government for experimental farm purposes?
2.	If so, were expropriation proceedings taken to secure title to the said property, and what offer was made therefor?
3.	Has a price in excess of the offer, if any, made in the expropriation proceedings been paid or agreed to be paid for the said half section ?
4.	If so, what sum, and when paid or payable?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes, $11,200.
3.	Yes.
4.	Cheque for $14,800, issued March 28, 1936.


['1. What were the names and the salaries and expenses per annum of each member of\n[Mr. E. Lapointe.!\nall the provincial staffs, employed under the pensions tribunal from 1930, when the said pensions tribunal was created, until 1933, when the same was abolished?\n2.\tWere the members of the pensions tribunal under contract for any stated period of time?\n3.\tWhen the pensions tribunal was abolished, did the salaries of the members automatically cease, or were they further reimbursed for loss of anticipated salaries?\n4.\tWhat were the total amounts expended by the board per annum in each province, including total salaries, total expenses and total administration costs?']
Return tabled herewith.
1.	How much sugar did the Canadian people consume in each of the years 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, 1934, and 1935?
2.	From what countries did this sugar come, and how much from each of these countries?
3.	What percentage of Canada's sugar supply is now produced in Canada?
4.	In case of war, would sugar be contraband of war?
5.	What encouragement, in the form of subsidy, or in other form, is the United States giving to her sugar producers?
6.	What other countries of the western world, Europe and America, are giving some special encouragement to sugar producers?


Return tabled herewith.


1. What were the names and the salaries and expenses per annum of each member of
[Mr. E. Lapointe.!
all the provincial staffs, employed under the pensions tribunal from 1930, when the said pensions tribunal was created, until 1933, when the same was abolished?
2.	Were the members of the pensions tribunal under contract for any stated period of time?
3.	When the pensions tribunal was abolished, did the salaries of the members automatically cease, or were they further reimbursed for loss of anticipated salaries?
4.	What were the total amounts expended by the board per annum in each province, including total salaries, total expenses and total administration costs?


For a copy of all letters, documents and report of proceedings sent the Attorney General of Quebec by the Registrar of Combines referring to the presentation of a false minute book by the Quebec Coal Dealers' Association during the investigation into an alleged coal combine held at Quebec and as referred to in the English transcription of the report of the registrar on page 147, lines 11 to 22 inclusive.


For a return showing: (1) the total amount asked for in the estimates, special estimates and supplementary estimates, for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1937; (2) the total amount to be expended by each of the several departments of the federal government in each of the nine provinces of Canada.


May I point out that the information sought in part 2 of the order cannot be given accurately, because there are so very many expenditures of the federal government which cannot be divided into provinces. There are matters of interest, war pensions and others which will occur to the minds of hon. members. Subject to this qualification I have no objection to the motion.


It cannot be completed until supplementary estimates are brought down, if any.


Adopted, with the reservation mentioned.


For a copy of all leases and transfers of leases, actually in force, concerning the renting of space on the wharves in the harbour of Quebec


May I point out that this
motion refers to all wharves in the harbour of Quebec. Manifestly many of those are

British North America Act
not in any way connected with the government. Some are railway property, in respect of which it is not customary to give information of this kind. It is doubtful whether such information should be given as to harbour leases. I submit that the hon. member should either reword the motion or drop it, preferably the latter.


I should be content with copies of leases granted by the former harbour commission on wharves belonging to the harbour commission. May I say further that I should be satisfied with abstracts of leases, showing the names of the parties, the consideration, length of term of lease, and so on.


If the hon. member will recast the motion in that way, I can see no objection to it.


Carried, with that reservation.


On the notice of motion of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) for an address to His Majesty the King praying that a measure be submitted to the parliament of Great Britain and Ireland to amend the British North America Act with respect to taxation and guarantee of [DOT] provincial debts:
Mr. Speaker, last night the hon.
member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan) objected to our proceeding to-day because some correspondence referring to the matter had not been tabled. I have looked into the matter-


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a
point of order, as to whether this resolution is in order.


Order.


I wish to speak to a
point of order.


Order; I ask the hon.
member to sit down. The Minister of Justice has the floor.


There is
some little correspondence in the Department of Justice, which will be tabled this afternoon. Then there is some with the Department of Finance, and it will be laid on the table at the same time.


There was evidently some misunderstanding last night at adjournment. I
referred particularly to correspondence dealing with the authorization to provinces to impose indirect taxation in certain instances. The misunderstanding was partly due to an incident which occurred during the unavoidable absence of the Minister of Justice from this chamber. On April 1 the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) read into Hansard the correspondence between himself and the government of the province of Alberta. Then, on May 1, in his budget address he stated :
I may add that after the most careful consideration we are nrepared to recommend certain modifications to the loan council arrangement originally suggested.
Then the Minister of Finance proceeded to say:
I might advise the house that the modification to which I have just referred is being communicated to all the provinces, particularly those primarily concerned, and of course will have their consideration, and we shall hear from them with respect to it before very long.
It is this correspondence, which has not yet been laid upon the table of the house, to which I also particularly referred last night.


The
correspondence mentioned by the hon. member does not relate to the subject matter of the resolution. It is with regard to the details and particulars under which a loan council in Canada would be established, and the advantage which would be taken of the authority which the parliament of Canada would receive to guarantee loans made by provinces, and the taking of security on account of those guarantees. It is rather in relation to the legislation which will be submitted to parliament once the amendment to the British North America Act is enacted. I do not think it has relation to the subject matter of the address itself.


I find it almost impossible
to understand clearly the purport of the amendment proposed to the British North America Act dealing with matters relating to the proposed loan council. I thought possibly the correspondence might clarify the intention of those who drafted the proposed address.


If there is no objection, I should be pleased to table the whole thing.


As long as we get it sooner or later.
Motion stands.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) a question. In addition to bringing down the correspondence
Codeine

that was asked for by the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan) with reference to the resolution standing in the name of the Minister of Justice, will the minister consider widening the discussion on his resolution to include a discussion of the resolution in my name at the top of page 12 of the order paper, which has been standing on the order paper since the twenty-fifth of February? My point is that the minister's resolution deals with only one phase of amendments to the British North America Act.


Order.


I am quite in order, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. gentleman can present his views when the resolution is reached.


I am asking a proper question, Mr. Speaker, under the rules of the house, and am now simply laying the foundation for my question. Shall we be afforded an opportunity of discussing the whole question of amendments to the British North America Act along the lines of my resolution, which involves a much larger question?


Mr. Speaker, it is not the intention to extend the scope of the resolution as it stands on the order paper.


I intend to raise that question as to the anticipation rule when the resolution is under consideration.


Order.


On the orders of the day:
During the course of the debate last evening the hon. member for Cape Breton South (Mr. Hartigan) made certain statements respecting codeine which possibly he would not have made had he been in full possession of the facts. So far as the figures given by the hon. member with respect to the importation of codeine into Canada are concerned, the facts related by him are strictly accurate. But in so far as during the course of his remarks he reflected to some extent upon my predecessors in office, and particularly upon the present leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett), I think it would be well to read a statement furnished me by

the department, in order that the house may be in full possession of the facts with respect to this drug.
Codeine was included in part II of the narcotic schedule during the year 1933, which placed the control of the import and export of such drug in the hands of this department, and which drug as a result could be legally imported or exported only by licensed narcotic wholesalers. The whole question of codeine has been referred to the health committee of the League of Nations for investigation into its addiction properties, which question is under study at the present time, and no report has so far been received. The only country so far as I am aware which has placed codeine on the addiction list is the United States of America.
As a result of a discussion with the Canadian Pharmaceutical Association and subsequently with a number of narcotic wholesalers, a cooperative scheme of control of sales not covered by any legislative authority was initiated on December 1,	1934, whereby
narcotic wholesalers undertook to supply codeine only to those mentioned in section 5 of the Narcotic Act, namely, other licensed wholesalers, physicians, dentists, veterinary surgeons and retail druggists, and report such sales monthly both to this department and to the registrars of the provincial pharmaceutical associations concerned. These figures were to be coordinated, and when in the opinion of the provincial pharmaceutical associations any sales to retail druggists were found to be excessive, they were to recommend that further sales to such druggists be prevented, the wholesalers in turn having undertaken to accept and act on any recommendations which they received, through this department. As a result of this cooperative control there are at the present time fifty-nine retail druggists whose names appear on the codeine restricted list, which prevents their obtaining any supply of codeine whatever from licensed wholesalers.
In October, 1935, all licensed narcotic wholesalers in Canada were requested to limit their sales of codeine to all retail druggists to one ounce in any one month, unless special authority to exceed such amount had previously been issued by this department.
During 1919, when the Patent and Proprietary Medicine Act was amended, the use of codeine was prohibited in patent medicines.
The increased consumption of codeine in Canada is due to the effective control of the importation, manufaoture and sale of other narcotics such as opium, morphine and its

derivatives, and cocaine. The inability of drug addicts to obtain these drugs has driven them to the use of codeine. When they first found their supply of these drugs cut off they resorted to paregoric. As soon as it was ascertained that the consumption, of this drug was increasing it was brought under the active control. They are now using codeine. The use of codeine has been discussed by the representatives of Canada on the League of Nations, with the object of endeavouring to impose the same measures of control upon it that have been put into effect on other narcotics.
Successive governments have cooperated fully with the opium traffic and social welfare sections of the League of Nations in controlling the illegal traffic in narcotics. Canada has actively participated in the work of the advisory committee on traffic in opium and other dangerous drugs to which the chief of the narcotic division of the Department of Pensions and National Health was appointed as Canadian representative in 1934, and is at the present time chairman of this committee, and has for years proceeded to Geneva at least annually, at the expense of the Department of External Affairs of the Canadian government. He is at the present time acting in the capacity of chairman of the narcotic division of the League of Nations at Geneva, having been sent there by the government.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to express my grateful appreciation of the statement the minister has just read; for I had intended as a matter of privilege to make some statement in view of the use of my name very frequently last evening, and the charge made against me of personal responsibility for codeine being purchased by people in this country.
I desire to add just this word to what has been said. The services of Colonel Sharman, who is chief of the narcotic division of the health department, have been so highly spoken of by the League of Nations that it resulted in his being appointed chairman of a special committee dealing with narcotics, and, as I understand from the minister, he is now in Geneva.
During the time we were in office the Department of External Affairs saw to it that Canada was represented at the League of Nations, and Colonel Sharman discharged his duties in a manner that brought to us warm commendation upon his efforts and his appointment. I resent the idea of being charged personally with responsibility for the acquisition by
League of Nations
people of the habit of using dangerous drugs, simply because I happened for a time to hold office.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, according to
the press Geneva has been considering the question of sanctions. May I ask the Prime Minister to state whether in the recent discussions Canada voted in favour of a continuance of sanctions against Italy?


In reply I would say to
my hon. friend that Canada is not a member of the council and therefore did not have a vote in the matter.


May I ask, since
there has been consultation between the British empire and the dominions, what is the attitude of Canada in regard to the question of continuing sanctions against Italy?


So far as I
am aware, there has been no consultation in respect to the matter to which my hon. friend refers.


May I ask one
other question, whether the Prime Minister will shortly inform the house as to what the attitude of Canada is in regard to the continuance of sanctions against Italy?


I have already intimated that when we come to discuss the estimates we have still one item relating to the League of Nations, and at that time questions with reference thereto may be asked and will be answered so far as circumstances and information available will permit.


Does the Prime
Minister intimate that no opportunity is to be given this house to discuss this matter before the estimates are under consideration? That was not my understanding the other day.


Order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the member
for Royal (Mr. Brooks) inquired for a return regarding contracts for a supply of coal to dominion public buildings in the maritime provinces in the year 1935-36. I may say that the return involves several departments, and
League of Nations

as the information must come from outside Ottawa it may still take a few days before the return is completed.
COPYRIGHT AMENDMENT ACT On the orders of the day:


May I ask the Secretary of State (Mr. Rinfret) when he intends to proceed with Bill No. 55, to amend the Copyright Act, which received its second reading about three weeks ago? If permissible, I should also like while on my feet to call the attention of the Minister of Finance-


Order.


May I answer my hon.
friend by saying he will be advised in the usual way as to the order in which the different measures will be taken up. It is not possible to indicate at this stage what may be taken up possibly some days or even weeks hence.
SALES TAX ON AUTOMOBILES On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to take this opportunity of calling the attention of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) to a telegram which I received yesterday from the automobile dealers of Hamilton. I believe a similar telegram was sent to the minister. They are complaining about the sales tax being imposed on automobiles which were purchased prior to the bringing down of the budget. In other words, they object to the tax being made retroactive, and they ask if something cannot be done to relieve them of what they regard as a burden.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance): I have received several such telegrams.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
['Another question that should be touched upon, as the hon. member for Yale (Mr. Stirling) suggests, when the item comes up again, is that of continued maintenance.\nItem stands.\nProgress reported.\t1']
Mr. Speaker, before you
leave the chair I should like to refer once more to the question I put a few moments ago with reference to the situation at Geneva. Some days ago I asked the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) if he would afford an early opportunity for the house to discuss-the (Mr. Rinfret.]
present world situation and our attitude toward the League of Nations. He intimated that he was willing to do so, but apparently to-day he has altered his decision. He suggests that there will be an opportunity to discuss this matter when the estimates of the Department of External Affairs are being considered. In years past, however, these estimates as a rule have been presented very late in the session. I think I am correct in stating that for the last two years there has been no discussion on external affairs estimates.


We held them open to give you a chance.


They were held open on one occasion, but last year there was a switch in the estimates late one evening, of which no notification was given beforehand, and some of us who were interested in discussing these matters had no opportunity of doing so. I do not say this by way of reflection on the previous government or even on the present government; I say it simply to emphasize the fact that on the whole the house has not taken any very great interest in external affairs.
Perhaps it may not- be quite fair to precipitate a debate of this kind without giving hon. members an opportunity for preparation. The government certainly should be given an opportunity to make a careful canvass of its own position. I would not have introduced this matter to-day were it not for the fact that the Prime Minister apparently is determined to give the house no information whatever as to the foreign policy of the government at this very important crisis in world history.
I do not think it is necessary to review the events that have taken place within the last few weeks in Europe. Some people seem to think that Europe is so far away from us that we need not worry a great deal. As the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) reminded us the other day, the last war is still with us and still offers one of the main budgetary factors to be considered. Only a. few moments before I came down to the chamber I was interviewed by one of the victims of the last war, something which I have no doubt happens to many hon. members from time to time. All this is saddening. But surely it should mean consideration of policies for the future.
The world situation as it is to-day is too important a matter to be passed over so easily. I am not suggesting that the Prime Minister or the members of the government are indifferent to the matter; I am sure it must be

League of Nations
causing them a great deal of worry,, but the fact is that the government ought not alone to decide the most important matters of public policy. We spend weeks going into great detail on matters which have been determined already, such as the trade treaty between Canada and the United States; surely we can devote one day to a discussion of foreign affairs. I would remind the house that we are not without responsibilities in this regard. As a member of the League of Nations we are committed already to the league and apparently to a program of sanctions. In view of the situation that has developed, I think it is only reasonable that we should know what is the attitude of Canada at this time of crisis.
This is not a secret which must be rigidly maintained within the confines of the cabinet itself. Occasionally I see dispatches from England stating that the British House of Commons has discussed freely certain government policies with regard to foreign affairs. I think that is only right. If war or disaster of any kind comes upon this country, the people will be forced into service. They have the right to know beforehand what are the policies of this government and what we are heading for.
I think most citizens of Canada, in fact most citizens of the leading countries of the world, have been greatly perturbed over the failure of the League of Nations in this Italo-Ethiopian affair. The league has been regarded as the bulwark of peace, and we have been told that we ought to rely upon collective security, but it would seem that the league as it is now constituted has failed dismally. It failed in the Sino-Japanese affair a few years ago; it failed in connection with the South American trouble, and it has failed in the most spectacular way in connection with Ethiopia. What are we going to do with regard to the situation? Are we to continue as members of a league tihat apparently will afford us no security against war in the future?
We know that this kind of failure is producing armaments on all sides. We know that England has abandoned her old idea of having comparatively small armaments and has begun to speed up the manufacture of armaments. This raises another question. What is our attitude towards Great Britain? Are we going to permit Great Britain to speak for us in the councils of the world? Are we to have no independent voice? Are we simply to acquiesce after the event and be expected to contribute our Canadian boys to forces that may be called up because of the possible bungling of British statesmen or because a political party that happens to be
in power to-day is pursuing a policy not in the interests of world peace? These are important questions for our Canadian people, too important to be passed over lightly.
I did not come prepared for this discussion to-day, and I think we should all be fully prepared when we consider this situation. I do not intend to ask the government to-day for a definite answer or to precipitate a general debate, but I cannot pass up the opportunity afforded by the motion to go into supply without stating my strong conviction that in the very near future the government should take this house into its confidence and tell us very clearly what the obligations of Canada now are with regard to sanctions; what the attitude of this country is going to be towards the League of Nations in the future, having regard to the failure of the league as now constituted to give us any security; and further than that, and I think even more important, what our attitude is going to be with regard to Great Britain herself in the new program of armaments which she has undertaken. Last of all, as we think of the preservation of our own country in the future, we should know where our own reliance is to be placed.
Some of us have tried from time to time when the estimates of the Department of National Defence have been under consideration to draw from the cabinet information of some sort as to what the general defence policy of the country is, whether we alone are to stand against all comers, whether we are to depend upon the United States or whether we are to revert to the older imperial policy and try to come under the wing of Great Britain, with all the advantages and all the disadvantages of that course, or whether some other course is possible. We ought to know these things, and to-day I would, if I might, give notice to the government that some of us at least will expect to discuss this matter in greater detail in the near future I would ask, therefore, that the government give us some opportunity in the near future- and I should prefer it according to regular procedure-to discuss this whole matter. The question is urgent. I do not think anything is to be gained by a pussyfooting polity.


First of all may I draw my hon. friend's attention to the fact that I have in no way changed my position as to when a discussion should take place on any particular matter. I have always said that the government would seek to meet what it believed to be the convenience and the wishes of the house. I have before me the reply I gave my hon. friend the other day. On May 7 I said:
League oj Nations

The government naturally will seek to meet the wishes of the house. There have been reasons why we have thought it inadvisable just at this moment to bring on a debate on the European situation. We shall wish to consider carefully all matters that should be considered in that connection. There is however no desire to delay discussion if hon. members deem it advisable to have League matters debated at an early date.
I may be mistaken, but I believe that the great majority of members in this house as well as the great majority of the citizens of Canada are of the opinion that we shall be contributing more effectively to an amicable adjustment of the very difficult situation which faces European statesmen at the present time if we consider very carefully the time at which we enter upon discussion of that situation. I ask my hon. friend to consider what the effect of a discussion in this parliament two months ago, one month ago, two weeks ago, might have been upon the matters that are being discussed at Geneva and in London, at the present time. Would a discussion have been of assistance to those who are wrestling with these great problems which, it might almost be said, are the most critical the world has been faced with at any time? Has the government not pursued the wiser course, of proceeding as rapidly as possible with the matters which are of immediate concern to us here and which we feel should be considered first because of their great importance to Canada at present. We have adopted the course we have indicated because we believe it to be the best one to follow, all circumstances being considered.
I did say that when we came to a discussion of the estimates of the Department of External Affairs ample opportunity would be given for a discussion of all matters pertaining to the league, and one item was reserved for that purpose. I believe I am right when I say that it- is the view of the great majority of members of this house that it would be better not to enter too precipitately into a debate upon the European situation but rather to consider very carefully the time at which it would be best to take it up. The government will endeavour to select the best possible moment but while I say that, however, I wish to make it clear that I am not precluding any member from bringing on a discussion at any time he may wish. The fact that the hon. gentleman has made a speech this afternoon on the subject indicates that he has the right to speak at any time when the house is being moved into committee of supply or committee of ways and means. I believe, however, that the fact that other members have not followed his example in that regard is evidence that the house generally feels, as I

am sure the country feels, that the situation in Europe is very grave and critical and that great caution should be used on the part of members of this House of Commons with respect to discussions which may take place here on the European situation.


When the other afternoon the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) asked the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) to set aside a day for discussion of the relations of Canada to the League of Nations, I recalled that a few weeks ago the Prime Minister indicated to the house that when the External Affairs estimates were under consideration the fullest opportunity would be given for discussion. It is obvious that in view of the fact that questions must be asked and answered a much fairer opportunity for real discussion would be given by that procedure than would be afforded by making set speeches in the house with the Speaker in the chair, inasmuch as a good deal of information must necessarily be obtained as to what attitude has been taken by Canada at various times during the last few months in connection with the matters under consideration. For my own part I think the Prime Minister has discharged his duty to the house by making it clear that before the house rises there will be ample opportunity for us to be fully informed, through, as well, discussions in the country itself, of everything that is connected with the European situation.
I do not share the view of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, that discussion in this chamber is going to have any particular effect upon the world situation at large, nor do I share the Prime Minister's view in that regard. I realize that at the moment these matters are in the hands of the council of the League of Nations; that Canada is not a member of that council, and that any observations which might be made in this house, and which would embarrass an already embarrassed situation, would be, in my judgment at any rate, not only unsound but calculated to retard rather than to assist the accomplishment of the purposes and ends we have in view.
I feel quite certain that when the appropriate time comes-that is when the External Affairs estimates are under consideration- many of those at least with wihom I am associated will be glad to be informed of the progress of events and no premature or merely academic discussion with a view to determining in theory what we are or what we are not, what we should do or what we should not do, will advance the purpose we have in mind. Our effort must be to uphold the hands of those who are endeavour-

Supply-Indian Affairs
ing to maintain the peace of the world, and I believe that view is held by every member of this house and by the people of Canada at large. How best we may do that is a matter which might admit of differences of opinion. Hon. gentlemen on this side of the house may hold an opinion which is wholly in accord- with that held by gentlemen on the other side, and it may equally be that opinions held by various members on the other side differ one with another. In the same way there may be differences of opinion among members who sit on this side of the house, because it is obvious that this question never can be, at least it never should be, a matter of party difference. These matters far transcend party differences; they have to do with the very fabric of our social and economic life and with the peace, happiness and prosperity of individual citizens, regardess of their views or beliefs as to politics, religion, economics or any other question. I am certain that we shall all approach the discussion of the problem with an open mind and with the desire not hastily to prejudge it by any statement which is made in this chamber, because more importance will attach to what we say in the house than to what we say outside it, and no statement should be made here which could be construed as, on the one hand, in any sense provocative, or on the other, as unduly optimistic. We must remember that we are merely trustees, upon whom a certain measure of authority has been conferred by the people as a whole.
In dealing with international questions this parliament is not in the position of the British Foreign Office, though that department, it is to be observed, endeavours to divorce itself from political considerations when discussing problems affecting the welfare of the nation and the empire. We must endeavour to deal with these issues in a manner which will demonstrate that in so doing we are without party bias. After all, a Prime Minister is seized of information that we have not, and in the very nature of things, as I have frequently said when my view's were not very highly regarded by those who now sit on the treasury benches, he must accept responsibility for determining whether or not it is in the public interest -not party interest-to precipitate a discussion of questions which affect the welfare of the nation as a whole. I do not frequently give my confidence to the government, but I believe that, in delaying for the moment a discussion of the position of Canada with respect to the League of Nations and our
relations to other nations in regard to the present European situation, no Prime Minister with a sense of proper responsibility would do other than give to the problem the best judgment he could, and when he advises the house that in his opinion the public interest will be best served by delaying any discussion of that kind, I for one am prepared to accept his statement.


May I say a word in support of the stand taken by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett)? The council of the league is naturally seized with the question; it is a very difficult problem, so complicated and so fraught with danger that even they, with the information they have, have thought it better to adjourn, until some time in the month of June, any discussion of the matter. Surely if they could not do otherwise, we in this house are not in a position to do better than those who are assembled at Geneva. In the second place, we are not members of the council. When a decision is reached there, it will be time enough for Canada to take a stand as to following the decision and accepting the views of the council, or refusing t.o do so. I appreciate the earnestness and the sincerity of my hon. friend from Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth), but I am sure he will agree with us that for the present it is better to let the matter be discussed over there, without bringing before the house material which might make the situation more difficult.


Motion agreed to, and the house went into committee of supply, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
. SUPPLY
Project Already Undertaken
To provide for completion of the Qu'Appelle Indian hospital at Fort Qu'Appelle, Saskatchewan, $30,000.
These are supplementary estimates?


Yes.


Would the minister give us a little more detail with respect to this $30,000 vote? Is it an added amount needed to complete the building-


No, it is not an added amount. Ordinarily this would have been expended under the Public Works Construction
ltEVISED EDITION
Supply-Indian Affairs

Act. Following March 31, this is the amount under the new vote. As I explained the other day with respect to some other estimates, this is required to complete the building.


When will the building be completed and ready for opening?


In the near future. I understand they are waiting for the completion of the arrangements for a water supply.


Is any provision being made to assist the Nanaimo hospital to provide an Indian wing? I addressed the minister in that connection some time ago.


There is no provision under this item, which deals only with the completion of the hospital at Fort Qu'Appelle.


Will the minister state if he intends to make any provision for the purpose I have mentioned?


That may be considered under another item. I will answer the hon. member at that time, after this item has passed.


Item agreed to.
Other Projects
To provide for repairs and improvements to government buildings and new buildings, and assistance to building projects relating to Indian administration, $135,708.
Will the minister give us particulars of this item?


This item, as stated, is to provide for repairs and improvements to government- buildings and new buildings, and assistance to building projects relating to Indian administration.


What new buildings?


There is a new agency
office building at Caughnawaga reserve. There are repairs to agency buildings in Quebec, I am not at the moment able to give particulars of those.


The question was as to the new projects.


In Manitoba there are
repairs to the Swan Lake home, farm and buildings. There is a combined office building and store house at the Fisher River Indian reserve, also an expenditure for a new agency residence at Norway House. There are proposals for a new office at The Pas Agency, some improvements at the Battle-ford agency, the Carlton and Crooked Lake and Duck Lake agencies. In this vote might

also come the point raised by my hon. friend from Nanaimo (Mr. Taylor). All the details of this vote have not been worked out, but it is contemplated that where arrangements can be made assistance may be given in the manner suggested by my hon. friend. I cannot at the moment state whether that will apply to his particular instance or not, but I can tell him that it will have the fullest consideration. We have been asked for assistance in several cases in extending hospital facilities for the care of Indian patients. I am not at the moment in a position to say precisely where that action will be taken, but I can assure the committee and the hon. member that it will be taken according to the best judgment of the officers of the department and myself.


The minister mentioned new buildings and improvements in the Crooked Lake agency. Can he state whether that is a new residence for the agent, or what is it?


I am informed that it is a house for the agent of that reserve.


In connection with the matter he mentioned to the hon. member for Nanaimo, is the minister fully informed of the representations made to him in connection with the hospital at Tofino?


Yes, we have full information on it, but as I said a moment ago I am not in a position at the moment to say what particular hospitals will be assisted. That requires a good deal of care and examination into all the relevant circumstances. It is the intention that this money shall be spent where it is most needed and will do the most good, according to the best judgment of the officers of the department and myself.


For years the existing hospital at Duncan has been taking care of these Indians; the situation is really desperate and the necessity for building and enlarging is due in large measure to the need for special provision for the Indians. The request has gone forward to the minister's department, and I shall be glad if special consideration is given to it.


I assure my hon. friend that it will have full consideration.


Item agreed to.
To provide for the erection of Indian schools, $70,700.
Will the minister give some explanation of this item, and where these schools are located or to be located?

Supply-Indian Affairs


The points at which these Indian schools will be erected, as given me by the officers, are as follows: Restigouohe Indian day school. This school is located on the Restigouohe Indian reserve, No. 1, Bona-venture, Quebec.
The next is in Ontario at Christian Island, and one at Rabbit Island, and one at Matta-gami and one at Seine River.
In Manitoba there is one at Poplar River, one at Deer Lake, one with a rather peculiar name, Uponcashing, one suggested for Sandy Bay; there is some difference of opinion with the authorities as to whether or not a day school should be erected there.


Is that the one where
they want a boarding school?


They have a boarding
school now, but it is pretty well out of date. I am inclined to think the boarding school is what they need, but we have not funds for it this year.
In Saskatchewan it is proposed to erect one at Montreal Lake. There is another at Ahtahkakoops; I do not know where that is located.
In British Columbia it is proposed to erect at Bella Bella, an Indian school building, another at a place with an unpronounceable name, Gitladamicks, and another at Kitselas.
In the Northwest Territories there is one at Fort Ray.
These are the points where the officers of the department, after going into the matter, have suggested that these schools should be built. I should say that personally I have not had an opportunity to review all these particular cases, and there may be some local circumstances that might change the decision, but these are the proposals at the present time.


The sum of 370,000 will
not go very far in building all these schools, will it?


Well, they are all day
schools.


I would suggest that the
department think seriously before they start a policy of abandoning or departing from the policy of boarding schools in favour of day schools, although of course the minister did not exactly indicate that. I heard some mention, before the present government came into office, that that was the idea among the officials. As far as the west coast of British Columbia is concerned this would be a great mistake. I have been long familiar with the situation and there is no question that the boarding school is the most successful method 12739-177J
of educating Indian children. I have seen children who have been ostensibly attending: day school for eight or nine years; yet they did not know the first words of English and could not add two and two together. It is not that they lack intelligence; it is that when they are at home in their villages they are allowed to do as they like. The father would never think of saying to a child: You go to school. It would be: Do you want to go to school? In addition, there is the constant moving about. Indians follow the run of the fish in the season and often move away to places where there is no day school. When they are put into a boarding school they are under constant supervision and do not go out except in the holidays. 