Mr. G. W. McPHEE (Yorkton) presented the first report of the special committee appointed to consider the subject matter of Bill No. 6, to amend the criminal code (death penalty), and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
That the private bill entitled An Act for the Protection of the Dionne Quintuplets, filed with the clerk of the house on February 4, based on the petition read and received by the house on February 5, be referred to the standing committee on standing orders to ascertain the extent to which standing orders 93 (1) and 95 have been complied with.


Motion agreed to.
Privilege-Mr. Bennett
Mr. THOMAS REID (New Westminster) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 16, to amend the Railway Act.
Explain.


The proposed bill is the same as that introduced last session. It asks that the freight rates on grain and1 mill feed, including flour, from the prairie provinces to British Columbia for use within that province shall not be higher than the rates for like mileage on grain and mill feed carried eastward from the prairie provinces. In other words, Mr. Speaker, the proposed bill asks that British Columbia be discriminated against no longer and that the Crowsnest pass rates on grains and mill feeds shall apply westward as well as eastward,.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Mr. T. L. CHURCH (Broadview) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 17, to amend the criminal code (noises).
He said: The purpose of the bill, Mr. Speaker, is to adopt the law of England in order to prevent unnecessary noises, which have been shown by health officers throughout this country to be most dangerous and injurious to the public health.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I very much regret the necessity of mentioning again in this chamber a matter of privilege. Yesterday I made a statement, which is reported in Hansard; the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) made a statement, which is reported in Hansard, but the Citizen and Journal of last evening, and again of this morning, contained a grossly inaccurate statement as to what took place. It is grossly in-

accurate not only as to what was said by the Prime Minister but also as to what was said by myself.
I am reported to have taken advantage of the opportunity afforded by a statement made by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) to explain certain incidents in connection with my absence from the country beginning last August. The statement contains these words:
He (Mr. Bennett) observed that Prime Minister Mackenzie King had taken a messenger from the permanent civil service on some of his journeys abroad.
Mr. Mackenzie King said that in such cases he had paid personally the salary of the employee concerned.
"Certainly-of course," Mr. Bennett agreed.
The record makes it clear that I spoke because of a question which was placed upon the order paper by a member of this house, and further that I referred to the fact that I might have adopted the course of taking one of the permanent messengers, as the then leader of the opposition did when he went to England in 1934. I did not pursue that course, for reasons which were good enough for me. The Prime Minister referred to the fact that the salaries of all permanent messengers were paid by the state, and that he had paid the expenses, transportation and otherwise, of the messenger he took with him. I said "certainly," but the right hon. gentleman then also pointed out the fact that the messenger of the department, the permanent messenger attached to the office of the leader of the opposition, was still drawing his salary from the state whether or not I was here, which was a correct statement.
I do deprecate having to mention these matters, but I am sure this chamber realizes that it is grossly unfair to have these statements published in the press, for which the newspapers themselves are not to blame. It does seem to me that a little care on the part of those who report the proceedings of this chamber would obviate the necessity of one having to explain what is distasteful to talk about and still more distasteful to have to refer to again.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
Mr. Speaker, in the press a few days ago I saw that the governor in council at Ottawa

Suggested Issue of Silver Dollars
had adopted a ruling that certain duties should be imposed on coronation souvenirs, and that seemed to me a correct thing for any government to do. Immediately after the recent abdication I also noticed in the press that hundreds of people in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Roumania and other central European countries had been thrown out of work because of the cancellation of orders for coronation souvenirs.
It does seem to me that the British Empire is quite large enough to furnish its own coronation souvenirs. In England we have well-equipped factories producing most beautiful china of all kinds. In this country as well, in New Brunswick, in Alberta and in British Columbia, we have china clay that would make excellent souvenirs. But above and beyond all that, coming as I do from a mining constituency it seems to me that this would be the time for the government to consider issuing silver coronation dollars. The government could: issue dollars, as the government did at the time of the jubilee ceremonies, but of course they could not force people to take the dollars. For some time the banks failed to supply to their customers the silver dollars issued at the time of the jubilee, for the obvious reason that they had to pay cartage on the silver, which amounted to a fairly substantial sum; but the situation later was rectified by an arrangement with the government. Canada is the third silver producing nation in the world, and the silver mines of Ontario, Quebec, the middle west, British Columbia and my own constituency of Yukon could very well supply the minister with the silver out of which these dollars might be made. The Minister of Finance has authority, under the revised statutes of Canada, to purchase silver and other precious metals, and I should think the government could well afford to put on the market a million silver dollars.
At the time of the jubilee about half a million silver dollars were coined, out of which I believe the government made a profit of about $300,000. For every sixty cents worth of silver which is struck off in silver coins the government clears approximately $1.15. It is not very often that a member of this house is able to rise and tell the government how to make money; rather we are all holding out both hands and saying, "give me." I should like to feel that the government, through the Minister of Finance, would be willing to authorize the striking of a million silver dollars in order to help the miners and the communities in which the silver is produced, and also because of the fact that it would be a money-making proposition. Next
summer we will have thousands and thousands of tourists. All of us, men and women alike, are more or less souvenir hunters. Practically every tourist would take back a souvenir dollar, as happened in connection with the jubilee dollar. It would not be like the Aberhart money, for which some of us paid a little premium. I know I paid $1.50 for a dollar scrip, but that is scrapbook money. If, however, the government issued a silver dollar it would always, so long as government endures, buy a dollar's worth of material. After the first expense, the cost of striking copper, bronze, nickel, silver, or gold coins is not great.
In the name of the mining constituencies, and especially on behalf of the Yukon, I would ask the Prime Minister to consider the matter, and show his willingness to strike as souvenirs for Canada one million silver dollars.


Mr. Speaker, I did not like to interrupt the hon. member (Mrs. Black) when she was speaking, but I am not quite sure whether she was speaking to the notice of motion which stands in her name on the order paper and which, in the ordinary course of events, would have been the first order of business to-morrow. When the hon. member began to speak I assumed she had in mind saying something on the orders of the day. However I imagine the house will grant permission to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) to answer the hon. member's questions, if he is in a position to do so. Perhaps the minister's answer will cover what the hon. member has in mind.


Thank you.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance): Mr. Speaker, I cannot deal with the portion of the hon. member's question which relates to souvenirs. I believe my colleague, the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Ilsley) could give information as to what is to be done in that regard.


The hon. member indicated that the matter of souvenirs is only incidental.


But with regard to the main question, namely that regarding coinage, may I say that the government found itself in some difficulty. At the time of the abdication of the former king certain steps had been taken and certain approval given with respect to the image of the king which was to appear on our new coins. None of the new coins had been issued because in fact dies had not been received from London, where their final

Suggested Issue of Silver Dollars
preparation was undertaken. It was necessary therefore to begin all over again, and only recently has the necessary approval been received with respect to the image of the head of King George VI which is to appear on all Canadian coins minted in the future. There is some doubt as to whether we will receive the dies in time to have the issue of any new coins in circulation by coronation time. Every effort is being made to bring that about, but under the circumstances no arrangement has been made for the coinage of any special coins.
I believe I am in a position to give some information regarding silver dollars. Up to the present time we have issued 743,720 silver dollars. Of course, as required, the minting of the King George V coins is proceeding until such time as King George VI coins can be minted. A reserve supply of these silver dollars is kept available at all offices of the Bank of Canada throughout the dominion, and the chartered banks therefore can secure conveniently from the provincial headquarters of the Bank of Canada a supply of these dollars in order to meet the public demand for them. There is a substantial demand in the parts of Canada which are interested in the production of silver, but generally speaking, in the other parts, the demand appears to be moderate and mainly for souvenir purposes. I believe that is all I can usefully say in the matter.
I do not believe that at this stage it would be practicable to attempt to evolve a special jubilee dollar, nor would it have been possible in the time at our disposal before the coronation of King George VI to secure the dies necessary for a special dollar. Of course it would differ in some respects from the ordinary one. May I explain to the bon. member that the side on which the king's heart aoes not appear is not changed as the result of a change in the person of the monarch. The only change would be on the side on which the monarch's head appears.
In order to issue a souvenir dollar in time for the coronation we would require a die with a completely different obverse side. I believe the hon. member will readily understand that in the manufacture of dies for coins we cannot complete the finishing process in Canada. As other parts of the empire have their work done in London, the bouse will realize that at this time there is a heavy strain upon the facilities there available.


Mr. Speaker, it had been my intention to speak to this subject when the notice of motion should come before the house to-morrow. I speak now, however, because, although I am not as conversant with the rules of the

house as many hon. members may be, I am afraid in view of the observations to-day of the hon. member for Yukon (Mrs. Black) there will be no opportunity to-morrow to speak to this matter. Personally I should have liked to see a full dress debate on this important matter and in support of silver.
As an advocate for the past six or seven years of the use of silver, I feel it incumbent upon me to support the hon. member for Yukon in the suggestion she has made. May I point out to her, however, that if it is her object only to popularize the silver dollar it might be as well to place on one side the image of the Duke of Windsor and on the other that of Mrs. Simpson. If that is the hon. member's only object, may I observe that the mere issuing of one million silver dollars will do very little to popularize the greater use of silver, as such, in Canada.
I should like to see the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) seriously consider taking over all silver in Canada, and issuing silver certificates. Such action would do much for Canada. Not only would it provide employment for many thousands of our citizens, but it would also put currency in circulation at no cost to the government. It is not my intention to delay the house on this occasion, upon going into supply, because possibly I may have more to say at another time. I feel it my duty, however, to join in urging that serious consideration be given to the issuing of silver coinage, including silver dollars, to a greater extent than has been done.
It is true, as the Minister of Finance has pointed out, that over 743,000 silver dollars have already been issued, but as they can be produced at the rate of 20,000 per day with the present equipment at the Mint, only about fifty days would be required to issue a million.
It is true that perhaps silver dollars are not as popular as they were in days gone by, but in view of the fact that the government is making seventy per cent profit there is no reason why another machine should not be purchased to run at full blast. This would not in any way injure the credit of Canada. Hon. members who bewailed the fact that such procedure might injure our credit need only look at what has happened across the boundary line. Would any person say that to-day the American dollar is worth less than the Canadian, or that the credit of the United States is not as good as that of Canada? Yet during the past two or three years that country has purchased over one billion ounces of silver, and paid for it by issuing silver certificates. That could be

Supply-External Affairs
done in Canada, if we had only the intestinal fortitude as against the bankers, if I may use the term, to go ahead and do it. That could be done, despite what they tell us.
I am not unmindful of the cry against any inflation in Canada. Germany is usually pointed out as the horrible example. I am not advocating that we should repudiate everything, but I will say that the credit of Germanj' is just as good to-day as that of any other country, because it would appear that Great Britain is only too willing to lend money to that country. There is nothing very serious in that argument.
However, I shall leave any further observations in this connection until later. As I say, I join with the hon. member for Yukon in the suggestion she has made, but I am sorry the discussion has taken place on such short notice. I should have liked to see the resolution discussed in the regular manner when called on Wednesday, but, speaking as a comparatively new member, may I say that one never can tell what will take place in this chamber.


Mr. Speaker, on frequent
occasions I have endeavoured to ascertain why fifty cent and one dollar silver coins circulate so little in Canada. In England the half crown is greatly in circulation, and our silver dollar, at least the last one minted, is not so large a coin. I may say that I have never recived one of these dollars over the counter as change since they were first issued. The difficulty is not, as suggested by the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Reid), the unwillingness of the country to coin them; it is the unwillingness of the people to use them. I rise only to ask the minister if there is not some method by which we could popularize the use of these coins. The fact is that people will not and do not circulate them. Could the minister say how many of the 743,000 silver dollars which were issued are now in circulation, as against those in the custody of the receiver general?


I cannot give an exact figure. We endeavour to adjust the supply to the demand., holding merely a reserve sufficient to enable us to supply what experience indicates the demand to be. I think most of them will be found to be in circulation.


Mr. Speaker, the suggestion was made by the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Reid) that the heads of the present and former
kings should be placed on these dollars. I do not think anyone could take the place of Queen Elizabeth. King George and Queen Elizabeth are equal and no one could take the queen's place. It would be less popular to have the present king and the former king on these coins.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a point of order. My remarks have been misrepresented by the hon. gentleman who has just sat down (Mr. Mclvor). What I said was that if it was merely a matter of endeavouring to popularize the silver dollars, that would be the best way to do it. I did not suggest that the two names should appear on the coins.


Mr. Speaker, I did not intend to discuss this matter, but I should like to make just one observation in passing. It must be a source of encouragement to hon. members of this group to see members in the government ranks agreeing with the social crediters as to the issuing of new money.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee of supply, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.


Salaries, $31,240.50; contingencies, including allowance of $2,500 per annum to the secretary to the Governor General, $69,500.
["I doubt whether the Prime Minister's statement is altogether correct, that the people of Canada are greatly interested in seeing that Canada makes as good a showing as South Africa and New Zealand and Australia. There are thousands of people across\n\nDivorce in British Columbia-Mr. Green\nthe dominion who are not particularly anxious about the kind of showing we make, but who are face to face with their greatest problem, that of making a living. When passing expenditures of this sort, and one to which the hon. member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill) referred the other evening, this parliament should bear in mind that there are people in Canada, people in the province and the constituency from which I come, who are living on relief grants of from $6.50 to nineteen or twenty dollars per month, people who are receiving five dollars in their home when they are expecting the arrival of a child, people unable to get eye glasses or proper dental or medical care. To such it must be a striking contrast that we pass votes, one of $35,000 for the delegation to the coronation, one of $197,000 for a contingent to attend the coronation, one of $65,000 to decorate buildings across the dominion with flags at the coronation, one of $40,000 for the imperial conference. If we omit the item for the conference, there is a total of around $300,000, and it is in striking contrast to the fact that to the people I have mentioned we dole out a few cents here and a few cents there, sometimes after a most humiliating examination of their circumstances. When the Prime Minister feels that we are particularly worried over the matter of keeping up with the other members of the British commonwealth of nations, may I remind him that there are thousands of people who are much more interested in seeing that we properly discharge our responsibilities to our people who are in need throughout the dominion."]
This amount for
the Governor General's office is the same as in previous years. The increase shown is brought about by the statutory increases.


Item agreed to.
Civil Government-
Salaries, $104,051.
Contingencies, $69,500.
There is an increase of S2.000 in the salary of the Under Secretary of State for External Affairs. The rest of the increase is accounted for by the statutory increases.


As one who has occupied the office I think it is only fair to say that I believe that everyone who knows the character and the extent of the duties discharged by Mr. Skelton will join with me in congratulating the first minister upon providing for an increase of $2,000 in his salary.


Item agreed to.
690	COMMONS
Supply-External Affairs-London
Salaries, including appointment of A. Tunwell as a clerk, grade three, at $1,620, $42,487.
Perhaps the Prime Minister will explain the appointment in this manner of a clerk, grade three. This is a matter to which attention always used to be directed and I am curious to know why it is done in this case.


As my right hon. friend is aware, there are a large number of clerks in the service who have been serving year after year as temporaries. The clerk mentioned here has been in the service in one capacity or another during the last fifteen years. As he has personal responsibilities of his own to meet and performs necessary duties it was thought advisable to have him made permanent.


The objection which has been taken in this house during the last five years to this course of action is that it sets at naught the provisions of the Civil Service Act, and provides for a salary based upon the exercise of arbitrary discretion. I agree with the Prime Minister that there are occasions on which it should be done, and it has been done, quite properly in my judgment. I only point out that it comes within that category of cases about which in days long since past we used to hear quite frequently.


I think the
point has been well raised. It does seem to me that there is a good deal of injustice being done to a large number of persons in the public service who are kept on as temporaries from year to year and who have no guarantee as to the permanency of their positions. I believe the whole situation ought to be reviewed at the proper time.


Item agreed to.
London.-Salaries and expenses of the office of the High Commissioner for Canada, including $1,900 additional salary for the high commissioner to that authorized by chapter 15, R.S.C., $137,000.
May I suggest to the Prime Minister that it is undesirable to modify a statute by an item in the estimates rather than by amendment of the act itself, in order to increase the salary of the high commissioner. While I am not going to quarrel with the excellent reasons that will be given for increasing the salary, I do suggest it would be far more desirable from every point of view that we amend the appropriate act that deals with the matter. If the Prime

Minister's attention had been directed to it I think he would have agreed with me that when you are dealing with a statute which itself provides for the compensation to be paid to the officer named in the statute, the proper course to pursue, if it is desired to increase the salary, is to amend the act by deleting the words "twelve thousand" and substituting therefor the words "fourteen thousand." But what has been done here is to add to the salary $2,000 less five per cent, which means $1,900. I can only voice my objection against the practice in the strongest possible terms and have it go on the record of this house, because it constitutes a precedent that I think is very dangerous, and what is more, very undesirable. The statute itself should always indicate the compensation that attaches to the office.
Beyond that, I think the Prime Minister should give us some explanation of the increase, as I am sure he will; because certainly it would be difficult to justify the increase in view of the criticisms that were made in the past with respect to the cost of administration of the office.


The point
raised by my right hon. friend is a good one, but may I say that his criticism is rather of himself than of the present administration, because what has been done in the present estimates is simply to carry forward the item in the form in which it appeared during years my right hon. friend was in office.


I think not.


Yes, I think so.


I amended it one year, to my certain knowledge.


Two wrongs never make
a right, anyway.


An increase was made in the salary during the time Mr. Ferguson was high commissioner, I think, and the item in this particular simply carries forward what appeared in the estimates before. That I think answers one point of my right hon. friend.
As to the extra amount required, there has been a good deal of additional work thrown on the high commissioner's office of late. This past year the pilgrimage to Yimy had to be in large part managed through the London and Paris offices combined. There was a great deal of work thrown on the office when the pilgrims were in London. This year the coronation ceremony and the preparation for the imperial conference, which will come immediately after, will also involve a great deal of

____	Supply-External Affairs-London
additional work. Then, too, the Quebec government and the Ontario government have withdrawn their offices in London and Paris, occasioning a largely increased number of inquiries to be directed to the high commissioner's office with respect to many matters. A number of questions have also come up which have required additional stenographic assistance in the high commissioner's office, matters which the house will probably find referred to in the report. I think that covers all that was asked.


As one who has had nothing to do in the past with the method of fixing these salaries, it seems to me that the leader of the opposition is quite right in saying that if there is an act, the proper method of increasing the salary is to amend the act instead of putting in the estimates an item such as this. We are left completely at sea if we pass a statute and then disregard its terms. Whether or not the leader of the opposition, when he was responsible for the administration, did the same thing is quite aside from the question. It seems to me the statute ought to rule in such matters, and I oppose very decidedly this method of proceeding. I see a little bit further on in the estimates another example of what is getting to be very common, a vote "notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Civil Service Act or any of its amendments." We are simply driving holes through our statutes.


Are the details of this
$125,000 of expenses shown anywhere?


My hon. friend will find in the auditor general's report pretty full details of the expenditures.


But the difficulty is that the auditor general's report deals only with expenditures up to March 31, 1936. We are now almost one year past that, and are being asked to vote money for the year that is to come.


I cannot tell my hon. friend what the expenditures will be for the coming year, but I can give him the particulars of current expenditure which I have here.


The information is available with respect to other departments.


I can give my hon. friend general figures showing how the total is made up for nine months, April to December, 1936. The salary of the high commissioner is S12.000 a year, and staff salaries for nine months, $50,000. The other
31111-44$
details are as follows: Allowances, high commissioner and secretaries, $25,874.91; travel, $1,630.08; motor expenses. $1,372.60; telegraph and telephone, S4,852.33; postage, $1,462.64; printing and stationery, $2,538.09; newspapers, $938.12; sundries, $2,642.26; petty cash, $985.48; extra typewriting services, $2,232.46; removal, Mr. Massey, $2,157.75; removal, Mr. Ferguson, $1,010.12; and an amount in suspense of $970.60.


Is	the item of $25,000
for salaries for secretaries?


Allowances
for high commissioner and secretaries.


It goes to them?


Is there not an allowance of $40,000 also?


High commissioner, $12,000 salary and $28,000 allowances.


I think we should
have a statement from the Prime Minister as to why we should disregard the statute. The Prime Minister did not answer that, but went off on another track and suggested that the expenses were very heavy. That does not answer the point at all.


I must beg
my hon. friend's pardon if he thinks I in any way tried to evade answering the question. I thought I did state that the estimates in the particular mentioned were no different this year from what they had been during the time my right hon. friend was in office, and the only reason the statute has not been amended is that we have simply followed the procedure that was adopted in the past. I agree with my hon. friends that usually it would be better to amend the statute. That can be done another year if the house thinks it advisable, but I can assure my hon. friend that there was no intention in any way to adopt a different method from that which had been pursued before.


May we have the
assurance of the Prime Minister that the statute will be amended another year?


I shall be
glad to see that the matter is considered between now and next year, yes.


The Prime Minister is quite right in saying that the form in which this additional compensation is provided for in the estimates is as it was done in previous years. I certainly remember having dealt with it once, but as I recollect, the answer given to me was that it was in the nature of a temporary arrangement, and that there

Supply-External Affairs-London
was a reduction of ten per cent in the amount, making it $1,800 one year, and this year it is $1,900; $2,000 has been paid in addition to the $12,000, I surmise, over the last ten or twelve years. My view was and is that it would be desirable to change that figure of $12,000 into some more appropriate amount, much more than $14,000. It is idle to suggest that the salary of the high commissioner should be twelve or fourteen thousand dollars, and then in lieu of salary vote other amounts. We have been doing it consistently, one administration following another, for the last twenty-five years, but the allowance has been increased as the years have gone by. But just why $2,000 was added to the salary and then $28,000 added by way of allowances I have never been able to make out. The practice is not new; it has been followed in the last five years excepting as to variation of the figures; indeed it has been done for a long time. It is one of the matters that engaged the attention of the right hon. gentleman's predecessor, as to whether we should not provide a salary in the High Commissioners Act that bears some relation to the responsibilities which devolve upon the high commissioner and the duties he discharges. It seems a nonsensical thing to provide $25,000 for secretaries and services of that kind for which account is given, and $2S,000 for personal allowances, the whole of which is used for the purposes of his office, and then provides that the salary, which is $12,000, shall be increased iby $2,000 less five or ten per cent. I think the whole matter should be put on a proper basis. I recall that on one occasion the explanation given to me was that it was because of the temporary character of the $2,000 item. The Prime Minister was quite correct in saying that it was carried in the same manner in the previous estimates.


With respect to all these positions in the diplomatic service I might point out that the service is a new one, and it is difficult to anticipate within the course of a few years what the necessities of these different offices may be. I think it was felt by the previous administration, as it has been by the present, that we ought, if possible, to review the whole situation and arrange not for salaries only but also for pensions, allowances, etc., so that the diplomatic service may be duly regularized. There has not been up to the present the opportunity to effect this. I hope that it will be possible to accomplish it within the next few years.


I hope I am not presumptuously criticizing the estimates of the Prime Minister when I say that to my mind our
I Mr. Bennett.]
expenditures in connection with our offices overseas and in the United States have been growing at an alarming rate. Last year in this house I criticized the increase under the late administration in the cost of upkeep of Canada House. To-day I find myself in a peculiar position, supporting a government for whom I have a great deal of respect, but which is increasing the estimates for this'very same institution. With regard to the salary that our high commissioner enjoys in London, it is difficult to know just how much he gets. I think the salary is actually about $14,000 a year, and on top of that he gets an allowance of $28,000, which means that he receives a salary of over $40,000 a year.


That is right.


And if I understand aright, this estimate provides an additional salary of $1,900.


That is part of the


At that rate he is getting
$42,000 a year. I listened to the Prime Minister as he read the different items of expense, but I did not hear him read the item to which I am about to refer, and which to me would be ridiculous if it was not an imposition on the taxpayers of this country. In the auditor general's report you will find that the Canadian taxpayers are asked to pay a dog tax of $2.25 to the high commissioner in London. Looking a little further one finds that we are paying S28 for dog tax to our ambassador at Washington.


The question is, who is
the dog.


To me it seems ridiculous.


May I at once correct my hon. friend? The dog tax that is being paid for by the government is not for any official of the Canadian government. In the case he mentioned it was a tax which was paid for the High Commissioner of Great Britain who is resident in Ottawa. I believe there are also dog taxes paid for some of the ministers of other legations. That is done because of a custom that exists as respects the diplomatic service generally whereby local taxation is borne by the government of the country to which a minister may be accredited. That explains the dog tax item.


I thank the Prime Minister for his explanation, but I still think the taxpayers of this country should not be called upon to pay a dog tax for anyone.

Supply-External Affairs-London


I am pleased that the Prime Minister made the statement to which we have just listened, because I remember being asked a similar question. The truth is that the government is paying taxes of all kinds in the city of Ottawa that are imposed against the offices held by the representatives of foreign governments in this city. I was shocked when I first heard about the dog tax-1 daresay the Prime Minister had the same feeling-and I found that it is not an item that goes before officials as a matter of detail; all the taxes that are paid to local authorities are lumped, and the cheque issued accordingly, whether it be for one dog or two, or a dog and a pup. Payment is made of the amount of taxes that is exacted by local authorities. That is a matter of custom, just as France pays our taxes in Paris, just as our high commissioner's office taxes in London are borne by the British government.


May I say a further word to the hon. member who has raised a question concerning allowances. In the matter of diplomatic representation abroad the government is necessarily obliged to take account of what is done by other countries. Canada cannot afford to have her representative go to London and live or have an office on a back street, while Australia and South Africa and New Zealand and other parts of the British Empire have the best of accommodation for their high commissioners. Also my hon. friend must know that in London the expenses of living in certain parts of the city are very much greater than they are, for example, in Ottawa or other cities in Canada. All these factors have to be taken into account. It may be unfortunate that this is so, but I feel sure that if the hon. member would make a comparison of the costs he would find that Canada's expenditure on her representative institutions abroad are very much within the mark of what is being paid out by most other countries.


I wish to question
that statement of the Prime Minister. Canada House is located in the very heart of London, in one of the most expensive sites imaginable. That involves of necessity a very heavy expenditure. Several years ago I happened to visit Tokyo, and I found there again that the Canadian legation was one of the most expensive in that city. We are a small country. As a matter of fact that legation was built without the knowledge of this house. It was done under a former administration ; apparently the administration was afraid to bring the matter before the house; the whole of the very heavy expenditure was authorized by order in council, and thus we as members of the house knew nothing about it formally until the building was erected, and then we were required to refund the money that had been borrowed privately. I object to that way of doing business. It is not the proper way. In my judgment there is no necessity for such a costly establishment, as we have at Tokyo, although we had as the then minister a delightful man, but of expensive tastes, who wanted to be second to none in Tokyo. Once you have your legation established on the grand scale there is no end to the expenditure involved. I do not want to be regarded as a demagogue, but tens of thousands of our people are living on the very narrowest margin; tens of thousands are unemployed, and others, middle class people, are doing their best to educate their children and can hardly make ends meet. It seems to me there is nothing humiliating in the representatives of Canada living on a little more moderate scale, representing as they do a country which in population is not a great country, one which of course wants to maintain its self-respect but at the same time should seek first to do its very best for its own citizens. I do not want to single out any one particular item, but rather to offer a general criticism. As representing in a special way the poorer classes of people of this country, I protest against the steadily increasing expenditure we are asked to vote for official and ceremonial affairs.


First with
respect to the London building, I submit that the offices which Canada has there are really unpretentious as compared, for instance, with what Australia and South Africa have.


I spoke of the
site.


Yes, but may I say that no better investment could be made for Canada than to have a building on that site. It is not money wasted; it is part of the permanent property of this dominion, and as long as Trafalgar square remains the centre not only of London bub one might say of the British Empire, that property will go on increasing in value. From that point of view it is a thoroughly good investment. I submit that, abroad and in foreign countries, it is all-important that a country should keep up appearances, if I may use that expression.

Supply-External Affairs-London


Keep up with the Joneses.


No, not keep
up with the Joneses, but at least keep up appearances. I ask my hon. friend quite frankly whether he would be content to have Canada still represented on Victoria street as it was years ago, with Australia, South Africa and other parts of the empire represented as they are in London at the present time. I am sure he would not.
With regard to the building in Tokyo, my recollection is that the former prime minister made a statement to the house with regard to that matter when the estimates were before the committee-in fact I questioned him on it myself.


The building was
erected before the estimates were brought down.


No, no.


I tried in vain to
get a copy of the order in council.


That is not accurate, Mr. Chairman. All the hon. gentleman had to do was to move for it and get it. He got it without moving for it.


It was not brought down before the close of the session.


With respect to the building in Tokyo may I say that it was obtained for the government of Canada at a remarkably moderate cost for the style of building that it is. I question very much whether it could be built to-day for double the amount that was paid at the time. I understand that the reason the previous administration proceeded with the construction at that particular time was because conditions were so favourable for construction then. If Canada is to have legations abroad it is necessary that we have suitable buildings in which to house ministers and to carry on the business of the legations. Is it not advisable, therefore, to secure the right kinds of buildings to begin with, and is there any economy in postponing the making of the necessary arrangements? One has only to look about this city to see what the governments of other countries are beginning to do with respect to their legation buildings and the housing of their representatives here. Can we afford to make less adequate provision in their capitals for our own officials?


Mr. Chairman, I do not think the right hon. gentleman wants to misrepresent what I say-


Order.


On a point of order.


I did not say that our expenditures are higher than those of other dominions. What I did say is that they are higher than are warranted1 by the state of this country.


Well Mr. Chairman, I have a fair memory of what I have recently heard. I heard what the Prime Minister said and I heard also what the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre said. He wondered why the Prime Minister had made the statement that the cost of maintaining our offices was less than that of other countries, and he wondered what he would say if he looked into the cost of the offices maintained by other dominions in London, and

Supply-External Affairs-London
he referred to South Africa and Australia. Remembering these estimates, recently passed, I sent for them and I gave them to the committee.
As far as Tokyo is concerned I cannot think the hon. gentleman would deliberately misrepresent it, but certainly he succeeded in doing so, whether by inadvertence or deliberation is a matter that he himself must determine. I will give him the benefit of the doubt and assume he did it inadvertently and not deliberately. The fact is it was made known by a statement in this house that the then minister at Tokyo was prepared to advance money for the purpose of constructing the building at that time because conditions made it possible to purchase the land and erect the building at a cost so much less than it was believed it would be later, in view of the trend of prices, that we should not lose the opportunity. I am bound to say it was a departure from ordinary practice and procedure, and I am bound to say also that we did not have the money at that time. The Minister of Finance said he could not find the money at that moment, but the minister was prepared to provide the money and he did so. The site was acquired; this house was made aware of the fact. The plans were approved; this house was made aware of the fact. The building was completed; this house was made aware of the fact, and, what is more, this house voted the money to repay the cost of the building before the late government went out of office. It is in the estimates. Therefore there was nothing done secretly or evasively, and the fact that a statement was made was all that was necessary, as far as the order in council was concerned. I cannot think the hon. gentleman strove very hard to get the order in council, because there was nothing to keep back about it. It was an open and aboveboard transaction.


When was the
house apprised of the plan to erect a building?


Before the building was
started at all, right here in this chamber, if the hon. gentleman will take the trouble to look it up. What is more, before the late administration went out of office we were able to provide the necessary money to enable parliament-not the government, but parliament -to vote an amount covering the cost of that building, and parliament did so. If my memory serves me aright it was thought to be a good bargain, and I was pleased to hear the Prime Minister say that it has turned out so satisfactorily. The last time I saw the minister he told me the work could be done
to-day only for a very much larger sum than it cost at that time, and certainly those with whom I have come in contact tell me that we have one of the most favourable and desirable sites that could be obtained. And of course it will be within the knowledge of this house that under international arrangements the taxation is borne not by Canada but by Japan. As far as we are concerned we have a building and a site upon which taxes accruing in Tokyo are paid by the Japanese government, and it was acquired at a price that I believe was not much more than half the present value of the property.


Before I could accept the statement of the leader of the opposition, Mr. Chairman, I would require to have some definite reference to Hansard to show that the proposal to erect a building was brought before this house; that the plans were approved by the house-


Not by the house; I did not suggest that they were.


How were they
approved, by order in council?


They were approved by
the government. Did the hon. member ever hear of plans being approved by the house?


I thought the right hon. gentleman said they had been approved by the house. My statement was that the house knew nothing about the matter until the building was erected, and then the estimates contained an item to cover the cost of refunding the loan which had been advanced privately to construct this building. I know the building was erected at a very low cost. Advantage was taken of the depreciated yen. I know it is a beautiful building; I am not suggesting that it is not. My point was this: I objected to a private individual lending money for the erection of a building, the whole thing being done simply by order in council without this house being consulted. I do not think that is the right way for this country to make expenditures. My second point was that it seems to me that these buildings, these great establishments in the hearts of these big cities, beautiful as they are, are more elaborate than they need be. That was my statement, and I see nothing whatever to retract. I feel that with Canada still a comparatively small country there is no need' for us to try to equal or outshine some of the legations of the great nations in Tokyo.


Item agreed to.
696	COMMONS
Supply-External Affairs-Washington
Washington-Representation, including salaries and allowances for minister plenipotentiary, secretaries and staff, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Civil Service Act, or any of its amendments, $100,000.
Could the Prime Minister give us an itemized1 statement of the proposed expenditure?


Yes. This is the same amount that was voted last year. The expenditure in 1936-37 was considerably less than that of the previous year, largely because of the fact that during part of the time the office of minister was not filled. The items are as follows from April 1 to December 31, 1936:
Salaries-Minister and staff, $27,420.37.
Allowances-Minister and staff, $18,683.89.
Travel, $507.95.
Telephone and telegraph. $1,242.09.
Printing and stationex-y, $362.12.
Newspapers, $738.87.
Fuel, light and office keeping, $1,084.09.
Postage, $150.
Residence furnishings, $468.10.
Office furnishings, $775.12.
Legation maintenance, $3,032.70.
Sundries, $398.91.
That makes a total of $54,864.21 for the nine months, April to December. I cannot give the details beyond that date.


Item agreed to.
Tokyo-Representation, including salaries and allowances for minister plenipotentiary, secretaries and staff, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Civil Service Act, or any of its amendments, $68,000.
I should like to say a word with regard to this item. If the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation continue in their present ways, and if we are to open up embassies the world over, I would nominate the hon. gentleman who spoke to-day to occupy one of them. A year or two ago it was proposed to open still another embassy. I do not represent the opposition; I am a private member of parliament. There is a very considerable body of public thought in this country that does not agree with the extension of these useless embassies and separatism the world over. It was very fortunate that we did not open an office in Italy, since we challenged Italy with such disastrous results that the Minister of Justice had to rise in his place and disclaim our responsibility for sanctions. And then we have been doing nothing but offer moral lectures to Japan, with equally disastrous results to the British Empire in the Pacific.
The other day, Mr. Chairman, I was reading a long article in a leading English magazine, the English Review, which devotes more space to foreign affairs than any other publication within my knowledge, in which reference was made to the fact that the British people do not understand the situation as far as Japan is concerned, because the papers have suppressed much of what should have been printed. The article stated that there is a large body of public opinion in Japan looking to the next war; that to-day the young people in the universities, the professors, the artisans and the tradesmen are talking of the coming war on the Pacific with the American people. I think it would be well for Canada to take notice of the handwriting on the wall, and have no more of this separatism.
I hope Tokyo will be the last legation to be opened by this country. We have trade commissioners, all that are necessary, in these various cities throughout the world, and it appears to me that this division in our empire, to which I referred the other day, has progressed to such an extent that to-day