That standing order 63 of the House of Commons, relating to the appointment of standing committees of the house, be amended by adding to the standing committees of the house for the present session a standing committee on railways and shipping owned; oper-atf. , and controlled by the government, to " -lU b<j f.eferre,d accounts and estimates and bills relating thereto of the Canadian [DOT]National Railways and the Canadian Government Merchant Marine for the present session, lor consideration and report to the house-provided however that nothing in the resolutioA shall be construed to curtail in any way the full right of discussion in committee of supply-and that the said committee consist of Messrs Barber, Beaubier, Bothwell, Deachman, Elliott (Kindersley), Ferland, Fiset (Sir Eugene), Fraser, Hanson, Heaps, Howard, Howden, Howe Banley, McKinnon (Kenora-Rainy River) Mc-Larty Maybank, Parent (Quebec West' and South), Ryan, Stewart, Vien, Walsh and Young.


Motion agreed to.
Spanish Civil War
That the name of Mr. McLean (Simcoe East) be substituted for that of Mr. Pmard on the standing committee on privileges and elections.


Motion agreed to.
That the name of Mr. Pinard be substituted for that of Mr. McLean (Simcoe East) on the joint committee of both houses on the parliamentary restaurant		
That the name of Mr. Rheaume be substituted for that of Mr. Howden on the joint committee of both houses on the parliamentary restaurant.


Motion agreed to.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to provide that obligations governed by the law of Canada and payable in gold or m gold coin or in an amount of money measured thereby may be discharged by payment of the nominal or face amount thereof in legal tender ot the country in whose money the obligation is to be paid.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question -to the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe). I am informed that during the regular nightly CBC news broadcast on Wednesday of this week at 10.45 p.m. eastern standard time it was stated that the government of Canada contemplated the passing of an order in council giving effect to the Imperial Foreign Enlistment Act of 1870 in Canada, with a view to the prohibition of Canadian volunteers fighting in Spain. I wish to inquire whether, and if so why, a decision of such importance is to be dealt with by order in council without first ascertaining the will of parliament now in session.


The	hon.	gentleman was kind
enough to give notice of this question. No order in council has been passed regarding enlistment in the armed forces in Spain or elsewhere, nor has the government contemplated passing any such order in council without first bringing the question before parliament.
In order to make the information more complete, and as it relates to the same subject, on behalf of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) I desire to answer immediately a question asked by the hon. member for Three Rivers (Mr. Gariepy), being question No. 19 on the order paper, which reads:
1.	Has the government given consideration
to a speech delivered by the Honourable Maurice Duplessis at Three Rivers and published verbatim in "Le Devoir" of January 26, 1937, in which he said:	.	.
"I declare that in our province communistic recruiting has been going on, that our young men have been enrolled to fight for the communists in Spain, that Canadian passports have been procured for them for Spanish ports, not for one or two young men, but for several, which shoivs that an organization exists, and indicates that there is something lacking somewhere."
2.	Is it the intention of the government to investigate these assertions concerning the issue of passports, as mentioned in this speech.
In reply to a question by the hon. member for Kindersley (Mr. Elliott) on January 19, I stated:
In view of recent developments, the question w'hether any special action should be taken regarding the control of enlistment m Canada for military service in foreign countries has been under examination. Canada is not included in the twenty-seven countries, all European states, which are represented on the non-intervention committee organized to deal with the Spanish situation, and which has made recommendations to the governments represented thereon for the prohibition of the substantial enlistment on both sides m the Spanish conflict which has taken place from European centres. The question, however, will continue to be given consideration.
I added that something more would be said on the subject later on. The whole question of the control of enlistment as well as the related question of the export of munitions has been under consideration by the government for some time past. As regards enlistment, members of the house are aware that the Foreign Enlistment Act, passed by the parliament of the United Kingdom in 1870, extends to Canada. The government concluded it would be desirable to propose Canadian legislation on this subject. After examination of the question by a technical committee, instructions were given for the drafting of a bill, which will shortly be introduced.

Home Improvement Loans
As regards application to Spain, I may say that the main section of the act, section 4, provides a penalty for enlistment or inducement of enlistment of a British subject within or without His Majesty's dominions, in the military or naval service of any foreign state at war with any foreign state at peace with His Majesty; the fifth section provides penalties for embarking for such purpose, and other sections deal with shipbuilding and fitting out naval or military expeditions against the dominions of any friendly state. It had been generally held that the prohibition of enlistment or recruiting did not apply to a civil war. This month, in pursuance of its endeavours to secure the acceptance by European states of the policy of non-intervention in Spain, the government of the United Kingdom issued a statement indicating its opinion that the act, and particularly the sections penalizing enlistment or inducement, or embarking for the purpose of such enlistment, are applicable in the case of the present conflict in Spain. As the Canadian government had already decided to introduce legislation on the general subject, it was considered advisable to deal with such specific questions in that connection.
As regards the issue of passports, I am informed that for some months past no application for a passport has listed Spain among the countries to be visited, and no passport has been issued to any person who has indicated Spain as one of the countries of destination. The procedure as to passports will be brought into conformity with any legislation that may be passed by parliament.
PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARYSHIPS On the orders of the day:


In the absence of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) I should like to ask the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) the following question: The speech from the throne last year promised a bill to provide for the creation of parliamentary secretaryships. This bill was not presented to the house last session. Does the government propose to submit guch a bill to the house during this session?


If my hon. friend is agreeable I will submit his question to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) for reply when he is back in the house.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into 31111-25J
committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to guarantee approved lending institutions against losses which they may sustain as a result of home improvement loans made by them, to limit the liability of the government of Canada in respect of such guarantees to not exceeding fifteen per centum of the aggregate amount of home improvement loans made by any such approved lending institution and to not exceeding seven million five hundred thousand dollars.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
Perhaps the minister will give us as clear an explanation as he can of the whole situation. I thought it might be preferable that that be done now, when questions may be asked if necessary, rather than that time should be taken up in a discussion of the matter before going into committee.


At this stage would the committee prefer a general statement, which later could be dealt with when the bill is in committee? Details can be much better examined, of course, when the bill has been brought down, but I agree that in connection with new legislation it is desirable at this stage of the proceedings to indicate broadly what is proposed.
The bill which this resolution precedes is designed to secure legislative sanction for the administration of a plan which has become widely known as the home improvement plan. Briefly stated, the bill asks authority to give a limited government guarantee to loans made in accordance with certain stipulated conditions which will be found in detail in the bill itself, by approved lending institutions for the purpose of making repairs, additions and improvements to urban and rural homes. The guarantee is to be limited to fifteen per cent of the total amount of the loans made by any approved lending institution, and in any case the authority to the government to guarantee is limited to $7,500,000 in the aggregate. This means that the total amount of loans to be subject to guarantee can not exceed $50,000,000. In the bill also, Mr. Chairman, will be found a provision reserving to the government the right to announce at any time that no further loans will be guaranteed.
The plan itself is based upon a recommendation made by the National Employment Commission as a result of extensive investigations into methods of absorbing the unemployed in this country, and into the operation of a similar plan in the United States of America during the past two years.
a
Home Improvement Loans

The recommendation was made by the commission and accepted by the government on the 9th of September, 1936, on which occasion the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) made a public announcement in which he stated that the plan in its financial aspects would require parliamentary sanction under new legislation and that such legislation would be introduced into parliament at this session.
The announcement made by the Prime Minister on that occasion met with an enthusiastic response in, I think, all sections ^ of the country. Many requests were received that the plan should be made effective at once in order that its beneficial effects might accrue during the winter months when unemployment tends to be most severe. Under date of September 28 the president of the Canadian Bankers' Association, acting on behalf of all the chartered banks, wrote to me as Minister of Finance stating that the banks had agreed to cooperate fully with the dominion government in carrying out the plan, and moreover that they were willing to commence making loans on their merits without awaiting the legislation, provided they had the assurance that the necessary legislation would be introduced and that it would be in such form as to make the dominion guarantee retroactive to cover loans made in accordance with the approved conditions prior to the passing of the necessary legislation.
The plan as originally announced had suggested a financing' charge not in excess of the discount rate of five per cent for a one-year loan repayable in equal monthly instalments, and proportionate rates of course for longer periods. This was the maximum originally contemplated by the employment commission, and is the rate which was and is still allowed under the United States scheme. While the five per cent rate was intended by the employment commission only to be the maximum, and while such small instalment loans entail a great deal of detail work by way of both investigation and collection, it appeared to the government to be unnecessarily high for the effective working of the plan. Representatives of the banks were therefore called for conference at Ottawa to discuss their offer of immediate assistance and to consider the conditions which would have to be imposed in order to make the loans eligible for guarantee, including the maximum interest charge.
I would be stretching the truth somewhat if I were to say that the banks enthusiastically welcomed the government's proposal to reduce the maximum financing charge from a

five per cent to a three and a quarter per cent discount rate, but I can at least pay the tribute to the banks that when they were fully apprised of the government's intention and desire to make the plan a complete success, they willingly accepted the low interest rate as their contribution to a great national cooperative undertaking, and assured us that they would give the government their wholehearted cooperation in making the plan a real success. I think it is a matter of common knowledge that in the last few months the banks and other lending institutions have been living fully up to this undertaking.
When the conditions imposed had been accepted by the banks, under date of October 15, I wrote to the president of the Canadian Bankers' Association giving him the assurance that the government would introduce the necessary legislation at the next session of parliament, and that the legislation would be introduced in such form as to make the guarantee retroactive to cover loans made prior to the passing of such legislation, provided the loans were made in conformity with conditions approved by the Department of Finance and conditions which, of course, will be embodied in the legislation. On the basis of this assurance the home improvement plan has been in operation since about November 1, and the figures as to loans from November 1 to December 31, during the first two months of operation, as reported to the Department of Finance, indicate that up to that time 81,-
200,000	has been loaned in small amounts, and that, if my memory serves me correctly, about 3,600 loans had been made during that time.


Has the minister the figures as to loans to provinces?


I have not that information before me, but will have it when we are in committee on the bill. I shall have information by provinces, by cities, the average amount of loans, and analyses of any kind that might reasonably be issued from the standpoint of information required. However I have not the information sought at this stage, and am attempting merely to give a general survey.
I believe the first two months' experience should assure the committee as to the future success of the plan, and I believe there is wisdom in putting it into operation during the late fall and early winter months. I am sure the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers) will confirm the opinion of the employment commission. After studying the matter exhaustively they have found that approximately eighty cents out of every dollar ex-

Home Improvement Loans
pended in the project is expended on labour used at some stage of the proceedings. When the bill is under discussion I shall be pleased to table the correspondence with the president of the Canadian Bankers' Association.
Perhaps it is sufficient for me to say at this time that the plan provides for loans to owners of rural and urban homes in order to assist them in financing repairs, additions and improvements. The loans shall not exceed $2,000 on any single property. A provision in the bill to be laid before the house, however, will suggest a somewhat higher maximum with regard to multiple family houses. Another provision will be that the loans shall be made for terms not in excess of three years, except with respect to loans in excess of $1,000, where the maximum term may be five years. All loans are repayable by equal monthly or other convenient periodic instalments.
The bill will provide that the maximum financing charge shall not exceed a discount rate of three and a quarter per cent for a one-year loan repayable in equal monthly instalments, and proportionate rates for longer periods. The loans are based on the character and income of the borrower, and no security by way of collateral or endorsement is required. Furthermore we have attempted to devise a simple procedure in order that the plan may be available to home owners in every community, with a maximum of convenience and economy.
Although I believe the purposes behind the development of the home improvement plan are familiar to all, they may be described as (1) to absorb unemployment, particularly in the building trades where unemployment is most heavily concentrated; (2) to stimulate a revival of the construction industry, which, as every hon. member knows, has been one of the laggards among Canadian industries in the recovery movement, and
(3)	to make it possible for home owners throughout Canada to make long-needed repairs and improvements to their homes.
With regard to the experience in connection with a similar plan in the United States, may I say that in that country the plan is known as the modernization credit plan, and was initiated in the summer of 1934 under title one of the Federal Housing Act. It has now been in operation for over two years, and has met with striking success. In the first twenty-two months of operation, namely up to June 1 of last year, a total of 1,056,000 individual loans had been made in the United States for an aggregate amount of $382,000,000. In an official booklet issued by the federal housing administration of the
United States under date of July 20, 1936, the following statement is made:
Losses of the 6,289 financial institutions which have made loans under the modernization credit plan and which have been paid by the federal housing administration have to date totalled less than one-half of one per cent of the total amount of their advances. A survey made in the early part of 1936 showed that these loans on the whole had had an excellent record for prompt repayment. At that time only a fraction over two per cent of the total number of loans were in default thirty days or more. A total of 4,333 financial institutions reported that they had no accounts that were delinquent thirty days or more.
That is the experience of the United States plan up to June of last year, as officially reported.
Later information indicates that by the end of 1936 close to $500,000,000 had been borrowed under the plan in the United States, and the authorities there estimate that for every dollar borrowed, private capital has spent an additional $3. On that basis they have arrived at the conclusion that a $2,000,000,000 construction repair program has apparently been the result. No up-to-date figures as to actual losses in the United States are available, but it is estimated by the authorities of that country that they are still less than two per cent, and that the actual eventual loss to the government will be under one per cent.
In the original United States plan the government of that country guaranteed the lending institutions against loss up to twenty per cent of the total amount of loans. Later the insurance against loss was reduced in that country to ten per cent, and provision was made for increasing the limit of loans up to $50,000 with respect to certain larger properties such as apartment houses, manufacturing and industrial plants, colleges, churches, hospitals, business and commercial buildings, and so on. In this legislation we are not contemplating going beyond the home.
In connection with the amount of the guarantee, I would say that while we have provided in the legislation and in the resolution now before the committee for a guarantee up to fifteen per cent of the amount of the loan, judging from the experience in the United States I believe that the losses incurred will be only a fraction of that amount. However, it appeared essential that if we were to achieve the success we had in mind we should remove any hesitation which might otherwise be evident in the attitude of the lending institutions. Consequently, a fifteen per cent guarantee is asked for. I think the attitude of the lending institutions is at least in part the result of this decision, especially
Home Improvement Loans

in view of the fact that in the United States the lending institutions secure a much higher rate on the government guarantee home improvement scheme than we are proposing to allow under the legislation of which this resolution is a necessary preliminary.
This is all I wish to say in the way of a general statement. I think the details with respect to terms and conditions and standards and all the rest of it can be discussed much better when the bill is in the hands of hon. members. The bill will be distributed just as soon as the resolution is concurred in.


Mr. Chairman, I listened with great attention to the explanations given by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning). Every hon. member of this house is favourable to the improvement of Canadian homes, but it seems that such improvements should be made by those who already have the money to make them. There are thousands and thousands of men throughout the country who have money deposited in the banks, and who are keeping it there instead of spending it on home improvements. Since 1930 many people have been sitting on their money instead of spending it. They have been waiting for the proper time to spend SI,000,
82.000,	85,000 or perhaps S10,000 to build a barn, to purchase land for a son, to paint a house, to build a store, and so on. They are not yet spending their money as freely as they did when this government was previously in power before July, 1930. The Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) left the people of Canada a wonderful souvenir when he presented that budget which showed a surplus of over 840,000,000. That was a long time ago, and we have passed through some strenuous years.
Before giving an opportunity to people who have no money to get some from the banks, it would be much easier to induce those who have money to spend some of it. The results can be seen from the bank clearings. The last year my hon. friend was minister of finance, before July, 1930, the bank clearings amounted to $20,000,000,000. The year after, under the guidance of the leader of the Conservative party, who was then minister of finance, the bank clearings dropped down to
815.000. 000.000. People got very tight with regard to money matters because they had very little confidence in the government of the day.
Before passing such legislation as is proposed, two things should be done. First, we should fire all the Tories which the previous government put into strategic positions, and, second, we should repeal every piece of legisla-

tion passed by that government. If that were done, public confidence would be restored and people would begin to spend their money more freely. It is all very simple: we do not need any legislation. Fire the Tories and drop the Bennett legislation into the wastepaper basket. Then the people throughout the land will breathe easier.
This is one of the ideas of the employment commission. I do not believe in supermen or wizards. The chairman of this employment commission is a so-called wizard, but we do not need any wizards in this country. What we need is people with common sense.


Hear, hear.


When the hon. member refers to common sense he looks over to this side.


I was not referring to the hon. gentleman, but if I were it would be in connection with " cents." I was referring to "sense." This idea really came from the hon. member for Essex West (Mr. McLarty), who suggested it to the chairman of the commission. Here is what will actually happen. Joe has poor credit while John has good credit at the banks. They will both go to the bank to try to get $500 to improve their homes. Joe will get nothing because his credit is no good, while John will get the $500 he asks for. But he would get it even if there was no such legislation. If his credit is good he will get the money right away, whereas if his credit is no good, he will get no money from the bank. All this legislation actually changes nothing. We will have to come back to the good old policy of firing all the Tory strategic *men and dropping the Bennett legislation into the wastepaper basket. When that is done business will be good throughout the land.
The second idea brought forward by the employment commission was the classification of the unemployed. This idea was suggested by the member for Temiscouata. He carried on this classification himself, and then it was continued very efficiently by the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers). This work vras dene without the help of the commission; the ordinary staff in the department were able to do all that was necessary. Since September this work has been in charge of the employment commission, but we have heard nothing of it. It is being done by wizards, which probably means that it will never be seen. Work like this should be done right away and not continued over the centuries. I suggest to the chairman of the employment commission, to spend some time on this idea of the classification of the unemployed. Let

Home Improvement Loans
him work on it instead of making useless speeches on the housing scheme. This is my very humble suggestion about the matter. I may say that I dlo not believe in the enactment of more legislation; there is already too much of it. A very eminent financier, Mr. Thomas Bradshaw, has spoken of the enormous number of laws that we have in this country, laws that nobody is supposed to ignore. Next session it would be better, and I suggest this to the government, if they simply brought down the estimates and the necessary bills to ratify trade agreements. Let us try a session like that, without futile legislation, and the country, I am sure, will be all the better for it.


Mr. Chairman, the minister has referred to certain letters. I think it might be well to observe the rule and table them now, so that we shall have an opportunity to see them before the bill is brought down. The rule requires that in any event.


I was intending to comply with the rule, and I indicated-


After they have been referred to, they should be tabled.


I shall be pleased to send for copies-I haven't them here-and they will be available at the bill stage of the proceedings.


I think, Mr. Chairman, it will be found that the three and a quarter per cent discount is a misnomer. Some of the borrowers have, informed me that the rate actually paid more nearly approximates twice that. It is a misleading term.


Because of the importance of it, in order that there may be no deception, in all of the publicity the two rates will be given: the three and a quarter per cent discount rate, with the explanation of the manner in which it works, and its equivalent in terms of simple interest, which amounts to something just over six per cent. The rate in the United States is five per cent discount, which works out at a trifle over ten per cent simple interest. In Canada it is three and a quarter per cent discount, which works out at GT3 per cent, I think, in terms of simple interest-I may be out a fraction.


Mr. Chairman, I think generally speaking the people of this country will welcome the legislation which is to be founded on this resolution, in fact it is long overdue. It is true that the National Employment Commission may have suggested it to the government last year, but the Minister of Finance as well as other hon. members will recall that the housing co-mmittee of this parliament which sat in 1935 recommended that loans of this kind be made for the purpose of improving properties throughout the dominion.
I might point out also, in view of certain criticisms that have been made here this afternoon, that the greater part of the loans so far requested by people who own homes have been made, if I am correctly informed, in the province of Quebec. I know of none who requested such legislation more insistently than did the representatives from the province of Quebec, and I think there will be no province in Canada which will take advantage of these loans to a greater extent than the province of Quebec.
The Minister of Finance in his remarks this afternoon said that this money would be loaned for the purpose of improving individual homes. I am not quite clear how the minister will define individual homes. What I have in mind at the moment-


If my hon. friend has
in mind the multiple family house, provision will be made for that.


No. What I had in mind
was the returns that were laid on the table or the answers that were made to questions last year, showing that the loans that were made under the housing act of 1935 were for the most part much larger amounts than were required for the building of individual homes. Loans of S20,000 and $30,000, and in many cases more than that, were made. I am speaking from memory, but I think the Minister of Finance will find that I am not very far out.


Just on that point, and
also speaking from memory-I will bring down the information at a later stage although it is not really relevant to the matter under review, because the housing act as my hon. friend knows, is an entirely different statute- the average loan under the housing act was in the neighbourhood of $4,000.


Per house?


In that neighbourhood,
yes.


I do not want to go into that further now. Last year I wanted to go into the operation of the housing act, but no opportunity presented itself, not even on the estimates, if I remember correctly; therefore nothing was ever said about it. What I want made clear at the moment is this:	The
minister has spoken of individual homes. Will these loans go for homer either single
Home Improvement Loans

or duplex, and not for large buildings, the owners of which perhaps may want to take advantage of the lower rate of interest? Personally I have no objection to apartment houses coming under the scheme provided there are reasonable guarantees for the government and the lending corporations. I think we ought to have information from the minister on that point.


Perhaps my hon. friend
would be good enough to leave it until the bill is before us, because all the various qualifications necessarily appear in the bill itself, and I think the reading of it would save the asking of a number of questions. I cannot offhand answer that particular question in detail, but I know that provision is made for it.


I want to bring to the attention of the Minister of Finance one feature of the act that was in operation last year, because it offers a very serious impediment to proper administration of the act. The clause to which I refer, which withholds the benefits of the act from a certain large class of our population, stipulates that the person borrowing the money must be steadily employed. Automatically that rules out, whether intentionally so or not, the shore fisherman on the Atlantic seaboard. I do not know what is being done on the Pacific coast, but on the Atlantic coast and in the maritime provinces the banks are taking advantage of the fact that a man must be steadily employed before he can come under the act. We all know that a fisherman's occupation is seasonal, and the amount he receives in any year depends on what he gets for his catch. The homes of our fishermen are badly in need of rehabilitation. A great many of them are living in buildings that would not be tolerated by any other class of the community except those living in the outports of the dominion. This is one clause of the act which I think calls for revision.


I think my hon. friend (Mr. Hartigan) must be speaking of the housing act and not of the proposed legislation with respect to home improvements, which of course as yet has no existence.


No, I am speaking of the alteration and improvement loans that we had during the past year.
Mr. TOLM1E: Is it the intention of the government to issue loans strictly on the merits of the property in question, or are certain districts to be favoured first? I ask the question because in the neighbourhood

of Victoria when some people have applied for loans they have been informed: We propose, to begin with, to lend only in certain districts, ignoring others. I consider that is hardly fair, and I would like to know what is the intention of the government.


My hon. friend is confusing this proposed legislation with the present housing act. I have had no such complaint with respect to the two months' operation of the home improvement plan. Under the housing act, as my hon. friend knows, the complaint he is now making was a very general one, especially in British Columbia. But any owner of a home, who is credit worthy and desires to make improvements, can get from a chartered bank or any of a number of other institutions, details of which I will give on the bill, a loan under the terms of this home improvement plan, which is entirely separate and distinct from the housing act.


I thoroughly understand that. I know quite well the property to which I refer. I sold the land, to begin with, on terms to the man who proposed to build the house, so that I am fairly familiar with the situation. What I was asking was whether it was the intention to favour certain districts or to lend them money on the merits of the property in question. In this case the man is a first class risk; I regarded him as one to whom a sale could be made on credit. He has constructed his house to a certain point, but it is not finished, and he wants to take advantage of this scheme in order to complete the building.


I can hardly understand, under the circumstances referred to by my hon. friend, how a man could be refused a loan under the home improvement plan by any branch of any chartered bank, because that is the basis of the scheme. There may be something in connection with the credit worthiness of the individual concerned about which I know nothing, and about which, perhaps, my hon. friend knows nothing. If loans have been refused for any other reason than that the borrower is not in the view of the lending institution credit worthy, or that the money is not to be used for the purpose contemplated by the scheme, I have not heard of it. These are virtually the only two valid reasons for refusal of loans, and one of the things that have pleased me most is the very small number of complaints of people not being able to make use of the facilities provided for by the plan. I have felt up to now that the banks and other lending institutions concerned have been cooperating whole-heartedly in getting it going

Home Improvement Loans
in a large way. There will be cases, of course, where a prospective borrower will think he ought to get credit when the lending institution thinks he is not likely, for reasons which appear good to them, to be able to repay the loan. We are not compelling the lending institutions to lend where they do not think a loan would be repaid; they must have reasonable confidence of that. I take it, in the case that my hon. friend mentions, he at any rate would be willing to lend the money, because the borrower is a good risk, and if that is so there should be no reason why the borrower cannot demonstrate to a bank that he is a good borrower and, provided he comes within the terms of the scheme as provided by the bill which will be introduced following this resolution, he should be able to get the loan.


I shall be glad to give the minister further particulars in the form of a letter.


Thank you.


I should like to know whether the lending companies take any lien on a property for any loan they make.


None whatever. The
only security is the individual's note. No endorsement is required.


Does the minister mean that anyone can get a loan without someone else backing his note?


Absolutely; that is what I say. This scheme is devised for the individual on his own credit, without endorsement and without collateral security. That is why the government is standing behind the scheme,-in order to make it easy for people who have character and credit, and can assure the bank of their ability and willingness to repay, to get a loan without note or collateral, in the simplest possible way. That is why the scheme has started off so successfully. In spite of the winter season, SI,200,000 has been lent in small amounts in less than two months. All this, of course, will develop during discussion of the details of the bill itself.


That is not being
carried out in my constituency. Anyone who applies for a loan must have someone to back his note before he gets the money.


If it is a loan under this plan?


Yes.


Well, a bank making such a loan cannot qualify for the guarantee of the government.


I can tell the minister that the fact is as I have stated, because I personally have backed two of the notes.


I should like to have the particulars, because one of the conditions is undoubtedly the one I have stated. It will be possible to discuss this more intelligently on the bill itself, but if the loan is under the provisions of this plan unquestionably a borrower does not require an endorsement.


I will give the minister the details, including the name of the bank, when the time comes.


May I support what has been said by the hon. member for Victoria, B.C., (Mr. Tolmie), and also pass on a suggestion to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning)? In my particular vicinity there are two areas which in the past five years have been considered rather poor localities from the point of view of security. I personally supported one applicant to whom I would quite readily make a loan if I had the money, and who required it to repair his house. The bank, taking the attitude they have maintained for the last five years, said that the locality did not warrant a loaur, although the man was definitely of a good type to whom money could be lent, and is well employed. It may be said that the banks are justified in taking this attitude, but I bring the matter to the attention of the minister so that in his instructions to and deliberations with lending institutions he may point out that where a man is financially in a position to borrow, the locality of his residence should not particularly affect his entitlement to a loan.


Perhaps there has been
a little misunderstanding on the part of some of those who have spoken. The government has not undertaken under this plan to direct that banks shall make loans. The banks must make their own decision, based upon the exercise of discretion.


Right.


But if they do make the loan-without endorser, too; they have no right to ask for an endorser or for a second name-the government underwrites it to the extent of fifteen per cent against loss. The plan, as has been pointed out, is not entirely new, and it is predicated on the assumption that the institutions will lend money. They are not compelled to lend it; there is nothing at all in this resolution which provides that. It merely means that if I walk into a bank and say I wan' a
Home Improvement Loans

thousand dollars to improve my home, the bank advances me $966.50-roughly that is what I get-keeping back three and a quarter per cent bank discount. Thereupon I execute an agreement to repay the 81,000, not the 8986, in monthly instalments upon which interest is computed.


No, my right hon.
friend is wrong there. Interest is not computed; the discount takes care of it.


But what I am pointing out is that, extended over a period of months, the ten dollars, or whatever the amount is, certainly represents some part of the additional interest; otherwise you would not have your six per cent. I think however it is only confusion of detail, not of principle. If I meet my engagement promptly, then of course it is just a banking transaction between the bank and myself, but if at the end of the given time the bank finds that fifteen per cent of its advance has not been paid, up to that point the government will reimburse. The government may be obliged to reimburse the bank under this guarantee to the extent of S150, if the loss amounts to $150. I have not yet had a chance to go into the legislation, but there are always questions of subrogation of the government and matters of that kind, which will be considered in the bill itself. Were any orders in council issued giving effect to these arrangements between the government and the lending institutions?


No. I think the correspondence which I have mentioned covers it all. I am not positive of that, but almost positive.


No member of this committee is more anxious to see our working men better housed than I am, but I believe this bill is starting at the wrong end. I am confident that there are sufficient funds awaiting investment in the hands of private individuals to build all the houses necessary in this country, but these funds are not so used because if a man builds a house in any city or town in Canada he cannot sell it for more than fifty per cent of what it cost him. That is where the trouble lies. Years ago a man could buy a lot, build a house and rent it and make some money out of it; to-day the costs of labour and material and taxes are so high that it is impossible for people to make such investments profitably. Some relief from taxation on real estate would help a great deal in the matter of the expenditure of money for the building of houses for our people. It would not then be necessary for the government to enter into any building scheme.
[Mr. Bennett. 1


I would like the minister to define what he means by the term "home improvement."


I would appreciate it if my hon. friend would wait for the bill, because the bill itself goes into considerable detail as to what is covered by that term. It is one of the most difficult things to apply limitations to, and I have not the bill before me at the moment.


Will these loans be available for farmers?


Yes.


This discussion is simply leading to confusion as between the housing act and home improvement loans. To my mind this home improvement proposal is the most sensible and practical one which has ever been put into legislation. In the first place it relieves the government of overhead charges; it places the responsibility upon the banks. No hon. member can expect a man to be able to go into a bank and borrow money unless the bank thinks the loan will be repaid. The man must be a home owner to start with. The difference between this proposal and the housing act is that the lending companies who lend money for the construction of a house consider material collateral. In this matter they simply consider a man's moral worth and likelihood of repayment of the loan. And it is not a matter of thousands of dollars but of a few hundred-to improve one's bathroom or kitchen, to add a room, and so on. As for private loans, one hon. member suggests that there is plenty of private money available. Let me tell you, you can have plenty of difficulty in getting a private loan, and the rate of interest will be higher than it will ever be on a loan from a bank, if your moral standing is good.


I should like to know whether the bill will cover a case like this: I have in mind a very worthy and thrifty working man who came here from the old country-he is perhaps only one of many in the same class-who bought a piece of land, paid for it, and commenced to build a little home. In the first place I believe he built two rooms. He saved a little money and added two more rooms. In the building of the house the roof necessarily had to be flat, because it was only one storey. Now he desires to add another storey and have a hip roof, and to modernize his plumbing a little. He has no debt of any kind; his property is clear. What would that man, who at the moment requires something less than $750 on a

Home Improvement Loans
property worth $3,000 or $3,500 have to do to borrow the $750? Could he go to a bank or lending institution, get the money and proceed with the work without engaging a solicitor or someone to intercede for him when the loan is being negotiated? If the bill covers such a situation as this I can see that it will be of tremendous benefit to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of working men of the class I have mentioned, and will result in considerable increase in employment in the building trades and allied industries, such as lumber, hardware, plumbing supplies, and so forth.


It is very difficult to give an answer with respect to a specific case, especially in view of the fact that my hon. friend approaches the matter from the wrong angle. He speaks of the value of the property, which is free of encumbrance. That has nothing to do with the home improvement loan scheme, because the bank cannot take security on the property. My hon. friend will see that the factors entering into the bank's decision to make the loan cannot comprehend any collateral, because the scheme bars collateral and bars endorsements. If the man in question, having a house such as my hon. friend describes, is in a position to show the bank that there is reasonable prospect of his being able to repay the money according to his contract, certainly the bank can qualify for a guarantee from the government under the home improvement scheme for the kind of improvement which my hon. friend has outlined. Do I make myself clear?


This particular man is a civic employee; he works perhaps ten months a year, and is very thrifty. Plenty of people will lend him the money on mortgage, but being an old country Scotsman he does not want to mortgage the property. What I want to know is, will he be able himself to go to a bank and get a loan under this scheme? If so, the bill will be of great benefit.


I would not like to say that he can get it, because I know nothing of the credit standing of the man.


His credit is A-l.


But I am not the judge of that; the bank is, as the right hon. leader of the opposition pointed out. As long as a man's credit standing is good; as long as his character is good enough to warrant the bank lending him money on his sole note, he does not need to go to a lawyer, and the bank cannot take a mortgage under this scheme. I think that is the answer to my hon. friend.


It is intended for properties that already have mortgages on them, I think.


Yes.


Unless this government or the provincial governments are in a position to regulate to some extent the activities of the municipalities in regard to assessments I ami afraid this bill will not attain thie success it so richly deserves. For example, a man finds it convenient or necessary to make some improvement to his home. He goes to the bank and, on his good credit, succeeds in securing a loan to the extent of $300, $400, $500 or $1,000. He then adds to the value of his house by the erection of a verandah, we will say, on the front, or by some other improvement to the extent of his loan, which we will say amounted to $500. A little later along comes the local assessor. He looks at the house and says, "It is a thousand dollars better than it was," so he raises the assessment by a thousand dollars. This sort of thing is going to discourage householders, I am afraid, who may desire to take advantage of this scheme, and I think something should be done to put a stop to it.


In fairness to the provinces and municipalities I should say that since the scheme has been mooted province after province and municipality after municpality have come forward voluntarily and said that so great is the need for stimulating employment that the necessary arrangements will be made so that improvements of this kind will not be made a penalty upon the improvers, within the terms of their assessment acts. I cannot pretend to know personally how they work it out in detail, but I know that the employment commission has succeeded in getting quite a strong body of public opinion behind this thing in order to make it go.


They should; they are paying a man $4,500 a year for publicity.


Part of that body of
public opinion is shown by the fact that many municipal authorities are willing to cooperate with a view to removing the disadvantage to which my hon. friend refers. I did not catch the remark of the leader of the opposition.


I said they were paying a man $4,500 a year for publicity.


I suppose he is earning it; I do not know.


Will the fifteen per cent guarantee apply to each individual loan? That is to say, if a bank lends a
Dairy Industry Act

million dollars altogether, naturally some of those loans will not be repaid. Does the guarantee of fifteen per cent mean that the government is behind the bank to the extent of $150,000 of losses?


It is an aggregate, not an individual guarantee.


It applies not to the branches of the bank but to the bank as a whole?


Yes.


In regard to these loans, is there any provision which will ensure that one hundred per cent of the amount borrowed will be used in the improvement of the property? Is there any provision in the bill to that effect?


Yes. If my hon. friend will wait until the bill is introduced I shall be glad to go into that with him, although he will understand that it rests very considerably upon the good faith of the bank in making the loan and following it up.


During this discussion
we have heard a good deal with reference to home owners in urban places. I should like to have the position of the farmer made clear. Does this scheme apply only to the house on the farm or does it apply to any other buildings which the farmer may desire to repair under this arrangement?


I can assure my hon.
friend that it is not confined to the farmhouse, but if my hon. friend will be good enough to wait until the bill is brought down I think all thes