First report of the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills.-Mr. McPhee.
The house resumed from Monday, March 8, consideration of the motion of Hon. Charles 
A. Dunning (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and1 means, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Bennett.
As one of the new members of ths house and a farmer I feel it my duty to say a few words on the question now before the house as it affects the people of this country, and particularly of the county I represent.
In the first place I want to congratulate the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) on his presentation of this budget, andi to assure him and the house that I am going to vote for the budget and against the proposed amendment of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett). I am a little disappointed that this amendment was brought forward; I thought from the attitude taken by the leader of the opposition at the beginning of the session that he intended! to follow the example of Sir Robert Peel in the session of 1834. At that time Sir Robert Peel was leader of the opposition, and he deemed it his duty to support the government of the day on its policy of peace, security and financial reform. He set the welfare of the nation above the interests of party. Miss Ramsay, in her book on Peel, at page 170 goes on to say:
The Tories were not so dainty about their methods, and many of them considered that a factious opposition was quite compatible with conservatism.
They had to learn that they must take their leader as they found him, and pardon *his liberalism for the sake of his talents, and that, hanker as they might for a reactionary policy, they were helpless to carry it out without his assistance; that in fact the only chance for their party was to group themselves once more around this most unsatisfactory chief. I am sorry that the leader of the opposition departed from the resolution which he appeared to have made earlier in the session. It is a matter of regret that the board of strategy has appealed1 to him to give battle on the budget and on the tariff question. The people of Durham county are satisfied with the budget, as are the people of most counties throughout Canada. The agricultural vote is the largest in point of numbers and financial importance in my riding. The farmers are satisfied that last year's budget, and this year's budget too, are well calculated to widen their markets.
It has not been our experience in Durham county that there has been a falling off in the price of cattle and live stock generally during the past few months. We do not find that the importation of vegetable fat

The Budget-Mr. Rickard
has cut into the dairy market to any great extent. Up our way I am confident that good cooks will continue to use a good deal of old-fashioned lard and butter for their cooking. The county of Durham is famed for its fruit, its Devonshire cream, its pure bred live stock and its fertile fields. Strawberry shortcake made with Durham strawberries, and apple pie and Devonshire cream, still taste mighty good to the people of that county. No amount of advertising could induce the cooks in my riding to abandon their tried and proved methods of producing these things or to jeopardize their family reputations by introducing into their cooking too much vegetable fat instead of lard and butter.
Next in order in my riding must be considered the manufacturing interests. In the town of Port Hope a new industry has grown up as the result of a geological find in the Great Slave lake district. During last year we produced 28 grammes of radium, and thanks to the cooperation of our representative in London who is also a Durham boy, a market has been found for this commodity, which sold for $25,000 a gramme or a total of $700,000. This is one industry that is not clamouring for protection. In addition, the revival in the motor industry seems to assure a steady market for the important rubber factory at Bowmanville, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Limited. The file factory at Port Hope is the only factory in Canada producing files, and that plant is doing a bigger business than ever before, notwithstanding the fact that during the last election the men were told that if they voted for King and the Liberal candidate the doors of the plant would be closed the next morning and the men would be out of work. Women were told that their husbands would be on relief if they supported Liberal policies, but instead, as you see, an even greater business is being done. Their export trade has increased; the wages of the men have been increased by ten per cent, and in many lines they are working overtime.
We have other industries in Durham county as well. For instance, there is the Ideal works, which makes bathtubs, et cetera, and is working at full capacity, and we also have several foundries which are doing a good business. In the village of Newcastle, where I live, we have a small cabinet factory employing twenty-five to thirty men and women, which is working overtime, with orders for many months ahead. That plant is located in part of the factory where the Massey-Harris company started years ago.
In the county of Durham we have that desirable state of affairs of which the hon.
member for Huron North (Mr. Deachman) spoke in his splendid address on. Thursday last-the opportunity to work and to live in clean, healthy surroundings. The towns are not large but they are prosperous. I should like to be able to speak on this subject as Hon. Edward Blake was wont to speak. I cannot match his eloquence, but in love of the county and devotion to its interests I do not yield even to Hon. Edward Blake.
There is another section of the community about which very little is heard in parliament. I refer to citizens who, either by their own thrift and industry or as the result of those qualities in their ancestors, are possessed of a modest competency which they have invested in stocks and bonds. They are the financial backbone of the community, and they are glad to see that the Dunning budget does not indulge in any sensational or freak attempts at financing. They feel certain that their investments will not be jeopardized by any action of this government. Ours is an old, settled community, and during the course of the past four or five generations many small private fortunes have been made. I can remember in my boyhood days when the merchants of Bowmanville put on special sales for the days on which the interest on bonds was paid. "Coupon day" in Bowmanville was a big event. For the past six or seven years coupon payments have been slim, but now they are growing in importance again, and I hope "coupon day" will again return to all the towns in my constituency.
The budget that was brought down last year has worked to the advantage of the people of my riding, and we expect further benefits from the budget now under discussion. The trade agreements that have been made with the United Kingdom, Japan, Russia and other countries, as well as the agreement with the United States, have been very beneficial. I am surprised when I hear farmer members of this house talking in favour of high tariffs and high protection. Surely they must know that our market in the United States during the past year has been of great benefit to the farmers of this country. What would the farmer have received for his cattle if it had not been for the United States market, to which we shipped 160,000 head last year? I venture to say that we would have been hardly able to give them away. I would not have it understood, however, that I am an out and out free trader. I refuse to subscribe to the principle that it is always best to buy in the cheapest market. If the advantages of free trade simply mean the progressive and well-
The Budget-Mr. Rickard

considered relaxation of restrictions on commerce. then I am for it. The industries that are carrying on in Durham county are well established, and by this time they have realized that they need not fear the competition of other countries. With growing markets they feel that they can carry on without asking for contributions from their fellow citizens.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I should like to say just a word about some phases of the unemployment situation. We in Durham county are not very much affected by unemployment; of course we have some people on relief, but that situation does not exist to the extent that it does in the larger cities. We have men and women who would like jobs, but in addition we have a great many young people graduating from our high schools, collegiate institutes and agricultural colleges who cannot find jobs, except possibly at something which does not pay them anything like the cost of their education. In my county we have young people of the finest type, young boys and girls who have put Durham county on the map in various judging competitions, both provincial and interprovincial. These boys and girls are the men and women of to-morrow, and it is up to us to do something for their future. They are getting to the age where they would like homes of their own, but if *conditions do not improve it will be difficult for them to realize that ambition. I have *every confidence, however, that this government will do something for the young men and women who will have to shoulder the responsibilities of the country to-morrow.
I think the government should be congratulated on the steps they have taken to relieve the unemployment situation, and especially in regard to the demobilization of the relief camps which were in operation under the former administration. By closing these camps and placing the men at work wherever possible the government have effected a great saving to. the taxpayers, and, what is more important, have restored independence to the men and brought about a general change for the better in their morale. I believe the problem of unemployment may be with us for some time, even though statistics show a marked improvement in the situation. But we must encourage our people to work for a return of the prosperity which all Canadians feel is their right. With the unlimited reserves within our boundaries, and a selfreliant people, we are bound to succeed and to restore to them the heritage with which the Creator has blessed them.

I do not feel justified, Mr. Speaker, in taking up any more of the time of the house on this question. I do venture the prediction, however, that the budget will be carried by a tremendous vote, and that the size of the vote will favourably reflect the opinion of the country as a whole on this subject.


Mr. Speaker, before proceeding with my observations on the question under discussion, I should like personally to say that I am very happy to see the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) again in his seat. Much as we dislike and disagree with his policies, we do enjoy his happy presence in our midst. May I congratulate, too, the hon. member who has just taken his seat (Mr. Rickard). Although he confined his remarks to a certain district, yet hon. members must appreciate that the conditions in his own locality are no doubt duplicated in many others throughout the country.
His reference to the budget being adopted by a large majority must, of course, go without dispute. In discussing the amendment before the house, we do not expect to convert even the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers) to our way of thinking. On many occasions Canada's financial position has been carefully reviewed. As a country we do not enjoy a unique position in respect of our unfortunate financial circumstances. Other countries are in a similar position and are endeavouring to find a solution of their peculiar financial difficulties. Any effort made even by the present government to find a solution which will point the way to prosperity will, I have no doubt, meet with the support of all parts of the house.
The depression hit Canada with probably more severity than it hit other countries, largely due to the slump in the price of wheat. Wheat trading does materially affect Canada, and the unfortunate position in which we found ourselves, with a large surplus on hand and falling prices, aggravated the condition that was on its way, and made it more severe than it might have been under other circumstances. May I suggest that the slump through which we have just passed is not responsible for all the ills prevailing in Canada. Certain inherent disorders were brought to the surface by the depression. Many of our present troubles were with Us before 1929, and have merely been accentuated by the conditions under which we have been living.
The Minister of Finance gave us a clear picture of the financial position of Canada as such, but he could have given a clearer picture had he gone more carefully into the finances of Canada as a whole, taking into

The Budget-Mr. Walsh
account the municipalities and provinces. For a few moments I should like to discuss the actual financial conditions prevailing in Canada to-day, in order that we may see what our financial condition is, taking into account the position of the provinces, the municipalities and the federal government.
Upon reference to statistics I find that Canada's true debt, including all items, stands at $4,163,000,000. The nine provinces have a total debt of $1,415,000,000. The total debt of the municipalities stands at $1,386,000,000. These are tremendous figures for a young and growing country. In round figures the total is $7,000,000,000. That is the debt of a young country with only 11,000,000 inhabitants; it amounts to $636 per person. I want hon. members and people outside the house to realize the full significance of that statement. I repeat: Every person in Canada to-day is indebted to the extent of $636. That is an unhealthy amount per capita for a young and growing country.
Then, from the latest statistics available it appears that the total revenue of Canada last year amounted to $372,000,000; the total provincial revenue amounted to $161,000,000, and that of the municipalities, $285,000,000, making a grand total, through taxation, of $818,000,000. Of this revenue, the dominion spent 46 per cent to pay interest on debts, tihe provinces paid 37 per cent for the same purpose, and the municipalities paid 24 per cent. Of the $818,000,000 collected in Canada, 38 per cent was earmarked, before received, to pay interest on contracted debt.


Would the hon. member permit a question? Is he in a position to indicate the extent to which the per capita debt of the nation was increased in the last five years?


I have other figures before me, and possibly the hon. member's question will be answered as I proceed. In the first year after confederation the gross debt of this country was only $93,000,000, and the interest thereon was only $4,500,000, or $1.28 per capita. In 1900 the gross debt had grown to $346,000,000, and the interest charges worked out at $2.02 per head. Just prior to the war the debt had grown to $544,000,000, and tihe interest cost per capita was $1.87. At the present time the per capita cost of interest upon our so-called gross debt of $3,432,000,000 is $11.44. When we consider the railway debt and other charges, the per capita cost is $27.73.
The growth in public expenditures is equally startling. In the first year of the confederation we spent only $13,000,000. In 1900 our expenditures totalled $52,000,000. Just prior to the
war they had increased to $163,000,000. These figures are significant. They show the constant increase in our national expenditures and our national revenues. I must acknowledge frankly that the war had a considerable influence upon the growth of our national debt, but I would go so far as to suggest, as has been suggested on previous occasions, that Canada no doubt overplayed her hand as far as war measures were concerned, and we are paying for it now. But be that as it may, the war had a direct influence upon the expenditures not only of the dominion but also of municipalities and provinces.
I was wondering if it ever occurred to this or any other government that a budget could be balanced in two ways. Most ministers of finance and provincial treasurers know of only one way to balance a budget, and that is by increasing revenue, which means increasing taxation. But a budget can be balanced by decreasing expenditures rather than by increasing revenues. The present government proposes the appointment of a royal commission on taxation. We are familiar with royal commissions and I do not think we need one to tell us that at the present time we are suffering from over-government. We do not need a royal commission to tell us that there is too much overlapping in public service and taxation. The dominion and provincial governments must realize that there is only one source from which revenue can be obtained, and that is the people. The more we spend the more we have to ask the people to provide. A royal commission would serve a useful purpose if it resulted in definite action-if, in this case, it prevented overlapping in the field of taxation or the duplication of services as between municipal, provincial and federal authorities-but my experience with royal commissions has been rather the reverse.
Generally the first consideration in the setting up of a royal commision is the appointment of a strutting counsel at $150 or $200 a day. This gentleman then proceeds to eke out a year's existence on that small stipend trying to dig up facts which the government most likely knows already. I have not much faith in the value of the suggestion of the government that they are going to appoint a royal commission on taxation. They might be getting somewhere if they intended to appoint a commission such as was appointed in England, I think under the chairmanship of Sir George May, which brought out what is familiarly known as the " May " report. But if the commission is to be of the kind usually appointed in Canada, if it is to bring in the usual type of report, it would seem to me that the government's action in this
The Budget-Mr. Walsh

regard is merely another subterfuge for their not making more progress than they are at the present time.
It was my intention to refer briefly to certain items in the budget. I was amazed on going over previous Hansards to read the following on page 2118 of Hansard of Tuesday, March 26, 1935:
With regard to ways and means, my hon. friend makes some proposals in regard to taxation to which I want to refer briefly. He retains his virtual twenty-five per cent tax on sugar, a household necessity, but he reduces his tax on liquor by over forty per cent. I had hoped, and others on this side and I believe a good many on the other side had hoped, that the Minister of Finance had intended to cancel the sugar tax this year. We supposed he put it on as an emergency tax, and he put on the gold tax he said in order to permit the sugar tax to be reduced by half. Last year in making his statement to the house he said that to replace the revenue lost by the reduction of the tax on sugar it was proposed to levy a tax of ten per cent on gold.
That is an extract from the remarks of the Hon. J. L. Ralston, who was then speaking on behalf of the opposition of that day, which opposition now occupies the treasury benches. Two more years have passed, the Minister of Finance has brought down two budgets, each of which included the same tax on sugar to which the government, when in opposition, raised such strenuous objection. I cannot see the reasonableness of complaining about something when you are in opposition, but failing to act when you are in power on the incentive that inspired you while you were in opposition.
It was my intention to discuss briefly the railroad problem which faces this country. However, I notice the chairman of the committee on railways and shipping is present and I shall not abuse the privilege of my position this afternoon by dilating further on the subject to which he listened so patiently for some considerable time this morning. I should like to refer to one statement made by Hon. Mr. Ralston. I read from Hansard of March 26, 1935:
They should tackle the railway problem courageously and not pass the buck as they do.
What is the courageous way in which this government have tackled the railway problem? They have introduced Bill No. 12, but that bill does not add one cent of revenue to the railways of Canada; it does not reduce the expenses of operating the railways; it will not put one unemployed man to work, nor will it give one man at present employed by the railways one hour of additional employment in the future. Yet that is the courageous way in which they are tackling the railway problem of Canada-by taking out of the nonactive assets of the dominion and placing in 
the consolidated fund a sum almost equivalent to $374,000,000. That is their solution of our railway problem-adding to the debt of Canada by extracting it from the non-active assets of the dominion. That may be called a courageous way of meeting a critical situation, but I should like to see something which, without being characterized in quite such strong terms, would be more effective as far as results are concerned.
Last year,, participating in another debate which took place in this house, I was happy to -be able to congratulate the hon. member for Melville (Mr. Motherwell) on a theory that he propounded in connection with tariff for revenue purposes. He indicated that he gave his unqualified support to the raising of more revenue by means of a tariff. He represents a western constituency. I want this year to reendorse the stand which he took at that time and my own attitude on the same occasion. In my opinion much more revenue could be collected in Canada, without any injurious effect, through the medium of a tariff. It could be collected cheaply and without any real hardship on either industry or the population in general.
The tendency of the present government is to lower tariffs, and the lowering of tariffs naturally creates a certain amount of unemployment or the possibility of it. In passing I think I should warn the present government that if it pursues such a policy to any great length we in Canada cannot meet the competition of foreign countries in certain fields of industry. I refer particularly, of course, to industries that have been developed in Japan. If the government is not careful to protect Canadian industry against encroachments from that particular source, we shall find ourselves with a greater amount of unemployment to deal with than we have even at the present time. I have here a document published by the United States bureau of statistics, the United States Monthly Labour Review, which gives illuminating figures as to wages paid in certain industries in Japan. I shall quote a few items given in this document, in order to show the utter impossibility of Canadian industry meeting the competition of a nation that has constructed1 its economic farbric on wages such as are mentioned here:
Textile Industry
Wages
per day
Silk reelers, female	
21	centsCotton spinners, female	
24	"Silk throwers, female	
22	"Weavers, female, cotton, machine..	21	"Weavers, female, silk, hand..	..	39	"Hosiery knitters, male	
61	"Hosiery knitters, female	
33	"
The Budget-Mr. Walsh
Metal Industry
Wages per day
Lathemen	$1	58Finishers	1	64Founders	1	28Blacksmiths	1	42
Leather Industry
Leather makers	
92	centsShoemakers	
70	"Clog makers	
35	"
Among day labourers,, stevedores are paid 74 cents per day. Domestic servants, male, receive 23 cents per day; female domestic servants 22 cents per day. Those wages are actually in existence, otherwise they naturally would not be published by an authoritative body. Going further in an effort to persuade the American people to, as the writer suggests, "Buy American," I find this:
A comparison of the low wages paid in Japan with the high levels of American wage rates is sufficient to cause everyone to shudder with fear and issue a fervent hope that such debasing wages may never encompass the millions of American workers, whose efforts and high wages have built the high standard of living we now enjoy in our country.
But the menace of cheap, foreign competition exists and it is real . . . constantly becoming more threatening. Nowhere is it more pointed than in the textile industry.
I should like to urge these considerations on the attention of the government. What I have quoted in connection with American industry applies with equal if not greater force to Canadian industry, and that phase of our trade operations must be carefully watched by the present government, otherwise we shall find ourselves in a dilemma from which it will be very difficult to escape, even with the ingenuity that my good friend the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers) may develop from time to time in the way of commissions to assist him in solving problems that the government are likely to force upon him.


Would the hon. member at this point permit a question? Would he contend that it was the high protection policy of the last five years that made the employ-, ment situation in Canada so very good?


I am not advocating high protection in Canada. I am advocating a reasonable measure of protection not only for the sake of our industries but for the men and women who are employed in those industries, so that a very grave situation may not be further aggravated by throwing upon the relief rolls men who could be kept in employment if we carefully watched the course of industry and trade and prevented unfair foreign competition. I could go on at greater length, particularly in connection with the
textile industry, but I shall reserve that for a later date when, no doubt, we shall hear from that window-dressing commission.


Order.


When its report is presented we may have something of an interesting nature to suggest. But at this time I would point out to the Minister of Finance what has already been mentioned in this house, that the building industry is of primary importance.


Just before the hon. member leaves the subject of the textile industry: has he any concrete instance in mind where the budget of last year or the budget of this year put people connected wdth the textile industry out of employment or reduced employed in that industry?


No. I want to be perfectly fair with the minister. At the present time I have no cause to complain of either last year's or this year's budget, except that in certain instances, particularly in connection with woollens, there is a slight danger that the industry will be somewhat disturbed. But I am afraid of this, that when the Turgeon commission reports the government may by order in council adopt certain measures that will seriously affect the trade in textiles. I am much concerned about that aspect of the situation, not, on the whole, about the aspect that has developed up to the present time. I am a little nervous about the woollen industry, having particular regard to the less extensive plants in our smaller towns. Their position should receive careful consideration by the government before any action is taken that, although not putting them out of business, may compel them to curtail their present production.
I should like to say this, since the Minister of Finance has brought it up. There are in the budget, in connection with hosiery for instance, certain features that undoubtedly place an undue weapon in the hands of certain large merchandising concerns in Canada to the detriment of the smaller merchants. I refer to cheap cashmere hosiery and other hosiery of cheaper quality that can be bought by these larger concerns, through their purchasing agents in Europe, at a much reduced cost and brought into Canada to undersell the cheaper hosiery manufactured here, to the detriment of these manufacturers and of the smaller retail merchants in Canada who have not the same facilities to make such purchases, particularly the. purchasing facilities which our departmental stores have at their disposal. I am concerned a little about that particular item of the budget.
The Budget-Mr. Walsh


Cashmere hosiery?


I am speaking of cashmere and other cheaper lines of hosiery, not full-fashioned silk hose, because as far as they are concerned we are an exporting nation; we have a fine market in England for full-fashioned silk hose. I am, however, very much concerned about the cheaper lines.
In the course of the debate we have heard much about a stimulant applied to the building industry. With that I am in hearty sympathy. and any stimulant that can be applied to that industry will certainly meet with the approval of everv member of the house. I am surprised that the government has not seen fit to introduce, in the course of this session, much more legislation than it has brought down in connection with the building industry. It might be possible to introduce something in the form of tax-free second mortgages, which would give some encouragement to the building industry.


Tax-free second mortgages?


Yes, to encourage building. Some people can afford a first mortgage but they cannot go beyond that, and if they could get a cheap second mortgage so much the better.


Will the hon. member explain what he means? The suggestion is an important one, but what does he mean by tax-free second mortgages?


There are some points I want to make before I sit down. I am sure the Minister of Finance knows a great deal more about the matter than I do myself, and there is a useful little pamphlet entitled "Building Societies Eliminate 'Peaks and Valleys' in Industry" which he will find interesting. It touches, I believe, on that particular point. I have no doubt he has a copy of it.
Let me come now to the Department of Labour. I have not noticed, either in the budget or in the debate so far, anything that will give us a lead as to measures for the relief of unemployment and to establish a new social order in Canada. I have here clippings from newspapers of the maritime provinces. The Minister of Labour and his chief assistant, the chairman of the National Employment Commission, visited the maritime provinces during the past summer and held meetings in different places, assembling councillors and members of parliament. Every time I read one of these reports I thought it was the report of a Liberal convention. When they brought together the members of parlia-
[Mr. Walsh.J
ment, particularly in the St. John district, to discuss relief measures, it was of course not natural to expect the hon. member for Royal (Mr. Brooks), who lives a few miles out of St. John and who happens to be a Conservative, to be invited to participate in any of these conferences. He was a Conservative and no doubt it was taken for granted that he might not have very much to contribute to the discussion. I suggest, however, that he could have been invited, if only as an act of courtesy on the part of the Minister of Labour, and given an opportunity to express his views and offer assistance in the effort to solve the unemployment problem.


The Minister of Labour was not responsible for summoning any of the meetings; they were arranged by those who were interested in the particular communities where the meetings were held.


The meetings were conveniently arranged., probably by the Liberal organizer of the district, so that Conservatives were not present.


That is not correct.


I do not know what is correct, but I know that if I had time I would read a list of names and the minister would be surprised to see how many prominent Liberals were in attendance at these meetings. I suggest that the Conservatives, even if in opposition, are interested in the problem of unemployment and are willing and anxious to offer their assistance in finding a solution of the problem.
I want to read one or two extracts relating to the National Employment Commission. In Hansard of March 8, 1937, at page 1600, an hon. member makes the following statement:
I am in favour of investigating commissions, but managing commissions are sometimes dangerous. We have an employment commission. Let me tell the house that I do not believe much in that commission. It is a window-dressing [DOT]commission. . . .
The question has been asked about the number of unemployed. On February 8 of this year I asked this question:
Certain questions are set out.
To which the minister replied:
Mr. Rogers:	All available information was
included in the report of the National Employment Commission with respect to the registration of recipients of direct relief -which was tabled in the house on the 5th day of February. As other data is abstracted from the registration returns it will be made available.
Mr. Pouliot: I thank the minister for the copy of the return, but I must say it contains no information about the previous occupations of the unemployed. Therefore it is of no use at

The Budget-Mr. Thorson
all. I cannot see its usefulness as it does not show what the unemployed can do, or how they can be employed. This is a very important point and one that should not be overlooked...
The speech of the Minister of Labour on the second reading of the employment commission bill on March 30 last year shows that he is fully qualified for his position.
I agree with that.
I would be quite willing to give him blanket authority to study this whole matter and report to the house. He is a reliable Minister of Labour and I am very sorry that in order to relieve unemployment all he has by way of assistance is a commission which is really more of an obstacle than a help.
These are not the words of a Conservative opposition member; they are the words of a Liberal member at present occupying a seat in this house and at present sitting not very far from the minister himself.


My hon. friend is not suggesting that I inspired them ?


I do not think the inspiration would come from that source, but I want to emphasize the fact that one of the minister's own supporters absolutely disengaged himself from any connection whatsoever with the National Employment Commission, condemning it in the same terms in which it was condemned from this side of the house last year, to which condemnation little or no attention was paid.


Who is the member?


The member for Temiscou-ata (Mr. Pouliot). Let me remind the house -this has already been emphasized-that this year this commission has cost us $87418, and I notice in the supplementary estimates we are asked to vote a further sum of $275,000, making a total of $362,418- for what? For a national employment commission who are recording certain facts and figures that should be recorded in the bureau of statistics, and who are not doing one iota to aid unemployment. They are doing nothing real and practical to solve the problem of unemployment in Canada.
I tell the Minister of Labour that I have had the utmost patience with his efforts to solve this problem, but I am entirely losing patience with the attitude and action of the employment commission. I listened to an address by the chairman of that commission in Montreal on January 11, and the facts he gave on that occasion and the expressions he used were illuminating. He embodied in his report the latest figures from the drought area of the west. Why these figures should be included by the Department of Labour in statistics with respect to the unemployed is beyond me. The people in the drought area,
who have the misfortune to be out of employment and on relief as a result of a contingency due to nature alone, over which they had absolutely no control, should be looked after through the Department of Agriculture, and the statistics of the Department of Labour should not be confused by the inclusion of the drought area figures. The people there are not unemployed in the true sense of the term; they are unemployed for a definite and specific reason and therefore should be looked after by the department primarily responsible for their rehabilitation and replacement.
During the course of his remarks the chairman of the commission drew an analogy between a boy's knowledge of a lobster or a lobster's knowledge of a boy. When he finished we did not quite understand whether the lobster knew more about the boy or the boy about the lobster, but he did suggest that the knowledge of the people of Canada regarding the unemployment problem was somewhat similar in character.


Order.


I am sorry I have to conclude, as I have other interesting data that I should have liked to present, but I hope I may have an opportunity to do so at some other time.


When the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) made his budget statement to this house he presented an encouraging picture of progress to the people of Canada. He was quite frank in his admission that much remained to be done, and that frankness gives hope that further progress will be made. The right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) has proposed an amendment expressing regret that the government has failed to take effective measures to deal with the problem of unemployment. The debate therefore affords an opportunity of considering the policies that ought to bp followed by this country, and perhaps our best approach to this problem is to analyze the effect of the policies of the past in the hope that we may profit in the future by avoiding the mistakes of the past.
No useful purpose is served by reminding the people of Canada that the leader of the opposition promised to end unemployment, that his government went into office on the strength of that promise, and that he failed to fulfil it. The important things to remember are the policies that were initiated by his government for the purpose of performing the promise that he made, and the utter failure of those policies to accomplish the purposes for which they were designed. The Bennett
The Budget-Mr. Thorson

administration sought to end unemployment by raising the tariffs against imports from abroad and restricting their entry into Canada in the hope that their manufacture in Canada rather than abroad would solve the problem of unemployment.
It is obvious that these policies did not end unemployment. Instead they did real harm to Canada, for they sacrificed the primary producers of this country in the interests of the secondary industries, and in so doing they did harm not only to the primary producers themselves, but also to those engaged in secondary production as well.
I intend to confine my remarks largely to two commodities that were, prior to 1930 at any rate, the principal items of our external trade: wheat, our most important export, and textiles, our most necessary import; and I shall endeavour to show to the house the disastrous effect which the Bennett tariffs against textiles had upon the export of Canadian wheat. I take wheat as an example of primary production and textiles as an example of manufactured goods, 'but what I have to say with regard to wheat and textiles might also be said of other primary products and other manufactured goods respectively, the differences being of degree rather than of kind.
An analysis of Canada's export trade shows that at least seventy-five per cent of it consists of the products of agriculture, mining, forestry and fishing, either in their natural state or after primary processing. The list of the twenty leading commodities which Canada exported during the calendar year 1936 in the order of their value shows two things: first, that wheat is our most important export commodity, amounting to 22-3 per cent of our total exports in that year; and second, that our primary production constitutes our basic wealth and the means whereby we are able to maintain our export trade and create the necessary credits abroad which enable us to purchase the commodities that we need from abroad, and which we in Canada must have if our people are to enjoy a decent standard of living.
Since Canada is a large exporter of primary commodities she must therefore be a large importer of manufactured goods; for there is no other way by which she can put into circulation the basic wealth of her primary production. If we wish to sell our goods we must be willing to buy the goods of others. An examination of the distribution of our imports during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1930, according to the classifications used by the bureau of statistics, shows that our most important imports from the United Kingdom,

continental Europe and the orient consisted of fibres, textiles and textile products, these being 36 per cent of our total imports from the United Kingdom, 31-7 per cent of our imports from continental Europe, and 52 A per cent of our imports from the orient.
Since 95 per cent of our total wheat exports went to the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the orient, and since wheat is our most important export commodity, and since our most important imports from these countries were textiles, it follows that Canada's trade with the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the orient depended primarily upon the exchange of wheat for textiles. These are the principal items in that trade, and when Canada raised her tariffs against textiles, after 1930, she touched the heart of our trade relations with our chief wheat importing country. By prohibitive tariffs against textiles the Bennett administration succeeded in restricting the import of textiles into Canada, but in so doing that administration not onlv lost markets for Canadian wheat, but also allowed the Argentine, Canada's most dangerous competitor in wheat production, to gain the markets which Canada had lost. That, too, Mr. Speaker, was one of the causes of continued unemployment in Canada; for the loss of markets for Canadian wheat meant reduced purchasing power for the Canadian wheat producer, and therefore less ability to purchase the products of Canadian manufacture. The reduced volume of production, for example, of the agricultural implement industry, is directly traceable to policies of the kind that I have mentioned; and that reduced volume means both reduced employment for those engaged in that industry and higher prices for implements to the farmer.
Let us examine for a moment where the wheat exports of Canada went in 1930 and the extent to which they have been reduced since then. I now place on Hansard a short table showing the average exports of wheat per annum during the five year period ending March 31, 1930, as compared with the subsequent five year period ending March 31, 1935, and the main countries to which these exports actually went.


I do not want to interrupt the hon. gentleman, Mr. Speaker, but there is a rule of the house that nothing may be placed on Hansard unless it is read, except it be done by unanimous consent. I think your honour raised the point here the other evening in regard to another member, and made that ruling.


This table, Mr. Speaker, tells a striking story. In the first place it shows that continental Europe prior to 1930-

The Budget-Mr. Thorson


I rise again to a point of order, Mr. Speaker, and I ask your ruling. Is it permissible for the hon. gentleman to place a table on Hansard without reading it, unless he first seeks the unanimous consent of the house?


The privilege has been extended on numerous occasions, Mr. Speaker; the table is very short, and its substance will be contained in the remarks I now propose to make.


I have no objection-


I will read the table.


The hon. gentleman has stated that the privilege has been extended on other occasions. I know of no person to whom this privilege is accorded except the Minister of Finance when making his budget speech. That is ~iy understanding of the rule; if I am wrong your honour will correct me.


I should like to hear what the hon. member has to say as to the point of order raised by the hon. member for Argen-teuil (Sir George Perley).


I shall read the table. It
shows the exports of Canadian wheat to continental Europe, the United Kingdom, the orient and other countries. The average exports of wheat per year during the five year period ending March 31, 1930, were 155,000,000 bushels to continental Europe;	82,600,000
bushels to the United Kingdom; 16,400,000 bushels to the orient, and 11,100,000 bushels to other countries, making an average annual total of wheat exported in those years of
265.100.000	bushels. The second column shows that during the five year period ending March 31, 1935, the average exports of wheat per year to continental Europe were 103,300,000 bushels; to the United Kingdom, 71,800,000 bushels; to the orient, 9.100.000 bushels and to other countries, 9,000,000 bushels; making a yearly total average in those years of 193,200,000 bushels. These figures are significant. Out of a total average export of Canadian wheat of
265.100.000	bushels per year in the years prior to 1930, 155,000,000 bushels per year went to continental Europe as against 82,600,000 bushels per year to the United Kingdom. It will not help us in Canada to hold the United Kingdom market for wheat if at the same time we lose the markets of continental Europe. In the second place, this table tells an alarming story, for it shows that during the five year period ending March 31, 1935, our wheat exports averaged 71,900.000 bushels less per year than during the preceding five
year period, and that 51,700,000 bushels per year of this decline is accounted for by reduced exports to continental Europe. That market was lost to Canada largely as the result of the foolish tariff and fiscal policies of the previous administration of this country and, what is perhaps even worse, that market was surrendered to the Argentine, Canada's strongest competitor in the production and sale of wheat-Canada's greatest individual asset.
In 1929 the six main wheat importing countries of Europe were Germany, Italy, France, the Netherlands, Belgium and Switzerland. They took seventy per cent of the total European imports of wheat. In that year Canada had a favourable trade balance with these countries amounting to 8114,603,000, her exports to these countries amounting to $187,388,000, and her imports from them being only $72,785,000. These were good customers for Canada; indeed they were our best customers for Canadian wheat. How did the Bennett adminstration treat these good customers of Canada?
The treatment which Canada gave to Switzerland is perhaps the most striking example of the folly of the tariff policies of the former administration of this country. If an analysis is made of our imports from Switzerland as between the fiscal year ending March 31, 1930, and the fiscal year ending March 31, 1935, it will be seen that our imports from Switzerland declined from $7,314,840 in 1930 to $4,979,543 in 1935. Of this decline seventy-seven per cent was in fibres, textiles and textile products, our imports of these commodities having been restricted from $4,507,296 in 1930 to $652,010 in 1935.
How was this brought about? The Bennett administration proceeded to restrict the importation of silk from Switzerland, first by raising the ad valorem duty, and secondly by inflated arbitrary valuations for duty purposes. Let me give the house an illustration of how the previous administration acted. The chief silk product which Canada imported from Switzerland in 1930 is described in our trade returns as "woven fabrics, wholly or in part of silk, not to contain wool, not including fabrics in chief part by weight of artificial silk." In the fiscal year ending March 31, 1930, Canadian imports under this heading amounted to 1,259,836 yards, valued at $826,109. The average value per yard was 66 cents; the duty amounted to $242,602, and the average duty per yard was 19 cents. But in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1935, Canadian imports under the same heading amounted, to 2,582 yards, valued at $3,518. The average value per yard was $1.36; the duty amounted to $1,524, and the average duty per yard was 59 cents. These figures indi-
The Budget-Mr. Thorson

cate that the average ad1 valorem rate of duty on these items was increased from 29-4 per cent, as it was in 1930, to 43-3 per cent. But this was not enough: Although the price of raw silk was falling and silk prices in Canada were declining, the valuations for duty purposes were stepped up from 66 cents per yard to $1.36 per yard, thus increasing the actual duties that were collected on this class of silk fabrics by over 215 per cent.


Would the hon. member permit a question?


Yes.


Would he mind telling the house the number employed in 1930 as against those employed1 in 1936 in the textile industry of Canada?


I have not those figures.


Because you do not want to have them.


I will deal with the general question a little later on. I have indicated the manner in which the Bennett administration proceeded to deal with Switzerland's trade in silk fabrics with Canada. It succeeded in killing that trade, for it reduced it by 99-8 per cent.
The next most important decline in Swiss imports into this country was under the heading of-


May I ask the hon. member a question? Did the reduction by ninety-nine per cent of silk importations from Switzerland to Canada give more employment in Canada?


I doubt it; I do not think it did.


It certainly did.


I will answer that in a moment.


It certainly did to hundreds and hundreds of people.


The next most important decline of Swiss imports into Canada was under the heading of non-ferrous metals and their products, a decline from $1,795,578 in 1930 to $880,844 in 1935-eighteen per cent of the total decline in Swiss imports. We treated time-pieces from Switzerland somewhat in the same manner as we did silk fabrics.
Now, what did Switzerland do, in return, to our Canadian exports of wheat into Switzerland? She was patient for 