(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	What provinces are now being served by air mail?
2.	What provinces are without air mail service at present ?
3.	Are plans under way to have air mail service between Nova Scotia and other provinces?
4.	When is air mail service to be inaugurated in Nova Scotia?


1.	New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia.
2.	Nova Scotia.
3	and 4. This matter is now under consideration.


1.	Did evidence adduced last year (1936) before the royal commission (Mr. Justice Tur-geon) investigating the textile industry indicate that there has been any failure in the past to pay the full income tax properly payable by any company engaged in such industry?
2.	If so, have steps been taken to enforce payment of such income tax as may have been properly payable by any such companies to the extent that same has not been paid to date?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.


1.	Has the government been approached regarding the tunnelling of the Burlington channel to relieve highway traffic congestion at that point?
2.	Will this work be proceeded with?
3.	If so, when?


1, 2 and 3. The tunnelling of the Burlington channel to relieve highway congestion at that point is a provincial project. No application has been received for the approval of this project under the provisions of the Navigable Waters Protection Act.


1.	Was Emile Leclaire employed as an engineer by the harbour commission at Montreal, in 1936?
2.	Was he dismissed? If so, when, for what reason, and upon whose recommendation?
3.	Was he an efficient employee?
4.	Who replaced him?


1. Yes; on mechanical force in repair shop.
2 and 3. Released from duty consequent upon certain changes in staff made in the interest of the service.
4.	Joseph Simard.


1.	Does the dominion government employ a farm instructor on the Blackfoot reserve, southeast of Calgary, by the name of Hugh Newell?

Questions

2.	If so, how old is he?
3.	What experience has he had?
4.	What salary does he receive?
5.	Is his appointment permanent?
6.	Is he a returned soldier?
7.	How did he receive his appointment.
8.	By whom was he recommended?
9.	Were there any other applicants for the position?
10.	If so, what were their names?


1.	Yes.
2.	28 on October 18, 1936.
3.	He was raised on an Ontario farm. For nine years he was engaged in farming in the vicinity of Gleichen. Is capable of overhauling tractors, trucks, combines or other farm machinery. Had experience in road grading, and was highly recommended by the Canadian Pacific Railway, Department of Natural Resources, for his ability to run levels and prepare land for irrigation.
4.	$840 per annum, plus house, fuel and light.
5.	No.	__
6.	No.
7.	By ministerial authority. The position of of Indian farming instructor is exempt from the operation of the Civil Service Act in so far as competition in appointment is concerned.
8.	Inquiries were made of a number of people in the district and he was chosen because he had the qualifications mentioned.
9.	No.
10.	Answered by No. 9.


In how many cases in the province of Quebec has the board of revision, under the Farmers Creditors' Arrangement Act, ordered a reduction of capital mortgage debts?


201.


1.	Does the government of the province of Quebec still pay a proportion of the rate of interest on loans granted by the federal government to the farmers of the province of Quebec, under the Farm Loan Act?
2.	Until when will the federal government grant loans to the farmers of the province of Quebec concurrently with the farm _ loan board established by the Quebec provincial government?


1. Yes. Contributions on behalf of borrowers of a proportion of interest falling due on loans made by the Canadian Farm Loan Board in the province of Quebec are paid by the government of the province of Quebec under the authority of Ch. 51A, Revised Statutes of
[Mr. Mitchdl.l
Quebec, 1925, as amended by Ch. 25, Statutes of 1935.
2. The extent of future loaning operations of the Canadian Farm Loan Board in the province of Quebec will be dependent on the necessity Shown for the same.


1.	How many civil servants of the federal government earn $125 per month and less?
2.	How many such persons are married?
3.	How many of such persons are unmarried?
4.	What are the names and wages of such persons, and in what departments are they employed ?
5.	How many persons are presently temporarily employed, earning $125 per month and less; what are their names, their occupations and their wages?


I have communicated with the hon. member who put this question and he has consented to modify it. I therefore suggest that the question be dropped, to be reintroduced in a different form.
Question dropped.


1.	What is the number of unemployed this year compared with the same time last year?
2.	What is the number of men employed under the public works scheme of 1936?
3.	What were the wages paid?
4.	What was deducted for board, medical treatment, etc.?
5.	For what length of time were these men employed?
6.	How many men were laid off from the Canadian Pacific shops during the summer?
7.	What was the loss in wages?
8.	How many men were laid off from the Canadian National shops during the summer?
9.	What was the loss in wages?
10.	Were all these men reemployed, and, if so, when?
11.	What	has	the	employment	commission
done during	the last year?
12.	What recommendation has the employment commission made to eliminate unemployment?
13.	What	was	the	payment	made to	the
provinces for relief this year, and during the same period last year?
14.	What is the number of tradesmen in Canada this year, compared with the same period last year?
15.	What is the number of this class unemployed?	...	,
16.	What is the number of industrial trades apprentices employed by years, from 1928 to 1937?


This question in its present form does not admit of a satisfactory answer. I suggest that the hon. member might reframe the question and I should be very

Validity of Dominion Acts
glad indeed to advise him, if he so desires, of any information that is available on the various subjects included in the question.
Question dropped.


1.	What are the names and addresses of:
(a)	the legal counsel retained, and (b) the various persons employed by the government in connection with the Turgeon wheat inquiry?
2.	What amounts are being paid or agreed
to be paid:	(a) by way of counsel fees or
expenses to each legal counsel retained, and
(b)	by way of remuneration and expenses to each person employed?
3.	Will the report of this commission be tabled this session?


I believe it was indicated some days ago that this question should stand as an order for return.


1.	What was the revenue from each federal tax during the last five fiscal years?
2.	To what purposes have each of these taxes been applied?


Return tabled herewith.


1.	Did the dominion government in each of the years 1933, 1934, 1935, and 1936, organize under the direction of the Department of Mines a number of geological exploration parties in Canada?
2.	How many students were engaged, during the summer of each year, to take part in such geological exploration work?
. 3. How many French Canadian students participated each year in this work?


1.	What was the total of the wheat delivered to the wheat board during the fall of 1935?
2.	What was the average price paid?
3.	Was this wheat sold, and, if so, what was the average price?
4.	Will there be any further payment on the participation certificates issued to the farmers delivering wheat at that time?
5.	What was the average price the wheat board paid the farmers for feed wheat delivered to them during that period?


1. How many persons intending to settle in Canada entered Canada during 1930, 1931, 1932, 1933, 1934, 1935 and 1936?
31111-22J
2.	How	many	of	such	persons entered by
issue of special permit from minister, in each of the above years?
3.	How	many	of	such	persons, enumerated
in question No. 1, came from the British Isles?
4.	How many persons were deported during each of the above years?
5.	How many were deported to the British Isles?
6.	How	many	of	the	deportations to the
British Isles were because such persons had become, or were liable to become, public charges?


1.	How many appeals were pending consideration by the Pensions Appeal Court as at December 31, 1935, in the following categories: (a) appeals by the crown from the quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from quorum pensions commission; (c) other categories?
2.	How many appeals were filed with the appeal court during 1936 as follows: (a) appeals of the crown from the quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from quorum pensions commission; (c) other categories?
3.	How many appeals were heard by the appeal court during 1936 as follows: (a) appeals of the crown from the quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from the quorum pensions commission; (c) other categories?
4.	How many appeals were allowed in 1936, as follows: (a) appeals of the crown from the quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from the quorum pensions commission; (c) other categories?
5.	How many appeals were disallowed in 1936, as follows: (a) appeals of the crown from the quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from the quorum pensions commission?
6.	How many appeals were referred by the
appeal court to the pensions commission in 1936:	(a) appeals of the crown from the
quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from the quorum pensions commission; (c) other categories?
7.	How many appeals ivere awaiting consideration by the appeal court as at December 31, 1936: (a) appeals of crown from quorum pensions commission; (b) appeals of applicants from quorum pensions commission; (c) other categories?


On the orders of the day:
Is the government prepared to make any statement with regard to the decisions of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council?


In view of the importance of the
Validity oj Dominion Acts


On the orders of the day:
I desire to call the attention of the house to a telegraphic dispatch from the city of Toronto appearing in this morning's Citizen. It is, I think, a reflection on every hon. member of this house, and particularly on the government, whether it be in power or-


Order.


Order.


The point is this: the wisdom of class taxation was questioned by C. H. Carlisle, president of the Dominion Bank in an address to the shareholders at the annual meeting:
Excessive class taxation may be an asset to party politics as a means of securing votes-


Order. I would ask the hon. member to direct his question, if he has any, to the government. I do not think he can read a statement from a newspaper in this way.


I should like to ask the Prime Minister or the government whether their attention has been called to a telegraphic report from Toronto appearing in this morning's Ottawa Citizen of a statement made by the president of the Dominion Bank in his address to the shareholders at the annual meeting. He is reported as follows:
"Excessive class taxation may be an asset to party politics as a means of securing votes, but it undoubtedly retards national progress and development, and brings injury to working people," said Mr. Carlisle.
I say, Mr. Speaker, that that statement is an insult to all hon. gentlemen who sit in this house, particularly the Prime Minister, whether he be Liberal, Conservative, or a representative of any other party, who is doing the best he can at much less salary than this gentleman is receiving. Therefore hon. gentlemen should not have to put up with such impertinence, which I repeat is an insult to every hon. member in this house.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata):	May I ask whether it is within
the knowledge of the government that the Commissioner of Employment and Social Insurance, Mr. Romeo Beaudet, sent out Christ-

Criminal Code-Death Penalty
mas greetings last December under the frank of Mr. Harrington, who resigned a year ago, which is all he did last year? And if it is within the knowledge of the government, in view of the decision rendered by the privy council will he be discharged to-day and the commission abolished?
I may say to my hon. friend that what he has just said comes as a great surprise to me. I imagine that the decision of the privy council will settle the question of Mr. Beaudet's position.
FARM IMPLEMENT PRICES On the orders of the day:


I desire to address a question to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner). In view of the statement made last April, recorded on page 2127 of Hansard, to the effect that all implement firms had not then replied to the request of this house that the prices of farm implements be kept at their former level until the present investigation had been completed, I should like to ask what replies are now in the hands of the minister, and what action the government contemplates in the light of those replies.


The hon. member was kind enough to give me in advance a copy of his question, and I have had prepared copies of the letters that we have received from the three companies concerned, Massey-Harris, Cockshutt Plough and International Harvester; also an interim report of the standing committee on agriculture and colonization. I think in answer to the question it would be best to place this on the table of the house, and the hon. member can get it and read it.
PERFORMING RIGHT SOCIETY On the orders of the day:
Mr. VV. K. ESLING (Kootenay West): I should like to ask the Secretary of State (Mr. Rinfret) whether the members of the house will be supplied with printed copies of the 1937 tariff of the Canadian Performing Right Society as revised by the copyright appeal board, and if so when we may expect to get them.


The tariff of the Canadian Performing Right Society as revised and approved by the copyright appeal board at their sitting last December has been published in the Canada Gazette of January 2 of this year, as required
by the act. It is my intention to have the tariff reprinted in pamphlet form. I do not think it would be advisable to distribute these generally, because probably only a few members are interested in the tariff, but we will have them available in my department and they will be supplied to every hon. member who makes a request for them.


On the orders of the day:
Before
the orders of the day are proceeded with I wish to ask a question of the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers) with respect to the strike in the Empire Cotton Mills at Welland. I understand the employees and the city council have requested a board of conciliation to deal with this matter, and I should like to. know what action the government is in a. position to take.
Hon. NORMAN McL. ROGERS (Minister of Labour):	Mr. Speaker, the hon. member
for Welland (Mr. Damude) was good enough to notify me of his intention to ask this question. to-day. It is quite true that the city council of Welland has requested that a board of conciliation be set up under the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act. It is also true that a formal board application from representatives of the strikers was received by the Department of Labour yesterday. These communications have been acknowledged. At the same time it must be pointed out that the Industrial Disputes Investigation Act applies directly only to mines and public utilities and that in other industries, such as the textile industry, boards of conciliation and investigation can be established only with the joint consent of the parties directly affected.
I may say that the officers of the Department of Labour have taken up this matter already with the president of the Empire Cotton Mills Limited, urging that the consent of the company be given to the establishment of a board, and it is anticipated that the decision of the company will be received in the course of the next two or three days.


Mr. J. K. BLAIR (Wellington North) moved the second reading of Bill No. 6, to amend the criminal code (death penalty).'
He said: Mr. Speaker, when this bill was proposed last year it was misunderstood by some hon. members, who thought I was pleading for the abolition of capital punishment.
Criminal Code-Death Penalty
That is not the purpose. The bill is designed to change the method of execution from hanging to execution in a lethal chamber.
This is an old problem, Mr. Speaker; it is a question that has been debated in many countries. I have before me letters from many countries in Europe, from most of the states of the union and even from South America. I dio not intend to refer to those letters because I believe in many cases copies have been sent to the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe). Most of them approve of the change from hanging to the use of the lethal chamber. Most of the states of the United States approve; some of the attorneys general of the provinces of Canada are very anxious that the change be brought about. The only exception in Canada is Mr. Taschereau of Quebec, who still believes in hanging.
He practised it on himself.


Only two states of the union uphold hanging as a means of execution. One state, Missouri, approves of hangings being held in the market square.
The strange thing about punishment for crime, Mr. Speaker, is that the higher we rise in our state of civilization and the more intelligent humanity becomes, the greater is the number of criminals in the world; because our laws extend further and new laws are added, and the tendency is to lessen the severity of the punishment. In the reign of Henry VIII there were 72,000 people beheaded. Many of the acts we call crimes to-day were not classed as crimes at that time, and on the other hand many of the so called crimes of that day are punished with much less severity to-day.
I should like to direct attention to this point: In the time of our fathers the theory of retribution, which was the theory of Kant that everyone should be punished according to his deeds, was considered very important. In other words, there was a sort of trial balance struck, and the punishment would expiate the crime committed. That theory was upheld by the state, the church and almost every other authority. To-day the theory of retribution is not upheld by the law. We realize that if each of us was to suffer for the crimes he has committed, not one of us would be in this chamber to-day. We have learned the lesson that our crimes are too great-


Hear, hear.


Still, if an indivdual becomes a menace to the social order it must be remembered that this bill does not ask that such an individual should be allowed to re-

main a menace. We are not pleading for liberty for such as Red Ryan; that is far from our intention. A great mistake was made when we allowed Red Ryan to be turned loose, which cost five lives in addition to his own. That is not kindness, Mr. Speaker. A person who is dangerous to the social order must be kept where he can do no harm, and if he becomes a menace even to his guards I do not know but what his life should be sacrificed in order to save the lives of others.
The theory we would like to advance today is what is called the deterrent theory; that is, the idea is to prevent a similar crime being committed by either the individual concerned or by others. Punishment to-day is inflicted in order to prevent a repetition of crimes that have been committed. There is one thing I wish I could get hon. members of this house to consider, and it is this: In the investigations conducted in Great Britain and many other countries it was concluded that the certainty and rapidity of punishment was a far better deterrent than severity of punishment. That can be illustrated. If you put your finger on a hot stove you will take your finger away very quickly and will not put it there again, because the punishment has come rapidly and certainly. On the other hand, if you go out and catch cold and develop the 'flu, the punishment does not come so quickly and you will expose yourself more frequently. So it was found that rapidity and certainty of punishment had much more of a deterrent effect than severity of punishment, and it will be noted that in many countries of the world the tendency has been to lessen the severity of punishment in certain categories of crime.
At one time people used to be hanged for stealing sheep, and there were two hundred other crimes for which a person could be hanged not very many years ago. To-day we have only three, and practically speaking only one crime for which hanging may be the penalty, the crime of deliberate murder or murder during a robbery. There are many people who are extremely anxious that this law should be changed because of the effect upon the general public. Last year the sheriffs of Ontario passed a resolution, a copy of which was sent to me and, I have no doubt, also to the Minister of Justice. That resolution states:
That in the opinion of the sheriffs of Ontario in convention assembled, the method of inflicting the death penalty in use in Canada is a relic of mediaeval days, and the advance in humanitarian civilization calls for the substitution of a more humane method.
Furthermore, in our opinion a central place in the province should be provided for imposing

Criminal Code-Death Penally
the death penalty, thereby ensuring and facilitating the proper administration of justice and materially reducing the considerable cost to the public of the present gruesome method.
Then, to illustrate the point I am making may I be permitted to read from the Halifax Herald:
Here is a case where a man from another province invades a peaceful local community, murders and robs a respectable and almost helpless citizen, and sets fire to his house in the hope of concealing the crime, which he has now confessed. Notwithstanding his confession this man will still have to receive a formal trial. A jury will have to be summoned for the purpose and very considerable cost incurred, most of which will fall on the ratepayers of a municipality which has been deeply sinned against instead of sinning. But there is worse than that to follow. If the accused should be convicted, his execution will fall as an additional and most distressing burden on the officials of that municipality. This is conspicuously unfair and unjustifiable. There is no modern excuse for it. If a less sentence than that of death were imposed on this or any other criminal, the convict would at once be removed to a central penitentiary to undergo punishment. Only in the case of murder is the municipality compelled to provide for the execution of the court's sentence.
Then, one must consider the matter of convenience. It is more convenient to have a man put to death by gas than by hanging. Perhaps some people are not satisfied that gas affords an easier way of dying than hanging does. I am sure that in almost any county one has heard of people who have died from starting their cars while the garage doors remained closed. I attended six cases where the patients did not die but went into a state of unconsciousness. When they came to their senses in the doctor's office they were asked: "Why did you not shut off the spark? Why did you leave the car running?" and they said, "We didn't know we were going to sleep."
The same thing occurred to a man who fell asleep while reading beside his stove. He was rushed to the hospital and when he regained consciousness the next day and was asked why he did not move away from the stove or to an open window, he replied, "I didn't know I was being gassed." These instances indicate clearly that death from gas is brought about without the slightest degree of suffering. As further evidence of this fact we find that a committee of medical doctors of two or three of the states of the United States decided that death from gas was much easier than by any other method.
Even the Minister of Justice has said that the lethal chamber does not require the services of an expert, and that the duties can be performed by a prison guard. At the
conclusion of the observation of the minister of justice in the former government, Mr. Guthrie, the present minister made these observations:
The minister said the other day, in connection with a ghastly incident relating to the hanging of a woman in Montreal, that this was under provincial jurisdiction. He is quite right as to that, but I wonder whether we should not, if we retain a capital punishment- and I am not prepared to say that we should do away with it-have a change because this is the criminal code of the country in the method of execution, so that it should be carried out only in a penitentiary and not in any district.
In other words, he would centralize the point of execution. He continued:
I believe the electric chair; or some other device, might be preferable to this remnant of old days when such things as we have read about in the papers recently are likely to happen. I just suggest to my hon. friend that the question ought to be studied, and I think it is a reform that should be brought about in this country.
Those were the remarks made in 1935 by our present Minister of Justice after reading the disgraceful results of a hanging in Montreal.
Then, one must remember that a dying person can derive no benefit from hanging, and that pain inflicted without a purpose is a sin against humanity. If you or I had a horse or a dog to destroy we would have it put to death without unnecessary suffering. Further, we must consider the friends of the person to be executed. Can we imagine the mother or the grandmother viewing the remains of a body from which the head had been completely torn? Can we imagine the feelings of the parents or friends of boys of perhaps twenty-one or twenty-two years-I call them boys-who view the bodies after they have been mutilated by a hangman's rope? Why should we punish innocent people? Why should we not eliminate such punishment? If a person is dangerous to the social order I believe his removal by the quickest and easiest method would be the most satisfactory, and would ameliorate the suffering of those he leaves behind.
Circumstances surrounding hangings are greatly exaggerated by the pictures drawn in the newspapers. I believe there should be a law to control the press in its reports of criminal proceedings. A newspaper photograph may show a criminal bidding his family a final farewell. We know that young boys throughout the country followed the exploits of the rascal Dillinger, and, believing he was a hero, wished that he might get away from the police. The more a criminal is

Criminal Code-Death Penalty
punished the more sympathy is aroused in the minds of some people. This is another reason why I believe the condemned criminal should be disposed of quietly. After the last war Britain would have made a martyr of the German kaiser if she had put him to death. It is much better not to punish a man of that kind.
As human beings we are not able to interpret the mens rea or mental capacity of the criminal. It is difficult to know what we would do under similar circumstances. There can be no doubt that if a man is a menace to society through mental disease or hereditary weakness he should not be permitted to destroy society. Whether a man be disposed of by prison guards or by persons outside the prison walls, I must say that in his removal the less we punish him the less sympathy for him will be aroused. By disposing of a criminal quietly we would avoid much of the newspaper publicity. Often when sympathy, which sometimes is greater than the deterrent effect, is aroused, the deterrent effect is lost sight of. We should endeavour to retain the proper attitude of mind towards those who sympathize with the criminal and towards the state which is trying to do right by the social order.


Mr. Speaker, I was rather surprised to note the apparent indifference of many hon. members of this house to this very important bill introduced by the hon. member for Wellington North (Mr. Blair), as evidenced by the lack of attention on the part of many hon. members on his own side of the chamber.
In rising to support this bill I do so in the belief that I am supporting a move forward which is in keeping with modern intelligence. Divine law and the law of the land say a life for a life. I am not in favour of eliminating capital punishment, but if we must put human beings to death, let us do it in a decent and humane manner. In the majority of municipalities, particularly the larger centres, a lethal chamber is provided for the killing of dogs, cats and other animals. This method of putting animals to death has been adopted because it is humane, but in the same centres when the law says that the life of a human being must be taken, he is hanged by the neck until he is dead. " Until he is dead " means from fourteen to eighteen minutes. If I should undertake to dispose of a dog by hanging, I have no doubt if I were discovered the humane society would have me in court charged with cruelty to an animal and I would be either fined or imprisoned. We are not allowed to

put a dog to death by hanging, but we are allowed to put a human being to death by this cruel, barbarous and antiquated method.
When a sentence of death is pronounced on a human being, the court does not stipulate that the sentence shall be carried out " with torture." The sentence is that at a certain time the prisoner shall be taken to a certain place and hanged by the neck until he is dead. This bill suggests a lethal chamber which would provide a painless death. If the human being to be placed in the chamber was not aware of what was being done, he would never know that his life was being taken. The hon. member for Wellington North referred to one case where a hanging resulted in the complete separation of the head from the body. Such a thing is most gruesome to think of and is a disgrace to our modern civilization. Even the head hunters of Borneo would have done a neater job than that. If a painless death can be provided by a lethal chamber, why have all this unnecessary torture? When a man commits a murder, is found guilty and is sentenced to death, even though he is the most hardened criminal his life should not be taken in such a way as to add additional torture to his sentence.
I can speak with some authority on this question, because I was once placed in the unfortunate position, not of being hanged, but of having to witness a hanging. It was fourteen minutes after the trap was dropped before the man was pronounced dead. There are cases on record where from eighteen to twenty minutes have elapsed. The only opposition to the proposed change from an antiquated system of putting condemned criminals to death to one more in keeping with our present civilization is that the torturous system acts as a deterrent to the commission of crimes punishable by death. I do not agree with that. I think the thing that makes a man hesitate to commit a murder is the fact that he will lose his life. I do not think the method by which the life will be taken is in itself a deterrent. In any event, we as a civilized modern people should get away from this antiquated method of taking life.
As has been pointed out, the lethal chamber is bloodless and painless and in keeping with modem civilization. In conformity with- the laws of our land and of the divine order, we must continue to take life, but let us do it in a manner that will not besmirch the good name of Canadians and of Canadian authority. Let us do it like really humane people in this modern age should do things. Let us at least discontinue a system under

Criminal Code

Death Penalty
which we execute human beings by a method that our laws will not permit us to use in taking the life of a dog o.r a cat.
I congratulate the hon. member for Wellington North upon having brought this bill forward. It is a step in the right direction, and it deals w'ith a subject that should be treated more seriously than some members appear to be treating it. I cannot believe that the members of this house will hesitate to adopt the bill.


Mr. Speaker, I have listened with great interest to what has been said on this question. I happen to have been crown prosecutor in Montreal for seventeen years, and as such I have had to conduct quite a number of murder cases. The criminal code is made to punish and to prevent crime, and if we make punishment easy and painless as the hon. member suggests, there will be more inducement to the crime of murder.
A few years ago when I was crown prosecutor in Montreal a judge of the court of sessions condemned to the whip and imprisonment those who were convicted of armed robbery, and immediately armed robberies started to decrease in that city. Later a young man who had committed an armed robbery came before the court of king's bench instead of before the court of sessions, and the presiding judge of the king's bench, commenting on the whip, said that it was an old-fashioned method and that he was absolutely against it. He left out the whip and gave a longer term of imprisonment than had been the practice of the other judge of whom I spoke. The result was that within four or five months there were ten or fifteen armed robberies in Montreal, and all the accused came before the court of king's bench, preferring a longer term of imprisonment to punishment with the whip.
If we make punishment so easy that a man who has a grudge against somebody else can say to himself, "After all, if I kill my enemy I am going to have a trial, and if it comes to the worst I shall be sent into eternity in the easiest way possible," we will create amongst murderers-to-be the sentiment that, after all, it is not so hard to. be sent out of the world in the lethal chamber if they are caught and have to go.
For this simple reason, Mr. Speaker, I shall have to vote against the second reading of this bill.


Mr. Speaker, I think this bill should be referred to a standing committee of the house which
we should set up on many matters in relation to law reform. The committee might consist of from seven to ten members. Almost every session bills to amend the criminal code are brought in by private members, and none of them are adopted. Canada is far behind the times in law reform, not only on this question but in many other matters of great importance to the people. In the past it has been the policy of the Minister of Justice to bring down in the dying days of the session, unknown to the judges and crown attorneys and magistrates of the country, most important amendments to the criminal code. Last session a number of statutory amendments to the criminal code were brought down on the Thursday preceding the Monday or Tuesday that the house prorogued. These amendments to the criminal code should all be incorporated in one bill, and the Minister of Justice should see to it that all measures affecting the liberty of the subject, which are the most important part of the legislation of this parliament, should be brought down early in the session or sent to a standing committee on law reform. As it is, the law officers of the crown throughout the country have no opportunity of giving parliament the benefit of their opinions upon amendments to the criminal code that are brought down in the dying days of a session.
As I have said, I am strongly of the opinion that we should have a standing committee on law reform and on legal bills. We are away behind the times in this matter. Thousands of people are in prison for debt in this country to-day. Where is magna charta in Canada. Take the bill which is now before us. In the explanatory note it is pointed out that every superior court of criminal jurisdiction may at any time make rules of court, not inconsistent with any statute of Canada, which shall apply to all proceedings relating to any prosecution, and the executive has power to pass laws by way of rules and regulations for the general advantage of Canada. I do plead with the Minister of Justice that this bill be allowed to go to a committee on law reform. Thousands of people are being injured on the streets of Canada every day by the motor car. You could fill up the seats in this chamber four or five times over by the number of people killed and injured by the motor car in Toronto in a year; 3,200 last year were injured and 76 killed by the motor car. I brought down an amendment to the criminal code to deal with that matter, but nothing came of it. Such a question might very well go before a standing

Criminal Code-Death Penalty
committee on law reform. Look at what they have done in England to lessen the number of motor car accidents.
So far as this bill is concerned, I believe that a change should be made only after the most careful inquiry by a committee on law reform. There have been some ghastly hangings in this country. A woman was practically beheaded in the city of Montreal during an execution. Many of the officers appointed to conduct these executions are in my opinion incompetent. They get their appointments in the provinces; they are very largely politicians.
Listen to Canadian radio commission programs. and you will have sudden death automatically-I know I will. Many people are in trouble to-day who were never in trouble before, brought about by the depression and unemployment. They are young offenders. In Guelph reformatory there are nearly 200 aged fifteen. 150 aged sixteen, and almost 100 aged seventeen, and these are young people many of them from families which in some cases have been in this country for seventy years or more and have never done anything wrong in their lives. Why are these young people in the reformatory? Lack of work and born in a jobless age. These young people, many of them, have been handicapped from birth; they have never had a chance, and some of them mav come later under this particular bill.
In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Justice should enforce all the criminal laws of this country and all federal law, himself, and if that is not in his power then the British North America Act should be changed. Let the Minister of Justice refer to a committee on law reform not only this bill but all proposed amendments to the criminal code. Let him have the power or get the power to appoint his law officers of the crown to wield the big stick on all the big interests that have the working classes of this country by the throat.
I should like to hear from the minister why the press of this country is excluded from these executions. In Ontario and Quebec they have had that right from time immemorial. After all is said and done, the people should always have a very large interest in the carrying out of the criminal law of this country. It was so, and is one of the cardinal principles of magma charta. We have the grand jury system and the petit jury, and they are there to protect the public and enforce the law of the land.
The explanatory note to the bill points out that section 576 of the criminal code provides for the making of rules of court, and the

law officers of the crown have been handicapped in the carrying out of sentences by the rules and regulations that have been made. In the province of Ontario the supreme court has authority to make rules and regulations within the criminal jurisdiction of the province. Such rules may be made at any time with the consent of a majority of the judges present at a meeting held for that purpose.
This parliament sits here and does nothing to help the poor working people out of work -and nothing to prevent crime among youthful and other offenders. There are hundreds of men in penal institutions for offences for which the depression has been responsible, because after all if you take away a man's job for years you might as well sentence him to death. If a man has been out of work for five or six years he has no prospects at all, and. I say, you might as well sentence him as deprive him of his job. But what does this parliament do? All it does is to appoint a representative of the du Pont dynasty as the head of a commission to talk about unemployment. It seems to me that instead of this bill which we have before us, parliament should be discussing a larger measure dealing with the present state of affairs as to legal reform in Canada.
There should have been a proper revision by a select committee of the house of the criminal code many years ago to meet conditions that have arisen in consequence of the various changes that have taken place in our social life. For instance, the code was passed before we had any motor cars, and before a hundred and one other difficulties which have since arisen were thought of. I suggest that there should be a standing committee of this house sitting continuously on the subject of law reform throughout the land, for that is one of the main things we need in Canada. Yet we meet here, week after week, doing nothing. We might as well go home and stay at home, because the government of Canada is not in this chamber; it is outside, an invisible government conducted by a whole lot of useless commissions. I have never known one commission to do anything worth while, and one of the most useless was the commission with a representative of the du Pont dynasty at the head.
I do not wish to oppose this motion, but I have seen some reports with respect to this particular type of gas, and it has not been a success. But talking about gas, you have only to sit here three or four sessions to get all the lethal gas you want. I suggest that if we could get home by Easter it would be a good thing for the taxpayers of Canada.

Criminal Code-Death Penalty


I rise to support this bill because I believe it is a step in the right direction. I hold in my hand a copy of the sacred laws from which we have often heard quoted the law of a life for a life, and I notice that the same lawgiver makes it possible for one who slays his fellow man to escape penalty through the provision of cities of refuge in different places.
I know that in the history of executions, both in Canada and in the United States, the death penalty was formerly carried out in the open, but because of public curiosity and the demoralizing effect on human life, executions later came to be held in secret. I nearly witnessesd an execution once and I am thankful to say that I did not have to see it. One of the guards said that he would rather resign his position than witness another execution. We therefore punish not only the one who has committed murder, but a great many other people as well.
But let me quote from a greater lawgiver than Moses, one whom our lawyers in this house honour extremely, because the foundation of our Canadian and British jurisprudence was laid by that great lawgiver. I quote chapter 5, verses 21 and 22, of the gospel of St. Matthew:
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment: But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment.
I take the stand that any man who has hate in his heart has at least gone one step towards murder, and therefore he would do well to have a little sympathy with any man who in a fit of drunkenness or passion incurs the supreme penalty of the law. I support this bill wholeheartedly because I think it is a step in the right direction.


I wish to say a word in connection with this bill. It was my privilege last year, when the resolution was moved on which the bill was founded, to support that motion and under these circumstances I take it that it is incumbent upon me at least to state my position on this occasion. In the interval some occurrences that have taken place in the part Of Canada from which I come have rather induced me to modify my ideas with respect to this bill. I believe that the whole thing rests upon the question whether the law wishes to punish or to destroy. When a man commits wilful murder he becomes a killer, and as I suggested on a former occasion, once a killer, unfortunately always a killer.
It seems to me that there is only one thing to do with those who are willing to destroy human life, and that is to put them out of the way, and I still believe that the sooner they are put out of the way the better for themselves and for everyone else. But that is where my point comes in. Do we wish to punish murderers, thereby giving a warning to others who might be tempted to follow suit? Do we wish the death penalty to act as a deterrent or are we merely seeking to destroy those who threaten society? I am fully satisfied in my own mind that hanging has a decidedly greater deterrent effect than destruction in an easier form, such as the lethal chamber, and for that reason, although there are some undesirable features about hanging, I have rather modified my ideas and feel now that perhaps we should not be well advised to adopt this bill.


In a few words I wish to support this bill. I wish it had gone a little further and proposed the abolition of capital punishment. I think it will be recognized that many of the arguments advanced by the mover (Mr. Blair) in favour of his bill are equally valid against any form of capital punishment. In my opinion, however, we ought to be much more concerned about preventing cxfimes than about punishing criminals.
I take it that crimes, speaking generally, are the result of one or two causes, either bad economic and social conditions or a bad inheritance. Some of us have been very insistent on doing everything in our power to get rid of bad economic and social conditions. Some men are almost driven into crime, and it is often true that once they have started along that road there is no stopping short of even murder. There is, however, this other side; I believe some people are born with what we sometimes call criminal tendencies. They have not the ordinary inhibitions; some of them are subnormal; they cannot strictly be held responsible for what they do.
A few years ago I happened to be in charge of a government bureau of social research in the west and had occasion to make investigations into the extent of mental disease and subnormality existing in the western provinces. In that work certain conclusions were very strongly borne in upon me. One was that we have a much larger proportion of these unfortunates than most people realize. The criminal statistics show that the proportion of crimes among these people is much greater than among normal people. Yet we have so
Criminal Code-Death Penalty

far done very little to prevent people of that class from perpetuating themselves in the community. I can recall one instance of a poor woman in Saskatchewan who had given birth to a large number of subnormal children. You could hardly say this woman was immoral; she was rather unmoral. Her mentality was not more than that of a child of six or eight years. The mounted police had to be sent out almost every year to bring in one more child to be placed in a shelter in Regina, to be for life a burden on the community. Surely something should have been done to prevent that poor creature from continuing to produce children who were bound to bring trouble to the community.
One other instance I may give, that of a judge in my own city of Winnipeg who on one occasion had before him a man from the country, a fine upstanding young farmer, but rather ignorant of city temptations, who had managed to get a young woman into trouble. The woman was in reality subnormal. I happened to have traced her record back for some twenty years to a poorhouse in England. She had cost the state tens of thousands of dollars. She had spent most of her life in public institutions, either because of the wretched diseases with which she was afflicted or because of the crimes she had committed. And this judge knew so little about that whole field of social science that he actually turned this woman over to that young farmer who promised to make her his wife. In my judgment it was one of the most criminal things that could be done. The life of this young farmer was almost ruined. Fortunately the woman had so little sense that a few months later she left him. Why should she be permitted to perpetuate her type?
I suggest that there is something in what was said by the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church), that while it is desirable that we effect a number of reforms in our criminal laws, to introduce them in this haphazard fashion is not the best way to do it. Surely we have reached the stage where there should be some fairly comprehensive revision of a number of our laws in view of the scientific knowledge that is now available. But as things stand I think this bill is decidedly a move in the right direction.


May I refer to the very last words of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth), because they have also been used by other hon. members who have supported this bill-"a move in the right

direction." I should like to know what hon. members mean by "the right direction." Is it doing away with capital punishment?


From my standpoint, yes.


It is a
good thing that it should be known what my hon. friend had in his mind when he used those words. Capital punishment has been debated in this house on many occasions since I have been a member of it. In the old days the late Mr. Bickerdike used to introduce every session a bill to that end. But the last time the subject was debated here was a few years ago when it w'as introduced by Mr. Irvine, and after a protracted debate the vote was 92 to 29 in favour of retaining capital punishment in our legal structure. Therefore, so long as capital punishment is the law of this country, those whose duty it is to see that the law is carried out have to act accordingly.
As far as this bill is concerned I admit that 