Mr. E. C. St. PERE (Hochelaga) moved that the first report of the joint committee of both houses on the printing of parliament be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, in tabling a return to an order of the house passed on February 23 last with respect to Niagara River bridge, I would point out that all the correspondence has been brought down; but no reply has been given to the third question asked by the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church), because it relates to a matter of policy, which it is not customary for the government to indicate in advance.


Bill No. 39, respecting the Dominion Association of Chartered Accountants.-Mr. Plax-ton.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers), which arises out of a problem facing the municipalities of the lower mainland of British Columbia. During the last three years a considerable number of families from the dried-out areas of Saskatchewan have been settling in that part of our province. Apparently they have sufficient to enable them to make small payments on property, but soon find themselves without any means of support and make application to the municipalities for relief.
According to statistics supplied to me by the Reeves' Association of Fraser Valley and which I have communicated to the minister, during the last three years fifteen municipalities have looked after 1,745 of these people, some municipalities looking after as many as 400. The problem is this: These families were on relief in Saskatchewan, paid I believe one hundred per cent by a federal depart-

War Veterans' Allowance Act
ment, and the government of British Columbia will not contribute toward relief until the applicant has been domiciled within the province for twelve months. The result is the burden falls 100 per cent on the municipalities; they must provide relief or pay transportation for these people back to their homes. Would it not be possible to continue the federal aid, through proper channels, until these families become settled and in a position to provide for themselves? There is no doubt that a large percentage of them will make good settlers if they are only given an opportunity.
Hon. NORMAN McL. ROGERS (Minister of Labour): Mr. Speaker, the hon. member was good enough to give me notice of this question. I shall be very glad to obtain the information and supply him with it as soon as possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. -Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning). I wonder if the government contemplates action early enough this year to provide seed grain for the farmers on the prairies, or will it be necessary to wait until the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) has finished campaigning in Edmonton East?


That is a smart remark.	_
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister -of Finance): The intentions of the government in that regard are set out in an item already on the order paper, of which I am sure my hon. friend is well aware.


The house resumed from Thursday, March 17, consideration in committee of Bill No. 35, to amend the War Veterans' Allowance Act- Mr. Power-Mr. Johnston (Lake Centre) in the chair.
On section 1-The South African war.
Section 1 was allowed to stand as the result of certain representations to the effect that persons domiciled in Canada who served in the South African war in units [DOT]other than Canadian contingents might properly be brought under the provisions of this bill. I have now drafted two amendments to cover the matter. One is a substitute for paragraph (iii) of subsection 2. Paragraph (iii) reads:
(iii) In the case of the Canadian contingents serving in the South African war, the zone of military operations in South Africa in which Canadian contingents were engaged prior to the first day of June, 1902.
* I have substituted:
(iii) In the case of the South African war, the zone of military operations in South Africa in which the forces of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland were engaged prior to the first day of June, 1902.
That is in order to permit persons who served in units other than the Canadian contingents to come under the bill. It is proposed also to amend subsection 2 of the act by adding after subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (j) the following as (ii) (a):
Any person domiciled and resident in Canada immediately prior to the eleventh day of October, 1899, who served with the forces of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in South Africa during the South African war; provided that such person landed in South Africa prior to the first day of June, 1902.


I suggest that it might be desirable to use, instead of the words in paragraph (hh) "the war waged by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. . as there is a great difference of opinion as to who started that war, the words "the war between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the Dutch republics." Does the minister not think that that change would be desirable?


I think it would be eminently desirable.


Will not the word "domiciled" promote confusion? Wouldn't "resident" be better? The question will arise, what is "domiciled"?


That is the whole point.


That is a very old question. The legal authorities in this chamber might very readily get into some kind of snarl if we started discussing the difference between residence and domicile. We have had the question up time and time again in connection with election acts, and I do not believe it has ever been settled to the satisfaction of everyone. But in this case we should, in my opinion, endeavour to stand by a fairly strict interpretation of " domicile." In its broadest sense I believe it would mean a person who was settled here with his family with the intention of remaining a citizen of this country,
War Veterans' Allowance Act

whereas residence would apply to a man who perhaps was here only temporarily while his family was living in some other country. In view of the fact that this is beneficial legislation and not intended to be too wide, we should restrict it to those who were really citizens of this country. Under the circumstances I believe that " domiciled " is the better word to use.


The object was, I understood, to provide for those who went to war, rather than to put it on the basis of domicile in Canada.


We could not justify this amendment at all if it were based on residence. As I have explained, the theory was that a man left Canada to go to the war and with the intention of returning to Canada. There are two elements which constitute domicile; the first is residence, and the second is the animus manendi, to use the language of the books. In other words there must be the intention on the part of the person who has resided in the country to make it his permanent home. The leading authority is the case of a very rich man from the United States who went to England and lived there for over twenty years. The House of Lords held that he was domiciled in the United States, because he always had the intention, as evidenced by his writings and his statements, of going back to the United States, and that was his home. The question there was one of succession duties. The hon. member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill) with his usual legal astuteness, will grasp the point at once. The reason we are proposing to do something for a man who joined a force that was not a Canadian force is that he had resided here and went away with the intention of returning to Canada as his permanent home-these are the two factors that create domicile. He was therefore domiciled in Canada. If he had been a mere resident in Canada I fear we should have great difficulty in justifying the grant; we should find ourselves in a maze of complex difficulties. The language the minister has employed in the amendment is slightly different from that which I proposed to offer him, but I think his language is better calculated to indicate the thought I had in view. The action taken by the government will be appreciated by many who left here in good faith-because we were not then sending a contingent-joined British forces, and at the end of the war returned to Canada. The test of theiT ability to get money will be, did they come back to Canada at the end of the war or shortly after?
[Mr. Power.1


The words used in (ii) (a), "any person, domiciled and resident in Canada immediately prior to the eleventh day of October 1899," would not cover the man who went to England and enlisted in 1900 or 1901. Perhaps the wording should be the same as that used in the original War Veterans' Allowance Act: "who was domiciled in Canada at the time that he joined any such force." I think it would be better to have the wording the same for each class.


I do not understand the hon. member's objection. Does he mean to try to cover the case of the man who for some reason came to Canada say in 1900 after the war broke out and then decided to go back to England and joined a contingent there? That, I should say, is a very remote occurrence.


That is the way the present act reads with regard to the great war.


Is it worth while, for about perhaps ten people, probably not more, to make an amendment?


There may be only ten who are covered by the amendment, but surely they should receive consideration.


I do not think there is necessity for the amendment. The case suggested by my hon. friend would not arise. It would involve a man having been resident outside Canada, in England, let us say, at the time the war broke out, then coming here and remaining for a few months and returning to England to join the troops that were proceeding to South Africa, and then coming back to Canada. It is hardly likely that he would have the animus manendi, that my right hon. friend speaks of.


Those are the only words the books do use to cover it.


I can remember pleading a case before the circuit court in Quebec when I endeavoured to show that a man who was employed as a cigar maker in Toronto and had been so employed for twenty years was still entitled to be on the electoral list in Quebec, that since he had that animus he remained on the list. Some will say that he voted though he was absent.


His political predilections were fairly well defined. May I suggest that the words "and resident" would have to come out, because domicile involves residence.

War Veterans' Allowance Act


No. My cigar maker was resident in Toronto but was domiciled in Quebec.


I do not wish to join in any legal argument with my hon. friend, but I would point out that there can be no such thing as domicile without residence; there must be residence to constitute domicile. I remember Lord Haldane discussing the point once in a case in the Privy Council.


He does not know Canadian law.


But it goes beyond that; it is a matter of international law. The leading discussion of it is by a German named Savigny. The Winans case is one I had in mind, another being the case of Vanderbilt, who, it will be remembered, used to drive a four-in-hand to Brighton. The question of his domicile arose. The point I am making is that residence is a first essential ; the man must reside in Canada. My hon. friend is dealing with the question of domicile in an interprovincial matter, but in the matter that we are now discussing the veteran must reside in Canada and must have had the intention, evidenced by expression from time to time, of making Canada his permanent home.


I still have some doubts
as to the interpretation of residence and domicile given by my right hon. friend.


I will get the authority
and show it.


However, I am prepared
to have the words "and resident" omitted from the amendment, so that it will read: "Any person domiciled in Canada. . .".


The South African war
lasted two or three years, and at that time there was extensive immigration to Canada from the British isles. Should we not cover those few men while dealing with the others?


Does my hon. friend know
one man who would come under any amendment that he would like to propose?


I do not know of any who
would come under such an amendment, but perhaps the minister knows of some. Surely, however, the two sections I have referred to should be worded in the same way.


I do not think
there would be any.


There are some in the
west.


No. Most of those who did join the imperial units were attached at some time to Canadian units and therefore would come under the law.


The Strathcona Horse
was a Canadian unit in one sense, though not in another. I remember a number of Englishmen joined that unit long after 1899.


The minister seems to
appreciate the fact that there are many unusual circumstances, and hon. members have pointed out some of the exceptions that might arise. After all, this legislation is intended to cover as broadly as possible all cases that might come under the act. I could relate the unusual situation of one man who was in the South African war. Can the minister suggest under what clause the board has the opportunity of dealing with such exceptional cases?


What is the case my hon.
friend is referring to?


I am referring to some of the possible cases that have been suggested.


I do not know of any such cases.


Possibilities have been
brought to the attention of the minister. The hon. member (Mr. Green) suggested one case and I know of one pretty much along the same lines. Is there any provision in this bill empowering the board to deal with such cases? They are not being given that opportunity. The minister is hewing to the line as closely as possible.


That is not quite fair. In the first place, it was brought to my attention last year that a certain number of veterans who served in the Canadian contingent in the South African war might be indigent and might need to be looked after under the act, and in consequence of those representations I brought in amendments this year. Yesterday afternoon my hon. friend from Vancouver South (Mr. Green) stated a hypothetical case of men, resident or domiciled in Canada prior to the war, who served in some imperial unit. I said that I would take the matter into consideration and to-day I have brought in an amendment to cover that case. Now he brings to my attention a very remote hypothetical case of a man who had been travelling between Canada and England during the South African war, and whom he suggests we should cover. I do not know how to do it, and none of my hon. friends have suggested in what way
IFar Veterans' Allowance Act

the act should be amended to cover such a man. I submit that we have gone as far as possible.


I simply suggest that we use the same language as is now used in paragraph (j) (ii) of the original act.


We agreed to that half an hour ago.


No, the wording is different. In the original act it is provided:
Any former member of any of His Majesty's forces or of any of the forces of any of His Majesty's allies who was domiciled in Canada at the time at which he joined any such force for the purpose of the war and who served during such war in a theatre of actual war, . . .
In other words, an Englishman might have come to Canada in 1915 and in 1917 have gone back and joined an imperial unit; he is eligible for the allowance.


We are talking about the South African war.


I am asking that the same provision be made for the South African veterans.


We have done so as far as we are able.


I wish to congratulate the minister on having brought in this legislation. Sometimes it is difficult to decide who is eligible. I want to state a case that has come to my own notice and ask the minister whether he can give an assurance that it is covered. The man in question is No. 447, No. 4 squadron, Strath-cona Horse. He went to South Africa in 1899 and returned in 1901. He was wounded in the foot and hand and has a shrapnel wound in the forehead. He also suffered from dysentery and other sicknesses. Could 'the minister give any assurance that, if the facts are as I have stated, this man is eligible?


Certainly he is eligible, if he served with the Canadians in South Africa.


As to the point raised by the hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Green) the minister said that no member of the committee had suggested any way in which what my colleague wants could be done. But I can suggest a very simple way. If in the new paragraph (iii), subsection 2, which now reads " any person domiciled in Canada immediately prior to the eleventh day of October, 1899 " the words " domiciled in Canada at the date of his joining any such force " were substituted, or words conformable, the effect the hon. member seeks would be

achieved. Even if it touches only one case, or does not touch any, it would bring the new provision into conformity with the present section, and in any event would do no harm.


I am afraid it might deprive some who benefit under this amendment of some of their rights.


How could it do that?


If the section passes as it is, I do not think there will be any great hardship.


I am simply trying to get better legislation, as we all are, including the minister.


Amendment agreed to.
Section as amended agreed to.
On section 3-Veterans to whom allowance is payable.
I have no suggestions to offer [DOT] to improve the language of subsection (c) as it now stands, except that the term " veteran " in the governing paragraph of the section would perhaps render unnecessary the repetition involved in some of the words in paragraph (c). But they are mere repetition, and cannot detract from the value.


I did take the opinion of the Department of Justice on my right hon. friend's suggestion, and they pointed out that he had perhaps inadvertently left out reference to " economic handicaps."


That is true. The hon. member for Comox-Albemi (Mr. Neill) directed my attention to that.


And that possibly it might still further restrict rather than broaden the paragraph.
The objection was made by the hon. member for London (Mr. Betts) that in the section as it is in the act at present dealing with persons over fifty-five years of age there is not the same reference to the unlikelihood of these people ever being able to maintain themselves in the future. I discussed that also with representatives of the Department of Justice, and they pointed out that in the paragraph to which he refers in the legislation as it exists at present it was not necessary to mention the unlikelihood of their being able to maintain themselves, because we specifically said that the veteran, in order to profit by that legislation, had to be pre-aged, disabled or generally unfit, and if he were all of those three it naturally followed that he was not likely to be able to maintain himself in the future. For that reason they advised that it

War Veterans' Allowance Act
would not have been necessary under the former act to add those particular words in order to get the effect which was desired, either broadening or restricting. The justice department is of the opinion that the amendment as submitted gives to the board ample scope to grant allowance to any veteran who cannot maintain himself and is unlikely in the future to be able to do so, regardless of the nature of his handicaps. That is, I think, the objective which we all want to reach. We all want to cover the case of the man who is incapable of looking after himself and who is partly disabled from obtaining work in highly competitive fields such as we have in Canada. I believe the suggested amendments as brought down in the bill cover that case.
We must leave something to the discretion of the board. Every hon. member who has spoken has told us that the board has in the past carried out its duties to the satisfaction of everyone, has been broad and generous and at the same time just. The greatest compliment we could pay to them would be to allow them to continue to carry on the work which they have been doing in the past without restricting them by any act of this parliament, by any change in phraseology. I think it is giving away no secret to say that the drafting of this legislation, which took considerable time and much thought and consideration, was done in collaboration with the chairman of the war veterans' allowance board.


May we be quite certain that it is the intention of the government that all of the 5,100 odd men who were found to be wholly or partially unfit by the veterans' assistance commission are to be covered by this section as drawn?


Subject to investigation. I will not say that every one of those men will immediately get a war veterans' allowance, but it is the intention of the government to take in all the partially fit and the unfit. Whether an individual, Tom Jones, who was categorized as partially fit will come under this legislation, I cannot say. He should, but if for some particular and special reason known to the board he does not, I am not going to be responsible.


But the intention is that that whole group will be covered?


Absolutely. This bill is
drafted with that intention.


Because of the point raised by the minister a few minutes ago I suggest the elimination of the last few words of subsection 2. They appear to be a direction to the board which limits the discretionary power
to which he has referred. I am content to see the 'board have ample discretionary power, but this is in the nature of a direction to use a certain test as to the availability of work. It seems to nullify provisions of paragraph (c) of the preceding subsection. Would not the minister be content to use the very language he used in committee yesterday, when he said he did not intend this act to apply to any veteran who in the opinion of the board is .physically and mentally fit?


That is exactly what the paragraph says. Let me read it:
(2) The provisions of paragraph (c) of sub section 1 shall not be construed to apply to any veteran who is, in the opinion of the board-[DOT]
Full discretion is given to the board.
-physically and mentally capable of maintaining himself if work were available.
That puts it on the shoulders of the board and the -board only to decide whether the man is physically and mentally capable. We are giving them the widest possible discretion.


Would it not be possible to leave out the phrase "if work were available"?


No, really we should have something like this in order that ex-service men generally will not be deceived by this legislation. I want it to be clear beyond the shadow of doubt what the legislation means; that it does not cover the man who is able to work, and the only way to do that is to write it into the bill. It would have been much easier for me, and the bill would perhaps have had a far better reception throughout the country, had we left that provision out. But I think we have to be fair to the ex-service men by telling them just who is to benefit and who is not, and it is for that reason this is inserted in the bill.


I am very appreciative of
the trouble the minister has taken with this bill in holding over this section and in consulting the Department of Justice. I have the greatest respect for the opinion of the officers of that department, but in this particular case I do not agree with them. I do not think the new section 4 will give the board nearly as wide a scope as the old section. I hold that view because of the reasons advanced just now by my two friends from Vancouver. Therefore, I propose to move an amendment to the bill. In order that the record may be absolutely clear, I shall read the old section, the section which the government is now. proposing, and the amendment I intend tc suggest.

War Veterans' Allowance Act

The section dealt with by this bill is section 4 of the War Veterans' Allowance Act, which is chapter 48 of the statutes of 1930, as amended by chapter 48 of the statutes of 1936. This section reads:
Subject as hereinafter provided, allowances under this act shall be payable with the approval of the board to any veteran who, at the date of the proposed commencement of the allowance, has attained the age of sixty years or is, in the opinion of the board, permanently unemployable by reason of physical or mental disability, or having served in a theatre of actual war, has attained the age of fifty-five years and is, in the opinion of the board, incapable of maintaining himself because of disability, pre-aging and general unfitness, and in either case is, and has for the six months immediately preceding been domiciled in Canada.
Under that section the board is asked to consider whether an applicant is in its opinion incapable of maintaining himself for various reasons. There is no duty cast upon the board of considering the likelihood of an applicant becoming capable of maintaining himself. I turn next to the section proposed by the minister, being section 3 of the present bill, which reads:
(1) Subject as hereinafter provided allowances under this act shall be payable with the approval of the board to any veteran who has been domiciled in Canada for the six months immediately preceding the date of the proposed commencement of the allowance, and who
(a)	has attained the age of sixty years, or
(b)	has not attained the age of sixty years, but is, in the opinion of the board, permanently unemployable because of physical or mental disability, or
(c)	does not qualify by age or disability under the two preceding paragraphs, but having served in a theatre of actual war, is in the opinion of the board incapable and unlikely to become capable of maintaining himself because of economic handicaps combined with physical or mental disability or insufficiency.
I am critical also of subsection 2, which reads:
The provisions of paragraph (c) of subsection one shall not be construed to apply to any veteran who is, in the opinion of the board, physically and mentally capable of maintaining himself if work were available.
I shall not read subsection 3, because I have no quarrel with it. Allow me to review my objections. My submission is that the board is asked in every case to form an opinion whether an applicant is likely to become capable of maintaining himself. I submit that the board will find it far more difficult to grant allowances under these circumstances than it does under the present legislation. At present all they have to decide is whether an applicant is incapable of maintaining himself. This new phraseology makes it necessary for the board to find in addition, as a matter of carefully

considered opinion, that the applicant is unlikely to become capable of maintaining himself. The minister has said on more than one occasion that he is particularly desirous of giving the board the widest possible discretion. I agree that that is eminently desirable, but it seems to me that the only possible interpretation we can place upon this language is that it will have the effect of restricting the discretion of the board. It gives them one more point to consider and one more matter in connection with which they will have to form an opinion. Therefore, I say that it is not implementing what the minister has told us is his desire in the matter, nor is it in conformity with the recommendations of the veterans' assistance commission, as found on page 69 of their report. The recommendation in connection with unfit veterans reads:
That the War Veterans' Allowance Act be amended by removal of "age 55 years," where it refers to the granting of an allowance because of disability, pre-aging and general unfitness;
And further:
That the act be amended so as to permit a more liberal interpretation of legislation covering the granting of the allowance at any age to a veteran who saw- service in a theatre of actual war and who, because of his unfit condition, or other handicaps, is unable to maintain himself.
There is nothing in that recommendation about the likelihood or probability of a veteran becoming capable of maintaining himself. I submit that the present section is out of line with the recommendations of the veterans' assistance commission. It is also out of line with the resolution passed at the convention of the legion held in Fort William in February of this year. That resolution reads in part:
-and to ensure adequate assistance for those who saw' service in a theatre of actual w-ar and who are now by reason of economic conditions combined with their disability, tangible and intangible, resulting from war service, unable through no fault of their own to secure employment.
The minister had this to say in connection with that resolution, as reported on page 1039 of Hansard:
It mav be said that in passing this legislation we shall be fulfilling to the utmost the requests of the returned soldiers themselves as expressed through the dominion convention of the Canadian legion held in Fort William early in February-
My submission is that by reason of the phraseology which obligates the board in every case to consider whether a veteran is unlikely to become capable of maintaining himself, the minister's statement is incorrect.

War Veterans' Allowance Act
I should like to repeat that I am extremely appreciative of the work of the war veterans' allowance board and I am just as anxious as the minister that this board shall be enabled to operate in the future with completely unfettered discretion. But I do not want to place a board which has been doing good work in an embarrassing position. It has protected the interests of the soldiers and the treasury. It has held the scales in a nice balance between the two interests, and I say that a board constituted as is the present one would be very much embarrassed by regulations placing upon it the duty to consider in each case whether an applicant is likely to become in the future capable of maintaining himself. So far as veterans between the ages of fifty-five and sixty years are concerned, this provision undoubtedly narrows the benefits of the act. It makes the act more restrictive.
So much for a board seized of the right idea in dealing with veterans' administration. Suppose we were to put this legislation in the hands of a board unsympathetic towards veterans, as have been some boards and commissions of which we have had knowledge. I say we are placing in the hands of the board an instrument which would make it very easy for them to grant no allowances at all to the class of men the measure is intended to benefit. I would remind the minister that the personnel of boards changes from time to time, but the provisions we place on the statute books will stay there for some considerable time, and the removal of that which is not in the interests of returned soldiers would involve a great deal of difficulty and expense.
Therefore I move, seconded by Mr. Brooks:
That section 3 of the bill as printed, be amended by deleting the words "and unlikely to become capable" where the said words appear in line 33 thereof;
And by deleting subsection (2) of the new section 4, lines 30 to 39 inclusive of the bill as printed;
And by changing the number of the last subsection of the said new section 4 from (3) to (2).
That amendment, if accepted, would make the new section 4 read as follows:
4. (f) Subject as hereinafter provided allowances under this act shall be payable with the approval of the board to any veteran who has been domiciled in Canada for the six months immediately preceding the dale of the proposed commencement of the allowance, and who
(a)	has attained the age of sixty years, or
(b)	has not attained the age of sixty years, but is, in the opinion of the board, permanently unemployable because of physical or mental disability, or
(c)	does not qualify by age or disability under the two preceding paragraphs, but having served in a theatre of actual war. is in the
opinion of the board incapable of maintaining himself because of economic handicaps combined with physical or mental disability or insufficiency.
(2) An allowance shall not be awarded or continued under this act to a veteran or a recipient while such veteran or recipient is in receipt of an old age pension awarded under any proyincial old age pension legislation adopted in pursuance of an agreement made under the authority of the Old Age Pensions Act.
My submission is that if the present section is so amended the intention of parliament, of the legion convention, and of the minister will be fully carried out.


The question is on the amendment.
Amendment negatived: Yeas, 24; nays, 61.


The amendment has
now been declared lost.


Yes.


There is no reason to be proud of it, and I shall give the reason why.


Nothing to be ashamed of, either.


The amendment as proposed by the hon. member for London-


On a point of order, there has been a vote on the question the hon. member is discussing.


I am not speaking to the amendment. The amendment has been decided upon, and we are now speaking to the original section.


That is right.


These words still appear in the section: "-in the opinion of the board, physically and mentally capable of maintaining himself if work were available." If the minister will listen for a moment I shall give details with respect to the point I am trying to make, although I cannot give exact dates. We are attempting to take care of a large number of South African veterans. I do not recall the number; the minister has stated the number.
The two men I have in mind are partially disabled. They have never had relief or assistance of any kind, but through the influence of friends they have been able to earn a livelihood for themselves and their families. I am of the opinion that they will now come' under the section of this act which we have been largely discussing. I am not so sure that these men could have obtained employment if it had not been for influential friends helping them. Now if in the opinion of the board such work was available for these men, they may not be ligible under this act. That is the point I want to make clear. These
146S
War Veterans' Allowance Act

two men, now fifty-seven years of age, have been able to get work of a certain kind up to the present, but if they are unable to obtain this certain type of work in the future, I am afraid that in the opinion of the board they may not be eligible. The minister said earlier in the session that the board had not discretionary powers, that they had no latitude, but he has said since that they have latitude. I do hope that borderline cases of this kind, where the men are fifty-seven years of age or thereabouts will be able to get the benefit of the act even in the face of the wording of this section.


Section agreed to.
Shall I report the bill?


No, Mr. Chairman, I have a further amendment to move. I move that a section be added to the bill dealing with the treatment in departmental hospitals of recipients of an allowance under the War Veterans' Allowance Act who are not in receipt of a pension.


I would point out that such an amendment would not be in order, because it would involve the expenditure of money.


I think the point is well
taken, Mr. Chairman.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee on Bill No. 25, to amend the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act, 1934.
Motion agreed to, and the house went into committee, Mr. Johnston (Lake Centre) in the chair.
On section 1-Interpretation.
Mr. Chairman, in connection with section 1, I am proposing an amendment which, for the convenience of members of the committee, I arranged to have printed in the votes and proceedings of yesterday. It is the only house amendment I intend to propose, and it is for the object of making it quite clear that with respect to lack of privity of contract, cases which have been before the board and have not been dealt with because of lack of privity of contract will not be debarred from being dealt with by the board from now on. Also it is intended to cover cases where the board refused to deal with and dismissed cases on account of lack

of privity of contract, and with a third case where the board of review declined to deal with non-privity mortgages but did actually deal with the farmer's other debts. I will ask my colleague, the Minister of Public Works, to move the amendment.


I move, Mr. Chairman:
That clause 1 of the bill be amended by adding thereto as subsections (2) and (3) thereof the following:
"(2) If, in the case of a proposal filed prior to the commencement of this act, a debt secured by mortgage, hypothec, pledge, charge, lien or privilege on or against any property of the farmer '(hereinafter referred to as the secured debt) has not, by reason of the absence of privity of contract between the farmer and a secured creditor as herein defined, been dealt with by way of a composition, extension of time or scheme of arrangement, the farmer shall be entitled to have the proposal proceeded with or to file a new proposal, in either case, for the purpose of having the secured debt dealt with by way of composition, extension of time or scheme of arrangement in the like manner and with the like results as if this act had been in force at the date of the filing of the original proposal.
(3) In the case of a proposal formulated by a board of review prior to the commencement of this act whereby a secured debt was dealt with, the farmer shall, notwithstanding the absence of privity of contract between himself and a secured creditor as herein defined, be entitled to have such proposal confirmed by the board of review in the like manner and with the like results as if this act had been in force at the date of the filing of his proposal by the farmer."


There is one point on which I am not clear. A farmer owns five quarter-sections, against which there is a mortgage of eight or ten thousand dollars. He sells one quarter-section to another farmer for $1,700. The farmer who buys it pays up to a thousand dollars on this quarter-section; he is willing to pay the other seven hundred dollars and wants to get title to the land, but the mortgage company refuses to release it. Does this cover a case of that kind, or not?


The question is a difficult one to answer, because it presumes a set of circumstances which relate not only to lack of privity of contract but to other conditions which are not dealt with by this section. A simple case of lack of privity of contract is that of a farmer who has bought a farm subject to a mortgage. The mortgagor, however, the one who has real relationships with the mortgagee by virtue of the mortgage document, is not before the board of review. The party before the board of review is the farmer at present living on that piece of land and trying to make his livelihood there. It has been held that the board of review has no

Farmers' Creditors Act
authority in connection with a proposal by the farmer who is living on the land to deal with that mortgage, because the farmer who is living on the land is not the mortgagor.


He is not in this case, either.


That, I think, is the simplest explanation of the law of privity of contract and the sort of case which causes most frequent difficulty. It is that difficulty which we are seeking to overcome in the section now under discussion; I do not know that I can go into the legal position of the case my hon. friend is assuming.


Many cases of the kind I have just mentioned come before the board which they are unable to deal with. Take for example a man who buys a quarter-section of land and agrees to pay $1,700. There is a general mortgage against five quarters. The mortgage company refuses to release that quarter-section when the farmer is willing to pay the purchase price. I do not know how such a case is to be dealt with.


It seems to me that the question referred to by the hon. member for Wood Mountain is easy to answer. The Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act does not deal in any way with the situation presented by the hon. member. It is simply a matter of contract. In the first place the individual who bought that quarter-section had the opportunity of searching the title to the land, and had he done so he would have found the mortgage registered against five quarter-sections. He took his own chances when he bought a quarter with a mortgage sufficient to cover five quarters. The Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act does not deal with that situation.


I believe that by the amendment it does, because it is specifically stated, " a person holding a mortgage ... on or against the property of the debtor." It seems clear to me that if a person buys a piece of land covered by a mortgage and the mortgage covers other land besides the piece he bought, the mortgagee " holds the mortgage against the property of the debtor" within the meaning of the act and so is a "creditor" as defined by the amendment. In a case such as mentioned by the hon. member for Wood Mountain the board of review would, I feel satisfied, have full jurisdiction and could make an order separating the obligation and cutting it down to the amount it regarded as proper against the particular parcel owned by the farmer. I do not think there can be any doubt about that.
I should like to bring another matter to the attention of the minister. I do not know whether in the opinion of the law officers it is covered, but I read over the whole amendment to section 1 changing the definition of " creditor " and I doubt whether it would be held to cover such a case as this. A person might sell a parcel of land to A, A might assign the agreement to B, and B might have been farming that land for the last ten years and might have made substantial payments, but with no privity of contract between the vendor and B I doubt whether the definition as given in the proposed amendment covers the vendor in an agreement for sale in such a case, and I think it should, because he is in the same position as a person who buys land subject to a mortgage. To make it abundantly plain, I suggest there should be some such amendment as adding after " thereof " in the fourth line the following words, " or a vendor or his assign in an agreement of sale of property in which the debtor has an interest." Otherwise you are dealing with only half the problem, because many people who have bought land under agreement of sale need the benefit of this bill as much as people who took over land subject to a mortgage.


I think I see two serious objections to this amendment. In the first place it is retroactive; as I understand it, it applies to any farmer whose case has been before the board of review and whose application has not been dealt with because the relation of creditor and debtor did not exist between him and the mortgage indebtedness- he has purchased a farm with a mortgage on it; it is not his debt. Where such cases have been dealt with by a judge and he has taken the application out from under the act because there was no relation between debtor and creditor, or where the application or proposal has been rejected by the board of review or by any tribunal before which it came, can we go back and review all these from the beginning of this act, in 1934? That is the first question.


Now, I have several
questions. I dealt as well as I could with that of the hon. member for Wood Mountain. With regard to that of the hon. member for Rosthern, I can only say that I am advised by the law officers that there is no difficulty whatever along the line that he indicates. As a matter of fact the boards of review have been dealing with agreements of sale cases, very many of them. We have hundreds of cases where-


Not in Saskatchewan, where there is no privity.
Farmers' Creditors Act


Well, in cases where there is no privity also in some of the provinces. That is my difficulty in dealing with this act; it has so many different phases in different parts of Canada. But I can assure my hon. friend that the view of the law officers is that the case which he has cited can be dealt with under the language here employed. I think I can dispose of the matter to his satisfaction by telling him that I will give instructions that his remarks shall be noted and the bill will not be passed a third time before consideration has 'been given to the point which he raised.
With reference to the question of the hon. member for Leeds, the intention is, as I stated, to give the farmer who on account of lack of privity of contract, has been denied approval of a proposal before the board of review, an opportunity to present his proposal again. It is intended also to give to the farmer in connection with whose proposal an adjustment has been made with respect to that part of his debts which could be dealt with by the board, but the board not having dealt with the part affected by reason of lack of privity of contract, the opportunity to go back again and say, "I was denied the full benefit of the act because of lack of privity of contract with respect to my secured indebtedness. Although I did get an adjustment in respect of my unsecured debts I want to come back, now that this amendment has been passed, and have the board consider what should be done with my secured debts which were barred from consideration previously because of lack of privity of contract." It is intended to cover that case and cases also where the board declined entirely to deal with applications because a lack of privity of contract existed. In other words, it is intended to put all farmers, from the commencement of the act, in the same position with respect to this question of lack of privity of contract.


I find that the amendments as now proposed by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) do not cover any proposed amendments to the act in general. It happens that I have a case which is of particular concern to me, but which has dominion-wide application in the administration of the act; and what I am anxious to know is whether under the amendments we now have I may discuss that case and deal with the rules as formulated under the act. When the discussion took plaee on the second reading it revolved around the question whether or not the bill should be sent to a committee. The idea was that it should pass the second reading and the Minister of Finance would
{Mr. Tucker.]
take into consideration whether or not it should go to a committee. Now we are in committee of the whole, and because I had not an opportunity on second reading to discuss the case I have in mind I should like to know whether I shall be given that opportunity now. I should like to state this case because I must admit that what I have to say is not entirely relevant to the amendments that are now before the house. At the same time I must ask for an opportunity to submit what I consider is a very important matter regarding the administration of the act in Manitoba.


It was understood that we would be able to discuss any proposals if the bill did not go to a committee.


There is no doubt that the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) has stated correctly the understanding, and perhaps the proper time to discuss such proposals as do not fall within the four corners of the amendments just suggested would be when the chairman asks us to approve the title, after we have considered the amendments now before the committee. If that is suitable it will facilitate the committee's proceedings and enable us to confine discussion to each section as it is taken up, the understanding being that general discussion of matters not within the scope of the proposed amendments may be had on the title.


This is the first
opportunity I have had of noting this particular amendment, and I must say that I cannot agree with it. I know of one particular case-there may be many of them- where proposals have already been made, applications having been made to the official receiver under a conditional sales agreement with respect to farm stock and implements. The vendor, after the application had been made iby the farmer, proceeded under his lien, in a legal and proper manner, and sold the goods. This amendment, as I see it, would allow that farmer to make a further proposal as to that lien note or conditional sales agreement, after the sale or the repossession has taken place. I should like to be sure on that point because we have such a case, and I do not think it is fair to the vendor that he should be placed in this position. In my opinion it is one more notch in driving down the price of farms in Ontario. I cannot agree with this amendment, which makes it retroactive.


I mentioned the retroactive feature of the amendment, which is very objectionable and will add to the con-

Farmers' Creditors Act
fusion that exists and the dissatisfaction that prevails in Ontario with the administration of the act. I do not want to go into details of the administration, which I think the minister knows is different in different sections. Some abuses have grown up in connection with the administration. Can the minister give us any idea how many cases would be reopened if this section were passed?
Another feature I had in mind is this. A man buys a farm subject to a mortgage which he has not made, a mortgage made by the man from whom he has purchased, and under this amendment he is entitled to come before the board and have that written down, have it considered, compromised. What position is the original mortgagee in with respect to the man who made the mortgage? His right, I submit, remains, assuming that the original mortgagor is worth the amount, to go to him on his covenant and recover on the covenant in that mortgage. A very nasty complication may arise in connection with that. In one case the debt is written down; the mortgagee gets only fifty per cent and he turns around and says, "All right, I will go back to the man who originally made the mortgage and get my other fifty per cent fro