(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What was the total expenditure for the medical care of ex-service men, under orders in council P.C. 1842 and P.C. 91, for the fiscal years 1935-36, 1936-37, and 1937-38?

National Parks Act
2.	What was the total expenditure for hospital allowances for ex-service men, under orders in council P.C. 1842 and P.C. 91, for the fiscal years 1935-36, 1936-37, and 1937-38?
3.	What were the total admissions to hospitals of ex-service men, under orders in council P.C. 1842 and P.C. 91, for the fiscal years 1935-36, 1936-37, and 1937-38?
4.	How many ex-service men were granted treatment as class 1 patients, under orders in council P.C. 1842 and P.C. 91, for the fiscal years 1935-36, 1936-37, and 1937-38?


1.
1935-	36	 1936-	37	 1937-	38		.... $1,548,643 61 .... 1,392,321 43 .. .. 1,461,855 96
T otal				.... $4,402,821 00
2. 1935-	36	 1936-	37	 1937-	38		.. .. $1,315,347 09 .. .. 1,083,919 42 .. .. 943,430 68
Total		.... $3,342,697 19
3. 1935-	36	 1936-	37	 1937-	38			 12,678 	 11,527 	 11,031
Total			 35,236
4. 1Q3r*-3fi 			 7,562
lQ3fi-37 			 5.990
1937-38			 4,571
Total			 18,123
MONTREAL POSTAL	EXAMINATIONS


1.	How many persons were candidates at the examinations held in Montreal, in June, 1937, for: (a) postal clerks; (b) letter carriers and mail porters?
2.	How many were successful in the said examinations for: (a) postal clerks; (b) letter carriers and mail porters?
3.	How many of the successful candidates
were appointed since as:	(a) postal clerks;
(b) letter carriers and mail porters?
4.	How many returned soldiers were successful in the said examinations for:	(a) postal
clerks; (b) letter carriers and mail porters?


1.	(a) 1,767; (b) 2,593.
2.	(a) 402; (b) 824.
3.	(a) 63 (full time); 41 (part time), (b) 10 (full time); 42 (part time).
4.	(a) 1; (b) ?8.


1.	What is the total amount of premiums paid on the life insurance policies that have lapsed during the calendar years 1930 to 1937 inclusive?
2.	What is the approximate average length of time the above policies have been in force?


1.	The information required is not available from the annual statements received from the various life insurance companies registered at the Department of Insurance.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


Hon. T. A. CRERAR (Minister of Mines and Resources) moved the second reading of Bill No. 154, to amend The National Parks Act, and The Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island National Parks Act, 1936.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
Section 1 agreed to.
On section 2.
Subsection (3) agreed to.
On subsection (4)-Lands added to Elk Island national park.
With respect to Elk
Island, is it proposed to vest in the crown in the right of the province the lands not required?


Yes; they are transferred
to the province. They are really for road purposes, to permit some slight change the provincial authorities wish to make in a road.


The section says "are
hereby declared to be no longer required for park purposes." I do not see that it is vested in the crown in the right of the province of Alberta; however, as in the case of Prince Edward Island, I should think it would be proper to vest it in the crown in the right of the province.


Is that suggestion for purposes of clarity, or is it essential?


It struck me that it
might be essential, though I am uncertain as to that. When the natural resources agreements were made the reservation for park purposes was made also, as the hon. gentleman
Excise Act

said yesterday; and in the case of Prince Edward Island, as will be observed, we have stated that the lands are hereby vested in his majesty in the right of the province of Prince Edward Island. I suggest that somewhat similar words should be used with respect to the two areas mentioned in subsections (3) and (4) of section 2. Whether or not it is essential would be seen only by going back over the various statutes to find whether that was done. But it is simple to add the words, "hereby vested in the crown in the right of the province of Alberta." I think it may be essential, but it may not. I am asking the minister for information.


I cannot say definitely at the moment, but my impression is that it is covered in the natural resources transfer agreements. I think I am correct in saying that there is some provision somewhere in the agreements that lands which may be no longer required for park purposes shall return to the province. However, I have no objection to adding-


No; I was just asking the minister for information.


Subsection agreed to.
Section agreed to.
On section 3-Lands withdrawn from Prince Edward Island national park.
Perhaps the minister can give a little information in respect to a matter which I brought to the attention of the house some time ago. There was a rather serious dispute between the province and some of the landowners. I felt that the landowners, on the evidence submitted in their declaration had made a fairly good case; and the minister said he would look into the matter.
I take it, when we place the obligation upon the province to acquire the lands, the Dominion of Canada has no desire to occupy lands with respect to which the previous owners felt that they had a grievance. Perhaps the minister could tell us what the effect of this legislation may be upon the areas which were in dispute and the values which were fixed upon them by the arbitrary provisions of a statute of Prince Edward Island.


My information is that
the matter to which the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) has just referred, and which was mentioned by him on a previous occasion, has been satisfactorily adjusted. I think these changes or rectifications in the park boundary lines relate to the adjustment made with the people from whom the property was acquired.


That is what I wanted to know.


That is my information at the moment. I wish, however, to add that I do not think there is any responsibility on the federal government through the parks administration to see that people whose lands may be taken for park purposes are properly compensated. That is wholly a matter within the province, and of course the province has to answer to those from whom the land is acquired.


I was not saying that the duty rests primarily on the parks branch, but I think it rests on the dominion as a dominion, when it is acquiring property by way of a trust, to satisfy itself in a general way that those who have been deprived of their property have had it taken from them by due process of law. I am not going to traverse the ground I went over before; but the minister will remember that the province passed a statute which allowed them to take the property and fix the compensation. That is, the people who compulsorily take it fix the compensation, and there was no recourse either to arbitration or otherwise. I suggest that, not the parks branch but the Dominion of Canada would not care to acquire that land which had a trust attached to it unless the dominion felt that at least those reasonable precautions, which have always obtained in British dominions when property is taken from an owner, had been observed.


A rather nice point.


No. I think the minister said this adjustment cured it.


Section agreed to.
Section 4 agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
Hon. J. L. ILSLEY (Minister of National Revenue) moved the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the senate to bill No. 123, to amend the Excise Act.
He said: The amendments are harmless. There is really only one amendment which substitutes the word "suffers" for the word "allows."
The other amendment is merely an amendment in point of form. Section 17 of the bill

Supply-Agriculture-Production
states that the word "five" shall be substituted for the word "two," the form ia which the section is drafted violates the rules-or perhaps the accepted practice-of parliament. Instead of section 17 being drafted in the terms that appear, the whole section should have been repealed and the word "five" substituted for the word "two." The senate has made that change in the wording of section 17. Those are the only two amendments. I would ask that the house concur in them.
There is one about fines, penalties. There are three altogether.


I was told there were only two.


It is in the votes and proceedings:
Page 2, line 16. For "penalty" substitute " fine."
Motion agreed to; amendments read the second time and concurred in.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.


Production services-Live stock and poultry

further amount required, $24,785.
What progress, if any, has been made with regard to shipping fresh killed beef to the old country market?


The first shipment left last week.


When this item was up for discussion some time ago I registered an objection against the practice followed by the department of going to the stockyards to buy brood sows rather than obtaining them from breeders of pure bred swine. Will the minister give the committee the details of what has been done during the past year along this line. How many sows have been purchased in this way for distribution among the farmers for use as breeding animals?


I am informed by the deputy that he has not that information for the past year.


I think it is a very unwise policy to purchase animals in this way for distribution among farmers, particularly when there are so many live stock breeders who are doing such good work in breeding pure bred animals. They are helping, at considerable expense to themselves, to build up the breeding stock of this country, but if these animals are purchased at the stockyards the breeders will have no encouragement whatever to continue the work they are doing. They have rendered a wonderful service to the dominion by the production of pure bred hogs, cattle and other animals. Rather than continue in this way, I think it would be better if the department discontinued this service entirely and let the farmers buy from the breeders or wherever else they wish. It would be unfair to the pure bred live stock breeders to continue this practice any longer.


I can understand that there may be some objection to this policy, but there are also some advantages. I have shipped at one time as many as thirty or forty pure bred Yorkshire hogs to market, and many other producers have done the same thing. By there being some one at the market to make selections, many of those animals are saved from slaughter. Quite often the community in which the animals are bred is not such that they can be disposed of to advantage. Many farmers who would like to take advantage of such a distribution do not live in the immediate vicinity. We are trying to work out a policy whereby these animals will be selected at the local points rather than at the stockyards. That would provide some improvement over the present system. The department will be more than pleased to cooperate with the breeders in providing a more convenient distribution of pure bred sires.


The minister's answer goes a long way to prove just what I have said. These pure bred live stock breeders are forced to send their animals to market because they have no other market for them. They will never have a market so long as these animals are distributed in the way they are at present. I think the proper thing to do would be to purchase the animals from the pure bred live stock breeders. I believe these animals could be got for a very small premium over the prevailing market price for slaughter animals. That would assist the breeders and encourage them in the work they are doing.


I agree with what the hon. member for Haldimand (Mr. Senn) has said. I do not think the department is giving the pure bred live stock breeders of this country sufficient assistance. About the only market they have is the ordinary meat auction, as one might call it. Considerable advancement has been made with reference to advanced registration of pure bred swine, and serious consideration has been given to initiating a record of performance in connection with swine, such as we have with dairy cattle. It seems to me

Supply-Agriculture-Production
that the department is giving the pure bred live stock breeder very little incentive to carry on a work which is essential to the production of high-class bacon. Has any consideration been given to the payment of 'bonuses for the production of pure bred swine, such as are paid in connection with cattle and sheep?


The bonus policy in connection with swine has been largely done away with. This policy was in force generally some years ago, but it is not now in operation in a number of provinces. The service in connection with registration and all that goes with it is given to the breeders of pure bred swine as well as to the breeders of other pure bred live stock. However, the situation in connection with hogs is a little different from that prevailing in connection with cattle or horses. The price of a pure bred sire, as far as cattle or horses are concerned, is much higher than the price of a pure bred hog. The same thing is true with regard to females. For example, when you ship hogs to market, even if they are pure bred, you would get in the west probably fifteen or sixteen dollars a head for them. It is very difficult to make selections on the farm pay the cost of those selections and add that cost on to the price of the animal. But when the individual can go perhaps to the local yard from which the hog is shipped or to the stock yard to which it is shipped, he can purchase pretty much at the market price. In addition, the amount of money involved in the animal itself renders it difficult to add the cost of the service on to it, which would mean going around and selecting the hogs where they are to be found on the farm. That is one thing which it is difficult to overcome, the matter of cost alone. When you are dealing with a bull or a stallion, it is an entirely different matter. There you can make selections and add on the cost of selection, the cost of inspection, and all that kind of thing without doubling the price of the animal, but with the hog you would probably more than double the price. I would say this, that I think the results which have been obtained across Canada from one end to the other in the improvement of swine is a fair indication that the services of the department have been not only appreciated but effective.


Perhaps the minister did not get my point. I believe the department would be well advised to give consideration to the encouragement of the production of high-class, pure bred swine that come up to the standard required and have the record of performance credentials. I see

no more serious difficulty in providing a system of general application with regard to hogs than in providing one with regard to sheep. I quite agree with the minister that great strides have been made in assisting in the production of better swine throughout the country, because farmers take advantage of the pure bred swine that are placed on the market; but that is more or less drying up the fountain from which the better swine have come; and while it slightly improves the general quality and general standard throughout the country, it does not offer much incentive to the breeders to whom the hon. member for Haldimand (Mr. Senn) has referred.
As to advanced registry, I observe in last year's report that the department was completing arrangements for two advanced registry test stations, one in Edmonton and one in Saskatoon, and I should like to know what progress has been made in that regard and whether the department has given consideration to the establishment of advanced registry test stations at other points throughout the dominion. If we are going to keep in step with the improvement made in other countries in quality of production, special efforts should be made and special encouragement given by the department to the swine breeders throughout this country, so that breeding swine with special credentials as to record of performance might be more widely distributed. The department might well seriously consider the taking of special steps for the encouragement of pure bred swine because, after all, the swine from which we produce our better bacon to-day are all pure bred or eligible for registration. I quite agree that the small price secured for pure bred swine does deprive breeders from having a record of their breeding in many instances; but recently great strides have been taken with respect to advanced registry tests and records of performance credentials, and that is fundamental if we are steadily to improve the quality of our swine. But I am speaking more with reference to the encouragement of the breeder of recorded pure bred swine, than of what might be called the commercial breeder, who is merely taking advantage of the better hog he gets at the ordinary market price.


We already have a premium
on first-class hogs and I think that might perhaps serve the purpose. It is extremely important that our bacon should be properly displayed in the old country. For many years we have heard that we have never had a proper display of our bacon in the old land. We have also heard that our Canadian packing organizations do not wish to have a proper

Supply-Agriculture-Production
display of our bacon in the old land because they say that if the price of our export bacon, which comprises 15 per cent of our production, goes up then the price of the 85 per cent we consume at home would also go up, and if the price of the 85 per cent for home consumption goes up, it will come in competition with fowl, fish, eggs and salmon, and we shall not have the turnover in bacon that we now have. Their interest is in looking after the packer. Our interest is to see that we get the highest possible price for our Canadian bacon.
I have received a number of letters complaining of our Canadian display, and I have one here which I got from Glasgow only two days ago, from a drover of my home village. He visited the empire exhibition in Glasgow and viewed the situation in regard to our export cattle and hogs. I will read a few sentences from his letter:
I came to Glasgow on a cattle boat from Montreal for three reasons: first, I wanted to see how Canadian cattle were being handled for export; second, I wanted to see what Canada in particular had to show in the empire show windows at the empire exhibition; and third, I just wanted to see what sort of country our Canadian pioneers came from.
X have been greatly impressed by the beauty and historical interest of Scotland. I have just finished going through Edinburgh castle and I am writing this as I did the enclosure, in the waiting room in the castle. Canada had the most pretentious building on Dominion avenue at the exhibition, but I don't think it would sell Canada to the British Isles. While Australia had a more modest building, I believe her display was much more businesslike.
Peter C. McTavish.
That letter, as I said, was from Glasgow, from the empire exhibition.


If I might make the
suggestion, the remarks just made by my hon. friend relate to item No. 4S5. We are now on the item for the production of live stock and poultry, and I would rather reserve until we reach the other item, any remarks I have to make in reply to my hon. friend.
To deal with the questions raised by the hon. member for Dufferin-Simcoe (Mr. Rowe), the first of these advanced registry establishments that was built was in Ontario. Later there was one placed in Quebec, and later another in Prince Edward Island, and one in Nova Scotia, which serves both Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. Last year again there was one built in Saskatoon, as my hon. friend indicated, and one in Edmonton. This year we are rebuilding the one in Ontario; that is, we are building a more up-to-date plant.


Where?


Near Waterloo, in the same vicinity where the old one was established. That is now being arranged for. The desire is to promote the production of the best strain of Yorkshire hogs, particularly, right across Canada, and to encourage breeders in producing them by giving them this registry and also a test of the production under certain feeding regulations. That is being done at all these plants, and the work will be enlarged as funds are available.


No consideration has been given to the breeders who produce the desired type of hogs for breeding purposes?


Of course the present system contemplates that they will reap a premium on the sales when their live stock is sold. I think it has been the experience that they do, as a result of the records given by and maintained by the government.


When this item was before the committee on a former occasion, I think it was May 25, I tried to persuade the minister to give consideration to the live stock breeders of Saskatchewan by way of providing sires. I wonder if he can tell us what he proposes to do to assist Saskatchewan live stock breeders this summer, and if he has reconsidered his ideas? At that time he was not very favourably disposed.


We have not the figures made up yet for this year. The work is now being carried on. But I gave the figures, I believe, on two previous occasions, when we were on the general estimates and also on the date mentioned. The number of bulls put out in Saskatchewan was, last year, 65, and the previous year, 70; in Manitoba 61 last year and 52 the previous year; in Alberta last year 78 and the previous year 88. In addition to this policy of putting out bulls in the communities, we are this year in Saskatchewan putting bulls into the community pastures that were established. This year 18 are being placed in those pastures, to be used by those adjacent to them.


How many of those pastures are in Saskatchewan?


All eighteen are in Saskatchewan.


Can the minister give us any idea as to the number of breeding stock, females, in the pastures?


If it would serve just as well, I should prefer to deal with these figures

Supply-Agriculture-Production
when we are discussing rehabilitation. I shall then have the figures available of the number of cattle served in each of the pastures.


How many sires is the department putting out this year in Saskatchewan under the loaning scheme?


The number has not yet been fully determined. As I have just indicated, we are now supplying the pastures and other areas. I am not able to give the completed figure for this year. It will be a number greater than last year.


The minister has given the number of sires placed in the different provinces in the last two years. Could he give us the number by breeds?


For the three provinces I have the totals back over a period of years, but not just for last year. I can give those figures if they will be satisfactory.
Saskatche-
Alberta wan Manitoba
Shorthorns..	..	539	604	295Herefords	..	.	.	128	153	90Ayrsbires	....	6	11	2Angus	
86	70	18Holsteins	16	12	12Redpolls	
47	24	7Jerseys	
7	...	...


There is just one suggestion I wish to offer to the minister. Thinking over our live stock industry and the condition it is in at the present time, and realizing that we are not making very much headway in developing a better quality of beef cattle-I am speaking particularly of beef cattle at the present time-I have come to the conclusion that the production of good live stock should be left entirely with the provinces, each of which has a department of agriculture. Over this large dominion, far-flung as it is, the federal government cannot undertake to supervise better sires for our live stock; therefore, I believe, it should be left entirely to the provinces. But I think the federal department could assist in the marketing of our products; I would say that that is their job. I believe also that they should supply funds whereby the provinces could give bonuses in the production of better sires. I wish just to throw out that suggestion. I know that in the past the different provinces have had policies of their own, sometimes overlapping with the policies of the federal government. But I am firmly convinced that the production end should be left to the province, with the federal department assisting in every way possible in providing a market and also giving financial aid. When I read of the action which has been

taken, in particular, by Ireland, which is our greatest competitor in the old country market -the policies that country has adopted, the strides it has made in producing better feeder cattle for the British market-I am amazed that we in Canada have just leaned on our oars and have not made use of the advantages which we enjoy. It is all right to send Stocker and feeder cattle to Great Britain, but we should send what the market demands. We are not doing so in any quantities. Most of our feeder cattle, store cattle that go to the old country markets, are the progeny of dairy and dual purpose bulls. Can you expect them to compete successfully with Ireland, which is using the very best beef bulls it can buy in Scotland and in England? We in Canada should be concerned in providing the very best type of beef bulls we can secure, not limiting them to any one beef breed, but getting the best we can in all breeds, thereby giving the market what it demands. The same thing applies exactly to the United States. Those two countries provide us with our markets, and if we have not the initiative and the ambition to provide ourselves with the very best stock we can possibly obtain to supply those markets, then I say there is something seriously wrong.


Item agreed to.
Plant inspection, insects and diseases-further amount required, $30,185.
Does the grasshopper question come under this item?


No, under entomology. There is a special item for it.


Item agreed to.
Grants for fair buildings and improvements, in the amounts detailed in the estimates- further amount required, $65,850.
Will the minister explain this item?


The purpose of the vote is to provide for a number of grants. For the maritime winter fair at Amherst, Nova Scotia, there is an additional S5.000. That is one year's amount to provide for a building that is being put up at Amherst to serve the three maritime provinces. The one winter fair serves the three. This will constitute part of the amount that is to be spread over ten years under arrangement with these provinces. The provinces themselves are contributing S5,000. The Vancouver exhibition is a similar arrangement, but there is some doubt whether that will proceed in view of the fact that the amount has been found scarcely sufficient to take care of the cost of the building. It may have to be delayed for another year, but at

Suppl y-A griculture
the moment the amount is being voted. I do not know whether we shall be able to go through with the arrangement, but that is the intention. The additional amount for the Montreal exhibition represents a special expenditure that has been incurred there, the province of Quebec having joined with us on a fifty-fifty basis to clear up the expenditure that has been made. As a matter of fact, Quebec is giving more than fifty per cent. The Ormiston exhibition is a similar one. The British Columbia Cattle Growers' Association receives S600. It is to increase the grant to the Kamloops exhibition for a similar purpose. With respect to the Discovery Day fair in the Yukon, we are providing a grant to take care of some special exhibits having to do largely with horticulture in the north country. The request was made by the hon. member for the Yukon (Mrs. Black) and I thought it was a good purpose to encourage the production of vegetables and flowers in that far northern country. The hon. member can explain it more fully than I can. The other amount of 850,000 is for small exhibitions across Canada, for improvements of fences and buildings and so on, where employment may be given in a small way.


I wish to take this opportunity particularly to thank the Minister of Agriculture for making this grant:	Our Discovery Day celebration, the day on which we celebrate the discovery of gold in the Yukon, is on August 17, and fairs are held in the capital city, Dawson, and at White Horse and Mayo. At White Horse, Dawson and Mayo, tourist steamers call and tourists are interested in seeing what our country will produce. In the three months of the growing season when we have practically twenty-four hours of daylight or sunlight, the country produces almost all the vegetables that one gets on the outside, and our flowers are unusually beautiful. Some of our gardens rival in beauty those of the "outside" world, as we call it. Prizes are offered for the best display of flowers and the best display of vegetables. There is now one experimental farm in the vicinity of Carmacks. I do not believe that any grant is given to that farm, but seeds and roots are sent to Mr. Brown and he in turn, I believe, sends samples of the foodstuffs he has raised in that part of the world. Yukoners, I am sure, will be particularly pleased, because while this amount is not large it will at least show them that the government is taking an interest in the agricultural work away in the north country.


Item agreed to.
Branch farms and stations and illustration stations-further amount required, $42,230.
Explain.


These are the items
making up the vote: Branch farms and stations and illustration stations, salaries, additional amount required for new and reclassified positions and statutory increases resulting from reorganization, $7,510. Then there are wages, additional amount required for increase in wages of labour and so on, branch farms and stations, amounting to $27,525. For illustration stations, to provide for the establishment of new stations, at $350 per station, and travelling expenses of supervisors, there is an amount of $2,035. There is a substation at Fort William, Ontario, for the study of crop improvement methods, soil improvement, live stock production, tree, fruit and vegetable production; and including salaries, rent, supplies and so on, the amount is 82.340. For the substation at Creston, British Columbia, for the study of crop possibilities, type of crop rotation most desirable on reclaimed Creston flats, there is an amount of $2,820.


How many of these branch farms and stations are there? I was interested in ascertaining whether this money is distributed over three or four branch farms, or whether there are. many of them throughout the country, and in what provinces they are located.


There are many of them all across Canada. I was just looking for the list. I did not have it at hand because this matter was dealt with on the general estimates and, as has been indicated, this is only a supplementary estimate. But we have the information, and I can get it shortly.


It is not necessary, thank you.


Item agreed to.
Entomology-further amount required, $19,210.
Would the minister make a statement with regard to the grasshopper plague in Saskatchewan?


The latest information is that grasshoppers are hatching in moderate numbers in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and parts of Alberta. There is an organization set up to deal with the attack of the grasshoppers on the crops; as to how effective it will be we are not yet in a position to say. While I was in the southern part of Saskatchewan recently I was told that in certain sections down in the neighbourhood of Oxbow and
3876	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-M arketing
Carlyle there is a somewhat serious development of the grasshopper plague at the moment, but they hope to be able to keep it under control.


Some parts of northern Ontario are seriously affected as well. There is a grasshopper plague in Fort William and Port Arthur, and recently the Huntsville district showed signs of it.


I am glad to have that information, and the department will take the matter under consideration.


What steps are being taken to combat the grasshoppers? I had word this morning that on several farms in the south, half the crop is said to have been destroyed. That is not general, I understand, but it is so in these cases.


The attack on the grasshopper plague is always made by the provincial governments. We do not carry on that service. We do make available any of our men from this branch of the department in order to assist in developing ways and means of handling the plague, but the work is actually financed and carried on by the provincial governments.


Is any subsidy given by the federal government?


There is no subsidy; just this assistance which is given through this branch.


Item agreed to.
Marketing services - agricultural economics, including grant of $5,000 to the International Conference of Agricultural Economists-further amount required, $7,690.
What is this further amount for? I thought the item in the main estimates provided for a grant of $5,000 for this conference.


The purpose of this additional amount is first to provide for additional sums required for new and reclassified positions and statutory increases resulting from reorganization; also the adjustment of salaries of graduate assistants and student assistants as provided in these classifications. Second, it is to provide for financial assistance to the International Conference of Agricultural Economists to be held at Macdonald College, Ste. Anne de Bellevue, in Quebec, August 21-28, 1938. This is a conference that is held from time to time in different countries. This year it is to be held in Canada, and we are doing here what is done in other countries, providing some assistance towards the cost of it. The extent of that assistance is $5,000.


Is it the intention of the government to send another committee overseas in 1939 to investigate marketing conditions?


We have our organization over there at the moment; that is, we sent over Mr. Allen of the university of Saskatchewan, as was indicated when the general estimates were up, and we also have six men, sent there in previous years, who are acting under Mr. Allen. In addition others may go over from the department from time to time in connection with certain activities, but it is not anticipated that a definite committee will be sent over for that purpose. That is, the action rve have taken is a result of the activities of that committee of a year ago in establishing the set-up of the marketing branch. There is one man over there now, Mr. Arkell, who is making some investigations along with Mr. Allen.


Does he report to the Department of Agriculture?


Yes.


If any
other committees are sent overseas at public expense, such as the very able committee that was sent over last year, I suggest that their report be tabled as it is presented, whether it criticizes or praises any department of the government. I think the house and the country are entitled to a full report on conditions as they exist overseas, and as they are found to exist by any such committee, rather than a report such as that to which we referred previously at some length. I do not propose to refer to it again more than to say that I want to compliment the minister on naming such outstanding and experienced agricultural representatives as made up that committee. I think it most unfortunate, however, that the original report was not presented; perhaps because in some respects it did not give any added political colour to the Department of Trade and Commerce, or perhaps it was embarrassing to the Department of Agriculture. The report was so rehashed that it was, I repeat, merely a political document complimenting the government for what they had done, advertising what they intended to do and leaving unsaid many things that the committee found essential for the better marketing of our agricultural products overseas. I do not think it is unfair to say that now, because since referring to it before I have observed in the minister's discussions of his estimates the statement that seed tomatoes of a certain kind had been distributed to only a few of the experimental farms. But on page 10 of

Supply-Agriculture-Cold Storage
this report, which was more or less an added entry or added compliment to the government rather than any report of a committee, clause 4 states:
The seed of a particularly promising new variety of tomato has been purchased. It has been distributed among eanners throughout Canada who have undertaken to have the crop produced and processed under the superivsion of the Department of Agriculture. This particular variety is very promising and it is hoped that it may be the means of improving our product on the British market.
We find that only a few experimental farms have received this choice seed. That is only one example of the statements made throughout this so-called report, which to my mind is more a political handbook than anything else; it has not even the name "report" on it. It is most unfortunate that the advice and findings of such an excellent committee have been so much befogged by what to my mind is merely a political scramble of difficulties between two departments.
It is not in any spirit of sarcasm that I ask the minister whether he would consider again sending a committee overseas. The committee did excellent work last year. I should like to see them go back to the old country, investigate British markets as they did before, and be allowed to present in this house a report not manufactured by someone after their return and added to and subtracted from and changed in its whole purport until it is of little value except politically for the government and the department under which they were sent.


Item agreed to.
Dairy products-further amount required, $20,050.
The details on page 24 of the supplementary estimates show a chief of dairy products marketing and merchandising services. In the main estimates there was an assistant director of marketing services. Is this a new position that has been added in the supplementaries?


This position was provided for when the reorganization was arranged, but it is not yet filled.


Then it will be a new
position?


Yes.


Item agreed to.
Subsidies for cold storage warehouses under the Cold Storage Act, and special grant of $90,500 to Manitoba Cold Storage, Limited, Winnipeg, Manitoba-further amount required, $178,836.80.
Will the minister explain?


The following contracts have been signed since the main estimates were submitted:
Edmonton Cold Storage Co. Ltd., Edmonton, Alberta, $8,926.80.
Elgin Growers Cooperative, St. Thomas, Ontario, $525.
Oxford Fruit Cooperative, Ltd., Woodstock, Ontario, $2,355.
Creston Cooperative Fruit Exchange, Creston, British Columbia, $4,080.
Vancouver Ice and Cold Storage Limited, Vancouver, British Columbia, $15,000.
Total, $30,886.80.
Then, as to applications received but contracts not yet signed, these have been investigated by the department and we are practically committed to them:
Crown Fruit Company, Kelowna, British Columbia, $4,875.
Allied Cooperative Cold Storage, Hamilton, Ontario, $37,500.
Keremeos Growers Cooperative, Keremeos, British Columbia, $6,600.
Okanagan Valley Land Company, Okanagan Centre, British Columbia, $3,525.
Timiskaming Producers Cooperative, New Liskeard, Ontario, $1,050.
British Columbia Fruit Shippers, Ltd., West Summerland, British Columbia, $3,900.
Special grant, Manitoba Cold Storage Co., Ltd., Winnipeg, Manitoba, $90,500.
The Timiskaming Producers Cooperative will have to come under the special grants, as well as the Manitoba Cold Storage. The reason is that strictly speaking, as the law stands, anyone making application for one of these grants must do so before any activities in connection with the building are started. These two concerns had unofficially made application before starting activities, but before we could get into the position of inspecting and taking the action necessary under the law they found it imperative to go on if they were to get construction under way this year. They started with the understanding that if we found them to be in every way in accordance with the law we would proceed. In every other way they have conformed to the law.


The amounts are in keeping with the terms of the act?


Yes.


Has the minister with him a copy of the contract form that is entered into in all these cases?


I have not a copy of the agreement here. It is the same agreement as has been in use for a long term of years.


Yes. I am under the impression that the form of contract gives some jurisdiction to the minister in regard to rates of charges.
3878	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-Cold Storage


That is correct.


I am not approaching this in a critical spirit at all, but I should like ta point out that the original idea of the Cold Storage Act-I think that is the act under which subsidies are granted-was that it would be a service to producers; that was the foundation of it. It was with that thought in mind that parliament passed the act, and it has been carried on ever since. Now the strange thing is that over a long period of years since this act first came into operation there has grown up a tendency on the part of those who control some of the cold storage plants to use the plant as a method of enhancing their own profits rather than stabilizing the market for the producers. I do not apply this to all. A substantial number of those named by the minister are cooperatives, and they are not included in this at all. I am referring to the cold storage plants located in certain of our cities. I believe the department should make a careful study of these to ascertain whether the large contributions, running into many millions of dollars, that have been made out of the public treasury, are being used for the enhancement of private companies rather than to stabilize the market. I did not know that this item was coming up to-day, or I would have been fortified with more data.
Let me give one illustration. For the last ten years statistics have been published from time to time with regard to the amount of butter in storage. I looked at these the other day and I believe there is something like 20,000,000 pounds of butter now in storage. Hon. members who are familiar with this business will understand my illustration. The flush period of production in Canada is from June to September, tapering off, of course, as the grass dries up in the latter months of the summer. As we pass into the winter, when the cattle have to go under shelter, the production drops off. Usually the cold storage accumulation around September is in the neighbourhood of 20,000,000 pounds, and this will gradually diminish from about the end of October. Frequently the substantial portion of this accumulation has disappeared by February or March.
When the increase in storage ceases around the month of September the price paid to the farmer for butter fat ought to increase and continue to increase until the middle of the winter. Frequently the farmer does not get the advantage of increased butter fat prices until January, February or March. Mark you, the natural conditions are fairly steady. The large corporations, such as the Eastern Dairies, argue that an increased price should

not be paid because of the presence of this accumulation still in storage. This happens as regularly as the seasons. My conviction is that the large dairy companies have used their storage facilities for their own profit rather than to assist the farmer.
Let me put the story the other way around. When this legislation was approved parliament realized that Canada was unique, as compared with New Zealand and certain other countries, in that we had a very cold winter season but a summer season of prolific production. Parliament accepted the view that subsidies should be paid to provide cold storage facilities in order that fair prices might be maintained and that the farmer might receive a higher price for his butter fat during the winter. It was felt that the production could be sold at a price which would enable the cold storage company to pay the farmer a fair price in the summer. But that is not the way it has worked out. To use the words the head of one of these corporations uttered some time ago, "There is the consumer dollar from which must be obtained the cost of freight, the cost of processing and our profit, and the farmer gets what is left."
That is an absolutely false philosophy; yet it dominates the butter business, and also the cheese business to a certain extent. The same philosophy dominates the hog and bacon market. I implore the minister to give some thought to this philosophy that works eternally against the farmer. My contention is that there should be a fair price paid to the farmer. That should be your kicking-off point. Then you have the cost of processing, cold storage, freight, handling and distribution. The function of parliament should be to watch these intervening processes and see that they do not become too costly. Naturally I am just as much interested in protecting the consumer as I am in seeing that the farmer gets a fair deal. Parliament should exercise its discretion and control as far as possible.
I venture to say that scores of millions of dollars have been contributed to assist in providing these cold storage facilities. I recall one instance where a grant of a couple of million dollars was made. These cold storage companies that have received millions of dollars from the public treasury ought not to be allowed to use these facilities to control the market for their own advantage. These facilities should be used for the stabilizing of the market so that the farmer may receive a fair price for his butter fat and other products involved in the cold storage business.


The remarks just made apply to what was said when the main estimates were up some time ago. At that time

Supply-Agriculture-Cold Storage
we discussed the question whether this particular provision should be continued. My understanding of the discussion at that time was that there was an overwhelming opinion that these subsidies should be continued. When the question was raised before, I had somewhat the same idea as has been raised to-day. There is a question whether we have not reached the time when it can be said that we have given sufficient encouragement to the establishment of cold storage plants.


I would not want the minister to be under any false impression. I want it understood that I am not arguing for the cessation of grants under the Cold Storage Act. What I am suggesting is that these companies have taken advantage of these subsidies, and that the whole matter should be carefully surveyed from the standpoint of the farmer. That is all I am asking for at the moment. I am not making any charges, nor am I criticizing the minister. This is not a matter for which he has any particular responsibility.


Nevertheless there is a question whether we have reached a point where we should reconsider the whole matter. There is just a possibility that in some places we are promoting a commercial venture rather than assisting the producer. However, we feel that with the legislation as it is, those who meet all the conditions are entitled to the assistance provided. The storing of butter at comparatively low prices during the production season and selling it at higher prices during the winter is something that goes on rather generally all across Canada. It is something that develops with the seasonal conditions prevailing in this country.


Not only as regards butter.


No; as regards other
products as well as butter. The whole question is one which is receiving consideration by the department in an endeavour to find some way of -meeting the situation, but up to the -moment we have not found any effective way of meeting it.
Reference was made to the amount. The total amount of subsidies was $2,570,525.94. I think it advisable that we should -place that on the record just to keep it straight.


May I add one suggestion to what I have already said about this matter, and it is this: When we come to -the month of August, September or October, there is somewhere during that period the possibility of moving out of Canada a substantial amount of butter. I recall that some four years ago, possibly five, I -took an interest in the matter from the standpoint of the Department of Trade and Commerce; I know that a considerable amount was moved out, and it eased the tension at once and had an immediate effect on the price. I believe -that even if it were to cost a little, it would pay us to move some of that butter out just at the peak of the period because -the flush period is always used as an excuse for beating down the price to the farmer for his butter fat. I do not know the price now, but for many years it got down to sixteen, seventeen and eighteen cents for butter fat, which is a disastrous price. I think these cold storage companies and the large dairy corporations ought to be brought into line so that a reasonable -price will be paid to the farmer throughout -this fl-ush period, and I am quite certain that if we had some attention -paid to the science of -marketing during that period, in September and October particularly, a great deal could be done to assist. But, above all, during the summer months these companies ought not to be allowed to beat down the price as they do on the presentation of statistics of storage.


The suggestion of
the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Stevens) causes me to point out that in my judgment we shall never get the economic life of this country on a stable basis until we introduce from one end of it clear to the other the principle of the just price.


How?


First of all, go to work on it; realize it has to be done. Then, probably call in those who know how to do it. There has been no evidence so far that anyone has attempted to do it, and the f