Right Hon. ERNEST LAPOINTE (Minister of Justice) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 137, to amend the criminal code.
He said: This bill purposes to make fifty-five or fifty-six amendments to the criminal code, twenty of which relate to procedure. I shall not try to give the particulars of all the amendments but the most important relate to reckless driving, salting mines and mine samples, common gaming houses, et cetera.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
iMr. fcUetiar.l
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What number of Canadian National railways system officials have a private car at their disposal?
2.	How many officials on the Atlantic and central regions had repairs made to their cars during the last twelve months?
3.	How many of such officials keep a chef by the year for their private car?
4.	What number of Atlantic and central regions employees receiving a salary of $100 or less per month were laid off on account of curtailment during the last twelve months?


1.	Executive, operating, traffic, and other officers of the Canadian National Railways are provided with a business car when their duties in travelling over the territory under their jurisdiction require such use.
2.	Two business cars were given general shopping on the Atlantic region and six on the central region. In addition, three cars on the Atlantic region and eight on the central region were sent to the shops for light attention.
3.	A chef is placed in charge of a business car when under movement.
4.	No special record is kept of laid-off employees. To give an accurate answer to this question would involve an analysis of twenty-four semi-monthly payrolls over a period of twelve months covering between forty and forty-five thousand employees, which could only be done at the cost of considerable time and labour.


1.	Has the attention of the government been called to the Todd Bill which requires all nurses in New York state to be United States citizens?
2.	Will an inquiry be made by the government into the case of several Canadian nurses living in Fort Erie but working in the Buffalo hospitals for many years who are to come under the Todd Bill and who have been summarily dismissed from Buffalo hospitals, and also in other points in New York state?
3.	Will any action be taken by the government through the Department of External Affairs to endeavour to adjust the matter for these Canadians ?

Privilege-Mr. Cahan


1.	No.
2.	Yes.
3.	The question of action to be taken will receive consideration.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, reports, orders in council and other documents, dated from April 1, 1930, to date, in connection with the reclamation of the Kootenay flats at or near Kootenay Landing, British Columbia.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to authorize the Minister of Finance with the approval of the governor in council to enter into agreements with urban or rural municipalities to make loans not exceeding in the aggregate $30,000,000 to enable such municipalities to pay the whole or part of the cost of constructing or making extensions or improvements to or renewals of a municipal waterworks system, municipal gas plant, municipal electric light system or any other self-liquidating municipal project, provided that the province in which the municipality is situated approves the application for the loan and the project to be financed with the proceeds of the loan, and agrees to guarantee the repayment by the municipality of the principal of and interest on any such loan; and to provide that the interest on any such loans shall be two per centum per annum payable half yearly, and that any loan shall be amortized by semi-annual payments sufficient to pay off the full amount of the loan during a period not longer than the estimated useful life of the project; also to provide for the employment and payment of a temporary staff necessary for the administration of this measure.
He said: His Excellency, the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the favourable consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
PRIVILEGE-Mr. CAHAN
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Thursday
last, on a question of privilege, the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan) took exception to a statement I had made on the evening of May 24, and said that statement was entirely a misapprehension of the attitude that he had taken when discussing the imperial conference resolutions of 1926. I accept entirely what the opinion of my hon. friend is with regard to those resolutions. I may say that the extracts from Hansard which he made were certainly not those upon which I had based the comment I offered. However, as I do not think it is pleasant to be considered as misrepresenting any hon. colleague, I may say there are other extracts which are not quite as complimentary. I shall quote only one of them.
When the imperial conference of 1926 was discussed in the house in 1927 my hon. friend said, at page 1736 of Hansard:
He now seeks-
He being the Prime Minister:
He now seeks by the tacit approval of this house, not having the courage to present a report of his own work for its approval and confirmation, to proceed to disrupt every one of these constitutional ties which bind and connect us with Great Britain and Ireland and with the dominions beyond the seas. And while he has endorsed and proposes to carry out a policy of disruption and destruction, he has not one single positive idea to present to this house as to the formation of any new convention or as to the new alignments and political connections which are absolutely necessary if the position of Canada is to be maintained in this world.
I only say that at least I must be excused for having made the comment I did, and I am quite pleased that it does not represent what is the attitude of my hon. friend.


Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to enter into a prolonged discussion with the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Lapointe), but if I follow him, he is reading from the 1927 debates, is he not?


Yes.


He is reading from the 1927
debates, when another phase entirely of the question was under discussion. Oh, I know of the 1927 debates and recollect them very
Privilege-Mr. Cahan

clearly. In 1927 the discussion arose upon addresses which had been delivered by right hon. gentlemen opposite. One was by the right hon. the Prime Minister of that day in Toronto; that was under discussion. I was then discussing another phase of the question entirely, particularly that the right hon. the Prime Minister had pledged himself publicly to submit the imperial conference resolutions for the approval of the house, and had afterwards refused to do so. He himself and the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Lapointe) had given interpretations which I did not think were clearly expressed in the resolutions, as I have stated. My own opinion with regard to those resolutions is expressed and their real implications are contained in addresses which I gave in December, 1926, and also in May, 1928, from which I read to this house, and I am quite prepared to submit what I said on all three occasions to the judgment of the right hon. gentleman and to the house.
I did not state that the right hon. gentleman had deceived the house. I said that his comments were due to a misapprehension on his part of the real tenor of those discussions. Certainly I adhere to everything I then said, so far as my memory is clear as to what I did say.
Mr. LAPOINTE (Quebec East); Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege-and it is a question of facts now,-I have the right to say what the facts were.
My hon. friend said that I did not refer to the debates of 1927, but if he will look at Hansard of May 24, containing the remarks to which he took exception, he will see that it was exactly the debates of 1927 that I was referring to. I said:
Those who were in this parliament in 1927 will remember that my right hon. leader and I were strongly criticized, not perhaps by my right hon. friend-
Meaning the leader of the opposition.
[DOT]-for I do not believe he took part in that debate; he was absent from the house-but by the then leader, the Hon. Mr. Guthrie, and the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George.
And it was in that debate that my hon. friend uttered the words which I have just mentioned-"disruption and destruction." That had nothing to do with the fact that the report had not been submitted to parliament for approval. My hon. friend was emphatic; he has a good memory and must remember having used the words "silly," "foolish," "half-baked," and such. I learned some words during that debate.


I am grateful to the right hon. gentleman for referring to the debates,
fMr. Cahan.]
and I commend those debates to hon. gentlemen sitting opposite as well as to those sitting on my side of the house. I think a reading of them will not bear out the interpretation which the right hon. gentleman, through a misapprehension, gave the other evening, or the misapprehension he has expressed to-day.


All's well that ends well.


On the orders of the day;
Mr. Speaker, at the last sitting of the house the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Stevens) asked a question having to do with the handling of grain at the government elevator at Quebec, and referred to the questions placed on the order paper by himself and the answers that had been furnished to those questions. Those questions were fully and accurately answered. The matter was again discussed on the estimates when the vote for the national harbours board was up, and I think a full explanation and a complete statement of the facts was given at that time.
The first question, and apparently the one that is disturbing my hon. friend, was this:
1. Has the Minister of Transport recently concluded a special agreement with the Louis Dreyfus and Company or any of its allied or subsidiary companies for the handling of grain through the government elevator at Quebec?
The answer to that is not only "no," as given, but I can go further and say that the government never at any time considered concluding a special agreement with Louis Dreyfus and Company.
The situation that did arise, as I explained on the estimates, was that at the opening or before the opening of navigation, the government discovered that a differential rate had been applied to Quebec as against Montreal by lake carriers. The reason Louis Dreyfus and Company came into the scene at ail was that earlier in the season they had notified the harbours board that they intended to make considerable use of the Quebec elevator this year. In 1933 or 1934, I am not sure which, a similar situation arose, in that the lake carriers applied a higher rate from the head of the lakes to Quebec than from the head of the lakes to Montreal. At that time shipments involved Canadian grain, and the board intervened by ruling that the lake carriers must remove the discrimination between the two ports.

Grain Handling at Quebec
In this season the situation differed somewhat in that the grain to be carried was United States grain, over the transportation of which the board of grain commissioners does not exercise jurisdiction. Therefore the question arose as to how this discrimination could be removed. Some discussion took place between a representative of Louis Dreyfus and Company and a member of the harbours board suggesting compensating for the carrier differential by a reduction in elevator rates. It was of course thoroughly understood by both parties that if any reduction of rates was made it would apply to any user of the Quebec elevator. In the course of that discussion I understand that a letter was written by a member of the harbours board to a representative of Louis Dreyfus and Company, asking whether the statement contained in the letter was a correct understanding of a previous conversation. After this letter was written the differential in lake rates was removed, by negotiation with the shipping lines, so that any necessity for a special tariff or a special commutation of elevator tariffs was removed. As I told the house in committee, a special commutation was made, and is to be found at page 2979 of the Canada Gazette. That commutation represents the only difference in the charges on grain through government elevators as between Montreal and Quebec.
The effect of that commutation is that in the period from May 18, 1938, to August 30, 1938, there will be no storage accrued against grain moving in full cargoes from the Quebec elevator. The tariff was published in the Canada Gazette, based on the commutation which, as I say, was passed by order in council. I will now file that tariff and will make the further remark that all grain handled at Quebec or to be handled at Quebec up to August 30 of this year will move on the rates set out in this tariff.
Hon. II. H. STEVENS (Kootenay Ejast): Mr. Speaker, I must respectfully request however that the letter to which the minister has now referred as having passed between a member of the harbours board and the Dreyfus Company be tabled. It was that request I made the other day; the minister now having himself referred to it makes it doubly important that this be done. I now request again that the letter be tabled for the information of hon. members.


I may say the letter referred to was marked private and confidential, and was sent by a member of the harbours board- it was not sent officially by the harbours board-to a representative of the Dreyfus
Company, and was addressed to him personally. The letter had no effect, as the negotiations to which it referred were not consummated. When we consider that the national harbours board is engaged in a competitive business I think we can all agree it is not in the public interest to table letters passing between a member of the harbours board and any firm or individual referring to negotiations which are not consummated. Therefore I must decline to table the letter referred to by the hon. member for Kootenay East.


Mr. Speaker, with all due respect, and again on the orders of the day: in the first place, marking as private and confidential a document dealing with the conduct of public business is not sufficient excuse for not producing it in the house. In the second place, the document having been referred to in the observations of the minister himself, the rules of the house provide that it is competent for a member to request that it be tabled. In the third place, the question of the confidential character of a communication certainly cannot be extended to a document passing between the national harbours board and a firm doing business and, according to the minister's own statement, having under way negotiations for a variation in the fees or tolls fixed by a statutory body, namely the board of grain commissioners. I must again submit that the letter ought to be- indeed under the circumstances should be- tabled.


I would simply say that a question was asked by the hon. member about this particular letter, and was answered by myself. The only reference I made to the letter was in reply to a question which bore directly on the letter.


Mr. Speaker, the issue is
far larger than a controversy between the Minister of Transport (Mr. Howe) and an hon. member of the house. It is a matter of extraordinary importance. I do not think any words I could use would be language too strong to employ in dealing with the matter.
A member of a public tribunal created by this parliament has seen fit to write a letter to a member of a firm which does business with this country. There cannot be anything personal about that, if it touches public business. He can write about visiting the city, or he can write about social engagements, but the minute he touches upon public business he has no privacy. He cannot protect himself by putting "personal" on the letter,
Grain Handling at Quebec

and the rights of the House of Commons so much transcend that that I trust the minister will not arrive at a hasty conclusion with respect to it.
I wonder if he realizes just what is involved. I had occasion to traverse this matter with a great deal of care some years ago when I was leader of the opposition, as I still am. I had difficulty in dealing with a matter in which certain correspondence was marked "private." The minister properly took the view that it had to be introduced and was on the file. Then the further question arose as to whether or not we had a right to have laid on the table of the house a letter to which he referred. The Speaker had to rule in accordance with the rules of the house, that when a minister refers to a public document in the course of his observations he must table that document, because he cannot deal with it when other members of the house are not permitted to see it. He cannot place his construction upon a document which I might not know about, and which I cannot see.


That was the Simcoe post office?


Yes. The Minister of Pensions and National Health is quite right. It was in connection with the Post Office Department. I do not recall the exact letter, but it was under that department-whether it was the Simcoe office or not, I cannot say. However I believe the hon. member was interested in the matter at that time, and probably will have a very good memory with respect to it.
The reason for the rule is obvious. Let us look at it for a moment. A member of the government, having access to public papers, sees fit to refer to those papers, and to place upon the contents of the document the construction which suits him, when presenting his case to the house.


That is not the case in
this instance.


Yes, it is the case in this instance. The hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Stevens) asked for some information which he did not get. He thereupon asked for definite information with respect to a letter. The minister admits that he has the letter but he says, "This is a personal letter written by a member of the board to somebody who is a member of Dreyfus and Company".


May I correct my right hon. friend?


Certainly.


I may say that I have never seen the letter. I have never seen it and I do not know whether it is in existence; it is certainly not in any file of the department.


That makes the minister's case so extraordinary as to cause me to wonder how he can possibly stand in his place and make the statements he has.


It is quite
true.


Yes, it is quite true- what I say. Anyone would wonder how a minister of the crown could stand in his place and make that observation, how any minister could stand up and say, "I don't know what is in the letter; I do not know whether it exists; I have never seen it". That is monstrous. Surely the minister does not mean that. Think what that means. He is a responsible minister of the crown and this is a responsible government, not a dictatorship. The minister says, "I don't know what is in the letter but I have been talking about it. I don't know whether it exists or not, but I have been talking about it. I have never seen it, but I have been talking about it." Can anyone imagine a responsible minister doing that? I say, the minister must have an entirely erroneous impression of what the duties of a minister of the crown are. Does he realize what his responsibilities are? There are those sitting beside him who can tell him.


To what item is my right hon. friend speaking?


I am speaking to a
question of high privilege-a privilege of the house.


Privilege?


Yes, privilege of the
House of Commons. If I am to find myself unable to deal with public matters because I cannot get access to papers to which a minister may refer, then the House of Commons becomes nothing more or less than a rubber stamp.


The rules provide the way to order the production of papers.


The rules do more than
that. The rules provide that when a minister of the crown refers to a public document he must table it.


It was
the hon. member for East Kootenay who did.

Grain Handling at Quebec


Just imagine anyone
seeking to cover himself up with a statement such as that. Can anyone imagine it? The hon member for East Kootenay asked a question about a document, as he had a right to do, having ascertained that there was such a document, and a minister of the crown now says, quite calmly, "I don't know whether there is such a document."


The
rule is as follows:
It has been admitted that a document which has been cited ought to be laid upon the^ table of the house, if it can be done without injury to the public interest. The same rule, however, cannot be held to apply to private letters or memoranda.


Why, of course not.
Now we have the more beautiful sight of a minister of the crown asserting that there can be anything like a private communication between a member of the harbours board and Dreyfus and Company with respect to public business. Imagine thatl


We
have the more beautiful sight of the leader of the opposition agreeing with the member for East Kootenay.


That, Mr. Speaker, only illustrates the calibre of the ministry. Are there on the treasury benches men who are unable to understand that public business may transcend personal differences? Are there upon the treasury benches men who cannot understand that the public interest is paramount? I occupy a position in which I am placed by statute, and one of my duties is to do exactly what I am doing, to try to safeguard the liberties of parliament from encroachment by the government of the day. That is my duty. That is one of the difficulties of the position which I occupy, and I will discharge that duty whether it be on behalf of a member of the opposition or of any other party when there is tyrannical exercise of power on the part of the government by reason of a great majority, enabling the administration to destroy the liberties of this parliament, which have been secured in the manner we all know. When that happens it is my unfortunate duty to protest against such an encroachment upon the liberties of members of the house, and I propose to do it so long as I am here.
What is more, there is not a thoughtful member of this house, who, if he will take the time to consider it, will not realize what is meant by carrying into effect the suggestion of the Minister of Transport. Do you
realize, Mr. Speaker, where it ends, what the result of it is. Let the Minister of Justice read the rule which I intended to refer to and which was read by the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Mackenzie).


I have others.


Oh, there are others. I am familiar with them, because I have traversed them all. They are all on the record of Hansard in connection with the post office case. In the previous case in connection with the post office the Speaker had ruled that the documents should be brought down, and they were brought down, and they resulted in bringing a very unpleasant and unhappy picture before the House of Commons in connection with patronage.
I submit that before any hasty action is taken with respect to this matter the government should look very carefully into the authorities. They should look up those authorities before, with their majority, arriving at any such conclusion as has been suggested. You, Mr. Speaker, should not be too ready to agree to the suggestion made by the government that the documents in question should not be laid upon the table; for I am satisfied that they would be laid upon the table in any representative institution under the British flag, when it is remembered that, in the first place, we are dealing with a communication written by a member of a public body with respect to public business, addressed to a great firm of wheat dealers, and dealing with a matter of public concern. That is the first point. The second is that it has been referred to by a minister of the crown although he now says he has never seen it. I suggest that the sooner he sees it and tables it the better for the country, because any reference made to a document of that kind entitles every member to have an opportunity to see it. The minister cannot be at once the judge and the advocate. He cannot advocate a certain attitude of mind and then assert himself to be the judge whether it is in the public interest or not. The Prime Minister might, perad-venture do that, but the minister cannot.


The rule to compel the production of papers is very clear indeed, as are all the comments under it. Standing order 51 provides:
Notices of motion for the production of papers which the member asking for the same intends to move without discussion, shall be

Grain Handling at Quebec
marked by him with an asterisk and shall be placed by the clerk on the order paper above Notices of Motions " under the heading "Notices of Motions for the Production of Papers." All such notices when called shall be forthwith disposed of; but if on any such motion a debate be desired, it shall be transferred by the clerk to the order of Notices of Motions.
First, if my hon. friend from East Kootenay wishes the production of any letter or papers it must not be done by discussing a question of privilege and giving to my right hon. friend himself (Mr. Bennett) an opportunity to make remarks which he would not have the right to do on Notices of Motions for the Production of Papers, because if a debate ensued that motion would have to be transferred to the Notices of Motions and to await its opportunity to be discussed.


The question of privilege I was discussing was not that.


I will come to the other question of privilege, but first I will quote the rules. Paragraph 433 of Beauchesne says:
Papers are laid before the house in pursuance of
(1)	Provisions of an act of parliament;
That is not this case.
(2)	An order of the house;
That would be the only way, I suggest, to have the production of that paper, but it has not been done.
(3)	An address to the crown.
That was not done in this case.
(4)	The command of the crown;
(5)	Standing orders of the house.
These are the five cases in which papers have to be laid on the table when requested.


This involves a question of rates, and therefore would have to be laid before the house.


Well, this is not the time to discuss that. If my hon. friend wants the papers produced he has to ask for them in the regular way, not simply by asking a question about a certain letter which he alleges to have been sent and which the Minister of Transport says he has never seen. My hon. friend resorts to the other rule, that if a minister of the crown makes use of a document he has to table that document. But when did the Minister of Transport make use of that document? The hon. member for Kootenay East alleges a document, speaks about it; the Minister of Transport says he 
has not seen it. I cannot see how my right hon. friend can work himself into a state of fury because this paper has not been tabled, especially when it is not even in the possession of the Minister of Transport. Time and again, not only when a question is asked but on motions for production of papers, when they relate to papers in the hands of a commission, such as the harbours board, the answer is that the house might carry the motion, but that of course it would be forwarded to the proper authorities in order to ascertain whether the document in question can be produced and filed. We may be guilty of many reprehensible things, but if I never have anything more on my conscience as a public man than this alleged letter, addressed by someone to a member of the harbours board, which the Minister of Transport has never seen-


He talks about it, though.


I am afraid the next Conservative convention will not find material there to build a platform on.


The matter cannot be disposed of in that way-


What is the hon. member speaking on now?


I am speaking to a question of privilege and rights, in view of the attitude of the government.
On May 6 I submitted in the proper way certain questions. On May 18 these questions were passed as an order for return. I do not know why that should have been done, but it was asked by the government and the house concurred. The return simply answered the word "no" to five of the questions. One of those questions had to do with a special agreement with Louis Dreyfus and Company regarding the handling of grain, I ask the house and the government to bear in mind that that question was asked on May 6. Today the minister gave a lengthy verbal answer to that question. He referred to the letter as having been written by a member of the national harbours board to the Dreyfus company; but, he said, as nothing happened as a result of that letter, there is no object in tabling it. Then he added, "I will now table an order in council amending the grain charges." I notice that this order is effective May 21, and was amended by P.C. 1115 dated May 18, a considerable time after the question I asked the minister, and fully a month after the letter was written by the member of the harbours board to Mr. Kaiser of the Dreyfus company.

Pensions and National Health
My submission is this: Knowing that these documents do exist, knowing that these negotiations were carried on, I have a right, and this house has a right, to know what the negotiations were. The mere fact that subsequent to their being brought to the attention of the house the matter was changed by this order in council is not a suitable response to my request and the right of parliament to see those documents. The minister himself admitted to-day that the document existed, although later he said he had not personally seen it. But he knows the letter exists and that it was written. I add now that it was written by Mr. Roberts of the harbours board to Mr. Kaiser. All I am asking is that that letter with the confirmation attached thereto of the outline of an agreement should be tabled in order that we, the members of this house, may properly discuss the subject matter of it, which is a matter of very great importance and involves not only a discussion of lake rates, as the minister said, but also questions affecting the rates in that elevator, first as they apply to the Dreyfus company, second as they apply to the public generally; and furthermore whether or not there was an invasion of the jurisdiction of the board of grain commissioners. These are all important questions of grave public interest, and I submit that there is no reason whatever which can properly be offered why this document should not be laid on the table of the house. I again assert my right to the document, the right of parliament to see it, in order that when the estimates come up again we may properly and intelligently discuss the very grave questions involved in this whole matter.
The minister does not reply. Well, Mr. Speaker, I have made a request, and I do not think that mere silence is an answer. This affects the right of a member and of all hon. members.


Why does not my hon. friend make a motion in the ordinary form, as all hon. members do?


I started by following that course. I say to the government that this is not the end of this question.


Let the hon. member
make a new motion if it is necessary, as provided by the standing order, and then it will be considered.


The hon. member has to accept the answer given to the question.


On the orders of the day:
On Friday, May 27, during the course of the discussion relating to the publicity division of the Department of Pensions and National Health, I stated that there had been a long delay in making the appointment of chief of this division, and left the impression that the dilatory procedure of the civil service commission was wholly responsible.
Examination of the file and closer study of all the pertinent facts in connection with this appointment clearly indicate that I did an injustice to the commission, which I hasten to correct.
On May 28, 1937, the civil service commission was requisitioned by the department to set up a position of Chief, Division of Publicity and Health Education, but shortly afterwards the department decided to change the title of the position to that of Director of Publicity. The educational qualifications were changed and the salary range modified. On October 28, 1937, the department asked the commission to advertise the position. Applications were called for from the whole of Canada, the competition to close on December 11, 1937. The appointment was actually made on May 23, 1938. It is evident that the department, and therefore the minister, must shoulder at least an equal portion of the blame with the civil service commission.


Right Hon. ERNEST LAPOINTE (Minister of Justice) moved the third reading of Bill No. 106. to amend the Manitoba Natural Resources Act, the Alberta Natural Resources Acts and the Saskatchewan Natural Resources Acts.	-
Mr. Speaker, I indicated to the right hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) that I proposed to make a few observations with respect to this bill on the third reading. The bill involves two questions. One deals with a purely local matter affecting the oil lands in the province of Alberta, but the other is far more important. The
Natural Resources

other amendment contemplates this parliament handing over to the provincial authorities the waters within the various provinces.
This is not a new question. In 1930, when additional agreements were made between the provinces and the dominion to turn over the natural resources to the provinces, I directed attention to the fact that the language was not broad enough to turn over the waters under or on the lands, and it will be remembered that when the provinces were created in 1905 parliament was very careful to retain the rights of this dominion under The Northwest Irrigation Act. I need hardly point out that the Alberta and Saskatchewan Acts were alike in that regard, and it was provided by those statutes that the waters dealt with by the irrigation act passed by this parliament should continue to be dealt with by the parliament of Canada, notwithstanding the fact that we had created the new provinces. Section 21 of the Alberta Act, which is similar in terms to the Saskatchewan Act, reads as follows:
All crown lands, mines and minerals and royalties incident thereto, and the interest of the crown in the waters within the province under The Northwest Irrigation Act, 1898, shall continue to be vested in the crown and administered by the government of Canada for the purposes of Canada, subject to the provisions of any act of the parliament of Canada with respect to road allowances and roads or trails in force immediately before the coming into force of this act, which shall apply to the said province with the substitution therein of the said province for the Northwest Territories.
Similar language is employed in the Saskatchewan Act. It will be observed, therefore, that a clear distinction is made between crown lands, mines, minerals and royalties, and waters. The reason that water in the west stands in a peculiar position is that in 1898, as will be remembered, the parliament of Canada saw fit to enact the Northwest Irrigation Act, under which we declared that the waters in the west were the property of the crown and that when patents were issued for homesteads they should not convey to the patentee the water, which should remain the property of the crown. That is so even to this day, and the classification of the licences for the use of water provided for by that act still stands. You have a domestic user, a user for irrigation purposes and a user for commercial purposes. All that was the law when in 1905 the province of Alberta was created by this parliament, and section 21 of that act retained those rights.
In 1930 the government of the country decided to turn over to the provinces their mines, minerals and royalties, as indicated by

the agreement between the Dominion of Canada and the province of Alberta on the one hand, and later the province of Saskatchewan and the province of Manitoba. Section 1 provides for the transfer of the public lands generally, but it makes no provision for the transfer of the water. That provision is made in these words:
*-the interest of the crown in all crown lands, mines, minerals (precious and base) and royalties derived therefrom within the province, and all sums due or payable for such lands, mines, minerals or royalties, shall, from and after the coming into force of this agreement and subject as therein otherwise provided, belong to the province, subject to any trusts existing in respect thereof, and to any interest other than that of the crown in the same, and the said lands, mines, minerals and royalties shall be administered by the province for the purposes thereof, subject, until the legislature of the province otherwise provides, to the provisions of any act of the parliament of Canada relating to such administration

That is what was turned over to the provinces under the agreements. When the matter came before the House of Commons the Solicitor General and I engaged in a short debate, and on April 29, 1930, we had some extended discussion. The Solicitor General finally said:
It is possible that further legislation is necessary.
Whereupon I replied:
That is the case I am endeavouring to make to the house at the moment, and if the Solicitor General says that, he has quite answered my objection.
Then I dealt with the matter at some considerable length, pointing out what were the provisions having regard to the transfer of crown lands and mines and royalties under the terms of the agreement, and to the limitations that had been imposed upon the transfer of water by the irrigation act. That agreement, of course, was an amendment to the constitution of the provinces; because originally, under section 21 to which I have referred, these crown lands remained the property of the crown in the right of the dominion. It will be recalled that it was asserted by some of our friends that there was a right on the part of this parliament to continue to deal with the matter, but I pointed out then, as I do now, that while under section 3 of the British North America Act of 1871 parliament was given power to create new provinces, it was specifically provided that once the power was exercised we were functus officio. Section 6 of that act reads as follows:
Except as provided by the third section of this act-

Natural Resources
And that is the section which gave us the power to create the provinces.
-it shall not be competent for the parliament of Canada to alter the provisions of the last-mentioned act of the said parliament in so far as it relates to the province of Manitoba, or of any other act hereafter establishing new provinces in the said dominion, subject always to the right of the legislature of the province of Manitoba to alter from time to time the provisions of any law respecting the qualification of electors and members of the legislative assembly, and to make laws respecting elections in the said province.
Therefore when we created the province of Alberta and gave it a constitution we were not competent to amend that constitution; and when in 1930 we amended that constitution by providing that the mines, minerals and royalties that theretofore had been the property of the crown in the right of the dominion should be vested in the crown in the right of the province, that amendment had to be ratified by the imperial parliament. It will be found in chapter 26 of the statutes of Westminster for 1929-30 that this agreement was ratified.
My contention was that if we proposed to deal with the question of water, about which there have been grave differences of opinion- because it was felt that we had the machinery to maintain a uniform policy-the transfer of the waters was a matter that required much more than ordinary or casual consideration. So to-day the waters are being administered by the dominion, not by the provinces; the rehabilitation act in the province of Saskatchewan was predicated upon that assumption. During the period that we were responsible for administration, representations were made with respect to an amendment that might be made, but we never agreed upon the amendment. Now the minister proposes in this bill, for which third reading is asked, to vest these waters in the provinces and divest the dominion of its power. If I am right in my suggestion to the right hon. Minister of Justice it follows that this can be done only by having an act passed by the parliament at Westminster confirming that statute.
It was contended by some of our friends that this was unnecessary, and this was the reason they gave: In the agreement of 1930 they found these words:
24. The foregoing provisions of this agreement may be varied by agreement confirmed by concurrent statutes of the parliament of Canada and the legislature of the province.
It has been pointed out in some quarters that that is broad enough to enable this action to be taken, but I think the Solicitor General thought differently in 1930. Obviously
it is an amendment to the constitution and, as I pointed out in 1930, you cannot have the constitutions of the provinces or the dominion amended by concurrent legislation on the part of the dominion and the provinces. Therefore, on the third reading of the measure,
I point out that in my opinion this is in effect legislation to accomplish that very purpose. If it is intended to transfer the administration of the waters of the western provinces from the dominion to the provinces and thereby amend their constitutional position, it would be essential to do so by the method followed in amending the constitution in 1930. I realize that effect can be given to section 24 of the agreement, but that section cannot possibly have the effect of constituting an amendment to the British North America Act, for the reason that in the list of cases to which reference has been made, the privy council pointed out that you cannot by treaty or agreement divest the provinces of their legislative power in order to confer authority upon the parliament of Canada.


This operates to confer more power on the provinces.


This operates to confer upon the provinces jurisdiction over waters which is now vested in the crown in the right of the dominion.


I raise that point merely because the privy council decision had to do with the reverse of that.


But the argument and the statute applied equally to both, that is, that the competent authority to amend the constitution of this country was the parliament at Westminster and not any arrangement or agreement that might be made by the legislatures of the provinces and the dominion. The constitution of the Dominion of Canada cannot be amended by agreement. Concurrent legislation enacted by the provinces and the dominion cannot possibly have the effect of creating an amendment to the British North America Act. The agreement provides that there may be amendments to the agreement, but that would be an amendment within the ambit of the agreement itself and not an amendment to confer new jurisdiction upon the provinces in the exercise of their powers over the waters to which I have referred.
Difference of opinion exists in many quarters as to whether it is advisable, having regard to the possibility of large irrigation works, to vest in the provincial authorities jurisdiction with respect to these matters, or to have them remain as part of a national policy. It is
Natural Resources

realized that only a national policy can deal with so large an issue as that of irrigation in these great western provinces which would involve expenditures on a vast scale.


Mr. Speaker, of course I am not in order, but with the consent of the house I shall proceed. These agreements have been negotiated by the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Crerar) and the governments of the three western provinces which are interested. Until my right hon. friend raised the point, I did not know that there were any difficulties of the kind he has indicated. I have been told by the officers of the Department of Mines and Resources and the Department of Justice that it was the intention at all times to include waters in the phrase "crown lands, mines and minerals." In the minds of the officers of the departments there were no practical difficulties, but it was thought better to include waters. I have the greatest respect for the opinion of my right hon. friend, but I submit that the legislation of 1930 transferred all the natural resources to the provinces.


It was called the natural resources act.


It was an act to confirm and give effect to certain agreements entered into between the Dominion of Canada and the governments of the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta. I am reading from the British statute.


This act is the Natural Resources Transfer (Amendment) Act, 1938.


That is the Canadian act?


Yes. The purpose was to make the provinces the owners of their natural resources. I think it may be fairly claimed, and it is the opinion of the officers of the Department of Justice, that the .section my right hon. friend has mentioned, which was enacted by the Westminster parliament, to the effect that this agreement might be varied by an agreement confirmed by concurrent statutes of the parliament of Canada and the legislatures of the provinces, is sufficient to confer upon this parliament and upon the legislatures of the three western provinces the right to vary by concurrent legislation the agreement that affected the transfer in 1930. This is merely to remove a doubt. My right bon. friend knows more about western matters than I do, but I have been given to understand that it 
has always been considered that the waters were transferred along with the lands, mines and minerals.


They have been so administered in practice.


No.


Apart from this, I may say that the opinion of the officers of the Department of Justice is to the effect that we have authority to confirm this agreement and to make it clear that the waters are transferred to Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta as well as the lands and mines.


Mr. Speaker, if I have
your indulgence I shall answer the question asked by the right hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), otherwise I cannot proceed. When the Alberta and Saskatchewan acts were being enacted I was solicitor for the irrigation branch of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. At the instance of the Canadian Pacific Company I came to this city and conferred with the then Minister of Justice for some time, submitting the reasons why, in the opinion of my client, the administration should continue in the crown in the right of the dominion, because the river did not flow wholly through the one province. There were many questions that had to do with the supply of water that originated in the national park which was under the jurisdiction of the dominion. The whole matter bristled with difficulties if it was to be in the hands of the provinces. That is the reason why these words appear in the constitutional acts known as the Saskatchewan Act and the Alberta Act:
All crown lands, mines and minerals and royalties incident thereto, and the interest of the crown in the waters within the province under the Northwest Irrigation Act, 1898, shall continue to be vested in the crown and administered by the government of Canada for the purposes of Canada.
Bear in mind that we had followed a course that was wholly unusual, namely, we retained in the crown the title to the waters even although patents were granted otherwise. That is not a general thing. The patent did not carry title to the waters, any more than it carried title to the gold. It reserved the title to the water as though it were gold and a patent were being issued to a homesteader or a person who otherwise becomes entitled to a patent on his land. When the agreement was made it referred to mines, lands, minerals and royalties and did not mention the waters, which were

Natural Resources
vested in the crown by a special paragraph, and the administration continued by the federal authority just as it had prior to the agreement being made.


Since 1914?


That is, the large irrigation projects, licences and matters of that sort. When the Canadian Pacific turned its irrigation project over to the settlers, they came to an arrangement with the provincial authorities for that purpose.


May I
ask a question for information? Apart from the constitutional question whether we have a right to proceed in this way, does my right hon. friend see any practical objection to it?


Only this, that it was
represented to me on many occasions that if we were to engage in a national irrigation policy in the west it would be undesirable that we should make an arrangement with the provinces for administering the waters as distinguished from the crown in the right of the dominion; that is, if we were hoping to have a national policy and for assistance to be given by the dominion government. It will be recalled that we have on more than one occasion given assistance to the Medicine Hat project, which was authorized under the Northwest Irrigation Act of 1898, and when the Canadian Pacific turned over its entire project to the settlers and took its loss, the question of expanding that system into a national system, and what was called the William Pearce scheme in connection with the Saskatchewan river, all involves the utilization of waters on a scale so vast that no province would be in a position fittingly to undertake the work. That is the only objection that has ever been made to me, I may say to the minister. Frankly I was of the opinion that if irrigation became essential in the western provi