I have the honour to inform the house that I have received the following message:
Ottawa, 1st July, 1938.
Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that the Hon. L. A. D. Cannon, acting as deputy of His Excellency the Governor General, will proceed to the Senate chamber on the first of July, at one o'clock, for the purpose of proroguing the present session of parliament.
I have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
F. L. C. Pereira, Assistant Secretary to the Governor General.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called I wish to make a statement concerning the bill to amend the Penitentiaries Act which was adopted by this house unanimously but will now fail to be placed on the statutes of this session. The government is disappointed and I, personally, am sorry, indeed very sorry. When I stated in this house on my responsibility as Minister of Justice that I needed the proposed change for the proper administration of penitentiaries, the right hon. the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bennett) declared that he waived all his objections to the bill because of that statement.
What I regret more particularly is that this legislation involving a social question of momentous importance, has been rejected in another place on a straight party vote, and, if I read the reports aright, because of a question of persons.
All I may add is that this postponement of a needed reform, apart from being detrimental to public interest, and increasing to a dangerous degree the difficulties of my task, will not serve any useful purpose, not even that which seems to be at the basis of the adverse vote.
I repeat that I am very sorry and I feel that the seriousness of the situation they have created is not realized by those who have brought it about.
Dominion Day


I think, in fairness to all parties, the minister has overlooked the fact that according to the press reports this morning the reason was also given that there had not been ample time for the study of that report or the bill itself. I think it is well to bear that in mind as one of the reasons given.


On the orders of the day:
There is a matter of importance that- I should like to bring to the attention of the house. The calendar reminds us that this is the first of July and I could not help thinking as I came up to the buildings this morning how little had been done in this capital city to commemorate the event of this day. Walking along the streets I saw scarcely a flag in evidence.


Oh, yes; there were.


Very
few. As one turns the comer at the Rideau club he finds the flag of the great republic of the United States displayed over the main entrance in such a way that he cannot help seeing it. I think that this building, the houses of parliament, should have been decorated to-day.


Hear, hear.


We, as
Canadians, do too little in that regard, though we sometimes criticize other people for doing too much of that sort of thing. According to the press, in the city of Kingston the national convention of fascists is taking place to-day, and it occurs to me that perhaps we have not done enough in the past to educate our youth to a realization of exactly what this confederation means to the young people of the country. I trust that when the first of July comes around next year, there will be in this capital city more evidence of our remembrance of Canada's national birthday.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.


Harbours and rivers - New Brunswick, $725,200.
Would the minister give
us some information as to the nature of the

work being done at Miramichi bay, $75,500 for dredging, and at Tracadie harbour, $40,000. As to the latter, I should like to know if that will complete the work at Tracadie harbour?


This is to provide for
widening to a width of 200 feet and deepening to a depth of 22 feet at low water the present channel in the Miramichi bay.


What will be the complete cost?


The tenders which are
in amount to $63,000. That will complete the work.


The total of to-day's
appropriation is $725,000. What will it cost to complete the undertakings mentioned in the vote?


As I am informed, $50,000 at the most will complete the work which is covered by these items. As regards Tracadie, this amount of $40,000, including the revote of $13,400, is required to complete the channel across the flats by dredging the channel for an approximate length of 3,750 feet to a depth of 9 feet at low water.


Will this complete the channel? I know it was under consideration for some time.


I am informed that we have to expect a certain amount of maintenance. I understand there is some silting.


Maintenance only' All right.


Every winter it drives back.


Yes.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers-Quebec, $2,479,150.
I should like to speak briefly in reference to one item on this vote, namely that of $400,000 for Richelieu river improvements. Since the amount asked for this year is only $400,000, whereas the last two or three years it has been $500,000 each time, I assume that $100,000 has already been spent on these proposed-said to be-improvements. I shall speak briefly and I have no intention whatever of holding up the item, because I have no doubt it will pass readily, anyway.
What I have to say is by way of warning. I cannot help feeling that these so-called improvements on the Richelieu are akin to those which were made a number of years ago on a small river on works which were

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
afterwards called the Newmarket canal. Up there in northern Ontario you will find docks and locks out in the middle of the fields, with water more or less miles away. Of course I realize that the Richelieu river is a much finer river; it is magnificent compared with anything we have up in that part of Ontario. But I cannot forget what happened two years ago, when the United States government and the Canadian government were considering, through the International Joint Commission, a recommendation to canalize the Richelieu river so that boats of large tonnage could go down that river from lake Champlain to the St. Lawrence, and south again into the Hudson river, so that there might be an ocean seaway from New York to Montreal via the Richelieu. Apparently that is all abandoned and some other scheme is now proposed. I note from the communication which the Canadian government made to the International Joint Commission in 1937 that the scheme has been changed from one of navigation to one of flood prevention, similar to the scheme proposed in 1907, which was also one of flood prevention.
Now, what was the application of the government of Canada to the International Joint Commission with respect to Richelieu river remedial works? On page 1, paragraph 2, we read:
The parliament of Canada, at its last session, appropriated the sum of $500,000 under vote 408, S.S.E. 1936-37, as follows:
"Richelieu river-improvement of river and Chambly canal system, $500,000."
This vote is for the purpose of the construction of remedial works for the reclamation and protection of low lands in St. Johns, Iberville and Missisquoi counties, in the province of Quebec.
The International Joint Commission granted the application of the government. It is referred to on page 7 of this same report that I am reading, in paragraph 11:
This matter is, accordingly, being submitted to the commission by the government of Canada, and it is hoped that the commission, in view of the need for protection against flood conditions, will expedite matters so that construction can be commenced at an early date.
I understand that later on the International Joint Commission gave that right. What I am trying to get through my head is, how are the figures of the water levels in this report to be reconciled with those of. the water levels contained in the submission to the International Joint Commission some two years ago? The low water level of lake Champlain is 93-3, and the high, 102-6. But this report states that the work proposes to lower the water level of lake Champlain to 92-5. For it states on page 6:
It is the intention of the government of Canada that during the navigation season the water level above the dam will be maintained at or above the present ordinary minimum elevation of 92-5-
If it is to be maintained at that level, has the government obtained the consent of the United States to the lowering of the low water level of lake Champlain from 93-3 to 92-5? I have not found anything in the reports to indicate that the United States government has endorsed that low water level. Last fall, in company with an engineer and a newspaper man, I spent some time along the Richelieu river trying to find those low lands, and had great difficulty in doing so. As a matter of fact only a very small part of lake Champlain, about seventeen square miles, is in Canada. I went all around that area. The day I visited the north end of lake Champlain, at Missisquoi bay, the water level was between 95 and 96 feet above sea level, approximately three feet higher than the level proposed by the government; and on that day the water was five feet below the road level. I measured it. I asked some of the old-timers there what was the effect when the lake was at high water level, 102-6, and they told me that the road was sometimes covered to the extent of a foot or a little more, but that the water did not stay there very long.
I should like: the minister to tell us, if he can, how many square miles or acres of so called low lands are flooded by lake Champlain, and if it will be of much value to relieve these low lands of the water for two or three weeks in the spring. The land did not appear to me to be very good. The trees did not seem to be damaged at all by the high water. On the west side of the river the banks are high; on the east side there may be a little more flooding of land, but it does not last very long. According to the information I obtained at the engineer's office, the dam is to be eighteen feet high. I may not have the correct figures, but if the dam that is proposed to be built at Fryer's island is to be eighteen feet high, each side of the river at that point will be flooded. I believe the banks on the east side are about fifteen feet above the river and those on the west side about twelve feet. I should like to find out from the minister if it is proposed to build dykes along where the dam is to be built in order to keep the land, which is good at that point, from being flooded.
I have no objection whatever to the work if it is necessary and there is any value to it. I do not want the people of that community to think I am opposing it for any reason other than what my own judgment tells me.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
I know that last year all the local newspapers gave me a fairly good dressing down for opposing the vote. They should not do that. I do not talk in this house from any motive whatever other than to do the best I can for this country. If the government can say that any real service will be rendered or any worth while improvements made in that area through the erection of this dam, I will not oppose it. I do not see that it is going to be of any particular value, however, and certainly if the time comes when that magnificent river is canalized so that large ships can go up and down it, a dam of this kind will not be worth a fig anyway; a much larger dam will be required, and this money will be wasted. I do not want the minister to think I am opposing this for any other reason than what I believe to be right.


I do not propose in any shape or form to object to the criticism and fair observations made by the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNicol). I recognize that it is his absolute right to inquire about these things and inform himself as to the conditions existing, and I would be the last person in the world to criticize him for doing so.
When the matter was placed before the International Joint Commission it was not formally the question referred to in this vote. At the same time, as my hon. friend stated last year and mentioned again this year, the commission had under consideration three proposals that were made more particularly by United States interests. One of the proposals was to have a canal from lake Champlain right up to Montreal through United States territory, reaching lake St. Francis.


Not up to Montreal through United States territory, but from the Hudson river to one of their lakes, then connecting with the Richelieu.


No, lake St. Francis. They offered another proposal also, to build a canal across Canadian territory from the town of St. Johns on the Richelieu river to Laprairie, in front of Montreal, on the south side of the St. Lawrence. Then their third proposal was to have a canal built from the foot of the present Chambly canal, at Chambly, going right up to Montreal on the south shore of the St. Lawrence, somewhere near St. Lambert. The fourth proposal, which they studied at the same time, was the canalization of the Richelieu river from lake Champlain down to the St. Lawrence. But the idea of the United States people interested in the proposals was to have a deep canal, capable of

being navigated by vessels of the type that would navigate the proposed St. Lawrence waterway.


Up the Hudson river to Albany.


Yes. They wanted to have the same depth of water in the Richelieu river, if it was canalized, that would exist in the proposed canal for the St. Lawrence. They expressed the view, I admit, that a depth of about twenty-seven feet was the only thing in which they were interested. The Canadian interests were satisfied with a depth of twelve feet, which is the present depth of the United States canals from Lake Champlain to the Hudson river. Part of the Richelieu river has a depth of twelve feet at the present time.


It is eight feet for the most part, is it not?


Yes, and less. The Chambly canal has not more than five and a half or six feet. We would have been satisfied if the canalization of the Richelieu river had been carried out to provide a depth of twelve feet, but, as I have said, the Americans concerned were not interested in such a shallow depth.
In addition to the suggestions I have just indicated, the present proposal was submitted to the International Joint Commission to build a regulating dam between St. Johns and Chambly.


On the Richelieu river.


Yes, bringing forward an old proposal that had been submitted to the international commission as far back as 1907. At that time parliament voted a certain amount of money to dredge the Richelieu river from the city of St. Johns up to the boundary. There are natural obstacles in that river,-a natural dam, we might call it. There is little water at that particular place, the shores of the river are very low. But when the Canadian government started the work of dredging between St. Johns and the boundary, the United States intervened and claimed that by doing away with the natural obstacles existing in the river we would cause the flow of the water to become very rapid, and as a consequence would lower the level of the water in lake Champlain. As a result of the objection raised by the United States the work which had been under contract for some time was stopped, and the representatives of the two countries discussed the possibility of building remedial works.
At that time the International Joint Commission, or the board which preceded the formation of that commission, approved of a

Supply-Harbours and Rivers
regulating dam to be built at Fryer's Island, and with that regulating dam being built they said they would have no objection to the dredging of the natural obstacles existing between St. Johns and the boundary. Although the approval of the international board was on record, we thought that so long a time had elapsed since the approval had been given that it would be advisable to renew the request to the international board. We placed the facts before them again, and made a request for the approval of a regulating dam, the dam which is contemplated by this vote.


For $300,000.


I believe it is $400,000. As contemplated a number of years ago the building of that dam would permit the dredging of the river from St. Johns to the boundary, and would relieve the situation that existed so far as flooding the land was concerned. The representation made to previous governments was that the high water of the spring would not flow rapidly enough and soon enough to allow every year the cultivation of the low land between the town of St. Johns and the boundary.
The hon. member says he has not seen any low land there. It is there, however. In fact, the Richelieu river from St. Johns to the boundary to a certain extent becomes a lake. The shores of the river are so low that one would form the idea that he was passing through a lake.


It is the arm of a lake.


In the spring when the water flows slowly on account of the natural obstacles between St. Johns and the boundary these lands are flooded for too long a time to permit satisfactory cultivation of them. That was the reason given a number of years ago. It was urged that if dredging were done the water would flow more rapidly and the land would be ready for cultivation sooner than otherwise. We had an estimate from an engineer that each year the farmers would be saved a loss of several hundred thousand dollars if they could cultivate the low land between St. Johns and the boundary. This regulating dam therefore has for its object the cultivation of the lands by permitting a flow of water earlier in the spring and over a shorter period. When built, and when the natural obstacles between St. Johns and the boundary are disposed of, the dam would permit much freer navigation between St. Johns and lake Champlain.


twelve feet.


Yes, twelve feet at least. The building of the dam about half way between St. Johns and Chambly, where the present canal exists, would reduce the length of the Chambly canal.


And help both countries.


It would reduce the length by about half. Instead of boats navigating twelve miles they would have to navigate only about six miles.


It is the intention to give a twelve foot canal from Fryer's island to Chambly?


No, not at present. We would be satisfied for the time being to have the regulating dam to reclaim the land that has ito be reclaimed to give St. Johns a twelve foot navigation channel to the United States and lake Champlain, and to reduce by half the present distance of navigation through the Chambly canal. These are the three reasons in my mind which would justify the present expenditures.
Tenders have been asked on the vote of last year, and the contract has been awarded to the Cape Construction Company of Montreal for the amount of $416,000.


For the dam alone?


Yes. My information is that the land which will be flooded in the vicinity of the dam amounts to only a very small portion of the land around the dam.


Has the minister any idea of the value of that land?


The total value of the land being expropriated would be in the vicinity of $60,000 or $70,000.


The explanation the minister has given is much better than the one he gave last year. I doubt whether there could be a better exemplification of the principle the minister mentioned yesterday than the one he has just given us. He said yesterday he usually made these appropriations at the request of the member for the constituency. How did he address himself in this case?


The work is not in my
constituency.


What about the expenditure at Sorel? Perhaps that is nearer home.


Yes, that is very near home. In connection with that item I would express very sincere regret that the amount is not larger. This is an expenditure of $200,000 to provide for harbour improvements.
Supply-Harbours and Rivers


It will not make it a second Montreal, but will make it a competing port.


Yes, in the course of a few years.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers-Ontario, $2,202,658.57.
Would the minister explain the rather large expenditures on the Grand river improvements, $300,000, and the Hamilton harbour improvements, in the same amount?


The Grand river project is a conservation scheme. The hon. member possibly knows better than I do the situation in connection with that river.


It is in cooperation with the province?


And the municipalities.


Yes, and the municipalities. The work is to be undertaken by a commission which has been appointed by the Ontario government.


Any relation to the penitentiaries commission?


I think not. The item for Hamilton harbour is to provide for the carrying out of work in Hamilton harbour which has been strongly urged by the harbour commission. A contract has been let to the Russell Construction Company for the construction of a steel sheet pile wall 2,000 feet long, with sand filling, this being the initial section of a large reclamation scheme proposed by the harbour commission north af Burlington street. There is some dredging to be done in the main channel in front of the wharf and plant of the Steel Company of Canada, and the reconstruction of the easterly face of the James street slip of the harbour commission.


What work is to be done in Toronto harbour? Is that the extension of the western gap?


Yes.


That is to accommodate the new air port.


Yes.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers-Saskatchewan, $27,000.
What dredging is to
be done at Waskesiu lake?


This amount of $12,000,
including a revote of $9,400, is for the deepen-

ing of the enclosed harbour on Waskesiu lake m the Prince Albert national park by the removal of approximately 15,000 cubic yards of material.


Has the contract been let for the dredging?


Yes. Four tenders were
submitted.


Who got the contract?


The contract has been
awarded to Macaw and Macdonald of Winnipeg.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers 

 British Columbia, $359,435.
I should like an explanation of four items in this vote. The first has to do with the dredging at Harrison river, for which an amount of $16,800 is being asked. The next covers wharf repairs and improvements at Harrison lake, for which $4,500 is being asked. In this connection I should like to know if this work is being done on the government wharf or some other wharf on the lake. Then I should like an explanation of the protection work being done on Nicomen island. Is this to replace work that has gone out, or is it to be new work? Then in connection with the work at Mclvor's landing; what federal district is that in?


Mclvor's landing is in
New Westminster. In connection with Harrison river, an amount of $16,800 is being provided for dredging the river channel for a distance of 3,200 feet, a width of 80 feet and to a depth of four feet below low water level, and removing bars and raising banks on dredging work done during 1937 and 1938. Also to clean out the channel connecting Harrison lake with Little Harrison lake, all on the Harrison river water course. The amount of $4,500 for wharf repairs and improvements at Harrison lake is to provide for renewal of decking on approach and substitution of level platform 42 feet by 32 feet, and inclined landing platform 112 feet by 32 feet for the existing float and gangway.


Is that in connection with
the wharf built by the government, or the old wharf that was there?


The residents of Harrison
lake district requested that the site of this landing be changed to a more protected one about 1,000 feet away. The district engineer advises that a wharf can be constructed at the new site for the amount submitted in the estimates.

Supply-Harbours and Rivers


This is really to cover the construction of another wharf?


Yes.


They are not moving the
old float; they are constructing a new one.


They have not gone into
the details of the matter, but it is being studied. The $7,000 being provided for protection work on Nicomen island is for the construction of a groin to protect the river bank on the south side of Nicomen island in the vicinity of McDonalds Landing. Erosion is taking place to such an extent as to endanger the main dyke. Our attention was drawn to this by the district engineer in January, 1938. He advised that a recent examination revealed that the bank is cut back to within 130 feet of the main dyke and he contends that it is essential that this erosion should be stopped.


The minister has intimated that at times members neglect to bring to the attention of the minister certain needed works in their districts. He cannot make that charge against me in connection with one particular work, namely, the landing opposite McMillan island wharf which was constructed over a year ago. It was understood at tne time that this wharf was being constructed as a ferry landing, and it was made known throughout the district that in the near future a similar landing would be constructed on the north side, somewhere in the neighbourhood of Albion. We were encouraged to believe that a ferry service would be inaugurated by the provincial government, but there is only a landing on one side of the river. I took up this matter with the minister on May 16, and I received his reply under date of June 20. He claimed in his letter that the wharf on McMillan island was constructed for the accommodation of the fishermen and small boats. If that was the sole reason for construction, then there was no reason for expending $5,284.53, because the landing on the north side was constructed for about $1,800. As I said before, the main reason for constructing this landing was for ferry use. Then the minister also pointed out that there is a small float at Albion for the use of fishermen. The intimation was given to the people of that district that this McMillan island landing was being constructed so that a ferry service could be provided, and that a similar landing would be constructed on the other side. I know the minister will contend we have nothing to do with ferries, but this government has undertaken to build a ferry landing on one side of the river and has refused to build a similar landing on the
other side. I wonder if that is due to the fact that the other side is in another district which may be considered to be not as favourable. I agree with the minister in this, that the responsibility for operation of ferries rests with the provincial government, but in this case this government constructed a ferry landing on the south side, it is only fair, I submit, that the same construction should take place on the north side. The McMillan wharf is absolutely useless unless it can be connected with similar construction on the other side.
On the north side of the river we have many industries, and a demand for the products of the south. So there is the necessity of providing a crossing. I believe there has been a promise from the provincial government that if the federal government would construct these wharves, the provincial government would consider establishing a ferry service. I trust the minister will give his further very serious consideration to this request.


Mr. Chairman, in view of the serious commitment I made yesterday and in view of the repeated requests of my hon. friend in regard to this matter, possibly we can find a few precedents and I can assure my hon. friend that I will give my best attention to his representations.


Will the minister explain the item of improvements to assembly wharf at Nanaimo, $8,000, and say when it is proposed to have these improvements finished?


It is contemplated that the work will be done this year.


Item agreed to.
Harbours and rivers-Generally-improvements, maintenance of service, repairs and additions. $500,000.
There are two items of $500,000 under " generally." Were there similar amounts last year, or is this an extra amount of $500,000?


The first item, No. 591, is the ordinary general item that has been in for several years. The other one, No. 593, is to cover employment works under contemplation for this year, and this is the only one of such items that is included in the estimates of the Department of Public Works. This item 593 includes protection works generally. I am sure that my hon. friend when he was Minister of Public Works received a number of requests for work of this nature, and no doubt he tried to limit them as much as he could, as I have done. But there are certain cases where our responsibility is not much disputed. In certain districts where there is
4518	COMMONS
Supply-Public Works-Miscellaneous
navigation, for example, where big boats are going up and down a river, and the main channel is not far from the river banks, erosion is caused by the waves of passing vessels and protection works are needed. This item can cover work of that kind. The vote is of a temporary nature, and is one of the proposals of the government for providing employment relief work.


I thought this was a new item. As the minister says, there are many requests for protection works, and I am sorry I did not have this item to take care of some of the requests I received when I was in the department. The minister ought to be able to do a good bit of protection with $500,000.


It is for the whole country.


Yes. But once you admit liability for erosion along the banks of a river, and undertake to provide protection works, you are in for a continued and very large expenditure over a period of years. The policy of the department has been to resist so far as possible claims for such erosion, because once you get into that field it is almost unlimited. I am sure the minister can easily spend the $500,000, and I hope he will protect everybody who needs protection.
Mr. TAY'LOR (Nanaimo): Will the minister state if it is possible to do anything in connection with Ladysmith wharf this season? I understand the matter is under review.


We are getting a report on that, and I seriously hope we shall be in a position to satisfy my hon. friend.


Item agreed to.
Roads and bridges-Interprovincial bridge, Campbellton, N.B., to Cross Point, Que., the provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec each to pay one-third of the cost and maintenance thereof, $100,000.
Is it not the usual thing, where interprovincial bridges are being constructed, for each province to make a contribution and then appeal to the federal government for a contribution?


Yes. We are providing
under this vote for the federal government's share, and the two provinces will have to contribute a similar amount each.


Have they applied to the federal government for a contribution?


Yes.


Have they voted their own contributions?
fMr. Cardin.]


No, not yet, but they have applied to us, and we are providing this amount in case the provincial governments provide a similar amount.


Item agreed to.
Telegraph branch-Saskatchewan and Alberta -telephone line from lie a la Crosse to Buffalo Narrows, $10,000.
Is this a new telephone
line?


Yes.


I understood the policy
of the department was not to build any more lines than were necessary. Why is this one being built?


I am informed that it is
in the class defined as pioneer lines where private companies refuse to build. But, as my hon. friend suggested with regard to protection works, we try to resist requests of this kind as much as possible.


Item agreed to.
Public works-generally-to provide for balance required to complete any projects already undertaken, no new -works to be undertaken, $200,000. '
Is this the same as last
year or is there an increase?


It is the same as last year.


Item agreed to.
National Defence-departmental administration, $425,720.
There is a matter in regard to which I wish very briefly to lodge a protest. On March 7 I moved for a return of the house, as follows:
For a copy of all orders, decisions, letters, telegrams, recommendations and recorded evidence relating to the court of enquiry held by the Department of National Defence in Quebec, August 24 to August 28, 1936, to deal with charges against officers of the Royal 22nd Regiment.
The acting minister at that time, apparently acting on the advice of the departmental officers, stated:
The proceedings of the board of inquiry are of a confidential character. The documents and memoranda relating thereto come within the category of privileged communications.
So far as I am informed with regard to the procedure and usages of this house I consider that my rights as a member of the house were infringed upon. I did not ask for privileged documents. My motion might have been accepted by the government with

Supply-National Defence
the usual reservations. I did not ask for any military secrets, but simply for information regarding ordinary matters of departmental administration. I am not going to occupy any time, but as the minister is aware, serious allegations were made in regard to this matter. Information was put in my possession, properly documented and supported by statutory declarations, indicating a very serious state of affairs in regard to the administration of the Royal 22nd Regiment, concerning serious irregularities in the expenditure of government funds and the disposition of government property, and in the general discipline of the regiment. I have, therefore, no recourse but to place on record some of these charges and ask for a statement from the minister, as to whether the charges have been investigated, and what findings were given with regard thereto; and as the matter becomes of particular importance, in view of the fact that certain of the senior officers involved have been retained in the service and since promoted, having been given responsible positions that appropriate action be taken in the matter. One junior officer who made some effort to expose these irregularities has been victimized, grossly discriminated against and dismissed from the service. His career is blighted, and generally his future is darkened. Certain specific charges were made. One was that the regimental funds of the Royal 22nd Regiment have been misappropriated and in some instances expended upon things alien not only to the regiment but also to the militia.
Officers' mess and regimental property have been irregularly disposed of by a commanding officer of the Royal 22nd Regiment. Some commanding officers of the Royal 22nd Regiment have made it a custom to delete their names from the list of debtors submitted to the district officer commanding, on the 15th of every month, although they paid their mess bills approximately biannually or whenever they could find the money.
A company commander, Royal 22nd Regiment, solicited and charged his men three dollars per month to teach them English for the educational training examinations. I am qualified to state that this officer does not know the English language well enough to teach it. The commanding officer not only tolerated but supported that officer's most unethical practice.
It has been the custom of most married officers of the Royal 22nd Regiment to draw servant allowance, although they employed soldier servants. The daily amount involved is small, being forty cents; but, spread over a period of ten years, it amounts to approximately one thousand five hundred dollars.
A commanding officer, Royal 22nd Regiment, took possession of and used, for himself and his family, not only at camp but also in town, most of the bed linen which the government supplies for the accommodation of the unmarried personnel living in barracks.
Another serious charge was that commanding officers were guilty of an indictable offence, that is to say, bootlegging, permitting the use in the officers' mess of spirits on which the excise tax was not paid, contrary to the provisions of the Liquor Control Act.
I have a number of statutory declarations of those employed in the mess in support of this charge. The junior officer concerned had certain rights as well as responsibilities. He had a right to interest himself in any such irregularities, and he did so, with the result, as I have said, that he was grossly discriminated against and dismissed from the service without a proper inquiry. I have the confidential report of his service and there is not an entry in that report on the part of the senior officers indicating that his conduct was anything but completely satisfactory. But a return was brought down into the house which I think was in very bad taste on the part of the officers of the department, because it shows a most vindictive attitude towards this gentleman, Captain Roy. It is stated:
This officer's retirement was promoted by the fact that over a period of some eight years, and notwithstanding repeated warnings to the contrary, there occurred very many instances of derelictions from duty, failure to comply with regulations, acts detrimental to discipline and to the good of his regiment, the cumulative effect of these being not only subversive to discipline in the unit but also giving a bad example to the younger officers, and tints making it essential in the general interests of the service to remove this officer.
These charges were placed on the record without this officer being granted a hearing, and I have reason to believe that this action was taken in consequence of his having made some effort to stop gross irregularities in the administration of the affairs of the Royal 22nd Regiment. I have made it my business to consult other senior officers who had knowledge of these affairs and they corroborate the statement of this officer. The conditions existing in Quebec were an open scandal throughout the force. I will not deal with the matter at length. I simply wish to bring it to the attention of the minister and to protest against the fact that I was not given the information I had the right to receive as a member of this house with regard to the administration of government funds. I have asked that proper steps be taken, if the charges have been confirmed by inquiry, to deal with the senior officers who condoned practices so vicious and irregular. I also make a definite

Supply-National Defence

appeal on behalf of a young officer of good family and good record-and this is substantiated by a number of officers who have since retired from the force. I ask that this gentleman be granted plain justice in this instance, because I feel that he has been grossly discriminated against and victimized by the very men whose conduct is in question. I hope I shall have a statement from the minister in this regard.


Not only do the conditions exist in Quebec, as indicated by the hon. member who has just spoken (Mr. Mae-Neil), so far as that particular regiment is concerned, but I have had occasion to bring to the attention of the minister other cases in which men have been punished, it seems to me, simply because they dared to assert themselves in favour of honest and decent administration in the units with which they are connected. I am bound to say that I think the minister in the two cases I brought to his attention has endeavoured to do everything that a minister reasonably can do, but the officers will not give effect.to what should be done and it is disturbing to think that this is going on. It happened in years gone by in this country and created considerable difficulty.
There never has been a time when there was in connection with the militia a situation such as we have to-day, and it is attributable to exactly such conditions as the hon. member has just referred to. It is believed that there is direct interference on the part of some officials with respect to what should be the orderly administration of a department, and I can only say to the minister that I believe -I want to be fair about it-that though he is a strong partisan he has been endeavouring to do something to remove the difficulty that exists. I would say to him something of the sort once said by a queen to her son-"Charles, be king!" I suggest to the minister that after all, he is minister, and not somebody else in his department, and that the conditions that exist in Quebec call for a real investigation. In connection with the Royal 22nd Regiment they cry aloud for an investigation The man who has been promoted-the story will be told to this house some day-I will not mention by name. I say that purposely, for it would not be the proper thing in view of what the minister is trying to do. At Winnipeg the condition got down to this: Is it possible because of social and other pull for any man to misappropriate money and then, because decent, honest men wish to see that sort of thing stopped, they should be punished and deprived of their positions

and treated in this way? That is what it gets down to. I will refrain at this time of day from going into the details of all this, because I have found the minister himself reasonable in his attitude of mind and in his approach to these problems. But for some strange reason action always falls just short of realization. I wrote and told the minister that I thought he had done the fair and decent thing but to my horror I discovered that after all, although he thought it had been done, it had not. That sort of thing must stop in this country. No little band in this country is going to defy either ministers or public opinion in the observance of the amenities of life, merely because they happen to be the favourites of particular individuals. The sooner that is understood, the better.
With respect to the matter to which the hon. member for Vancouver North has referred. I intended myself to speak about it, but I am not going to do so now. We have a right to these papers-and when I say "we" I mean this house. No sort of private star chamber business is going to be set up here; if I were to adopt the language of the Prime Minister with respect to a somewhat similar matter I would characterize it even more strongly, but I content myself with these observations. I still rely upon the minister carrying into effect what I believe he honestly wants to do in the interests of the service of this country, and I say to him again, in the language of the old queen, "Ian, be king I"


First I desire to thank
my right hon. friend (Mr. Bennett) for his very fair comments.
Two cases mentioned, the one by my right hon. friend and the other by the hon. member for Vancouver North (Mr. MacNeil) arose before I was entrusted with the responsibility of being Minister of National Defence.


That is true.


With respect to the Winnipeg case, I am not going to discuss the right or wrong of it, but I have endeavoured to the best of my ability to see that substantial justice was done.


Hear, hear.


Two
different courts of inquiry were held in that case, and I trust that even further measures will be taken to see that final justice is rendered in every individual case in connection with the Winnipeg incident.

Supply-National Defence
The case mentioned by the hon. member for Vancouver North was disposed of in May, 1935, after a very thorough investigation by the chief of the general staff, a board of officers, and the district officer commanding. The case was brought to the attention of my predecessor, the hon. member for Yale (Mr, Stirling), who, this committee will agree, is a gentleman of very fair and very eminent judgment. I perused all the files-I am not going to refer to any confidential documents in connection with this officer; I do not think it is necessary for me to do so-I considered the reasons for dealing with him as he was dealt with, and I am constrained to say with great regret that I agree with the action which was taken with respect to him.
My hon. friend has mentioned charges in connection with a Quebec regiment. A court of inquiry was held. As my hon. friend says, he was denied access to the proceedings of the court of inquiry. He was, however, offered private access to the proceedings of the court. If this house wishes to assert as a matter of principle that, the proceedings of courts of inquiry in the Department of National Defence shall be open to any hon. member of the house, I have not the slightest objection. The principle all through the years has been that these are confidential proceedings, and not producible, but if the house wishes to establish another principle I am entirely willing and even anxious to see that all these proceedings are brought down with reference to any of these troubles which have arisen.


I believe that in the
British parliament they bring down courts martial proceedings.


Personally I would have no objection; indeed I rather agree with my right hon. friend with reference to the proceedings of the court of inquiry he has mentioned, and I have not the slightest objection to bringing them down. I agree with the judgment of my predecessor with regard to this case. I want to say nothing reflecting on this officer. It would not be fair to use the privileges of parliament to reflect on any officer. But I do say this, that a court of inquiry was held with reference to the allegations mentioned, and honestly mentioned, by the hon. member for Vancouver North. As I have said, if the committee wishes that the proceedings of courts of inquiry in every case shall be made available, I am not only anxious but willing that these documents shall be brought down. Both these cases were left on my doorstep when I was entrusted with the responsibilities of the department. I endeavoured to do the S1952-2804
best I could in the Winnipeg case; in the Quebec case I sustained the judgment of my predecessor, and I think I was doing justice in so doing.


And in the Nova Scotia case also.


Yes.


Were the charges against the principal officers concerned substantiated in any form, particularly with regard to dealing with funds and the misuse of government property? If they were not cleared of these charges, why have they since been granted promotion?


I am
informed-this is subject to further inquiry- that these charges were not substantiated. I should be very glad to bring down the proceedings of the court of inquiry for the hon. member to see.


Can the minister make any statement with reference to the proceedings against the junior officer?


I recall that it was arranged that there should be a conference in October, 1937. I instructed the deputy minister and the adjutant general to be in my office to meet with that officer. The officer, however, never turned out for that investigation or inquiry -


The minister has referred to the fact that action in the Roy case was taken during the time of his predecessor, and as I was that predecessor perhaps I should make a remark or two. As to that portion of the reference which the hon. member for Vancouver North (Mr. MacNeil) has made to the Royal 22nd Regiment, dealing with Captain Roy's case, I have a general recollection of the case. I cannot be expected to remember the details, but I do recall that before making any decision I gave careful study to all the related facts and circumstances, because to take such action against any man is a serious matter. The inquiries were held consequent upon repeated instances of alleged misconduct on the part of the officer in question. That it was not one isolated incident, but a number of incidents reported over the course of years, is my recollection. Not only was the matter reported on by his commanding officer; it went to the district officer commanding, and then to the chief of the general staff. After I had considered all the reports produced by those three officers, I could come to no other conclusion than that the action should be taken which was taken.
Supply-National Defence


There is one further matter to which I wish briefly to refer, in the hope that it may bring forth a statement from the minister as to the policy regarding the construction of armouries across Canada. The people of Canada at this time are making serious sacrifices for the purposes of national defence, and I see no reason why in certain instances armouries should be constructed with a consequent diversion of funds required for purposes of coastal defence. I refer to sessional paper No. 210 of this year. I find that the total cost of armouries and barracks, including lands, and exclusive of maintenance and repairs, has been $20,103,586. That is quite apart from the lands and buildings transferred by the government of the United Kingdom. to the Dominion of Canada free of cost. The annual cost of maintenance of armouries and barracks in Canada is $994,994-approximately SI.000.000-including structural repairs, care of buildings, grounds and equipment; also heating, lighting and water services.
I have in my hand a list of the locations of armouries across Canada. In military district No. 1 there are armouries at places like Chatham, Erin. Galt, Ingersoll, Listowel, Park-hill. St. Thomas, Strathroy, Walkerton, Windsor, Elora. Forest, Guelph. Kincardine, London, Sarnia. Stratford, Watford, Wingham. Woodstock, Port Elgin.
In military district No. 2 there are armouries at places like Aurora, Brantford, Brampton, Cannington, Dundas, Georgetown, Hailey-bury. Markdale, Niagara Falls. Orillia. Paris, Simcoe, Toronto (Fort York), Whitby. Barrie, Burford, Beaverton, Clarksburg, Durham, Hagersville. Hamilton, Meaford, Norval, Oshawa, St. Catharines, Toronto (University avenue), Welland, Milton.
And so it goes on, representing not so much a plan of defence as a first class map of political expenditure. I am concerned because in the estimates just voted for public works there are included a number of items for the purpose of further construction of armouries. For instance, one at Hull, at a cost of something like


$260,000. It is partly rebuilt.


-and a similar expenditure in Cornwall. Quite sincerely, I can see no relation in these expenditures to defence. I oppose this expenditure because it is my belief that it is made largely for political purposes. When you consider the use that is made of these armouries, the co