Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance-for Mr. Ilsley) moved the first reading of Bill No. 97 (from the senate) respecting small loans.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.

Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
1.	Has a new postmaster been appointed at Harriston, Ontario?
2.	If so, what is his name?
3.	Upon whose recommendation was he appointed ?
4.	Is he a returned soldier?
5.	Were any of the other applicants returned men?
6.	If so, what are their names?


Return tabled.


1.	During the years 1937 and 1938, have any boilers been purchased by the Department of Pensions and National Health or the Department of Public Works?
2.	If so, were tenders called?
3.	From whom were such tenders received?
4.	What was the amount of each tender?
5.	Who was the successful tenderer?


On the orders of the day:
Hon. II. H. STEVENS (Kootenay East): May I ask that the attention of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) be directed to an order of the house with regard to certain correspondence, standing in my name, which was passed on March 22, in order that the bringing down of the return may be expedited if possible.
I shall be very glad to see that this is done.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) or the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers) based upon a news item which appeared in this morning's Citizen, as follows:
Regina, April 18.-Thousands of pounds of butter, part of the huge surplus of 6,000,000 pounds in Canada, are expected to go out shortly to relief families and needy families not on relief.
Distribution of surplus butter in Saskatchewan is part of the scheme of the federal government, announced early in April by J. F. Singleton, ^ federal dairy commissioner at Ottawa. The dominion government is financing distribution.
I should like to ask whether any of this butter is to be distributed to relief recipients and people in need in other provinces; and, if so, in what quantities in each province.


This question was up, I think, on two previous occasions, as to whether any such distribution was to be proceeded with. Arrangements have been entered into with the Red Cross to take charge of any distribution that may be made, and any such distribution will be made right across Canada.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Mackenzie) who, I understand, issued a statement this morning substantiating the report that a submarine had been seen in Halifax harbour. Would the minister care to enlighten the house regarding the matter?


Mr. Speaker, I am afraid my hon. friend is somewhat in error with regard to the matter of the release to the press this morning. The facts are as follows. Reports were received by naval authorities at Halifax yesterday from a pilot vessel that officers of the vessel believed that a submarine had entered Halifax harbour early on Wednesday morning. Immediately a most thorough investigation was conducted by the officers of the Royal Canadian Air Force, the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. At this time I may tell my hon. friend that the opinion of the officers is that the vessel in question was not a submarine. However, as soon as I have further reliable information I will give it immediately to the house.


UNEMPLOYMENT AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRESS__
Hon. NORMAN McL. ROGERS (Minister of Labour) moved the second reading of Bill No. 96, to assist in the alleviation of unemployment and agricultural distress.
Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Mr. Speaker, I had supposed the Minister of Labour intended to address the
2996	COMMONS
Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
house, and I was waiting for him to speak.
I wish .to discuss certain matters on the motion for second reading, because I believe the observations I shall make are perhaps more appropriate on second reading than they would have been on the resolution which preceded the bill.
The national employment commission found in their report of January, 1938-which I think should be read and digested by all who are interested in the subject of unemployment in Canada-.that in addition to those in need of agricultural relief, there were in the month of September of the previous year, 450,000 persons in Canada in receipt of aid, assistance or relief, to which the dominion government contributed, of which 290,000 were classed as dependents, including babes in arms, mothers, grandmothers, grandfathers, who could not possibly work even if jobs were available; while 42,000, by reason of physical deficiences or mental frailties, were reported as unemployable, leaving 115,000 persons who were employable if work, suitable to their several capacities, had been made available. Certainly in the administration of relief measures these several categories must be considered separately, and the relief which is granted must be adequate to the necessities of the persons in the respective categories.
I have found in my own experience in dealing with many of those young men who apply to me, as a member of parliament, for advice and assistance, that when industry revives, openings are increasingly available for hundreds and even thousands who have such skill and training as qualify them for employment in industry, but that few of the unemployed have had manual training for industrial employment, which leads me to conclude that a considerable part of existing unemployment is not due-as so many recklessly assert- to the faults of the so-called capitalistic system, but rather to the abandonment of an adequate system of apprenticeship in the mechanical trades, which formerly prevailed, and to deficiencies which have arisen in our educational system, in so far as it fails to qualify our youth for available industrial employment. I must reserve any discussion of the subject of suitable preparation for employment, because to-day I wish merely to discuss certain constitutional aspects of the social problems.
During the past year the public press has borne witness to an insistent and increasing demand that the federal treasury shall assume entirely the costs of unemployment relief, and so relieve the provincial, civic and municipal treasuries of all expenditures which are

made for that purpose. This demand is made chiefly by	provincial,	civic	and	municipalauthorities,	who assert	that	their existingrevenues are inadequate to meet the demands made upon them, and tha/t the imposition of increased provincial, civic and municipal taxation, to increase their revenues for purposes of relief, would be resented by the people whom they . represent. They claim that they have already exhausted their financial resources and that an increase of the burdens of	provincial,	civic	and	municipaltaxation is	practically	impossible.
On the other hand, these burdens cannot be assumed by the federal treasury without a corresponding increase in federal taxation, and, in any case, an increased burden of federal taxation will fall heavily upon the same people, despite the fact that they may reside in different provinces, or in different cities or towns or rural municipalities.
As the municipalities, whether civic or rural, are creations of and under the exclusive jurisdiction of the provincial governments and provincial legislatures, the question at once arises whether the dominion parliament or the provincial legislatures should assume the responsibility of imposing increased taxation for the relief of the unemployed and the indigent. This is a question for fair, full and frank public discussion.
It is our duty therefore to consider whether under the existing constitution of this country the parliament of Canada may lawfully impose federal * taxes and lawfully enact laws appropriating the revenues derived from federal taxation for the relief of the unemployed and the indigent. If it is decided that the permanent relief of the indigent and unemployed is the sole duty and responsibility of this parliament, then I sincerely believe that this parliament will not hesitate to resolve the problem, and that it is quite capable of so doing.
I have frequently discussed in this house and elsewhere the validity of dominion legislation, which has been proposed for the solution of the social problems which have beset this country. As a member of the late government of Canada and as a member of the parliament of Canada, I have voted in favour of the enactment of such measures as were proposed to assist in alleviating the distress and suffering resulting from poverty and unemployment, such as appropriations for old age pensions, appropriations for the relief of the indigent, and such legislation as the Weekly Rest in Industrial Undertakings Act of 1935, the Minimum Wage Act of 1935, and the Employment and Social Insurance Act of 1935, although on previous occasions, in view of outstanding decisions of the judicial

Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
committee of the privy council, I had frankly expressed my personal doubts as to the constitutional validity of several of these proposed enactments. Several of these statutes were, in January, 1937, declared by the judicial committee of the privy council to be beyond the legislative jurisdiction of the dominion parliament and therefore illegal, invalid and of no effect.
It is, I think, generally admitted that in construing the terms of the British North America Act, the authority of the judicial committee has at times been perversely exercised, but nevertheless the decisions of the judicial committee in constitutional cases, must, under existing conditions, be regarded as having the same force and effect as if they were expressly incorporated into the terms of the British North America Act.
It is clear, therefore, that there are many things that the parliament and government of Canada may not lawfully do, and which, if attempted, are as unlawful and in fact as reprehensible as any attempt by private individuals to violate valid statutes which have been enacted by a competent parliament or by a competent legislature. In a recent decision the judicial committee has definitely declared that:
Assuming that the dominion has collected by means of taxation a fund, it by no means follows that any legislation which disposes of it is necessarily within dominion competence. It may be legislation affecting the classes of subjects enumerated in section 92 (of the British North America Act) and, if so, it would be ultra vires. In other words, dominion legislation, even though it deals with dominion property, may yet be so framed as to invade civil rights within the province or encroach upon the classes of subjects which are reserved to provincial competence. If on the true view of the legislation it is found that in reality in pith and substance the legislation invades civil rights within the province, or in respect of other classes of subjects otherwise encroaches upon the provincial field, the legislation is invalid.
The legislation referred to in that decision was legislation by this parliament appropriating its revenues for the purpose of unemployment insurance. That decision of the judicial committee has, in my opinion, raised grave doubts as to the validity of any enactments hitherto or hereafter made by the dominion parliament which purport to make appropriations of dominion funds for unemployment relief or for the support and care of the indigent in the several provinces of Canada. I respectfully suggest that it was the duty of the government to have procured within the past eighteen months definite opinions from the judicial committee as to the duty and responsibility of the dominion government and parliament in respect of these matters.
Week after week we read in the press official pronouncements of provincial and municipal governments that the British North America Act imposes upon the federal parliament the sole responsibility in these matters, and, as frequently, dominion ministers and officials reply in the negative. The supreme court of Canada and the judicial committee of the privy council should, in my opinion, long ere this have been requested to decide definitely for what social services or relief purposes the revenues which the dominion government obtains, by taxation of the people in one form or another, may be lawfully appropriated by parliament.
Section 102 of the British North America. Act, 1867, has enacted that "all duties and revenues" of Canada-
-shall form one consolidated revenue fund, to be appropriated for the public service of Canada in the manner and subject to the charges in this act provided.
Sections 103, 104 and 105 provide for certain specific charges upon the consolidated revenue fund. Section 106 enacts that "subject to the several payments by this act charged on the consolidated revenue fund of Canada," to which I have referred, "the same" that is, the consolidated revenue fund of Canada, "shall be appropriated by the parliament of Canada for the public service."
The British North America Act, 1867, therefore enacts as one of its fundamental provisions that the parliament of Canada shall make appropriations from its consolidated revenue fund only for the public service of Canada, and that act does not provide or even imply that the parliament of Canada may lawfully appropriate the revenues of Canada for any object or purpose other than the public service of Canada. On the other hand, section 126 of the British North America Act enacts that such duties and revenues:
-as are by this act reserved to the respective governments or legislatures of the provinces, and all duties and revenues raised by them in accordance with the special powers conferred upon them by this act, shall in each province form one consolidated revenue fund to be appropriated for the public service of the province.
The British North America Act, therefore, clearly distinguishes between the public service of Canada and the public service of the province. That act also distinguishes between the revenues of the dominion, which form the consolidated revenue fund of Canada, and the revenues which in each province form the consolidated revenue fund of that province. It also imperatively provides that the consolidated revenue fund of Canada shall be appropriated 'by the parliament of Canada for the public service of Canada, and that the
2998	COMMONS
Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
consolidated revenue of each province shall be appropriated by the legislature of that province for the public service of that province. It would appear, therefore, that the British North America Act contains a clear implication that it is not lawful for the parliament of Canada to appropriate the revenues of Canada for the public services of the provinces, or for the legislature of a province to appropriate the revenues of that province for the public service of the Dominion of Canada.
I do not desire to argue the legal and constitutional issues to-day, but merely to indicate their nature and extent, as they appear to me.
But how may we ascertain what matters are included in the public service of Canada, and ivhat matters are included in the public service of the province? It is clear that no revenues of Canada may be lawfully appropriated except by a valid law enacted by the parliament of Canada, and that no revenues of the province may be lawfully appropriated except by a valid law enacted by the legislature of the province. Section 91 of the British North America Act enacts that it shall be lawful for the parliament of Canada:
-to make laws for the peace, order and good government of Canada, in relation to all matters not coming within the classes of subject by this act assigned exclusively to the legislatures of the provinces;
During the last Conservative regime, the government of which I was a member annually asked parliament to appropriate large sums from the consolidated revenue fund of Canada for unemployment relief as extraordinary or emergency legislation under the " peace, order and good government " clause. The sums so voted were assumed by us to be valid federal appropriations under the " peace, order and good government" clause which I have just quoted, on the theory that the unemployment problem in Canada had reached such extraordinary dimensions as to become a threat to the body politic of the dominion, and was therefore a matter of peace, order and good government, properly to be dealt with by the dominion parliament. But the judicial committee of the privy council has summarily rejected this theory in a more recent decision.
I do not know, as it has not been definitely declared, on what basis our annual appropriations for relief and kindred social services are now made, or on what constitutional theories they are deemed to rest.
But, inasmuch as the provincial legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to the establishment, maintenance and management of hospitals, asylums, charities and eleemosy-

nary institutions for the care and relief of those who are poor or destitute of the means of comfortable subsistence, it is contended by some authorities that laws appropriating public funds for the maintenance and relief of the indigent, the aged and the unemployed in each province, are now exclusively within the legislative jurisdiction of the provincial legislatures, and therefore beyond the powers of the parliament of Canada. If this contention is upheld by the courts, then this parliament has been exceeding its authority and has made and is continuing to make unlawful appropriations.
I am not endowed with the gift of prophecy, but I am disposed to think that whenever the issue arises in the courts, as it will undoubtedly be raised in due time-and, as I think, any individual taxpayer of the country, who is prepared to appropriate his own private funds for such litigation, may raise it at any time-the judicial committee will probably decide that any appropriations of dominion funds for the construction of roads, bridges, canals or other local works, which are wholly situate within the province, are unlawfully made and invalid.
Before attempting any radical change in the fundamental constitutional law of this country we must realize that our constitution is the stable basis of our existing political, civil and religious liberties, and that if these liberties are to be maintained, the law of the constitution must be respected and strictly obeyed, until, as I have said, it is amended and modified by judicial interpretation or by other lawful methods and with general public approval.
It is, I conceive, the duty of a member of parliament to contribute what he can to the public welfare by frankly speaking the thoughts which have matured in his own mind, and not merely what he thinks his constituents will approve. He is a representative of his electors, and not merely their delegate. The electors, in their turn, will, in due time, by the exercise of their electoral franchise, approve or disapprove of his political activities.
In the provinces of the middle west, especially in the province of Saskatchewan, the farmers have suffered from a prolonged drought, which, has obliged farmers and their dependents to the number of about 300,000 to seek financial aid from the government. Such aid to agricultural districts, to overcome the effects of drought, is as commendable as in any other case, where cyclones, earthquakes, floods or other exceptional natural disturbances have caused sudden death and suffer-

Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
ing. Differences pf opinion may arise as to terms and conditions of appropriations made by parliament to aid agriculture. Differences of opinion arise with respect to the adoption and effect of any public policy. But it is my personal opinion that grants from the dominion treasury of agricultural aid to the western farmers, in times of dire distress, may lawfully be made, because section 95 of the British North America Act has declared that "the parliament of Canada may from time to time make laws in relation to agriculture in all or any of the provinces."
So also, in the case of distress and suffering among those engaged in the fisheries of our sea coasts, the parliament of Canada may sometimes lawfully intervene; for our constitution declares that the parliament of Canada has exclusive jurisdiction to make laws in relation to all matters coming within the class of subjects in the British North America Act described as "sea coast and inland fisheries."
I interject these opinions to indicate that 1 am not personally opposed to the making by this parliament of reasonable appropriations to assist either the farmers or the fishermen of Canada.
There can be no doubt that it is the duty of either the dominion or the provincial government to make due provision for indigent persons who are unable by reason of age, infirmity or physical or mental incapacity to provide for themselves. But as governmental authority is divided in Canada by the express terms of our constitution, grave doubt has arisen as to whether the federal parliament and the federal government have the responsibility and duty to make such provision. I, therefore, suggest that it is the duty of the government of this dominion to ensure that such doubts are resolved as speedily as possible, so that, by reason of existing constitutional difficulties and disputes, relief may not be withheld from those who are entitled to receive it.
I am clearly of opinion that, in order to resolve all existing doubts, the dominion government should speedily refer to the Supreme Court of Canada, subject to the ultimate review of the judicial committee, any constitutional issues which remain in doubt, so that it may be decided beyond dispute what, if any, remedial measures are within the legislative jurisdiction of the dominion parliament, and what remedial measures are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the provincial legislatures.
Unless these doubts are now removed by definite decisions of the judicial committee, which may speedily be obtained, then the
present appropriations of dominion revenues for the maintenance of these social services should not be indefinitely renewed or continued beyond the time necessary to obtain final judicial decisions upon the issues involved. In the absence nf such decisions, the entire burden of their maintenance may not be lawfully assumed unless and until the parliament of the United Kingdom has enacted such amendments to the British North America Act as will clearly authorize the parliament of Canada to do so lawfully, and to this end the consent of the provincial governments is advisable, if not necessary.
The government and parliament of Canada may not, without mischievous results, continue to make unlawful appropriations for objects which the courts have already declared, or may reasonably be expected to declare, to be beyond the legislative jurisdiction of parliament. The governments, parliaments and legislatures of this dominion may not set the example to individual malefactors of disregarding and violating the fundamental law of the constitution which is now in force and which limits and controls their several actions.
My conclusion, therefore, is this, that those throughout Canada who are persuaded that the pressing social problems of the day may best be solved by the parliament of Canada taking over the duty of making appropriations of dominion revenues for such purposes- appropriations which may be lawfully and efficiently administered 'by the government of Canada and its proper agencies-are in duty bound to procure the cooperation and consent of provincial governments to the enactment of such amendments to the British North America Act as will clearly vest these matters in and under the legislative jurisdiction of parliament and the administrative jurisdiction of the government of Canada.
But, in the meantime, until such amendments to our constitution may be obtained by consent of the provinces, it is the duty of the government to obtain from the supreme court and from the judicial committee decisions as to the legislative authority of this parliament and the constitutional responsibility of this government.
It seems to me that it is nothing less than a public scandal that the provincial and municipal authorities should persistently declare in public utterances and in the press that it is the lawful duty of the dominion to assume the sole responsibility of providing financial relief for the unemployed and the indigent, and that the dominion authorities should as persistently deny these utterances. The issue should be judicially determined, and, until such issues are finally decided by
3000	COMMONS
Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
the courts, the public mind will remain confused and uncertain in its judgments, and it will be impossible for either the dominion parliament or for the provincial legislatures to proceed intelligently and with resolution and energy, to effect the satisfactory solutions which are necessary to ensure our public welfare and our domestic safety.


I do not rise to continue the debate at this stage, but if the hon. member who has just spoken (Mr. Cahan) and who in my view has delivered a scholarly and closely reasoned contribution to the discussion, would permit me to ask a question, I should like to do so. Is it his view that the dominion government has not at this time power directly to appropriate and disburse money for unemployment relief? I take it that the affirmative correctly expresses his view, but lest I should be mistaken I ask him if he will tell me.


I do not think this is an appropriate time to ask and answer questions on a subject of the kind; it would be better to do so in committee. But I do say this, that under the British North America Act as it was originally drafted and as it was interpreted for the first twenty or twenty-five /ears of confederation, it would be lawful for he dominion government to make appsopria-ions under the " peace, order and good government " clause for social purposes, including relief. Under the British North America Act as it is to-day construed and applied by the judicial committee of the privy council, I cannot see how it can be lawful for the dominion parliament to make such appropriations. Mind you, I make the distinction between what I believe to have been the clear intention and purpose of those who drafted the British North America Act, and the decisions which were subsequently made with respect to the " peace, order and good government " clause..


Mr. Speaker-


If the hon. member wishes to put a question, I think it would be better to wait until the house is in committee.


It seems to me that the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan) has departed from his usual logical presentation of a problem. My recollection is that two years ago he castigated very severely the judicial committee of the privy council for its judgment in respect of the unemployment insurance case; he characterized it as being perverse and contrary to principle. If that is so, what logic is there in sub-(Mr. Cahan.]
mitting to the same tribunal the question which he now suggests? I agree with his latter suggestion, that if there is any doubt as to the right of this parliament to appropriate moneys for unemployment relief and for social purposes, such doubt should be resolved by appropriate amendments to the British North America Act.


Would the hon. member
allow me to ask him a question?


Just a moment. We have appointed a royal commission to go into a number of matters, to review the fields of responsibility, sources of taxation, sources of revenue. Would it not be much more sensible to wait until they have brought down their report? Then, if there is any doubt as to the jurisdiction of the dominion parliament to appropriate moneys for unemployment relief or other social purposes, the whole thing could be discussed. To do this would be much more logical than to make an immediate reference to a court which the hon. member has already characterized as a perverse court.


Mr. Speaker, would you


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Mr. Speaker, may I be
allowed, by consent of the house, to make a few comments? I withdraw nothing I have said with regard to certain decisions of the judicial committee. But the fact is that those decisions are written into our law and to-day are as much a part of the British North America Act as if they had been expressly included in that act at the time it was enacted. But there is a further issue, and I will state my own experience. I go about the province of which I am one of the representatives, and I am met everywhere, on every hand, by the declarations, from the provincial premier and provincial ministers down to nearly every mayor and member of the municipal councils in that province, that they are instructed and believe that it is the duty of the dominion parliament and government to assume sole responsibility for these expenditures. I go into the province of Ontario, and although I am not so well acquainted there, I hear reports that members of the present provincial government in Ontario, and the mayors of some of these cities-important and intelligent men who exercise authority in municipal matters- declare that they regard it as the sole Responsibility of the dominion parliament to provide and distribute funds sufficient for relief purposes.

Unemployment and Agricultural Distress


Order. I do not want to interrupt the hon. gentleman, but he will have an opportunity to discuss the matter more fully when the house is in committee.


We have already discussed this matter on several occasions and I hesitate to speak once again, even though it be to present a certain aspect of it; but I feel that the problem is so important that I cannot very well avoid any opportunity of impressing upon this house and upon the government the seriousness of the situation which now confronts us.
I have a very high regard for the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan), and his legal points may be well taken. He talks about the danger of our making unlawful appropriations; he doubts the legislative authority of this parliament; he suggests that the issue should be judicially determined. I quite admit that we have these great constitutional questions, but I do say that the needs, the appalling needs, of the people of the country transcend in importance the constitutional considerations which the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George has brought before the house.
It may very well be that this question ultimately should be decided by the courts; it may be that we shall have some light thrown upon it when the commission on dominion-provincial relations reports. In the meantime, however, we cannot disregard the pressing needs of tens of thousands of our fellow Canadians.


I have not suggested that you should.


I am not accusing my hon. friend of neglecting this aspect of the matter, but he has not suggested any alternative to some arrangement of the kind he proposes. It seems to me that until these questions are judicially settled-they should have been settled years ago

we have to go ahead in meeting pressing needs.


If the hon. member will read the verbatim report of what I have said he will see that I have so stated distinctly.


That is all right then, but I want to emphasize that we cannot allow ourselves in any way to be diverted by what are merely constitutional questions. I am not here to say that the dominion government is solely responsible, but I do say that, viewing the conditions that prevail in many of our provinces, in a very large number of our municipalities, this government is decidedly responsible, at least in part. The government has at its disposal resources that are beyond those under the control of some of our provinces at least, and of many of our municipalities.
Our papers have been filled with news of the preparations for the royal visit and of the expenditures connected therewith. I said, in the first speech I made in this house this session, that I thought we might give the royal visitors a dignified reception without engaging in any extravagances, but huge sums of money are being spent in connection with the forthcoming event. I do not think that we have any right to be generous, if you like, or lavish in that regard, while at the same time such large numbers of our people are in the condition I described last night as prevailing in certain quarters of the one town of Saint John, New Brunswick. I took that up simply because I had been asked to bring up the question. There are many municipalities in the same position,-worse if you like,- but these are the general outlines of the situation.
Only yesterday a mother asked me to bring before this house some of the facts that are related in a pamphlet published by the Canadian Welfare Council entitled, The Children Are Sorely Weary. I venture to crave the indulgence of the house for a few minutes while I state some of these facts.
We have been finding out something of the conditions of the families of the unemployed wage earners and their lack of steady remunerative employment. We have heard something, and we shall hear more, about dependent youth. I should like to bring to the attention of the house the situation with regard to the children in some homes, both private and institutional, simply because they have no one else to speak for them. There are very few women members in the house, and therefore I venture to accede to the request of this mother and give some of the facts. For this is a situation which this house must face. Let me say that the expense involved, or constitutional difficulties involved in this solution, fade into insignificance beside the actual pressing needs of the people. I quote:
Therefore, if, for any reason, the parents or parent of a child prove unable, unfit or unwilling properly to care for that child, the civilized state must be ready, through responsible channels, either to require that such proper parental care be accorded every child in need thereof, or to assume and discharge such responsibilities itself, or through its delegated cooperating agencies.

Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
That is a sound principle. Undoubtedly the natural parent is primarily responsible; undoubtedly there may be a question whether the municipality or the province or the dominion should assume the major part of the responsibility. But that is a matter of detail. The main considerations are two: (a) There are neglected children in the country; (b) what are we going to do about them? The fact is that in a great many instances, unless this parliament takes action, the neglect will continue. To proceed:
Of all our population of approximately 3,400,000 children, sixteen years of age or younger, in Canada, no less than 250,000-a number roughly equal to the population of Vancouver-are in homes receiving urban or farm relief.
If a great tidal flood wiped out half Vancouver from the map or if some great earthquake shook that city to its foundations. I am sure this parliament would not. hesitate to take action, in spite of constitutional difficulties or of lack of as large a revenue as one would like to see. Yet here a number of children, equal to the population of Vancouver, are in homes receiving urban or farm relief.
Another 12,000 are children of war pensioners, receiving similar aid.
To quote further:
Thus one child in every twelve in Canada is in a home where father, mother, brothers, sisters must look to the community for food, shelter, clothing and the other needs of life and tens of thousands of these younger children can barely remember any other state of affairs.
I am not saying whether that state of affairs arose under the Liberal government or the Conservative government. As we look into the eyes of a little child, how can we think of making political capital out of such a situation? Who cares about that? But as this Liberal government is at present in a responsible position, we must drive this home upon the Liberal government.


My hon. friend has just made a distinction between the Liberal and Conservative governments. Would what he has said in that connection not apply equally as between the dominion government, provincial government and the municipality?


I know there are
difficulties. I admit that there is no clear-cut distinction, and I suppose, generally speaking, apart from the parents, the municipality is more directly responsible, and then the provincial and then the federal government. But, as I said last night-and I do not want to take up the time of the house unduly, repeating it-I think it is conceded that the extent of unemployment to-day, the kind

of unemployment that exists, is altogether different from that of earlier days or from that contemplated under the British North America Act. A great many of our difficulties are due to lack of international trade and to difficulties in international relations. But the ordinary municipality has nothing to do with that, and even the responsibility of the province is limited in that respect. Thus it does seem to me that the larger portion of the responsibility, under these peculiar circumstances, rests upon the dominion government. What I do want to emphasize is that in the circumstances we must hold this government primarily responsible.


Partly.


As I said before
in this house, we must direct our plea not to the opposition parties in the house but to the government, which holds the purse strings and which so largely controls policies. Now let me continue reading:
No less than forty thousand children in six provinces are in homes, depending upon mothers' allowances. Because of death, or other disaster or misfortune, the home has been left fatherless and the community is seeking in part to compensate the young family for his loss.
And nine thousand children are born annually in Canada to unmarried mothers. The death rate of these infants is very high; many would never survive if services were not available to protect them before their birth and through all their early years.
To pause for a moment, let me state that this question of the increasing number of unmarried mothers is a very serious one. I feel that we should not be too censorious with regard to the unmarried mothers or even the unmarried father, because to-day we have a great army of transients who have practically no opportunity of setting up homes or living normal lives. I think those of us who have enjoyed the comforts of a home will have to be pretty careful if we speak in any censorious way about young people who naturally look to some closer relationship with one another than is legally or conventionally possible under the conditions in which they find themselves. It is a serious state of affairs, looked at from the point of view of the state itself.
What is the use of putting laws on the statute books making it criminal to do many of these things while at the same time we almost compel these young people to become criminals? Just take another matter, the question of theft. I do not see why we should condemn some young fellow to gaol for some petty theft. I do not want to have my pocket picked; I do not want to have my wife's puree snatched; I do not want to haw our

Unemployment and Agricultural Distress [DOT]
house entered and burglarized. None of us does, but that is not the question. The point is that to-day a great many young fellows are up against the proposition that they must either beg or steal or die. There may be some who are heroic enough to die, thus maintaining a high code of morality. But on the other hand, when they see all about them men who are stealing on the large scale, men who are taking fortunes out of the community without having given any adequate return, can you wonder that the old moral standards go by the board? I do not much wonder at it. Let me repeat: a great many young fellows to-day must either beg or steal or die. It is not fair to them that we should place them in that position. I continue reading:
Altogether 21,000 children across Canada are in children's homes, orphanages or similar benevolent institutions, because, for one reason or another, adequate care is nowhere else assured.
I think back to the time forty years ago when I was closely conneoted with a children's aid society; I think of the efforts we used to make then to try to get the affairs of one family straightened out, and I try to imagine all that is involved in the 21,000 children in these homes. This is one of the big problems of the country. A few weeks ago we spent some considerable time-I do not know that it was too long-discussing trade treaties. I recognize that there must be a material basis for prosperity, if it is indeed to come back to us; at the same time I do not think this parliament can escape consideration of these all important questions of the welfare of the men and women and the children, of whom I am speaking more particularly to-day. I continue reading:
Nearly as many, 16,000 in all, are in the care of our 84 children's aid societies. Their need of care and protection is so real and great that under the child protection legislation of the provinces the protective and guardianship powers, which only a children's aid society may exercise, must be extended to help them. They form a pitiable little army, these frightened, insecure children, many of whom have known real suffering, grave hardship, neglect, perhaps even downright cruelty.
Another group-9,000 to 10,000 annually, comprise our young delinquents and offenders; ninety per cent of these are boys, many of whom are more sinned against than sinning; in conflict with our customs and our laws, and headed for lives of lawlessness and crime, unless understanding and guidance are forthcoming.
I wish the house would pay attention to this next paragraph, which seems to me very reasonable:
The tragic total of these children in need of social care numbers 350,000, one in ten of all the children in our land. For their stumbling young feet, we ask that the way be made
less wearying. And yet these are only the larger groups of our threatened children; these are they whose need of help or protection has become so urgent as to break through and require the community to come to their rescue.
And mark this;
In addition, there are thousands of others whose parents may be desperately holding a last trench of destitution, of insecurity, or of need, in which ill health, uncertainty of employment, wretched shelter or environment, bad heredity, continuous malnourishment, and the ever present threat of family breakdown beat upon.sheer will power and strength of character in a constant pressure too great to be much longer borne. They, too, in unknown numbers and unrecorded places call out for life to be made less hazardous for them.
I skip a paragraph and continue:
And that is what we need, quite as much as more resources or more personnel-a more adequate mobilization of our resources; better procedures in administration; higher standards of care; the more effective application of the abounding good will and undoubted capacity of the average citizen and community to answer the children's call.
And the call goes out from this society for greater leadership and more funds to sustain its activities. I am not going into that phase of the matter. As I have said, I have presented these figures at the request of a mother in order to bring to the attention of this house a class that is not very often mentioned here, the children; not because we are not all interested in children, not because we would willingly neglect any little child, but simply because in the past we have taken it for granted that their parents would care for them or that in extreme eases local charities would come to their assistance. I believe that to-day, whatever may be the cause and whoever may bf to blame, we have entered upon an era when we as a state must make special provision for this class. When we are discussing the bill that is shortly to come before us I feel that we ought not to allow constitutional or financial difficulties or anything else to stand in the way of caring for each last man, woman and child in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, the remarks of the hon. member who preceded me (Mr. Woodsworth) were very impressive indeed. I do not wish to occupy undue time. I believe I have a suggestion which might interest the minister, and after a few comments I shall offer it.
Yesterday for a few moments we had a discussion which I thought was one of the best we had had since I came to the house. The hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan), the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Stevens), the Minister of Labour (Mr. Rogers) and several others engaged in some
3004	COMMONS
Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
really earnest discussions of economic realities. I thought then that if that kind of discussion could have continued for several hours, it would have been greatly to the enlightenment of all hon. members and of the people throughout the country.
Upon one statement made or at least implied by the Minister of Labour I shall make some comment. He seems to feel that only by international trade can we hope materially to change conditions in Canada.


Oh, no-"largely," "only."		not


I not?	I said "mainly,"	did


You said "only."


The thing then is not to lock the cupboard, but to unlock it.


It is the responsibility of the dominion government to unlock it, and I thank the hon. member for his illustration. It is the inescapable responsibility of the dominion government to attend to this matter. This government has control over the tariff. By a simple change in the tariff regulations this government can throw whole sections of any province in the Dominion of Canada into
poverty. By this simple device it can make it utterly impossible for a particular area to produce at a profit.


Does the hon. member advocate that?


What idiotic nonsense it is to ask whether I advocate that! What difference does it make? I am simply stating it is so. If we could only keep our minds on the track once in a while instead of rambling into the bushes, we might be able to get somewhere. I am astonished that the hon. member should ask such a question. I am discussing the policy of this government in locking the cupboard door. I say that if this government makes sufficient tariff changes it will lock the cupboard door to any province in Canada. It is impossible to see it in any other way, because this government has absolute control over the tariff. No province can have anything to do about it.
Then this dominion government can put on a sales tax of any size it wishes. The minute such a change in sales tax is made, it affects every hamlet in the Dominion of Canada and may render it impossible for the people to carry on where they could carry on before. A sufficient manipulation of the sales tax device can render it economically impossible for a certain area to survive.


Would that affect one section more than another?


There is another foolhardy question. We are not talking about that. Cannot the hon. member keep his mind on a single track for a minute or two and think his way through? This dominion parliament, the parliament in which we are now sitting, has control of the prices of this country. The provinces have no control whatsoever. Fundamentally, the provinces may legislate regarding prices, but a move of the hand by this dominion can nullify every effort a province may make.
There is another power which this dominion possesses, something over which it is utterly impossible for the provinces to have any control. I refer to the banking policy. Anyone who knows anything about economics knows that the more banks expand their loans, the higher prices tend to go. In other words, th( banking system can produce prosperity or, b>
a change of policy, produce adversity, poverty and despair. All this can be done by the decision of two or three men in the city of Ottawa. The only people in this dominion who have any control over those two or three men are the people who sit in this house.
This house has the sole decision concerning interest rates. This house has the sole*
3006	COMMONS
Unemployment and Agricultural Distress
decision concerning the security which may be demanded for a loan. This house has the sole decision as to how long loans may be granted. Those three factors, the interest rate, the security and the loan period, determine the result of the banking policy of this country. It means that this government has complete control over prosperity and adversity throughout this dominion from end to end. Let it exercise or fail to exercise the powers I have mentioned and the provinces and municipalities are rendered utterly helpless.
This dominion has control over the excise tax. It has control over railway rates. These things alfect prices. It has control over the distribution of profits. This also affects prices. There are certain men in this dominion who are amassing huge profits while others are in poverty. The people who are largely responsible for setting up the conditions under which these men can make these great profits at the expense of others are undoubtedly the people who sit in this dominion parliament. This parliament has complete control over immigration. In other words, if parliament took the notion it could flood any one province with a body of immigrants of any kind it chose, it could put them wherever it wished, and the province would have nothing to say. Yet the province -would be responsible for relief, education, highways, social services and other things that cost so much. This dominion has the power to lock or unlock the 