Mr. C. E. BOTHWELL (Swift Current) presented the second report of the special committee on electoral matters, as follows: Your committee has had under consideration Bill No. 11, an act respecting balloting on questions of national importance.
Your committee recommends that this bill be not proceeded with, because its adoption would place in the hands of the governor in council a prerogative now exercised by parliament.
I desire to lay on the table the budget of the Canadian National Railways and Canadian National Steamships for the year 1939.1 move:
TMr. Green.]
That the annual budget of the Canadian National Railways and Canadian National Steamships, tabled herewith, and the annual reports laid on the table of the house on March 30, 1939, be referred to the standing committee on railways and shipping, together with the following votes:
442.	Maritime Freight Rates Act, Canadian National Railways Eastern lines, $2,000,000;
443.	Maritime Freight Rates Act, railways other than Canadian National Railways, $800,000;
454. Canadian National (West Indies) Steamships Limited, capital advanced, $20,000; from main estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1940, as tabled on January 27, 1939; also
588.	Canadian National Railway Company, $43,750,000;
589.	Prince Edward Island Car Ferry and terminals, $327,000;
590.	Trans-Canada Air Lines, $488,941; from the special supplementary estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1940, tabled March 31, 1939.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. A. C. CASSELMAN (Grenville-Dun-das) moved the first reading of Bill No. 66 (from the senate) to incorporate the Canada Board of American Missions of the United Lutheran Church in America.
Explain.


This is a bill designed to set up a corporation under the name of The Canada Board of American Missions of The United Lutheran Church in America, the purpose being to superintend and promote the work of home missions of that branch of the Lutheran church in Canada.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Mr. ERNEST BERTRAND (Laurier) moved the first reading of Bill No. 67 (from the senate) respecting the Sterling Insurance Company of Canada.
Explain.


The purpose of the bill is to extend the time for the completion of the organization of the company, and to enable it to register under the Companies Insurance Act. The company was incorporated two years ago and has not yet completed its financial arrangements. It is simply asking for an extension of time.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.

Distribution oj Free Butter


On the orders of the day.
I wish
to address to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) a question based upon a report in this morning's Ottawa Journal under the heading, "Free butter will be given needy families." Has the minister a statement to make in this regard, particularly as to how the price is to be arranged and how the distribution will be made?


The matter is still under consideration by the department.


I have a question somewhat similar to that asked by the hon. member for Haldimand (Mr. Senn). There appears on page 14 of the Ottawa Citizen a report to the effect that the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) is now engaged with departmental officials in working out the details of the dominion government plan to buy four million pounds of butter and have it distributed to people on relief throughout the dominion. Is this report correct? If so, does the dominion government propose to pay for this butter with money to be taxed from the people of Canada?


There is nothing I can add to the answer which I have already given.


On the orders of the day:
There was laid on the table yesterday, a resolution with respect to the mobilization of man power. May I ask the government what action will be taken. Yesterday, in reply to a question of mine which appeared on the order paper, as to what action had been taken by the government in the matter, the information was "Answered by No. 2." That means that the document was tabled. Is that all the action that has been taken?


The answer given to the Ontario government was attached to the communication from the Ontario government, and it seemed to me that those documents indicated as much as could be said at the present time.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the attention of the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Euler). Has the attention of the government been drawn to statements made in the United States congress recently, which purported to show comparative wage rates in British Columbia and in the states of Washington and Oregon, for workmen employed in the red cedar shingle industry, alleging material differences in the wage rates and working conditions in effect in the two countries? If so, is it the intention of the government to make any investigation into the matter?


Notice has been taken of these statements, which will be brought to the attention of the government of British Columbia with a request that the matter be investigated. Consideration will be given to the whole situation in the light of reports received. In the meantime, I can say that it is certainly not the desire of the government of Canada that the provisions of its trade agreement with the United States should have the effect of lowering labour standards in either country. On the contrary, it is the expectation of the government that the benefits flowing from the agreement will be shared in full measure by labour.


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
I understand it has been agreed that the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) might present to the house an interim supply bill so as to enable us to have the wherewithal to provide for the service in the next two months. Possibly that item might have precedence to the External Affairs estimates.


Before you leave the chair, Mr. Speaker, I wish to say a word or two touching I he
Distribution of Free Butter


May I ask the hon. gentleman a question? Will he be good enough to tell the house why he has not made this suggestion before if he thought it was long overdue ?


I am glad the hon.
member has raised that question. The very first time we were in this house we began to advocate the dividend. A dividend is a means of enabling people to buy. If this government buys four million pounds of butter and puts into the hands of the people vouchers with which to obtain that butter, the government is putting into their hands a dividend.


But the dividend is just
skim milk, not butter.
[Mr. Blackmore.l


All the more disgrace to a government that neglected it so long, a government that does not give butter instead of skim milk. I grant it is skim milk when we should be having butter and cream and cheese. It is a tardy recognition of the fact that we should long ago have been taking the surplus production which this country has had on hand in superabundance and distributing it to the people. That is precisely the meaning of the $25 a month.


On the
motion to go into supply it is in order to ventilate grievances. What is my hon. friend's grievance? He is speaking about something which has not been decided, which is in the clouds. He has read in the newspapers that something may happen. What is his grievance?


I was on the point
of stating the grievance when the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot) asked me a question. Here it is. Grievance No. 1: The debt of Canada in January, 1939, was $3,177,-031,860-the direct debt to individuals in Canada and outside-was $3,177,031,860. Some people may not consider that a grievance, but for any person who has children and expects to have grandchildren growing up in this country who will be burdened with that debt, I maintain it is a distinct grievance. This debt is due over the years until 1967. We are paying interest on it, at rates of from one to five per cent per annum. The annual interest payment has been reduced from slightly over $138,000,000 in 1933 to $132,000,000 in 1938, but even at that it is far too much; it is more than this country can carry. During the next thirty years it is estimated that if the average interest rate is 3i per cent we shall pay $3,335,883,450 in interest alone. Can you imagine anything more grievous than that?
The result is a great lack of confidence on the part of business men. They do not dare to invest money. Who would dare, with a debt like that hanging over them? The banks do not dare to lend money. The result is that money is going into government securities instead of into industry. All these matters are unhealthy. If they do not constitute a grievance, I do not know where you would find a grievance. To me they are a very great grievance. We in my group are opposed to the increase of the national debt. It is not necessary; it could be avoided-beyond all question that is true. At the present time we have taxes on business, taxes on income, sales tax, decreasing our purchasing power-which is already deficient; otherwise why the 4,000,000

Distribution oj Free Butter
pounds of butter that people are unable to buy? Certainly it is not because they do not want the butter; it is because they cannot buy it. The fact that the government propose this scheme shows that the government are aware that at present the people cannot buy it; but they will purchase it if the government furnishes the purchasing power.
We have in addition unpredictable tariff changes, largely on account of debt. We have low tariff and high tariff, and no one knows what the next change will be. The result is that because of this debt we have an unbearable grievance. The burden on my part of the country is becoming so great that we can no longer bear it. I am going to talk more about that later, but not to-day. Now it looks as though we are going to be asked to increase our troubles and our children's troubles by taking a million dollars of the taxes of the Canadian people to pay' for this butter. I have no objection to paying for and distributing the butter, but what I object to is the way of getting the money. Where the butter is, the money can be. That statement may sound strange to us, but not so to the nations in Europe faced by exigencies; they learned long ago how to meet such a situation. They have learned how real it is that where goods are, money can be; and the result is that where they are sure they have the goods and the labour, they get the money. They create it. When are we going to change our policy in the interest of our children and our children's children?
I want to point out two or three things in regard to what they are doing in other countries. People will say: Oh well, we do not want to do what Germany is doing. Well, what is France doing? According to an Associated Press dispatch from Paris, dated September 22, 1938, the French government has borrowed from the Bank of France
21,050,000,000 francs without interest. That amounts to $568,350,000. Why does not Canada do something like that? Since I came to this house we have not heard a proposal for getting money without paying interest on it.


Oh, yes.


My hon. friend is not correct there. The rate on treasury bills at the moment is a little over half of one per cent per annum. That is about what it costs to print money.


I am glad to hear that. It is time some of these other debts that are bearing interest up to five per cent were placed on the same basis. What France has done, it seems to me we in Canada can do. Surely
the Bank of Canada is as stable an institution as the Bank of France. Surely Canada is as stable as France. Why can we not have interest free money from the Bank of Canada?
I have here a statement regarding the Bank of Canada which I think is interesting. We have had a great deal of talk about what could be done through the bank if we only had a government-owned Bank of Canada. Now we have a government-owned Bank of Canada of what value is it to us? Here is a statement from A. C. Cummings, quoting remarks of Right Hon. Reginald McKenna, referring to the New Zealand bank. His words are:
Here the general function of the central bank is defined as "to give effect to the monetary policy of the government" so that the "economic and social welfare of New Zealand may be promoted and maintained."
That is precisely the purpose for which I believe the Bank of Canada should be operated. This proposal to buy butter would be in line with that policy. He goes on to say:
For such purpose the bank has wide powers of controlling credit and currency regulating transfers of funds, helping exports, and giving financial assistance to the government, as well as buying and selling securities.
Then he turns to the Bank of Canada in contrast. He says:
No such extensive powers, the survey states, were taken for the Bank of Canada when that institution was nationalized.


Who says that?


Reginald McKenna.


Quoted by whom?


A. C. Cummings.


Who is he?


Mr. Cummings is a writer of the Ottawa Citizen's London News Bureau of the Southam Publishing Company. He ought to be dependable. He continues:
No such extensive powers, the survey states, were taken for the Bank of Canada when that institution was nationalized. The recent changes in the status of the dominion institution, indeed, are regarded as "having little more than formal significance."
It certainly is high time that we began to use the Bank of Canada in such a way as to relieve ourselves of the burden of debt and to help ourselves take care of internal and external trade to a far greater extent than we have been doing up to the present time. Our average interest rate at the present time is reported to me as being 3-67 per cent on created money. Why should that be? There is no reason at all.
Distribution of Free Butter

I am going to talk-not too long, but long enough to put the idea before the people- about where the money can come from. First thing we know the government will see the light with respect to creating national money, and some hon. member, such as the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot), will rise and ask the Social Credit people why they did not propose that long ago. But the first resolution the social credit people put on the order paper was to this effect: That the government of Canada should forthwith commence to create national purchasing power and use it for the economic well-being of Canada.


You did not say how.


It was not our function to say how. The first thing is to decide whether or not you are going to do it; the next thing is to say how. No one asks exactly how you are going to build a bridge before there has been a decision to build it.


There is established practice in building bridges.


And there is plenty in regard to making money. The trouble is that hon. members who are so noisy about this matter have not taken the trouble to study financial history; otherwise they would know that there is plenty of experience to serve as a guide. Before we are through I am going to tell some of that experience.
First, what is purchasing power? When we urged that national purchasing power should be created in the Dominion of Canada, there were men who said that purchasing power consisted of goods and services. Now, goods and services are only potential purchasing power. Surplus wheat, for example; is that purchasing power? Not until you can sell it. As soon as you can sell it, it becomes purchasing power, but until you can sell it, surplus wheat is like surplus butter. It has no value unless it can be sold, except as its value is potential. The only thing we have in Canada which is genuine purchasing power is currency and credit. We use both of these as purchasing power. The social credit proposal is that the government create purchasing power, either currency or credit, and use it for the benefit of the Canadian economy, to some extent as Reginald McKenna has pointed out the Bank of New Zealand is designed to work.
What is the basis of credit creation? It is the real credit of a country. What do we mean by the real credit of a country? We mean the country's ability to produce goods. I think it was the Minister of Labour (Mr. 
Rogers) who replied to our first resolution; and if I remember correctly I believe he said you could not get purchasing power apart from goods and services. That is perfectly true. If I do not quote him accurately the minister will correct me, but the flaw in his reasoning was just what I have pointed out. Goods and services are not purchasing power to-day unless you can convert them into currency or credit; they are only potential purchasing power. However, the minister had a very sound thought there. I think we will find that men like Hitler and Mussolini, and others in charge of countries like Italy and Germany, who have been in sore straits and have had to do things in different ways, long ago discovered that where you have goods and services you can have purchasing power; for all that is necessary is to transfer or transform the real credit, which is goods and services, into financial credit, which is currency or credit. Then you have purchasing power right away.
By some hon. members in this house and by newspapers in various parts of the country, which for some unaccountable reason are so tenderly solicitous of a person such as the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) that they have to leap into the arena to defend him every time these social crediters speak, it has been repeatedly stated that the social credit people advocate inflation, uncontrolled, crude inflation, increasing the money beyond all reason, and all that sort of thing. That is not so at all. All that the social credit people have demanded has been simply the process I have indicated, of transforming real credit into financial credit.


I rise to a point of order. My hon. friend is now discussing a matter which was the subject of discussion on a resolution placed upon the order paper in my name, which discussion was adjourned. Prior to that adjournment my hon. friends, of whom the present speaker (Mr. Blackmore) is the leader, had prepared and presented an amendment to the resolution, which amendment was declared out of order. I then expressed the desire that the amendment might be redrafted in order that the house might have an opportunity of deciding upon its merits. That is the position of that debate. Therefore we are now in this situation, that we have an adjourned debate covering exactly the ground which my hon. friend is endeavouring to duplicate on this occasion. I submit that under these circumstances the present discussion is out of order.

Interim Supply Bill


I stand subject to your ruling, Mr. Speaker, but it is my understanding that any hon. member has a right to voice any grievance on a motion to go into supply-


On the point of order, may I call your honour's attention to citation 488 of Beauchesne:
Whenever an order of the day has been read for the house to resolve itself into the committee of supply or the committee of ways and means, the motion "That the Speaker do now leave the chair" must be proposed, except in cases provided by standing order 28. When such motion is proposed, it shall be permissible to discuss any public matter within the powers of the federal parliament or to ask for the redress of any grievance, and it is not necessary to move an amendment for that purpose; provided that the discussion and the amendment, if one is moved, shall not relate to any decision of the house during the current session, nor to any item of the estimates, nor to any resolution to be proposed to the committee of ways and means, nor to any matter placed on or whereof notice has been given in the order paper.
Surely the matters my hon. friend is discussing, namely credit and money, the national debt and so on, have been discussed three or four times during this session, and there is already on the order paper a motion on which that discussion has taken place, which discussion will be resumed when that order is reached.
Mr. PELLETIER; Speaking to the point
of order, Mr. Speaker, I submit that the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) is not discussing credit and currency but is discussing a proposal to give the people of Canada free butter. His argument so far, as we have understood it, has been in connection with the distribution of butter free of charge in Canada.


Does any other hon. member wish to speak to the point of order? I think the point of order raised by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning) is well taken. The paragraph of Beauchesne quoted by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) applies to this matter, which has been discussed already this session. There is also another paragraph of Beauchesne, No. 304, at page 101, which applies in this instance:
It is a wholesome restraint upon members to prevent them from reviving a debate already concluded; and it would be little use in preventing the same question from being offered twice in the same session if, without being offered, its merits might be discussed again and again.
This matter has been discussed already this session, and there remains on the order paper a resolution which will permit hon. members
to discuss further this question of social credit.
I think the hon. member, having aired his grievance, might consider the matter ended.
Mr. MaeINNIS: Mr. Speaker, shortly before the house adjourned last night I was told that if the Speaker was allowed to leave the chair to-day we should go on with the same business we were considering yesterday and last week. Had I not been so advised I would have moved the adjournment of the debate. This afternoon I came prepared to speak on that question, and I want to get on with it as soon as possible. I do not want to stand in the way of urgent business, however, and if I may be assured that the discussion will be continued I will stand aside.


We shall continue with it.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee of supply, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.


Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $45,095,590.78, being one-sixth of the amount of each of the several items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, be granted to His Majesty, on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940.


Motion agreed to.
Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $567,471.83, being one-third of the amount of each of the several following items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, in addition to the sum mentioned in resolution No. 1. be granted to His Majesty, on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940, namely:
Vote No. 109, The Senate, general administration.
Vote No. 112, The House of Commons, general administration.
Vote No. 113, The House of Commons, estimates of the Sergeant-at-Arms.
Vote No. 377, Trade and Commerce, Commercial Intelligence Service.


Motion agreed to.
Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $212,500, being one-half of the amount of the following items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, in addition to the sum mentioned in resolution
Interim Supply Bill

No. 1, be granted to His Majesty, on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940, namely:
Vote No. 367, Secretary of State, Their Majesties' visit.
Vote No. 444, Transport, Their Majesties' visit.


Motion agreed to.
Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $20,389,783, being one-sixth of the amount of each of the several items to be voted, as set forth in the special supplementary estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, be granted to His Majesty, on account, for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1940.


Motion agreed to.
I may say to
my hon. friend that at the moment we are putting through some interim supply, and as soon as that is disposed of we shall go on with the external affairs estimates.


Perhaps I may be permitted to give a word of explanation as to what is involved in this interim supply. It must be remembered that April is now well along, and we have to provide for salaries and also, particularly, for certain payments under the relief acts. This resolution provides for one-sixth of all items in the main and supplementary estimates. Then an additional one-third is asked for to cover parliamentary expenditures, which as hon. members know are not on an average monthly basis but which accumulate in the months during which parliament is in session. Then we are asking an additional one-half of one vote under the Secretary of State in order to provide for general expenses in connection with the visit to Canada of their majesties, and also one-half of a transport vote in the same connection. That is what is provided for in the resolution now before the chair. I need not say of course that the passing of interim supply in no way debars the right to debate, and discussion, and decision upon any item contained in any of the estimates, of which a portion is here asked.


The Minister of Finance
has covered the point I was going to make. So long as hon. members understand they have the right to discuss any item, and that this does not mean the approval of any individual item, I shall have no objection personally to the passing of interim supply.


It involves no commitment on any individual item.
Resolutions reported, read the second time and concurred in.
LMr. Dunning.!


Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of ways and means.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
Mr. Chairman, I desire
to move the following resolution covering the amounts dealt with a few moments ago in committee of supply:
Resolved, that towards making good the supply granted to His Majesty on account of certain expenses of the public service for the fiscal year ending March 31st, 1940, the sums of $45,875,562.61 and $20,389,783 respectively be granted out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada.


Motion agreed to.
Resolutions reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Dunning thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 73, for granting to his majesty certain sums of money for the public service for the finan-ancial year ending the 31st March, 1940.
Motion agreed to, bill read the first and second times and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
On section 1-Short title.
The bill follows exactly the terms of the resolutions which have just been adopted.


Section agreed to.
Sections 2 to 6 inclusive agreed to.
Schedules A and B agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
Hon. CHARLES A. DUNNING (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
Mr. Speaker, during the-


I would point out to the hon. member that it is just a matter of making the procedure regular. If he were to speak now I should imagine he rvould be continuing the debate of yesterday, which was concluded last night. But if he waits until His Honour the Speaker leaves the chair he will have the same opportunity to speak in committee on matters relating to external affairs. It is just a matter of keeping the procedure regular.

Supply-External Affairs


I should like to meet the right hon. gentleman's wishes, and I am not greatly concerned as to when I speak, whether when Mr. Speaker is in the chair or when the house is in committee. But it seems to me if I speak now the debate we were on last night will not be concluded until I have finished.


The debate
was concluded last night, with the understanding that my hon. friend would have a chance to speak in committee. It amounts to the same thing.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee of supply, Mr. Sanderson in the chair.
External affairs-
Si. Departmental administration, $191,475.


During the last three days we have had a very general and free discussion on external affairs. I believe it was really one of the best discussions on the subject I have heard since I came here some eight or nine years ago. I am sure the Prime Minister must feel pleased with it. There has been a great deal of criticism, but not in any personal sense; I do not think it has caused any trouble abroad or at home, or will be likely to do so. To-day I may have occasion to indulge in some criticisms, but I hope they will be received in the spirit in which I make them and in the spirit in which the criticism of the last few days has been accepted.
I shall have occasion to refer to the present government of Great Britain and possibly to the British empire, but I wish it to be understood that I differentiate between the people of Great Britain-the institutions which they have built up over the years and under which they live-and the British empire. I have made some study of British history, and it seems to me that that history reveals one thing very clearly, namely, that there has been a continual struggle between the ruling class and. the people of Great Britain, or between each class as it succeeded to some power and the class above. We may say that the first struggle was between the king and the nobles or barons, which ended when King John was forced to sign the Magna Charta. The struggle went on and universal suffrage was granted, under which every person in the British isles takes his part in the political government of the country. But the struggle is still going on between the people of Great Britain and the ruling class, represented at
the present time by Mr. Chamberlain and certain members of his cabinet. It is at this class that my criticism shall be levelled.
Turning to the debate which has occurred in the house on this question, the outstanding feature, as far as the leaders of the government are concerned-I think the same can be said of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Manion)-seems to be that we were supposed to be debating Canada's foreign policy. However, we heard very little about Canada's foreign policy, while we did hear a great deal about the foreign policy of Great Britain and about what Canada would do if Great Britain were attacked. Perhaps that is as it should be, because Canada at the moment does not seem to have a foreign policy of her own. During the past few years, when profound changes were taking place in international affairs, when undeclared wars were carried on against defenceless people, when women and children were being bombed and machine-gunned, not one word of protest came from this government. Our foreign policy, in so far as it can be called a policy, has simply been a tacit approval of the antiLeague and anti-social policies of the British government, which policies have been more responsible than anything else for the trap in which we, as well as the people of Europe, find ourselves to-day.
We are now told that if Great Britain is attacked or is at war, Canada is at war. We are told also that parliament will decide as to how far or to what extent Canada will participate. A declaration of that kind does not mean very much to me. I realize that should Great Britain be at war under such circumstances as would involve Canada, we would be in that war with every ounce of strength we possess; we -would be in it with at least every ounce of strength that the government could muster. That would be so because the enemy would be in that war with all its strength. If Canada sent but one man, there would immediately be demands that that man should have every support and every protection that the country could give. That would again be so because there would not be time, nor have we the machinery, to work out the degree of participation there should be on our part. It could be worked out under a collective system, but as we have discarded the collective system, Canada's participation in an empire war would be the utmost that Canada could give.
We have been told 'by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) and the Leader of the Opposition, that if Great Britain is attacked,
Supply-External Affairs

Canada will come to her assistance. But the hon. gentlemen did not define what would constitute an attack on Great Britain. It is an important point. A few days ago Mr. Chamberlain, speaking for Great Britain, said that if Germany attacked Poland, Great Britain would come to her assistance. It is quite likely that under such circumstances Germany would bomb British cities. Are we then to make war on Germany? Would such action by Germany under such circumstances constitute an attack on Great Britain, in view of the fact that Great Britain had attacked Germany first? Does this government take the position that a war in which Great Britain is engaged immediately becomes a righteous war? Are we to say that no war is a righteous war, or no cause is a righteous cause, unless Great Britain is involved?
I ask these questions because I see Canada being driven into a position where war will be almost inevitable. I see this government being forced to participate in such a war without its first being made clear that there is involved a single principle in which we are vitally concerned.


Who said that?


The Prime Minister in his speech last Thursday referred to the speech made by Mr. Chamberlain on September 27 last. At page 2412 of Hansard, the Prime Minister quoted Mr. Chamberlain as follows:
I am myself a man of peace to the depths of my soul. Armed conflict between nations is a nightmare to me.
But if I were convinced that any nation had made up its mind to dominate the world by fear of its force, I should feel that it must be resisted.
All that the Prime Minister is saying there is that Great Britain is not going to war until he, the Prime Minister, has made up his mind that some nation has made up its mind to dominate the world by fear of its force.


Read the next paragraph.


Yes, I shall be glad to read the next paragraph too; I do not wish to omit anything which will have a bearing on what I have just said. I quote:
I believe that life without liberty would not be worth living, but war is a fearful thing and we must be very clear, before we embark on it, that it is really very great issues that are at stake and that we should risk everything in their defence.
I do not know why the hon. member wanted me to read that paragraph, but if he wishes to draw attention to the fact that the British Prime Minister said that life without liberty would not be worth living, and that the issues would have to be very great before we should
embark on such a war, I wish to point out that the issues at stake to-day are no greater than those which were at stake in September last, and that the issues which were then at stake were no greater than those which arose in August, 1936, when Great Britain decided on the non-intervention pact in connection with the Spanish struggle. Unfortunately the actions of the Prime Minister of Great Britain contradict his words. If Mr. Chamberlain was not convinced that the aggressor nations had made up their minds to dominate the world by fear of force, it was because he would not be convinced. The official opposition, the Labour party, did its utmost to convince him that Germany and Italy not only had made up their minds but were actually engaged in dominating the world by force and fear. The Liberal party in the British parliament and the Liberal press in Great Britain tried to convince him to the same effect. Members of his own cabinet went so far as to resign to show their disapproval of his policy. Members of his own party have criticized his policy openly and vigorously. It is left to the government of Canada to follow his policy slavishly and without even a murmur of protest. And then we are told that if Great Britain is attacked we must go to war immediately in her defence. I submit that if we are to be involved in a war because of British foreign policy, we have not only the right but the duty to examine that policy and to criticize it if criticism is necessary. I claim that Mr. Chamberlain and his predecessor in office, Lord Baldwin, have not only led the British empire but Europe itself into the mess it is in to-day, and there is very little hope of peace so long as men of their mentality are at the head of affairs at the heart of the empire. They stand in mortal fear of the growing power of the working classes. They are prepared to go to any length to protect their class interests. Their class interests and not democracy; not the rights of small nations; not the welfare of the peoples are their chief concern. I shall amply prove that from their own mouths before I sit down. From the advent of the national government in 1931 to the present time the whole concern of the British government has been the maintenance of the status quo in a world in which the status quo cannot be maintained.
The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell), speaking in this debate on Friday last, referred to the failure of Great Britain, the greatest power in the League of Nations, to give a lead in bringing about League action in the Manchuria affair. It was stated by an hon. member that it was not Great Britain

Supply-External Affairs
but the League itself that failed in that instance. That, of course, is a mere quibble. The small nations of the League could no more initiate action than they can now, but they would have been prepared to follow the lead of the powerful states. I am reminded of a speech which was made in this city less than a year ago-I believe it was in May of last year-by Doctor Myrdal, of Sweden, speaking at the annual meeting of the League of Nations Society of Canada. This account of his speech is taken from the Winnipeg Free Press of July 16, 1938, where it is pointed out that Doctor Myrdal is a leading economist of Sweden, a member of the senate, and closely associated with the government in the working out of its policies. Doctor Myrdal said:
When the League of Nations was founded after the great war it was, for us, natural to join it. We entered the League with full understanding that it meant giving up our position of neutrality and assuming our part of the responsibility for collective security. We did it with eyes open to the constructional faults, and consequently the inherent dangers, in the treaties and in the covenant of the League. We believed in the possibility of a development which, using a slogan now very often heard, although in glaring contrast to actual events, might be defined as "peaceful change." There were already in the beginning people in Scandinavia who would rather have us freed from some of the obligations of the covenant, particularly the sanctions. But the overwhelming majority of our peoples were at that time prepared to carry these obligations which they rightly considered necessary in a system of collective security. . . .
Later on we saw, however, how the degenerative factors, inherent in the development from the very beginning, were gaining ascendancy. The process of deterioration may perhaps be said definitely to have begun in September, 1931, and the turning point is associated with the name of Mukden. Since that date the history of the League of Nations in the political field has been to us a chain of vain efforts, half-hearted attempts, hypocritical demonstrations; a chain, I should almost say, of public scandal. In no other part of the world have these events been watched with more profound dejection than in Scandinavia. Nowhere else would a straight-lined policy of keeping up the principles of the League of Nations have been approved more thoroughly. The bitter feeling of disillusionment has crept into the very heart of our peoples. . . .
And what is our reaction? We do not want to be deceived, and we therefore realize that for the time being the whole system of sanctions and various other principles of the security system laid down in the covenant, have de facto ceased to function. That means, inter alia, that the League is no longer-and this is most important to us-in any appreciable degree a guarantee of our freedom and peace in Scandinavia. We have therefore had to reverse our disarmament policy. . . .
This all looks certainly like an isolationist policy. But it is an isolation pressed upon us. We do not want it. We want the general 71492-162
League of Nations. We look upon our cooperation in the north of Europe rather as the petty little bit of international cooperation which we can now keep up. In the circumstances our cooperation within Scandinavia is our most important task.
Commenting on this, the Free Press says:
The Scandinavian countries, as Doctor Myrdal said, supported the League, including sanctions, as long as there was reason to believe that the great powers, which can make or break the League and must therefore assume the responsibility for its policies, regarded the League as a guarantee of the integrity of member nations against aggression.
Coming back to the invasion of Manchuria, it was pointed out. I believe by the hon. member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Neill), that Lord Lytton, a Britisher, was the chairman of the commission which was appointed to inquire into that matter. Lord Lytton spoke with inside authority when he said, on May 17. 1934. in an address at Manchester university, that the government's failure to restrain Japan might have been justified by pleading that-
The far eastern situation is one which cannot be effectively dealt with without the cooperation of the United States of America, a country which is not a member of the League. But we have never been told that our government has proposed to the League to invite the cooperation of the United States of America or that it has itself made proposals to the government of that country which have failed to find acceptance. On the contrary, the United States have made overtures which have not been reciprocated, and the failure of our government to back up Mr. Stimson is perhaps the most regrettable of all its shortcomings.
I would remind hon. members that that statement was made by Lord Lytton, chairman of the commission that inquired into the Sino-Japanese affair in 1931 or 1932. Lord Lothian, speaking at the Royal Institute of International Affairs on December 12, 1934, and referring to the same subject, said:
I have always thought that the mistake of British policy at the time was its rejection of Mr. Stimson's offer to reverse the isolationist decision of 1920 and act with us in support of the collective system in the Pacific. This failure on our part to live up to the spirit and the letter of the Washington treaties early in 1932 drove the United States back into isolation.
The reason that the British government has never at any time, at least since 1931, made any attempt to honour her obligations under the League is that she did not consider the upholding of the reign of law incumbent upon her-that is, that the reign of law was in her national interest, that is to say, in the interests of the propertied class of Great Britain. The case for the British government was put very neatly by Mr. Amery, a

Supply-External Affairs

member of the British parliament, in a speech in the House of Commons on February 27, 1933, when he said:
When you look at the fact that Japan needs markets and that it is imperative for her, in the world in which she lives, that there should be some sort of peace and order, then who is there among us to cast the first stone and to say that Japan ought not to have acted with the object of creating peace and order in Manchuria and defending herself against the continual aggression-
I wish you to note that phrase.
-of vigorous Chinese nationalism.
Our whole policy in India and in Egypt stands condemned if we condemn Japan.
That is one of the reasons why Great Britain could not and did not as the leading power in the League of Nations take an active part in stopping aggression during the last few years. The reason for the failure of the league is the fact that no obstacles were put in the way of Japan because the ruling class of Great Britain, the strongest unit in the league, considered that the people of the backward nations were proper material for exploitation by the predatory countries. In other words, the British ruling class said to themselves, " If we stop Japan, perhaps Japan will call attention to the fact that we are doing in India and Egypt what we are condemning her for doing in China. And the people in India and Egypt are not perhaps as dumb as they once were."
-n the present invasion of China by Japan the British government has not shown up any better than it did in 1931 and 1932, nor for that matter has the government of Canada, as was clearly and ably shown by the hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. Douglas) yesterday afternoon. In all the strife, in all the bloodshed, all the raining of bombs on helpless women and children, the present British government never rises above thinking in terms of investments, nor does the government of Canada. Mr. Chamberlain, in the House of Commons, on July 26, 1938, made this statement:
It cannot be said that we are disinterested as a country in the position in the far east, because for a hundred years our interests in China have been of great importance, and when the Japanese government claim that they are protecting their interests in China, I am sure they must recognize that we too have our interests in China and that we cannot stand by and see them sacrificed in the process.
What was troubling Mr. Chamberlain was not the death and destruction that was poured upon the defenceless people of China but the material interests of British capitalists in that country. The next day Lord Halifax followed 
Mr. Chamberlain in the House of Lords with similar remarks. He said that the government were:
Already considering possible action open to us if we do not get that consideration for our interests and rights which we have a right to expect. The noble viscount spoke of several matters, such as the navigation of the Yangtse and inland waterways, the Whangpoo conservancy, access to British property in certain districts of Shanghai, and British interests in the railways. All these matters are at the present time under discussion between his majesty's ambassador and the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs.
What are " all these matters "? British commercial interests are the matters that receive the consideration of the British government. There is not a word about the lives of the men, women and babes who were being torn asunder, blown to bits by the war machine of Japan, fed in part by material from Canada at a handsome profit to the sellers.
I have not the time to go into this question as fully as it deserves to be gone into. It is a dark blot on the history of Great Britain, and, I regret to say, on the history of Canada.
Japanese aggression in China was discussed on various occasions by the League of Nations. While the nations of Europe-Ger-many, Italy, France and Great Britain, were engaged in the Munich affair, the League of Nations was in session at Geneva. Mr. Wellington Koo, the head of the Chinese delegation at the assembly of the League, again referred to Japanese aggression. Let me quote from a verbatim report of the proceedings of the nineteenth session of the assembly, Friday, September 16, 1938: Mr. Koo said:
In this hour of Europe's acute crisis I know many of you have your minds preoccupied by the serious events near at hand, but as the first delegate of China it is my duty to address the assembly on the grave situation in the far east. I feel my task is the more imperative because the present situation in Europe is not unconnected with the war of aggression which has been allowed to continue in Asia. Precisely a year ago I had the honour to invite the attention of the assembly to Japan's invasion of China. It may be recalled that, after careful examination of all the pertinent facts, the eighteenth assembly reached the unanimous conclusion that Japan's action could be justified neither on the basis of existing legal instruments nor on that of the right of self-defence, and that it was in contravention of her obligations under the nine power treaty of Washington and the pact of Paris. By the resolution of October 6, 1937 the assembly-
And he quotes the minute of the assembly- -expresses its moral support for China, and recommends that members of the League should refrain from taking any action which might have the effect of weakening China's power of

Supply-External Ajjairs
resistance and thus of increasing her difficulties in the present conflict, and should also consider how far they can individually extend aid to China.
Canada was signatory of the nine power pact and a member of the League of Nations, and gave its support and consent to that expression from the League. Yet Canada took no steps either to prevent increasing China's difficulty by actions of bet own, or to see how she might as a nation individually assist China. We continued to ship war material to Japan to be used to destroy the Chinese people, despite the fact that our delegates went on record as saying that Japan's action could be justified neither on the basis of existing legal instruments nor on the right of selfdefence, and that it was in contravention of her obligations under the nine power treaty of Washington and the pact of Paris.
I should like to read a great deal more of what the head of the Chinese delegation said at that time. It is well worth anyone's time to read the proceedings of the assembly for that day. But time does not permit me to read further at the moment. H