Mr. C. E. BOTHWELL (Swift Current) presented the fourth report of the special committee on electoral matters, as follows:
Your committee was instructed by order of reference dated March 13, 1939, to study and report on "Methods used to effect a redistribution of electoral districts in Canada and in other countries, and to make suggestions to the house in connection therewith," but regrets that it has been unable to give this order of reference the consideration it merits, owing to the number of meetings necessarily devoted to consideration of suggested amendments to the Dominion Elections Act, 1938, the last of which meetings was held on the second instant.
Your committee gave consideration to the methods in use in Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, the Union of South Africa and in the United States, together with suggestions made by the counsel as to how redistribution could be effected in Canada.
Your committee, however, concluded that there are many important questions, including that of the relation of urban to rural population, as it may be affected by the next decennial census, that should receive detailed study before a definite decision is made.
Your committee therefore submits, without further comment, a statement of the methods employed in other countries, and the suggestions made, for the consideration of the house.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Mr. C. E. BOTHWELL (Swift Current) presented the fifth and final report of the special committee on electoral matters, as follows:
[The Chairman.]
Your committee was instructed to consider and report on methods whereby lumbermen, fishermen, seamen and miners in the province of British Columbia may be enabled to exercise their franchise under the Dominion Elections Act, 1938, and, having considered this order of reference, has come to the conclusion that the act as now drafted amply ensures the right of all electors to exercise their franchise.
Your committee also recommends that the following amendments be made to the Dominion Elections Act, 1938:
That subsection (1) of section six be amended by deleting the words " two stenographers and three clerks " from the third line of the said subsection, and substituting the following therefor:
"one secretary to executive and four clerks."
That rule (3) of schedule A to section seventeen be repealed and the following substituted therefor:
" Candidates and political organizations may nominate to the returning officer an enumerator for each urban polling division as aforesaid. The returning officer shall, except as hereinafter provided, appoint from among the number so nominated, one enumerator to represent the political interest that at the last preceding election was elected to office, and one to represent the different and opposed political interest that received in the last preceding election the highest or the next highest number of votes, as the ease may be."
That rule 23 of schedule A to section seventeen be amended by deleting the word " six " in the twelfth line thereof and substituting the word " two " therefor.
That subsection (4) of section forty-five be amended by inserting the words:
" forthwith examine it to ascertain if it is the ballot paper given by him to the elector " after the word " shall " in the fourth line thereof,
and by adding the words:
" It shall be an illegal offence for an elector to wilfully tear up or otherwise destroy any ballot paper supplied to him, by the deputy returning officer."
after the word " elector " in the last line thereof.
By inserting the word " Cobourg " between the words " Chapleau " and " Cornwall " in the paragraph entitled " Ontario " in schedule II.
A copy of the minutes of proceedings and evidence is attached hereto.
Mr. A. L. BEALTBIEN (Provencher) presented the fourth and final report of the select committee on radio broadcasting, as follows:
The select committee appointed to consider the annual report of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and to review the policies and aims of the corporation and its regulations, revenues, expenditures and development, begs leave to present the following as its fourth and final report.
1.	Your committee was impressed by the increasing scope and importance to Canada of the corporation's work. It feels that more

Radio Broadcasting
effective steps should be taken, through broadcasting itself and other appropriate methods of disseminating information, to familiarize the public with its varied activities.
2.	Your committee is satisfied that the financial policies of the corporation are sound. The corporation has consistently achieved a prudent surplus. Your committee believes that increased revenue should result from improved coverage and service.
3.	Your committee notes with satisfaction the development of the plan of national coverage especially in the prairie and maritime provinces, where 50,000 watt regional transmitters are being added to the national network. In the further development of the plan, the committee approves in particular of the corporations intention to proceed at an early date with much needed improvements in coverage and service in southwestern Ontario and British Columbia.
4.	In regard to programs, Canada is in the happv position of having at her disposal a wide variety of material both from outside and -inside the country. The corporation's policy and practice appear to take advantage of this situation, while giving the maximum encouragement to Canadian talent. The plans for the king's visit are noted with approval. The committee especially endorses the corporation's proposals for a larger number of programs for rural listeners. It is felt that broadcasting can be an imoortant agency of practical service to farmers, fishermen and other primary producers, and of bringing the riches of music, drama and other forms of entertainment and culture into their homes. Your committee also feels that the corporation can do much to instil an appreciation of the value and advantages of the rural way of life.
5.	Recognizing the necessity of planning and balance in public service broadcasting, your committee notes with approval the corporation's determination that the present ratio of commercial to sustaining network programs should not be increased.
6.	The committee of last year emphasized the importance of establishing, at as early a date as possible, a high power short wave broadcasting station, financed as a national undertaking, but operated and controlled by the corporation as an integral part of its system. Such a project would facilitate the exchange of programs with otlier countries, would serve to advertise and interpret Canada abroad, and supplement the domestic program service.
Canada is the only leading trading nation without such facilities. We desire to draw the attention of the government to the imminent possibility that further delay in proceeding with the undertaking may result in Canada losing altogether the short wave channels registered in her name, and as a consequence, being shut out of the field entirely.
7.	Your committee approves, as in the widest interests of the nation, the corporation s policies regarding short wave, television and facsimile broadcasting. The corporation hopes shortly to occupy the field of high power short wave transmission. As regards television and facsimile, the policy is to alienate no part of the public domain to private interests. The corporation intends, as soon as possible, to undertake experiments in facsimile broadcasting.
8.	Your committee recognizes that the responsibility of controlling and coordinating all broadcasting in the public interest rests upon
the corporation. In this connection your committee wishes to express its gratification of a better understanding between private stations and the corporation, recently attained.
9.	Your committee is seized of the difficulties of working out the principles of freedom of speech in relation to the peculiar characteristics inherent in the medium of broadcasting. In view of the limitations, both of time and of the number of channels available for broadcasting, as well as the exigencies of program planning, your committee is convinced that fairness in the presentation of controversial material can best be assured by means of any system of network broadcasting on a sustaining
10.	Your committee shares the view of the corporation that network broadcasting of programs of opinion on current affairs should not be available for commercial sponsorship, more adequate time to be provided for commercial sponsorship, more adequate time to be provided free for this purpose. The committee believes that the corporation's policies respecting broadcasts of opinion are designed to ensure the largest possible measure of fairness and equality of opportunity. We wish to emphasize the importance of placing before listeners the widest variety of points of view. It is desired to stress the importance of flexibility and experiment in forms of presentation.
11.	Certain of the corporation's policies affecting the public generally have not been sufficiently made known resulting in misunderstanding and inconvenience. Your committee approves of the corporation's intention to make such policies known more fully and widely in the future. While recognizing the rapidly changing and developing character of the enterprise, the committee wishes to stress the need of duly publicizing policy decisions of this kind.
12.	On the matter of prfitical network broadcasting, your committee is of the opinion that serious consideration be given to placing such broadcasting during federal and provincial election campaigns, on a sustaining basis exclusively, with the understanding that the time so provided will be divided equitably among the political parties. Your committee is also of the opinion that network party political broadcasting between elections should remain open to purchase, subject always to consideration of fair distribution and program planning.
13.	Your committee recommends that the licence fee for privately owned broadcasting stations be revised in relation to power and population served, and that the new scale be effective for the current fiscal year.
14.	Your committee believes that the existing regulation which imposes on the vendor of a radio set the obligation, before making a sale, of ascertaining that the purchaser possesses a licence, should be rescinded. It recommends that the vendors of receiving sets be in future required to report monthly to the Department of Transport the names and addresses of all purchasers of sets, including the date of each sale. [DOT]
15.	Your committee wishes to record its warm appreciation of the public spirited manner in which the board of governors and the management are discharging their duties as trustees of the national interest in broadcasting. The corporation is developing a broadcasting system of increasing service to the people of Canada.
A copy of the minutes of proceedings and evidence is annexed hereto.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Questions
That the standing committee on miscellaneous
rivate bills be granted leave to sit while the
ouse is sitting.


Motion agreed to.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	Has the dominion archivist been appointed historian for the royal tour?
2.	If so, who will act as dominion archivist in case the dominion archivist is absent during the royal tour?


1.	Yes.
2.	The senior official of the department as recognized by the civil service commission.


1.	What quantity of cheese was produced in the county of Leeds in the year 1935?
2.	What was the total amount of bonus paid on cheese produced in the county of Leeds in the year 1935?


1.	The production of cheese in the county of Leeds in the year 1935 amounted to 7,173,366 pounds.
2.	Bonus paid on cheese manufactured between July 1 and December 31, 1935, 375,392.34.


What sums have been expended by the dominion since 1936 upon the following services: (a) militia; (b) aviation; (c) navy?


1936-37	1937-38	* *1938-39Militia services	
111,345,751	$17,222,804	$14,780,591Air services	
5,821,824	10,018,104	9,521,501Naval services	
4,763,294	4,371,981	6,420,101	[DOT]
* Final financial statements not yet completed.


1.	Will the government allow its own employees who work in the militia to attend the July camp of the militia with pay?
2.	Are any steps being taken to request industrialists or others to urge their men to join the militia and allow them pay, to attend a week's camp?
3.	Has anything been done with reference to a national register for Canada for defence purposes ?


1.	Yes. Order in council, P.C. 1276, dated 20th June, 1922, provides that civil servants ordered to attend annual training be granted leave of absence for that purposes; but that such civil servants be entitled to only one rate of pay, either civil or military, while so attending, unless the leave so granted is part of the annual leave of the employee concerned.
2. Yes. On March 25, 1939, a letter was addressed to boards of trade, chambers of commerce, and other organizations through which could be reached those who employ members of the non-permanent defence forces,

requesting that they again extend their cooperation by bringing the request to facilitate the attendance at military training camps to the notice of all their members.
3.	Yes. A number of industrial firms have been surveyed and a voluntary registration of the personnel of the scientific professions is under way.


1.	What quantity of cheese was purchased by the government and shipped to the drought areas in the western provinces during the year 1938?
2.	From whom or from what organizations was this cheese purchased?
3.	What price per pound was paid for the cheese ?


1.	670,415 pounds.
2.	Ontario Cheese Producers' Association, Belleville, Ontario; Kraft-Phoenix Company, Montreal, Quebec; Olive & Dorion Limited, Montreal, Quebec; Swift Canadian Company

Questions
Limited, Winnipeg, Manitoba; Ingersoll Cream Cheese Company Limited, Ingersoll, Ontario; Burns & Company, Calgary, Alberta; Canada Packers Limited, Ottawa, Ontario; Lovell & Christmas (Canada) Limited, Montreal, Quebec; A. A. Ayer Company Limited, Montreal, Quebec; Hodgson, Rowson & Company Limited, Montreal, Quebec.
3.	14|c, 14fe, 15c, 15Jc.


1.	How many properties, (a) farm, (b) residential, make up the electoral district of Grenville-Dundas ?
2.	How many of said properties, in the classes above, respectively, are under mortgage?
3.	Of the said mortgages, how many are held by, (a) individuals, (b) companies?


la. Total number of farms subdivided as owner, tenant and part owner and part tenant,
in Grenville-Dundas, census	1931	FarmsFarms	Farms	occupiedFarms	occupied	occupied	by partby	by	owner andowner (1)	tenants	part tenantGrenville-Dundas.. ..	
4.568	3,756	499	313Dundas	
2.350	-1.871	324	155Grenville.. [DOT]	
2.218	1,885	< 175	158
(1) Includes managers.
lb. Buildings (containing dwellings), dwellings and households, in Grenville-Diundas,
census 1931
Buildings
(contain-
Popula- ing	Housetion	dwellings) Dwellings	holds
(1) (2) (2) (2)
Dundas county	
16,098	3,814	3,943	3,955Grenville county	
16,327	4,142	4,247	4,270(1)	Includes population in hotels, rooming houses, institutions, camps, tents, etc.(2)	Excludes hotels, rooming houses, institutions, camps, tents, etc.
2. Farms reporting mortgages, in Grenville-Dundas, census 1931. (Only farms occupied by owner report mortgages).
Farms
reporting
mortgages
Grenville-Dundas	 1,467
Dundas	 792
Grenville		675
3.	No information.


1.	What is the total cost to date of the royal commission on the Bren gun contract?
2.	What is the total amount of fees and expenses paid to date to each government counsel?
3.	Has the account of Mr. L. A. Forsyth. K.C., been paid in full? If not, in what amount was the account rendered?


1.	$29,123.62-from National Defence appropriation.
2.	Hon. J. L. Ralston, K.C.: Fees, nil; expenses, $2,756.93.
Mr. L. A. Forsyth, K.C.: Fees and expenses, $8,644.68.
Mr. J. Dumoulin K.C.: Fees and expenses, $5,715.10.
3.	Mr. Forsyth's account as rendered amounted to $11,144.68. It was taxed and paid as $8,644.68.


1.	On what date did Mr. James Y. Murdock resign as a director of the Canadian National Railways ?
2.	Did he give any reasons for his resignation, and if so, what were they?
Questions

3.	Will a copy of the text of his resignation be tabled?
4.	What action did the government take in the matter, and has the vacancy on the board been filled?


All correspondence relating to this question was tabled on Tuesday, February 21, when a statement was made which will be found on page 1151 of Hansard. In reply to the last question asked by the hon. gentleman, I may say that the vacancy on the board has not been filled as yet.


1.	How many properties, (a) farm, (b) residential, make up the Dominion of Canada, by provinces?
2.	How many of said properties in the classes above, respectively, are under mortgage?
3.	Of the said mortgages, how many are held by, (a) individuals, (b) companies?


la. Total number of farms subdivided as owner, tenant and part owner and part tenant, in Canada, by provinces, Census 1931.
Farms Farms Farms
Farms occupied occupied occupied by by	by part owner &
Canada	owner (1) 586,299	tenant 74,382	part tenant 67,942Prince Edward Island	12,091	234	540Nova Scotia	
39,444	37,176	1,055	1213New Brunswick	
34,025	31,933	928	1,164Quebec	
135,957	126,563	5,089	4,305Ontario	
192,174	157,427	21,514	13,233Manitoba	
54,199	37,973	9,857	6,369Saskatchewan	90,691	21,044	24,737Alberta	
97,408	71,060	11,808	14,540British Columbia	
26,079	21,385	2,853	1,841
(1) Includes managers.
lb. Buildings (containing dwellings), dwellings and households, Census 1931.
Population Buildings Dwellings Households
(1)	(containing dwellings) (2)	(2)	(2)Canada 	
10,362,833	1,893,266	2,205228	2252,729Prince Edward Island	
88,038	17,974	18,632	18,734Nova Scotia	
512,846	97,871	106223	108,674New Brunswick	70,328	79,337	80,292Quebec	367,754	530,070	535,472Ontario	
3,431,683	687,754	786,900	810,157Manitoba	
700,139	133,096	144,127	148,590Saskatchewan	
921,785	191,995	196,086	199,385Alberta	164,181	170.069	173,502British Columbia	162,836	173,784	177,923(1)	Includes population in hotels, rooming houses, institutions, camps, tents, etc.(2)	Excludes hotels, rooming houses, institutions, camps, tents, etc.
2. Farms reporting mortgages, in Canada, by provinces, Census 1931. (Only farms occupied by owner report mortgages).
Canada	 242,850
Prince Edward Island	 4,250
Nova Scotia	 4,049
New Brunswick	 5,912
Quebec	 41,923
Ontario	 70,818

Manitoba	 18,710
Saskatchewan	 55,955
Alberta	 35,003
British Columbia	 6230
3.	No information.

Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting


1.	What are the rates of duty and taxes imposed on importations of coal and coke from Germany into Canada?
2.	How much coal has been imported into Canada from Germany in each of the last three fiscal years?
3.	How much coke has been imported into Canada from Germany in each of the last three fiscal years?
4.	How much of this coal was consigned to ports in the maritime provinces?
5.	How much of this coke was consigned to ports in the maritime provinces?
6.	How much German coal was imported into: (a) Prince Edward Island, (b) N >va Scotia, (c) New Brunswick, in each of the last three fiscal years?
7.	How much German coke was imported into: (a) Prince Edward Island, (b) Nova Scotia, (c) New Brunswick, in each of the last three fiscal years?


Return tabled.


1.	What was the total amount of the great war reparations collected by Canada from Germany?
2.	On what dates were these reparations collected?
3.	How were these funds expended?
4.	What was the total amount of civil and military claims admitted by the dominion government?


1.	How many shipments of gold, stocks and bonds have been received in Canada since 1929 to date, for storage purposes, showing amounts, originating point, consignor, consignee, when withdrawn and balances on hand at the present time;
2.	What disposition is made of same, while in Canada;
3.	What is charged for handling;
4.	Whether any time limit is placed on its acceptance.


I do not think this return can be produced. Certain information asked for in it, that with respect to stocks and bonds, obviously is not in the possession of the government, because it is quite competent for persons outside this country to arrange with persons inside the country to store stocks and bonds for them if they so desire. There is 71492-240
no machinery by which the government can secure information as to that point. With respect to shipments of gold, I question very much if it is in the public interest that the information asked for should be given.
Motion dropped.


That on Saturday, May 13, 1939, this house shall sit from 11 o'clock a.m., and that the order of business and procedure will be the same on Saturday as on Thursday.
He said:	Mr. Speaker, it has been customary as we approach the end of a session for the government to ask the house to sit on Saturdays as well as to have morning sittings. May I say at once that the purpose of the two motions which appear in my name, one to have the house sit on Saturday of this week, and the other to have the house sit in the mornings, beginning tomorrow, until the end of the session, is not in order so to hasten the business of the session that we may prorogue when his majesty is in the city. I have come to the conclusion that with the amount of business that still remains on the order paper it would be difficult for the house, without undue haste, to conclude its business in time for prorogation on Friday of next week. The purpose of the motions, however, is so to advance the business which remains to be done before their majesties arrive in Ottawa as to justify a short adjournment at that time and to render unnecessary a long adjournment over the entire period that their majesties may be in Canada. I believe it is the general wish that such adjournment as may be necessary should if possible be short rather than long.
As I announced some time ago it was the intention of the government that when the house adjourned on Friday of this week it should remain adjourned until June 19 by which time their majesties would have completed their visit to Canada. I still hold the view that for many reasons that might have been a preferable procedure, but I doubt very much if it accords with the wishes of the great majority of hon. members of the house. On the other hand, I do feel that there is a desire on the part of hon. members to bring the business of the house to a close as rapidly as it can be done without impairing in any way what may be necessary in the

3816	COMMONS
Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting
way of discussion. If we sit on Saturday and one or two days next week it should be possible for the house to conclude its business within a very few days after the time fixed for adjournment during their majesties' stay in the capital. The intention, therefore, is not to adjourn on Friday night until June 19, but to have the house sit on Saturday- we are not asking the house to sit in the evening just in the forenoon and afternoon as we did on Saturday last-and then to sit on Monday and Tuesday and adjourn to the time fixed for the royal assent on the following Friday. After the royal assent, it is intended to adjourn again until the following Monday. This means that there will be an adjournment over the time their majesties will be in the capital, but not any longer. I think with that arrangement, considering the progress made during the past few weeks, the house will be near enough to the end of its business to permit of prorogation very shortly thereafter.


Mr. Speaker, I must confess that the government change their mind so often that one does not know from day to day exactly what a proposal is going to be when it gets before the house. When we discussed this matter some time ago I said that I thought it would be impossible to get through the business of the house in time to have prorogation by His Majesty the King. I am glad the government recognizes this, according to the statement to-day by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King). I said that our party desired to cooperate in every way, because this is an historic occasion; but I pointed out before, and I repeat now, that the business of the house should be attended to without improper haste and without lack of care for the public interest. I should like to point out that the responsibility for the length of the sittings and for proposals of this kind must naturally be the government's. After all the Prime Minister is the leader of the house. It is he and his government that bring in the legislation and estimates and arrange for the appointment of committees. They are in full control of the whole business of the house. This is particularly so to-day when the government has such a large majority, roughly three times the number of the different opposition groups.
I think the government are largely to blame for the fact that we cannot complete our business in time to have the king conduct the ceremony of prorogation.


Oh, oh.


I am going to deal with the reasons in a moment. The fact is that the important legislation has come down weeks too late. In the speech from the throne, the Prime Minister had his excellency refer to certain legislation that was to be brought down, but exactly two and one half months later, on March 27, the Prime Minister brought down a list of legislation twice as long as the list that had been suggested in the speech from the throne. Most of that legislation was not of any importance, but the most important bills were left too late in the session. Probably the most important bills to be considered this session are those of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) and the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Euler) dealing with the western prairie regions. The bill with reference to the marketing of farm products other than wheat was dealt with only last Thursday although it was introduced long ago. The wheat cooperative marketing bill was dealt with last Thursday. The prairie farm assistance bill, referred to as the bonus for the western prairies, was not dealt with until Friday. The bill of the Minister of Trade and Commerce dealing with an initial payment of 60 cents a bushel on wheat has not been touched at all except in general discussion. None of these measures was dealt with until Thursday or Friday of last week. On top of all that, the government has made very many changes in this farm legislation as brought down. First there was to be a dropping of the wheat board and selling by futures. Then a change was made and we were going to have a wheat board and an initial payment of 60 cents. That was all changed and now the payment is to be 70 cents; and after the slating which the exMinister of Agriculture (Mr. Motherwell) gave the Minister of Trade and Commerce last night-and I would advise him to look it up in Hansard-I would imagine that the advisory committee he recommended will be the next change to be accepted by the government.
Another very important piece of legislation, not brought down until the dying days of the session, was brought down only last Saturday, three days ago, by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Dunning)-his bill to establish a central mortgage bank. To my mind this is a most important and intricate piece of legislation, involving government debentures amounting to $200,000,000. Even in these days, when we deal in astronomical figures of finance, $200,000,000 is not picayune by any means. While this bill, as I pointed out briefly the other day, in a few remarks lasting five minutes, deals

Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting
to some extent with financial institutions that lend money in this country, it does not cover borrowing and lending between individuals, as the Minister of Finance himself admitted; and he admitted also the importance of my suggestion in that regard. I want to make clear that I am not opposing the principle of this bill, but it is so extraordinarily important that I believe it should go to the banking and commerce committee. In these dying days of the session-because they are literally the dying days-a bill of such importance should not be introduced into the house at all. While I am not opposing the principle of the bill, I repeat, it must go to the banking and commerce committee, in my opinion, if it is to be properly dealt with. There the financial corporations, and individuals as well, would have the opportunity to be heard. I have already received protests from financial institutions against the legislation and protests as well from individuals. I do not know what the Minister of Finance has received, but I understand-I speak subject to correction- that a great deal of lending is done in Quebec, not by financial companies but by individuals to individuals. I do not know whether that is so or not, but that is what I was told by a lawyer from the province of Quebec, and if that is true, there is no relief provided by the bill for the people of the province of Quebec.


If my hon. friend will permit me, he is now discussing the measure itself, and under circumstances which do not permit me to answer in any way. I can neither explain nor answer.


The minister can go ahead and answer; I have no objection. I am simply dealing with the legislation that has been brought down within the last few days and showing how important some of these measures are. I mentioned the bill of the Minister of Finance just to illustrate my point. That bill should go to the banking and commerce committee, where financial institutions could be heard and individuals as well, with a view to working out a plan for taking care of the individual borrower and lender. That is all I wish to say with respect to these important measures that have been brought down by the government too late in the session.
Then there is a huge amount of estimates to be voted, including defence. There has been great talk about the defence estimates, and certainly they will require full discussion. I hope that they will be dealt with at a time when the country is properly represented in the house, not when most of us are away.
There are reports from various committees to be dealt with. Only a moment ago we had 71492-240J
before us the report of the committee on elections. Then there is the radio committee and the Bren gun committee, neither of which has yet reported.
I want to facilitate the business of the house, and so does this party, and I am agreeable, as I think this party is, to the motions as they are at present-there has been a change made by the Prime Minister-to sit in the mornings. I would have objected to sitting in the evening on Saturday, but the Prime Minister says he is not going to suggest that now, although that is how the motion reads. As to next week, I think the majority of our members would be perfectly willing to sit in the mornings on Monday and Tuesday, but there is a great deal of opposition from my followers to sitting on Saturday at all. I do not know how the house generally feels. We are quite willing to abide by the decision of the majority, although we would object to sitting on Saturday evening. If we are to sit at all on Saturday we should not sit on Saturday night, no matter what else we do.
In view of the discussion that is going on throughout this country-perhaps some of it is not very responsible, but there is a body of opinion expressed in conversations to the effect that we are hurrying the business of parliament merely to prorogue. Therefore I think it is very important that we should see that business is carried on in an orderly manner in the interests of Canada.
Before sitting down may I make one further suggestion? If the government will come forward with something more of a constructive nature that is going to help this country, so far as this party is concerned we shall be glad to sit here indefinitely to put it through; but I submit, Mr. Speaker, that the government are out of touch with the people and not in a position to know their wishes. I suggest, finally, that the Prime Minister, when the visit of their majesties is over, dissolve parliament at the earliest possible moment so that we may get a government with a mandate from the people which will do something constructive for the country.


Mr. Speaker, I am encouraged to keep on protesting because in this matter the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has already almost completely reversed his position in that he has now virtually given up the idea of prorogation while the king is here. He has also changed his idea of a long adjournment to that of a short one. In these changes I heartily concur. But if this new suggestion of a short adjournment is to be adopted, there is no reason whatever
3818	COMMONS
Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting
for these special arrangements for morning and Saturday sittings. If we are going to come back after a few days' adjournment we can proceed in a more or less leisurely manner.
Some lion. MEMBERS: Oh, oh.


The second motion -the two were presented together-calls for the house meeting at eleven o'clock in the morning of each sitting day. That means that whether we are here for three or four days, or two or three weeks or a month-
Some hon. MEMBERS, Oh, oh.


-however long it may be before we conclude the business of the house, we are to be condemned to sit every morning at eleven o'clock. The uproar, Mr. Speaker, that can be occasioned by a protest such as I am now making is indicative of the kind of thing that we are going to have for the next few days. We cannot have a report read without the cry of "dispense" being raised, as was done to-day.


Oh.


I am going to speak now, and in the days to come. If we are to be bullied-


Who is doing the bullying?


Yes, we have been bullied in the past.


Who is doing the bullying?


The expression "bullied" is not parliamentary, and I ask the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre to withdraw it.


When the time comes I will name the bully.


I think the hon. member should withdraw the word "bullied."


Mr. Speaker, it
is not an unparliamentary expression.


I consider, whether or
not it is unparliamentary, that it is unbecoming to the dignity of the house.


Then I withdraw
that expression, and say that we, who are members on this side, duly elected, do not intend without protest to let the government use its majority to force the issue and impose its will on this house.


The minority should not
control the majority.


I do not say that
the minority should control the majority. The suggestion of the hon. member for Essex East (Mr. Martin) is not according to my views.


I said, the minority should not control the majority.


I do not suggest
that it should, but I submit that the minority has certain rights in this house. Somebody says that we should expect minority groups to respect the rights of the majority. I contend that we in the minority have certain rights, and I do not propose that during the next two weeks, as soon as we rise to say a few words, we shall be shouted at or put in the difficult position in which we have been put. In other words, we have taken the ground that personal convenience or party advantage should not be allowed to take precedence over the full carrying out of public business.
I am going to take about five minutes to enumerate some of the measures which are still before the house.


You did it last time.


I would lay stress
upon the importance of the work of the committees. We must decide from day to day whether to remain in the house or to attend meetings of committees which will be sitting at the same time. The public accounts committee is dealing with the Bren gun and other government contracts. Is that to be passed over? Is its report, when it comes here, to be refused a hearing? Are we to be precluded from all discussion? The banking and commerce committee, of which I happen to be a member, sits to-day at four o'clock. Already it has been sitting at various times while the house has been in regular session. The report of the committee on electoral matters is not, in my judgment, satisfactory; it was presented to-day. Further consideration should be given to the safeguarding of what I regard as the fundamental right of citizens, that of voting at the next election. Under present arrangements a great many of them will be deprived of the franchise.
There is a fisheries committee, occupied with the extremely difficult matter of fish traps, and other questions. There are two civil service committees, one concerned with superannuation, as to which legislation is required; the other on the Civil Service Act, wherein the issue involved, as I see it, is an extension of patronage. We have to

Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting
consider the affairs of ex-service men, an important matter in that apparently the recommendations of the veterans' assistance commission are not to be implemented. We have measures before the house in the form of a number of agricultural bills. As the leader of the opposition (Mr. Manion) has said, we have this proposal for a central mortgage bank, constituting an altogether new type of legislation. We have the capital expenditures on the Canadian National Railways. We have the youth training project; and while I have no doubt that youth will be delighted to see the bunting hanging around, a great many of them are much more anxious to get training for life and to find jobs. We must not allow ourselves to be carried away by the enthusiasm of the moment and refuse to conclude in a perfectly regular way the business before us.


Shame.


Somebody on the other side of the house says "shame." That is typical of the sort of intimations we are going to get during these next weeks. It is no shame for me to insist that adequate provision for the welfare of youth shall come before other matters, even before these ceremonial matters connected with the coming of the king.
I am not going to enumerate many more items. There is the measure to establish a salt fish board. There are the budget resolutions, consideration of which normally would require well on to a week. Are we to give them up? Take the estimates. As was pointed out the other day, out of some $550000,000 only $30,000,000 have been voted, and over 400 items remain. If each of them gets even a few words, the discussion will stretch out for a long time; and are we to be shouted at if we ask a question of the minister with regard to the conduct of an important matter which has not yet received the attention of this house? That would be an intolerable situation.
Take such an important matter as that of national defence. As everyone in this house knows, I am not a militarist, but if I were, it would be more important to me to safeguard the dominions of his majesty than simply to go through certain forms and ceremonies and scamp the work of this house. The supplementary estimates have not yet been even mentioned, but it will foe curious if they do not require some discussion.
We all-I as much as anybody else-want to get away. We are all tired. The Prime Minister says, "no railroading of the business."
I was glad to hear him say that. I should like to regard his statement as an assurance that we shall not have any railroading, but as I understand it, we shall have it, in effect, either so long as he urges early prorogation- though apparently he has now given that up- or so long as we are to have just a few days' sittings within which we must get through. In any case I am glad that we have come to the proposal for a shorter adjournment.


Order. I would ask hon. members to refrain from interjecting remarks. Hon. members should converse inauddbly. We can hardly hear the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodswortfo). I want order in the house.


A few days ago our position was ridiculed. I could not but recall that in 1935, when there was the silver jubilee, the present Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) had a few words to say when someone ventured to propose a long adjournment. Here is what he said:
I have related the work that has been done-


I was very happy.


-or rather the work that has not been done.


Unfortunately it was not.


I claim, sir, that it is an extraordinary presumption on the part of the government to ask for an adjournment of .this house under those conditions, and it would be extreme simplicity on our part to agree to an adjournment under these conditions. In the country there is anger and impatience; unemployment is raging. Is it fair to ask us to suspend the work of parliament for five weeks while there is such distress in Canada

Have conditions improved?


Undoubtedly.


They are far worse.


Order.


The Minister of Justice pointed to the feck of interest which prevailed with regard to the debates in the house, and he said:
Hon. gentlemen opposite were not even staying to listen to their own friends. So much so that the leading newspaper in this city had an editorial entitled "Parliament is Through." Well, I agree with it. This parliament is suffering from senility, and the government which is in control seems to be afflicted with
aralysis. An adjournment of five weeks would
e only soporific,-
3S20

Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting


That was a pretty good speech.


-it would be only a sleeping dose given to a dying subject.
I quite admit that I cannot put the case nearly as well as did the Minister of Justice. I would say that this government, with its huge majority, has almost everything in its own hands. There is only one thing further to do-do away with an effective opposition, and the administration of this country will undoubtedly run more smoothly.
I should like also to ask this question: Should his majesty be asked to associate himself, however formally, with a disgraceful repudiation of parliament's responsibility to the people? Has the government-


Order.


The hon. member has not the right to interject the name of his majesty into this debate. It is against the rules of the house.


And he knows it, too. Mr. WOODSWORTH: Mr. Speaker


Under the rules of the house the hon. member has no right to invoke the name of his majesty to win a point in debate.


I am not using the name of his majesty. I am asking whether the government has the right to use a visit of anyone to this country for a disgraceful repudiation of parliament's responsibility to the people. I ask whether the government has the right to place anyone in authority-if you will not permit me to say the monarch- in an objectionable and equivocal position, which the use of the prerogative under existing conditions would mean. These questions are not asked by me, supposedly a radical. These questions were asked the other day in an editorial in the Montreal Gazette. It seems to me that these questions are worth putting to this house.


Who wrote it?
Mr. W'OODSWORTH: I do not know who wrote it. It is true, whoever wrote it; and other newspapers are calling attention to this phase of the subject. I do not think it is fair, Mr. Speaker, that because we criticize the irregular conduct of the business of the country, we should be declared in any sense disloyal to his majesty.


Who says that?


Nobody says it.


No, but that will be said hundreds of times in the next three weeks.


The one who is disloyal is the one who is speaking too much.


An hon. gentleman says that the one who is disloyal is the one who is doing too much talking.


Yes; why do you not sit down?


That is the kind of thing to which I object. It is not democratic. I contend, Mr. Speaker, that hon. gentlemen are not putting his majesty in a correct position-


Order.


Order.


-if they force
through the business of the house-


Again I must interrupt the hon. gentleman. He has not the right to use the name of His Majesty the King.


Take it back.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister in this house has again and again stated that it is necessary to alter our regular program because of his majesty's visit.


I take strong exception to that statement. I have been most careful to say-


Mr. Speaker-


I must ask the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre to resume his seat.


I wish to correct my hon. friend's statement. I am speaking in the presence of all hon. members of this house when I say that I have never, from the moment the session opened until the present hour, done anything in the way of seeking to force the business of the house because of his majesty's presence here in the coming week.
I made it abundantly clear at the outset that the government did not intend to do that. But I went further. I pointed out that I had felt there might be a desire on the part of the house to hurry its business in order to have prorogation at the time of his majesty's visit, and that there might be disappointment if prorogation did not then take place, and that for that very reason I had asked his excellency the governor general whether the consent of his majesty might not be obtained to the royal assent being given certain bills in the

Business oj the House-Saturday Sitting
event of parliament not being ready for prorogation, so that we should have the honour of meeting in parliament assembled with the king regardless of whether we had concluded the business of the session or not. May I say that the king, with evident desire to meet what his majesty had reason to believe would be the wish of members of parliament, graciously consented to give the royal assent to bills, notwithstanding that in so doing he was virtually establishing a precedent, a procedure which has not been followed since early in the reign of Queen Victoria. The last occasion on which a British Sovereign attended parliament especially for the purpose of giving assent to bills and not for the purpose of proroguing parliament, was in the year 1854.


The Prime Minister,
I presume, is privileged, because for the last minute or two he has been talking about what his majesty thinks of these matters.


Not at all. I have not been introducing his majesty's name into the debate in order to win any point in the discussion, against the rules of the house.
I am simply stating certain facts for the information of the house.


The Prime Minister has done so much more than I have ever done, but I have not had the privilege of conversations with his majesty and I cannot say just what his majesty thinks with regard to the conduct of the present visit. I recognize that I am somewhat handicapped in that regard. But I suggest that it is hardly fair for members of this house to imply, because their majesties are coming to this country, that we are disloyal simply because we wish to have the business of the house conducted in a somewhat different way from that which pleases the government. I would just say to the Prime Minister that I had every sympathy with him in his difficulty in arranging the details of this visit and the conclusion of parliament under these special circumstances. But may I ask this question:	Since he states so emphatically that
he does not wish to rush the business of the house, since, with his vast majority, he so largely controls parliament, will he also, during these coming days, control his own party so that we in the opposition may not be subjected to any interference in the exercise of our rights as members of parliament or to any imputations or allegations of disloyalty simply because we have taken our stand as wishing to conduct the business of the house to its conclusion in a reasonable way.
I think it would not be too much to ask that the Prime Minister give us an assurance or that point.


Let me say
that far from desiring to control in any way either my own party or parliament as a whole I prefer to allow hon. members to control themselves. May I say further that it is in the hands of His Honour the Speaker to control order in the house whenever that necessity arises. I am not a dictator, but I am afraid my hon. friend is coming to be one.


We
in this corner are in accord with the proposals now put forward by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), provided, as he has already stated, no attempt will be made to curtail discusion of any matters that may come before the house. As previously stated, we are	particularly	interested	in certainmeasures	regarding	agriculture,	unemployment and finance,	and we shall	expect to
be given every opportunity to discuss these matters freely during the rest of the session.


I desire to say just a word
or two, especially in answer to the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woods-worth).	Obviously	his remarks	were prepared for quite a different proposal from the one the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has submitted to the house. However, I suppose it was good politics on his part with reference to this subject.


I think, Mr. Speaker that such a remark is hardly called for.


I should not like to displease my hon. friend. The task of a government in circumstances similar to these is always difficult. We have to strike what would appear to be the happy medium between leadership and public opinion. And that is what we have been trying to do, even by changing somewhat the intentions first stated to the house.
There are changes in many other ways, not on the part of the government. For instance during the first weeks of the session this parliament was charged with talking too much. There were too many speeches in the house and not enough work, it was said. A certain newspaper even had a vacant space purporting to show what was being done in the house. To-day what is the change? The government is now accused of trying to force business and prevent hon. members from speaking. The same newspapers are saying that to-day. To my hon. frien