(Translation) First report of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines.-Mr. Vien.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. Last night I had to deny a statement which appeared in the Ottawa Journal concerning proceedings in yesterday's Liberal caucus. I rise to-day to speak again as deputy chief government whip, having been present during every minute of yesterday's caucus. I quote from the Toronto Daily Star of February 23, yesterday's paper, as follows:
A Liberal caucus to-day endorsed the government's new three-point plan to cover wheat growing and marketing in the prairie provinces. It provides:
1.	Guarantee of production cost of wheat to all cooperative marketing organizations and pools, whether producers, elevator or grain trade, at a statutory price to be fixed at about 63 cents per bushel.
2.	An acreage bonussing plan to apply to al wheat growers, to provide from about $210 ol $220 to each farmer of a half section. This amount will be graded off to not more that about $300 maximum to those farming a section of land.
3.	A flat payment not to exceed $2 an acre or $320 per quarter section in fixed crop loss areas where production averages less than five bushels per acre.
I quote from another report, in the Toronto Globe and Mail of Friday, February 24, as follows:
The Canadian government will continue to give a guaranteed w-heat price to western farmers, but in the coming crop year it will be about 63 cents per bushel, a figure estimated to be the average cost of wheat production.
This is one of the three main features of a bill which was approved by a Liberal caucus this morning, and which will be introduced in the House of Commons late next week by Hon. James G. Gardiner, Minister of Agriculture.
These statements which I have quoted from the Toronto Globe and Mail of today's date and the Toronto Star of yesterday's date are utterly and absolutely false. They are not based on any fact whatever. They are completely, one hundred per cent wrong. The matters mentioned were not discussed in any manner or shape whatever.


I would suggest, in order to prevent any reports of that kind-


Order.


-that the minister bring down the bill as soon as possible.


Order.


What was the question?


It was not a question.


That a message be sent to the Senate to acquaint their Honours that this house has appointed the Honourable the Speaker and Messrs. Barber, Bertrand (Prescott), Fafard, Goulet, Gray, Hill, Landeryou, Maclnnis, MacMillan, Macphail (Miss), Moore, O'Neill, Pinard, Purdy, Rheaume, Roberge, Spence, Taylor (Norfolk), Tustin, a committee to assist His Honour the Speaker in the direction of the restaurant, so far as the interests of the Commons are concerned, and to act as members of a joint committee of both houses on the restaurant.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the Minister of Trade
German Allegiance

and Commerce (Mr. Euler). He will recall that last year he agreed to a suggestion made by the then leader of the opposition, the Right Hon. Mr. Bennett, to bring down weekly reports of the wheat board as required under the act and have them placed in the sessional papers office. 1 should like to know whether he will agree to that being done this year and have them brought down to date, bringing down any subsequent reports as well.


My hon. friend the other day suggested that these reports be tabled, but I was unable to agree to that. This request has to do with filing them as requested last year by the then leader of the opposition. I will give consideration to the request, but I cannot say definitely at the moment whether I can agree to it or not.


On the orders of the day:
The hon. member for Vancouver North (Mr. MacNeil) inquired a few days ago as to a circular, issued in Vancouver and other points, in connection with contributions for German winter relief. The matter has been taken up with the German consular authorities. It is stated that a somewhat similar appeal for winter relief has been issued in Canada, as in other countries in previous years, and that on the present occasion the whole, instead of three quarters, of the sums collected has been used for relief in Canada. I am advised that the German phrase "Deutscher Volksgenosse" used in the circular to describe the persons to whom the appeal for contributions was addressed, while not a term which has been legally defined, applies only to citizens of the German Reich, whether resident in Germany or abroad. The implication which was drawn that Canadians of German origin were specifically included in the appeal does not therefore appear to be correct, if by "Canadians" Canadian nationals are meant. An appeal such as set forth in the circular in question, if addressed to Canadian citizens of whatever origin, would undoubtedly be most improper. Other questions raised by the terms of the circular have been brought to the attention of the consular representatives.


The house resumed from Thursday, February 23, consideration of the motion of Mr. Mackenzie King that the house go into committee on the following proposed resolution:
That it is expedient that parliament do approve of the trade agreement entered into at Washington on the 17th day of November, 1938, between Canada and the United States of America, and that this house do approve of the same, subject to the legislation required in order to give effect to the provisions thereof.
During the course of my remarks last evening the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) drew my attention to a dispatch from the Secretary of State for the Dominions in London to the effect that the agreement could not have been made except for the sacrifices that the dominions were prepared to make in this matter. I am sorry I did not hear the right hon. gentleman correctly, and thought that some further, documents had been tabled. I was quite aware of that dispatch. I am also aware, as I stated earlier in my remarks, that certain sacrifices had to be made by Canada. But what hon. members of this house and the people of Canada should know before they can properly judge the merits or demerits of the new treaty is just what sacrifices we were asked to make or it was necessary for us to make. The dispatch does not mention that. What I am asking for is the removal of the smoke-screen.
Before the house adjourned last night I had quoted a dispatch from the London Weekly Times with respect to protests under the most favoured nation treaties, and I continue.


Before my
friend continues may I relieve his mind at once by saying that all concessions that were granted were requested and were necessary in order to enable the agreement between the United Kingdom and the United States to be concluded. But with respect to concessions made, there were as far as we are concerned compensations effected in the agreements which we have either -with the United Kingdom or with the United States.


I did not hear
the right hon. gentleman very well, but tomorrow I shall read in Hansard what he said.
Other countries which have made trade treaties with Canada containing the mast favoured nation clause will claim under that

Canada-United. States Trade Agreement
clause the benefits of the tariff concessions accorded to the United States. Yet we are told by the government that they have received no complaints, and that the effect on these treaties is a matter of minor importance.
The consequences of these treaties are so far-reaching and involved that it would be impossible for me in the time at my disposal to discuss this aspect of -the matter. But the fact is that the ministry do not know what the consequences will be. It would take an expert two or three -months to ascertain that. Did we have to make all the sacrifices in order that Great Britain and the United States might conclude this treaty; or for world appeasement, or for peace with the United Stats? We have had peace with them since 1812; do we have to pay for the future? Let me read from the Toronto Daily Star of February 15, 1939:
Asserting that the United States "for selfish reasons'' would be forced, defensively, to go to the aid of Canada or Great Britain in an emergency, Representative Pace (Democrat, Georgia) added:
"I feel sure that the President did not say our frontier is on the Rhine. In my judgment he could well have said, 'Our first line of defence is England and France.' When we see England and France go down, we are threatened."
I do not think we have to pay for that. The senator from Georgia simply states the truth.
What did we. get by way of compensation for the sacrifices which we have made? I wonder whether hon. members realize that in 1937 the value of all our exports to the United States, which consist of products which they must have, such as newsprint, pulpwood, lobsters, nickel and alloys thereof, totalled
5173.000.	000 in round figures. Gold is still on the free -list, I do not think it is bound; that amounted to about 875,000,000. Are those concessions? We get concessions, it is true, on products which they do not have to have. But these concessions are mostly surrounded by quotas. Let me read from a press release of February 7 last from the United States government. Let us hear something about these concessions. For the calendar year 1938 their exports to Canada for domestic consumption were in round figures $453,000,000. Their imports from Canada for domestic consumption, excluding gold, amounted to $257,000,000, leaving therefore a balance in their favour of
8204.000.	000, excluding gold. I point out that the United States were not suffering from the results of the 1935 treaty. They did not need further concessions from us.
Then I turn to the press release of November, 17, 1938. I wish every Canadian could have a copy so he could read it for himself. I quote from page 12:
In the agreement of 1936 the reduction of United States duties on certain important commodities, mustly agricultural, was safeguarded by the use of tariff quotas, the reduced duties applying only to limited quantities; any imports in excess of the specified limits continued subject to the full rates.
And these quotas are ridiculously small. Agriculture and so -on has been amply safeguarded. The quota on milk, for example, is one-fifth of a pint a year to each person in the United States. The quota on cattle for the quarter was filled by January 31. So much for the quotas.
Again I quote, this time from -page 15:
The most important free list items bound by the new agreement (including those already bound by the 1936 agreement) are: newsprint paper, wood pulp of all kinds, and pulpwood; lobster, scallops and sea herring; certain kinds of furs; crude asbestos; crude artificial abrasives; and certain fertilizers. The imports from Canada in 1937 of all articles bound free by the agreement amounted to $203,000,000 or 85 per cent of all free imports from that country. The assurance that duties will not be imposed on this huge volume of trade is of great value to Canada and has been taken into consideration by that country in making its concessions to the United States on articles dutiable under the Canadian tariff as well as on duty free articles.
Why, then, should these have been taken into consideration? What do we care whether or not these items are bound free? The only people that care about that are the consumers of the United States; they are the ones who are -interested-and possibly their government, for revenue purposes. It is in their interest to have low duties.
Again I quote, this time from page 52:
A secondary reason why the United States has kept newsprint paper and paper materials on the free list may lie in the fact that at least in times of active business construction the cut of wood from American forests for lumber, paper and all other purposes, exceeds the annual growth, with resultant depletion of the total stand of timber, logs, posts, poles, railway ties, pickets, palings and lath. The free entry of these wood products has long been maintained by Congress in the public interest.
I do not think the United States will put a duty on them. I do not see much concession there; it is simply a matter of self-preservation.
Again on page 53 it is pointed out with respect to nickel that Canada is the only producer. Aluminium -is controlled by a cartel. I might go on to other items but time does not permit. But these are not concessions;


Mr. Speaker, because it
deals with the vast matter of trade, the resolution before the house is probably one of the most important which will come before us at the present session. Proof of its importance is found in the fact that many of the speeches delivered by lion, members in the debate on the address, especially by hon. members opposite, had reference to the trade agreement recently consummated with the United States.
This question of trade is one which almost from the very beginning of our confederation has engaged the attention of Canadians. This I believe is perfectly natural and understandable. If we study history and look around us in the world we find that the countries which have attained the highest degree of civilization are those which have reached the highest degree of perfection in their international trade. Many examples could be given. We could cite the example of Great Britain whose trade, I believe, leads that of the world. We could mention France and the United States. The same was true of Germany until that country turned her back on her past and sought to find new paths to national greatness.
It is a significant fact that in Canada we have attained a very strong position indeed in the matter of international trade. Ours is a country vast in extent, with only eleven millions of people, and yet one which in the
1282	COMMONS
Canada-United States Trade Agreement
year 1937 stood sixth among the nations of the world in volume of international trade. In 1936 we held fourth place among the exporting nations of the world, and the same condition held true in 1.937. This is without question a remarkable achievement.
I suggest these facts am evidence of two things. They are evidence, first, of the enterprise, resourcefulness and initiative of the Canadian people, and, second, of the value of the resources of our country. Because of this, over the years, if w'e contrast our position with that of many other countries, we have had in Canada-sometimes up, sometimes down-a remarkable degree of prosperity. I believe that fact is indisputable. Because of this vast volume of trade, touching almost all countries of the world, we have been able to develop the amenities of modern civilization. Our educational system; our hospitalization for the unfortunate, our care for the needy, have reached as high a degree of development as can be found almost anywhere else in the world.
We have been able to do this because of our prosperity. In 1929 our total trade reached the vast sum of well over two and a half billion dollars. While there have been some reverses since that time, (partly because of our own mistakes and partly because of conditions beyond our control, nevertheless on the whole it has remained at a high point.
It is perfectly natural and understandable that the question of trade and fiscal policies should create differences of opinion. Broadly speaking-and certainly over the last sixty years-such differences have existed between the two major parties in the country. I know it can be said that there were times, and there have been years when the policies of the two parties appeared to be not far apart. But there is this significant fact, that whenever an opportunity came to free trade from some of its shackles, or to extend the possibility of getting Canadian markets, the Liberal party have been found on one side and the Conservative party on the other.


Oh, no, no!


We got the market and
you lost it.


My hon. friends object to that. I hope before I go much farther I shall demontrate a little more fully the truth of the statement. But in the main that is the fact. The Conservative party has been the one which has always advocated what it

thought to be an essential measure of protection for Canadian industry, through the maintenance of tariffs. That will not be disputed. On the other hand, while at times the Liberal party, in the judgment of many of its supporters, has maintained tariffs that were too high, nevertheless it has had its face turned in the right direction. When opportunities have arisen it has moved in the direction of lowering tariffs, promoting trade and thereby aiding in bringing prosperity to the Canadian people.
Since the great war there has been a distinct impetus in the world toward economic and political nationalism. This is particularly true of Europe during the last eight or ten years. What led to this condition? So far as some European countries are concerned, the fear of war and the uncertainty of the future caused them to adopt policies which have unquestionably restricted and hampered international trade and world recovery.
A similar policy was adopted by the United States following the war. The United States has been frequently referred to in this debate as a high tariff countiy, but there have been times in the past sixty years when their tariffs were not nearly as high as they have been in the last seven or eight years. During the tenure of office of President Wilson the institution of the Underwood tariff brought about substantial reductions in the duties on goods going into that countiy. Let me say in passing that that tariff was of particular benefit to Canada during those years. But following the war, probably more or less because of a feeling of disappointment over the trend of affairs in Europe, the United States took the other couise. We had the Fordney-McCumber tariff in 1922. Then for several years there was in the United States a definite propaganda, energetically carried on, to the end that she should cut herself free from the rest of the world, not only in an economic but also in a political sense. There were those who held and expressed the view that the United States could live unto herself, that she did not need the rest of the world. If Europe was to become a madhouse, at any rate the United States could remain out of it. All this led to the adoption of the Hawley-Smoot tariff in 1930.
What was the idea back of the adoption of the Hawley-Smoot tariff? It was simply a continuation of the policies which had been finding favour in the United States for a number of years previously. The Hawley-

Canada-United. States Trade Agreement
Smoot tariff raised the customs duties to a point which I do not think had ever been reached before in that country. After that was done they looked forward to a period of prosperity; but what happened? Within three years, yes, within two years, the United States had entered the worst period of depression it had ever experienced. There came a time when its banks closed, when its trade had practically disappeared; and wiith these conditions came unemployment, distress, suffering and misery.
We also had an experiment in Canada. I recall the election of 1930 and the campaign carried on by the former leader of the Conservative party. I can recall some of the speeches made by hon. gentlemen whom I see opposite to me at the present time. What were those speeches? What was their policy at that time? They criticized the policy of the Liberal party in the matter of tariff reduction during the previous ten years. They told the people that the unemployment that was coming along was all due to the fact that tariffs had been reduced, that the country had been on the wrong course. The people took the Conservative party at its word and returned it to power in 1930. One of the first acts of the new administration was to raise the tariff. A little later it was raised again, to the highest level it had ever been in Canadian history. Do any of my hon. friends opposite deny that during the election campaign of 1930 they pressed this policy upon the Canadian people as a cure for their economic ills? Do they deny that they stated on platform after platform that if they were returned to power they would raise the tariff, they would cure unemployment, they would bring prosperity to the country?


We tried to. That is what you have not done.


The hon. member for
Parkdale (Mr. Spence) was one of the prime movers in that respect. I really believe the hon. member has a conscience, and it must bother him greatly at times for the part he took-


Not a bit.


-in that campaign.


The hon. member might recite how his own conscience bothers him.


I will attend to my hon. friend in a little while. I was one of those who was left at home in the 1930 election, but I recall the autumn session in 1930 when the tariff was raised. Why was that done?
To cure unemployment and to restore prosperity. Hon. gentlemen opposite cannot deny that. Again in the session of 1931 the tariff was hoisted still higher, for the purpose, it was alleged, of relieving unemployment and bringing prosperity to Canada. What happened? With every increase in the tariff, there was an increase in unemployment and an increase in the burdens placed upon the Canadian taxpayers. That was the result of the mistaken policies of my hon. friends opposite.
Then we had the 1932 conference which was to cure everything. I have never been one of those who had very much faith in the work of the Ottawa conference. I took the trouble this morning to read the opening address by Mr. Baldwin, now Earl Baldwin, who headed the British delegation. The conference would have achieved something worth while if it had followed the lead he gave in that address; but it did not. He pointed out that there were two courses to be followed. The conference could increase intra-empire trade by reducing the tariffs against each other and leaving the general tariffs against, outside countries where they were, or they could leave the intra-empire tariffs where they were and increase the general tariff against other countries. Unfortunately it was the latter course that was followed.


Oh, no, decidedly not.


My hon. friend may dispute that, but-


I do.


-the record is against him.


Not a bit of it. There was a raising of tariffs and there was a lowering of tariffs.


So far as Canada was
concerned, the lowered tariffs had to do chiefly with things that did not count, while the tariff was raised on things that were vital to the Canadian consumer. May I say in passing that there was another unfortunate consequence that flowed from those agreements. I do not wish to get into a controversy with my hon. friends opposite, but the Ottawa agreements did create in the minds of the have-not countries in an anxious and uncertain world, the idea that the British empire, the mother country and its dominions, was set upon a policy of economic imperialism. The effect of this impression on countries that lacked the sources of raw materials which the British empire possessed has exercised an injurious influence upon the world for the last six or seven years.
1284	COMMONS
Canada-United. Stales Trade Agreement
But my hon. friends opposite of the Conservative party did endeavour to negotiate a trade treaty with the United States prior to the election of 1935, and in this debate reference has been made to that effort. But while discussions and even negotiations in regard to the treaty went on, no finality had been reached when the general election took place in the autumn of 1935. If one can form any judgment from the speeches made by my hon. friends opposite in this debate, they would never in the world have succeeded in negotiating a trade agreement with the United States, and I am firmly convinced there would have been no such trade agreement if the Conservative party had been returned to power in 1935.
What would have happened? I think I can picture the scene. I am sorry the leader of the opposition (Mr. Manion) is not in his seat, but I recall his attitude in the budget debate of 1930, and I can see him, if a trade agreement with the United States was coming forward, getting out his shillelagh-it is never far away-and appealing to the red-blooded Canadianism of the Canadian people against having any "truck or trade with the Yankees."
I go on down the line to my good friend from St. Lawrence-St. George (Mr. Cahan). In passing may I say, and I am sure he will take my word for it, that there is no member of the house for whom I have a greater respect, but I was disappointed in the speech he made the other night. If the Conservative administration had been returned in 1935 and a trade agreement with the United States had been approaching finality, I can see him going back to the days of Cleveland and the Alaska boundary' award; I can see him citing to his leader all the speeches that had been made by all sorts of politicians in the United States at the time of the reciprocity proposals in 1911. Is there any possible indication that my hon. friend would have supported a reciprocity agreement with the United States?


Certainly not the agreement that was then suggested by' the United States; and my views were made perfectly' clear.


I will say, in the best of good temper, that I do not believe there is any kind of trade agreement that could possibly be made with the United States that my hon. friend from St. Lawrence-St. George *would support.
I go on down the line to the hon. member for Yale (Mr. Stirling). He is not in his seat at the moment, but in imagination I can see him looking across to Oregon, seeing a
fMr. Crerar.]
few apple orchards there, and sayring: Nothing doing so far as apples are concerned in a trade treaty with our United States neighbours!


It is more than a few apple orchards.


Yes. I can imagine also-


The hon. member's imagination is working well to-day.


He has not started
painting pictures yet.


I can imagine what our
good friends from Toronto would have said -the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church), the hon. member for Parkdale (Mr. Spence), the hon. member for St. Paul's (Mr. Ross), the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNicol)-what would have been their reaction to an approaching trade agreement with the United States?


They would have required medical treatment.


They would have picked up their war weapons and stood four-square against it. It is not that this particular trade treaty is unacceptable to hon. gentlemen opposite, Mr. Speaker; any kind of trade agreement with the United States would be unacceptable to them.


I do not think it is fair for the hon. gentlemen to make statements of that kind before this house, because he knows better. He knows that if we could have made a trade treaty with the United States that would have been satisfactory to us we would have done so at any time. But the hon. member says that we would not do it under any' circumstances.


I certainly do not wish to be unfair. I withdraw my statement, and moderate it to this extent-


But you have said it so often-that is the trouble.


There might be a glimmer of hope, very, very dim and distant but still a glimmer, that the hon. member for Parkdale (Mr. Spence) would have seen the light.


I have seen the light many a time, but I see nothing but darkness when I look at you.


Can't take it.


Hon. gentlemen opposite, as I said a moment ago, had a trade treaty with the United States in process of negotiation before the election of 1935, but no finality

Canada-United, States Trade Agreement
was reached. Then came the general election, and within six weeks the present Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), my respected leader, had gone to Washington and negotiated and settled the argument.


Because he accepted what we would not take-that is all.


Now, what were the benefits from that agreement? If we take a glance at the economy of Canada to-day what do we find as the greatest need of Canada in its commerce and industry? I submit, Mr. Speaker, that it is markets. Take the economic story of Canada from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and you will find that that is true. Go down to Nova Scotia: their need is markets for their products. New Brunswick needs markets for its lumber and potatoes; Quebec needs markets for its pulp and paper, lumber and asbestos; Ontario needs markets for its products; the prairie provinces the same, and British Columbia as well. The great need of all our provinces is markets for their products, and the fact of the matter is that the trade agreement, negotiations for which were started by the late administration before the election of 1935, and which were carried to completion by the present administration, did widen the markets for Canadian products. That fact cannot be disputed; the trade figures show it.


An infinitesimal widening.


It is not so infinitesimal; on the contrary, it is very considerable, and the 'benefits from that treaty have been shown in our trade figures. Further, it is not without some significance that while the United States had a very considerable depression in the latter part of 1937 and in 1938, this country in a measure escaped the consequences of that depression. And why? Because our people were profitably employed in producing the things that we could sell.


Not to the United States.


Yes, to the United States, and the figures show it.


We sold them elsewhere, in British countries.


More went to the United
States than to any other country in the world.


I respectfully suggest to
my hon. friend the member for St. Lawrence-St. George that he study the trade figures if he has not done so.


I am pretty well acquainted with them.


Now we come to the present agreement. It is not only an extension of the old agreement, but an enlargement of that agreement, a very considerable enlargement. It widens our markets still further. In what way? The Nova Scotia fishermen, who have been having a very difficult time for a number of years past, have wider markets opened to them for their fish. The New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island farmers have wider markets for their potatoes, and there is a wider market for British Columbia lumber. As regards the great pulp and paper industry of Quebec, we find our present free entry to the United States guaranteed during the term of this agreement, and that is not without some significance. The improvements being made by modern scientific research in the processing of paper will probably lead before very long to the development of methods which will enable newsprint to be made from the great stands of southern pine in the United States, and when we consider that our exports of pulp and paper to that country last year amounted to more than 8100,000,000, it is worth something to have during the term of this agreement the assurance that no duty will be placed against our pulp and paper.
Coming to Ontario, that province benefits in several ways from the agreement. It benefits under the cattle schedules, under the dairy products schedules and from the reduction in the duty on nickel going into the United States. In Manitoba we find that there are benefits as there are in Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia.
The great need for Canada to-day is markets for her products. Take mineral production alone. In 1918 our total production of zinc, copper, lead and nickel was 297,000,000 pounds. In 1938 it had grown to 1,586,000,000 pounds. Gold is not affected, although I am not very much impressed with the argument of some of my friends opposite that gold should not be taken into account in the trade export figures with respect to the United States. However, in gold, the production in 1918, equated to the present price of gold, was
824.000. 000, whereas last year it was over
8164.000.	000, an evidence again of the expanding exports of the country and the need for markets in our base metals, lumber, pulp and paper, and live stock-indeed, in almost everything we produce.
The point I am making is that this agreement does enlarge the markets for Canadian products, and to the extent that it does so, it helps to promote prosperity in this country; and as it promotes prosperity here, it increases the peace and happiness of the Canadian
1286	COMMONS
Canada-United States Trade Agreement
people. That is a strong reason for the agreement. And what are the criticisms against it? I wish to spend a few minutes in dealing with the criticisms of my hon. friends opposite.
I must confess I have been interested in the course they have taken. When this agreement was first announced it received the blessing of a former Conservative premier of Ontario. The leader of the reconstruction party, a former minister of trade and commerce, and first lieutenant of the leader of the opposition, spoke some quite friendly words for the trade arrangement. He thought it was a good thing. I was in doubt myself as to where the leader of the opposition stood on the question-I am sorry he is not here to-day. In the debate on the address he made a long reference to the treaty. After his speech was over and reported I said to a Conservative friend of mine in the city, " Is the leader of the opposition going to oppose, or is he going to support, this treaty?" The reply was, "Well, from his speech I don't know." And that was understandable.
Let me quote from the speech of the leader of the opposition on January 16. The reference will be found on page 34 of Hansard:
I am not questioning that there are advantages in this agreement; it would be a queer kind of agreement if it did not produce any benefit. But when the losses and gains are weighed together, my submission is that there is grave doubt of the advantages being more than the disadvantages so far as we are concerned.
He had not made up his mind. In another part of his speech he said that time would tell, and on page 35 of Hansard he is reported further:
I am now going to leave the trade treaty. I have made a good many general remarks about it, but undoubtedly we shall deal with it more fully when it is up for discussion here. Even then, if it is discussed, as the right hon. gentleman suggested the other day, as soon as this debate is over, I do not think we shall be able to judge as to its merits or demerits, though I anticipate that we shall hear from some men, coming from various sections of the country, interested in certain industries, who may feel that they have been benefited or hurt.
That clearly revealed that the leader of the opposition was even then, as late as January 16, in some doubt. Apparently, however, a course has been mapped and is being followed and we are now meeting from my hon. friends opposite with an increasing measure of opposition to this agreement. Let me deal briefly with some of the counts.
The member for Qu'Appelle (Mr. Perley) may be regarded, I think, as the wheat expert -if I may use that much-abused word-of the opposition.


Thank you.


He put a lot of interesting figures on Hansard last evening. Not only the member for Qu'Appelle, but several other members of the opposition have criticized this agreement in its relation to wheat. In fact, I am not certain that it is not the strongest point they have endeavoured to make against it, that we lost something when we gave up the British preference of six cents a bushel on wheat. They are lamenting the loss of the British market and asking what we are going to do with our wheat. I believe a very good case can be made out for the argument that the preference of six cents a bushel on wheat was never of any real value to the wheat growers of this country. One of the conditions of that preference- and the hon. member for St. Lawrence-St. George will recall this-is found in article 4 of the 1932 agreement, which reads:
It is agreed that the duty on either wheat in grain, copper, zinc or lead as provided in this agreement may be removed if at any time empire producers of wheat in grain, copper, zinc and lead respectively are unable or unwilling to offer these commodities on first sale in the United Kingdom at prices not exceeding the world prices and in quantities sufficient to supply the requirements of the United Kingdom consumers.
What does that mean?


Nothing.


It means just nothing so far as the value of the preference in the matter of price was concerned.


Certainly, but there was a preference as to quantity.


I am making my speech. There was no preference so far as price was concerned. It cannot be shown that a single farmer in Canada received an additional cent a bushel for his wheat because of that preference.


But he received an additional and sheltered market.


I come now to the point my hon. friend raises. He says it gave us in a certain degree a sheltered market. But did it? Western Canadian wheat has always occupied a special place in the world's markets because of its peculiar quality. The United States produce not more than twenty-five per cent, probably twenty per cent, of hard wheat in their total wheat production. Consequently they do not export a bushel of hard spring wheat; it is all required in the United States. In the more southern states of the Argentine a type of wheat is produced somewhat similar to that raised in Canada. But I repeat, western Canadian wheat has

Canada-United, Stales Trade Agreement
occupied a peculiar position in the world's markets because of its quality. And I submit that it was not a profitable business for the wheat growers of western Canada to have created in Europe a condition under which a larger volume of their wheat than would otherwise be the case, was forced into a particular market, even if it was the British market. Why? After all, wheat is a very fluid thing. The United Kingdom, it is true, is the largest single purchaser of wheat on the continent of Europe. But there are other countries that buy wheat, even in these distressful days: Belgium, Holland, Denmark and the Scandinavian countries; France at times, Italy at times until the last few years. A demand for our hard western wheat existed from all these countries, which imported it to blend with wheat from the Argentine and Australia and other countries, to produce the type of flour required by their customers.
I submit that under the wheat preference scheme all that resulted was that Canada was given a more sheltered market in Great Britain, but more wheat from these other producing countries was sent to the other consuming countries in Europe. The result of that condition was that we were placed in a less competitive position as far as the bids we received for our wheat were concerned. So I believe a very good argument could be made that the wheat preference, while in a sense it gave us a sheltered market for some of our wheat-and not so very much either, as I shall presently show from the figures placed on record last night by the member for Qu'Appelle.


Order. The hon. member's time has expired.


Go on.


If I might be permitted just a moment.


With the unanimous consent of the house.


Go on; we are interested.


A very good argument
could be made out that the preference did not result in giving the western wheat producer a single additional dollar for his wheat.
I could deal with the matter of lumber, because that was dealt with at some length by opposition speakers, and the government was criticised for giving up the preference on lumber. Let me tell the house that there are in the northern part of Manitoba several saw mills, one of very considerable size and capacity. During 1932-33, while the United States had the duty of S3 or $4 a thousand 71492-82
against our lumber, those mills were not operating, with the result that there was unemployment and a charge on the public funds for relief. After the 1936 agreement those mills went into operation and have been operating steadily since. Why? Because they find their market in the United States. The same is true of northern British Columbia and northern Saskatchewan. While some sacrifices on the part of the fir lumber industry of the Pacific coast may result from this agreement-I do not think it will be so- the larger opening up of the American market for lumber products is going to result in a great deal more benefit for Canada than would be involved in the exclusion of our lumber from the United States and the maintenance of the preference in the British market.
There are several other matters with which I should like to deal, but I am not going to trespass on the time of the house. In due time this trade agreement will be submitted to the judgment of the Canadian people. I have no doubt whatever what their verdict will be. I am confident that the Canadian people will approve the agreement. They will do so not alone for the material benefits it brings to Canada, considerable as they will be; but they will approve it also because it is an example of friendly trade relationships between two great countries, pointing the surest way to that improvement of international conditions which the world requires. If the world is to settle down to peace, international animosities must be appeased, and the promotion of friendly trade arrangements is the surest way to achieve that end. If for no other reason than this, the resolution we are considering should be approved by this house.


It is not
my intention to try to follow the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Crerar) in his argument. I noted during his speech that the hon. member for Melville (Mr. Motherwell) was paying strict attention. I recall that last year he dealt very effectively with the arguments of the minister, and no doubt he will do so again this year.
Before entering upon a discussion of the treaty I should like to make a few remarks with reference to a statement which was made by the hon. member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Clark) last evening. In paying some attention to my humble self, he said that I had not given the facts with reference to certain statements that I made, particularly with reference to the export of apples from New Brunswick. I told him at that time, and I wish now to tell the house, that the

1288	COMMONS
Canada-United. States Trade Agreement
information I gave was obtained from the bureau of statistics. On January 30, 1938 I wrote to the bureau for the information, as follows:
I should be pleased to receive the following information from your department:
1. Number of barrels of apples exported from Nova Scotia during the past two years (a) to the United States; (b) to the British Commonwealth of Nations. Also the same information relative to the province of New Brunswick.
The return I received from the bureau of statistics was as follows:
(a) Nova Scotia to	British	1936 barrels	1937 barrelsempire	
Nova Scotia to	United	929,348	1,089,655States	
(b) New Brunswick to	British	60	72empire	
New Brunswick to	United	48,523	25,744States	38	33
That is the information I gave the house during my previous speech, and, as I say, I obtained it from the bureau of statistics. Apparently the hon. gentleman obtained his information from another source, but I would advise him to go to the bureau of statistics at all times, where he will be given the most reliable information and where I am sure he will be treated, as I have been treated, in a very courteous manner. I must confess that in my experience this is one of the most efficient branches of the public service of Canada.
There was another statement to which the hon. gentleman referred and which I may be pardoned for mentioning here. He quoted the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Massey) who, in a speech delivered in New Brunswick, is supposed to have said that the opposition member from the maritime provinces was as good as the twenty-five government members from the maritimes. I do not know where the hon. member for Greenwood obtained his statistics, but my modesty will hardly permit me to go as far as that. I feel constrained to say that there must have been some slight exaggeration.
This treaty, Mr. Speaker, is exercising the minds of people in all parts of Canada. During my short experience as a member of this house, representing a constituency in the maritime provinces, it has been my privilege to hear discussed both the 1935 and the 1938 treaty. I heard the treaty of 1935 extolled by hon. members opposite as a grand accomplishment which would bring undoubted prosperity to our country. I have no hesitation in saying, however, that it has not improved conditions in the maritime provinces. The only benefit I have 'heard claimed in this
-Mr. Brooks.]
house as having resulted from it is that it brought about some increase in our sales of turnips in the American market. I took occasion to look up the facts regarding the exports of turnips to the United States from the maritimes, and compared the years 1934 and 1935, before the treaty came into operation, with the last two years, 1937 and 1938. The figures are as follows:
Bushels
1934		 1,047.537
1935		 1,131,012
1937		 1,365.666
1938		 734,389
So, in connection with the export of turnips, the figures remained practically the same after this treaty came into effect; and so far as the price was concerned, I have heard it stated that the price was more to the advantage of the consumer in the United States than that of the shipper in the maritime provinces.
As has been pointed out very clearly by previous speakers, on this side of the house, that treaty was of great benefit to the people of the United States, and I am not surprised that they are now anxious to have another treaty with Canada, particularly since it is linked up with the treaty with Great Britain, giving the United States special privileges in the British market which we in Canada are losing.
Some hon. members, in an effort to prove that a treaty with the United States would be of great benefit to Canada, have delved into ancient history. They have gone back to 1854-66, and have, said that reciprocity was a grand thing for the maritime provinces in those days. There is no question about that; I quite agree, but there is no comparison between the reciprocity of those days and this trade treaty, which is not reciprocity at all. In 1854-66 the maritime provinces produced large quantities of fish, as they do to-day, as well as large quantities of agricultural products and a great deal of lumber. But these commodities had access to United States markets practically free of duty. Then it must be remembered that in those days the United States was engaged in a great war. Men who normally would have been farming, fishing and producing other commodities could not attend to that kind of work, and they needed these commodities. The maritime provinces formed the most convenient source, and we sent them considerable quantities of the things they needed. Of course we were prosperous. Again, in those days the maritime provinces formed one of the great shipbuilding centres of the world.

Canada-United, States Trade Agreement
It is no wonder that from generation to generation the feeling has persisted in the minds of the people of the maritime provinces that reciprocity is a grand thing for us. It would be if we could get it, but, as I said a few moments ago, there is no more similarity between the trade treaty we have to-day and the reciprocity we had in years past than there is between day and night. In the interval, and particularly in recent years, the United States has built up an almost insurmountable tariff against the products of our people, not only of my province but of every part of Canada. Even when the duty is reduced by fifty per cent, as it has been in many instances under this treaty, there still remains a barrier which it is almost impossible, and in many cases absolutely impossible, for our products to surmount.
As has been stated by previous speakers, in concluding a treaty with the United States Canada must exercise more care than is necessary in dealing with any other nation. We are a people of eleven million dealing with a pepple of one hundred and thirty million. In very large measure the same commodities are produced, bought and sold in the two countries. The great difference is that they sell most of their production-I believe some ninety per cent-in their home market, while we on the other hand must sell a large proportion of what we produce in an outside market. While a change in tariff may make little difference to them, to us it may have dire consequences.
In the maritime provinces we are a rural people. According to the census returns about fifty per cent of the people of Canada are urban, but in the maritime provinces we are over seventy per cent rural. A trade treaty, to benefit the people of the maritime provinces, of necessity must benefit the primary producers. I come from the county of Kings in the province of New Brunswick, which I suppose is the finest dairy county in the three provinces by the sea. As is known, we have many excellent herds of cattle. They have taken prizes at the Royal Winter Fair at Toronto, at the Chicago exhibition and at other exhibitions throughout Canada. We are very proud of the dairy cattle of my county. But what is the condition to-day? In 1935 hon. members opposite told us that we would receive great benefit from the sale of milk and cream to the United States. Not one gallon of cream was sold from my county or any other county in the maritime provinces to the United States, as a result of the treaty. To-day the dairy farmers of that splendid county, one which has been perhaps as prosperous as any other part of the dominion, 71492-821
are having a very hard struggle to get along, on account of the great influx of vegetable oils from other parts of the empire and the world at large, and also the great influx of butter.
Yesterday the hon. member for York-Sun-bury said that we were selling more dairy cattle to the United States