House of Commons debates
Monday, June 24, 1940
I have the honour to lay on the table of the house a recommendation from the civil service commission regarding the permanency of three long-term temporary employees of the House of Commons-Miss L. A. Kearns, Miss I. A. Boyce and Mr. L. C. Hill.


Bill No. 50, respecting a certain wharf of Saguenay Terminals Limited-Mr. Dubuc.
Mr. D. C. ABBOTT (St. Antoine-West-mount) moved the first reading of Bill No. 51, respecting the incorporation of the Quebec and Montmorency Railway Company.
Explain.


This is a bill to incorporate a company known as the Quebec and Montmorency Railway company, to acquire the
railway property operated by the Quebec Railway Light, Heat & Power company. For some years the latter company has operated a tramway system in the city of Quebec, and a railway line from the city of Quebec to cap Tourmente, a distance of about thirty miles along the north shore of the St. Lawrence river. The operation of the tramways division differs from that of the railway division, and it is desired to segregate the two properties.
As explained in the explanatory note to the bill, the terms and conditions of any acquisition by the Quebec and Montmorency Railway company will be subject to the approval of the board of transport commissioners and the governor in council, in the manner provided by the Railway Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time. QUESTIONS
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)


1.	Wliat was the value of vegetables canned during each of the years 1937, 1938, and 1939?
2.	Wliat was the value of such products exported during the same years (a) to the United States, (b) to the United Kingdom?


1. Consumption of vegetables in the fruit and vegetable preparations industry, 1937 and 1938.
Fresh vegetables-
Asparagus, Canadian	
Asparagus, imported	
Beans, green or wax, Canadian.. ..
Beets, Canadian	
Carrots, Canadian	
Corn, Canadian	
Peas, green, Canadian	
Pumpkin, Canadian	
*Spinach, Canadian and imported.. Tomatoes, Canadian and imported Other fresh vegetables, Canadian.. Other fresh vegetables, imported..
1938	1937
	Cost		Cost
Quantity	Value	Quantity	ValuePounds	$	Pounds	$1,896,408	150,277	2,810,388	265,834145,354	13,060	171,299	15,15011,964,343	252,259	11,766,748	246,8931,841,357	19,195	1,706,622	23,0554,920,281	43,246	4,802,608	49,815102,650,832	501,133	113,684,448	561,56278,318,163	1,033,608	36,681,156	837,4264,834,087	13,049	7,950,635	21,4163,160,508	35,263	3,069,553	40,313422,455,670	2,302,534	487,173,177	2,803,52321,040,303 145,825	310,8781 3,643 1	21,767,077	391,704
Only small quantity of "imported" reported by less than 3 firms. 95826-64

Questions

1. Consumption of vegetables in the fruit and vegetable preparations industry, 1937 and 1938
-Concluded
1938	1937
Other vegetables-
Dried vegetables, such as beans, peas, etc.,
Canadian	
Dried vegetables, such as beans, peas, etc.,
imported	
Vegetables in brine, Canadian	
Vegetables in brine, imported	
Tomato pulp and puree	
Note: Figures for 1939 are not yet available.
Quantity
Pounds
Cost
Value

Quantity
Pounds
Cost
Value

16,157,097	372,105	16,354,112	594,765
873,150
831,812
958,729
9,671,437
33,234
18,806
57,185
274,943
1,374,372
1,327,678
657,424
8,717,028
61,178
35,464
36,727
239,352
2. Exports of canned vegetables to United Kingdom and United States during the calendar years 1937, 1938, and 1939.
Countiy	1937	1938	1939United Kingdom	
82,246,756	$2,618,607	$3,595,984United States	
204	19,099	122,754


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, petitions, complaints and other documents in the possession of the Post Office Department relative to Mabel Mitchell, former postmistress at Birch Hill, Saskatchewan, dated within two years of her registration and appointment of her successor.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, ielegrams, memoranda and other documents Exchanged between the premier of the province of Quebec, or other provincial ministers, and the Prime Minister of Canada or other federal ministers or officials of the Department of National Defence or any other federal department, relative to the request of the premier of Quebec that no recruiting of volunteers be made from among the sons of farmers in the province of Quebec.


For a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams, memoranda and other documents exchanged between the Department of Labour and any other person or organization, between January 1, 1940, and the present time, relating to the dismissal of Walter Camm, on the matter of labour organization in the John Inglis Company plant of Toronto.


On the orders of the day:
A
report appears in the Ottawa Journal of this morning to the effect that the government has had destroyed 3,000 buffalo, more than 1,000 elk, 500 moose and 500 deer which had been in Wainwright national park. Is that report correct? If so, why were the elk, moose and deer not released to form an addition to the wild life of Canada?


The report is correct. The buffalo, elk, moose and deer which were in Wainwright national park were destroyed some months ago. I did not get the last part of my hon. friend's question.


I asked why the elk, moose and deer had not -been released. I can quite- understand why the buffalo or bison should be destroyed, but the moose and deer are natural to Canadian wild life and I should like to know why they were not released.


An opportunity was given to various public bodies possessing parks or other facilities to secure any of these animals they might wish before the destruction took place. The destruction of the animals in Wainwright national park was made necessary by the fact that they were badly infected

The Budget-Mr. Ralston
with tuberculosis. There are several other parks in which we have buffalo, elk, and other animals. For instance, in Riding Mountain park there is probably the largest herd of elk on the North American continent. It was not thought desirable or necessary to turn these animals loose, because they would have had to be transported to some place where they could find a living. At any rate, this action was not taken.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) if the Royal Canadian Mounted Police office at Pugwash is being closed. If so, is this being done on the instructions or with the permission of the government? The people of this country were reassured recently that this force would be increased, not diminished. It might be noted that Pugwash is a large shipping point.


I have asked for a report about this matter and I shall be pleased to give my hon. friend an answer to-morrow.


That Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I rise to my allotted task to-day with a sense of heavy responsibility. This budget is being delivered at the most critical hour in history. The Hun is hammering at the gate. Backed by almost incredible weight of mechanized power, he has operated with cold-blooded ruthlessness. He has violated every principle of the law of nations. He has overrun one after another of the democratic countries of Europe. He has brought our gallant ally France to her knees. At this very moment the enemy of mankind stands with naked sword at the threshold of Britain herself.
For the first time in a thousand years the world has been made to realize that a new "Dark Ages" may not be the figment of a wild imagination. The incredible has indeed happened. Europe, the fine flower of western 95826-64*
culture, is threatened with the blight of barbarism. All the things we hold dear-the democratic way of life, the Christian ideal, these age-old tenets of human relationships, fair dealing, justice, and brotherhood are threatened with destruction by those who would shut the gates of mercy on mankind.
We know now only too well that we are paying the price of long years of wishful thinking. There is no doubt that all of 'us in the democratic countries, governments and peoples alike, have been blinded to the stark potentialities of force and evil. Fortunately, at last, I believe, our eyes are opened and we see clearly. And if we do, it is not too late. For no one and no event can shake my conviction that in the long run truth must triumph over falsehood, good over evil, justice over might.
Obviously, the message which I must bring to-day cannot be a pleasant one. I come to you to collect part of the price to which I have referred. Nor can I be dogmatic or definitive in the proposals I make. We live from day to day-indeed, from hour to hour- and our plans must be subject to change in the light of new circumstances.
In dealing with specific measures, we have had to take into account a multitude of unusual facts and factors. Again, in determining the magnitude of the aggregate burden to be imposed upon the Canadian people, we have had to weigh many conflicting influences and to form a judgment as to how far we could go at the present time without setting up adverse factors which would tend to defeat some of the very objectives we are trying to reach. There will, I am sure, be those who will think that I have not gone far enough and probably those who will contend that I have gone too far. Still others will differ with me on details of specific measures. All that I can say is that I have spared no pains to ascertain the relevant facts, to weigh the merits of various measures and proposals, and to reach conclusions in the light of the supreme emergency which faces us to-day.


Before coming to my budget forecast for the current fiscal year and the tax changes I recommend, you will expect me to review the economic and financial events and policies of the first nine months of war. To make it as concise as possible I shall limit myself to a discussion of factors which give the setting for, and determine the principles underlying, the measures which the government has to propose.
The Budget-Mr. Ralston
In the first war budget of last September, my colleague, the Minister of National Revenue, who delivered the budget speech, laid down the broad principle of the government's policy of war finance. "We believe it is the part of wisdom," he said, "to follow as far as may be practicable a pay-as-you-go policy." Events which have happened since, and particularly those of the last few weeks, have not detracted from the wisdom of that policy, but rather have reinforced the need for a vigorous effort to apply it in every possible way.
The general policy was elaborated further as consisting of two parts: that appropriate to an initial period of quietness and hesitation, and that suitable for a second period in which rising business activity and expanding income had acquired momentum.
In the initial period of the war in which business was expected to be hesitant, if not actually depressed, the appropriate financial policy was declared to be one which would facilitate the expansion of national income and the drawing into employment of our full man-power. In order to ensure that out of rising incomes increased revenues would begin to flow to the government for the financing of the war, certain excise taxes, chiefly on luxuries, were levied, and moderate increases were imposed in the personal and the corporation income taxes. The increases in income tax were payable only after the close of the fiscal year and therefore would have a relatively slight effect in curtailing purchases by consumers. Furthermore, in order that uncertainty might be removed and that business firms might begin to adjust themselves to the war conditions, the outlines of a new and heavy excess profits tax were announced.
These new or increased taxes were not designed to provide immediately for any large part of our heavily increased expenditures. It was also specifically indicated that our initial borrowing operations to provide part of the funds to cover the inevitable deficit in this early period would probably be of a very short-term character, so as to promote the immediate expansion of productive activity. In harmony with this same point of view, it was emphasized that while the magnitude of the new burdens thrust upon us would make it imperative to do everything possible to conserve our resources and to economize on any expenditures not urgently needed in the national interest, nevertheless it would be "penny wise, pound foolish" to curtail expenditures so suddenly and so drastically as to aggravate seriously the unemployment problem before the stimulating

effects of our war expenditures and of foreign purchases in our markets had acquired real momentum.
The initial period of quietness and hesitation, it was felt, would be of relatively short duration and would be followed by the second period during which increasing business activity, expanding production and rising national income had acquired momentum. While perhaps starting slowly, this advance would accelerate under the pressure of war orders from ourselves and our allies until gradually our economy would approach a state of full employment of its labour, capital equipment and material resources. As this second stage developed, certain modifications of financial policy would be called for. Thus it was stated that as business activities increased and idle workers were reemployed, the resulting larger incomes would necessarily become subject to heavier taxation for the purpose of ensuring that the increase in our national income was largely diverted to war needs instead of being disbursed in increased personal consumption and private investment. For the same reason, borrowings from the savings of our citizens and genuine economies in normal governmental services not urgently needed in war time, were indicated as appropriate for this second period.
In accordance with the declared policies, the government made its first financing in the form of a short-term banking operation which was definitely expansionist in character. This was a loan of $200 million arranged with the banks in November, 1939, on the security of two-year notes at a rate of two per cent. It will be recalled that of this amount $92 million was used to repatriate Canadian securities held in London. This gave the United Kingdom a substantial supply of Canadian dollars which was used to purchase Canadian foodstuffs, raw materials and war supplies.
This borrowing from the chartered banks was facilitated by appropriate monetary policy. Between August and November, the Bank of Canada's assets increased by approximately $107 million as a result of the purchase of securities and the increase in the value of its gold and foreign exchange reserves. This provided cash to meet the enlarged public demand for notes in circulation and to increase the cash reserves of the chartered banks by $33 million.
With this increase in cash reserves, the chartered banks were enabled to increase their total Canadian deposits by approximately $306 million. In the same period, they increased their current loans by approximately $147 million, mainly to finance the large wheat crop, and added to their net holdings of securities by $158 million.

The Budget-Mr. Ralston
Thus, financial and monetary policy accorded with the declared intention to facilitate in the initial period an increase in business activity and an expansion of national income.
By the middle of January it became apparent that business had acquired sufficient momentum to justify going to the public for a loan out of savings. We therefore offered our first war loan in the form of 3^ per cent twelve-year bonds callable by lot during the last five years. Very careful preparation had been made for the campaign and the success of the loan was even greater than we had expected. Of the total subscriptions of $375 million we allotted $200 million to cash subscribers, and $50 million to subscribers who desired to convert their holdings of one of our issues which was to mature on March 1st. It was particularly noteworthy that there were over 178 thousand individual cash subscriptions to this loan and that out of that number more than 121 thousand were for amounts of $500 and less. This result was made possible by the nation-wide cooperation of institutions and individuals and, above all, by the united and enthusiastic support of the Canadian people as a whole.
Even this January borrowing was to a considerable extent expansionist in character in that it converted into government expenditures a considerable amount of idle bank savings. However, the number of small subscriptions and of arrangements made by employees of industrial firms for the purchase of bonds by instalments is convincing evidence that a surprising portion of the subscriptions represented new savings out of increasing incomes.
Passing over one or two financial operations of smaller magnitude for refunding purposes, I come to a further major step in our borrowing operations, namely, the inauguration of our war savings certificates programme on May 27th. These certificates are issued in small denominations for the purpose of facilitating regular savings and contributions to Canada's war effort by persons of moderate and small means. Supplemented as they are by war savings stamps in the denomination of 25 cents they enable all of our people to take some part in Canada's war work while at the same time acquiring the habit of thrift and building up a "nest egg" for the contingencies that may lie ahead. Unlike our periodic war loan campaigns, the sale of these certificates and stamps involves a steady effort which will produce a continual stream of funds, even more important in its influence that the actual amount of money itself. The campaign has involved a vast amount of preparatory and organizing work, and I express now our sincere
appreciation of the unstinting help and support being given by patriotic citizens, organizations and business firms throughout the country. You will be interested to know that not a cent of commission is being paid to the postmasters, banks, financial institutions and commercial organizations which are selling these obligations, and the citizens who are organizing and sustaining this project both at headquarters in Ottawa and throughout the dominion are giving their services voluntarily.
Turning now to general business conditions, there is one respect in which the business forecast made by the Minister of National Revenue last September has proved to have been unduly conservative. The fact that the results were better than he forecast was, I really think, due, at least in considerable measure, to the effectiveness of the policies which were promptly adopted. The stagnation in business which he contemplated as probable during the first few months of war was not in fact realized. It is true that for the first few weeks financial and commodity markets were upset by the shock of war and business itself was retarded by uncertainty and the disruption of certain established channels of trade. But the financial policies outlined in the September budget and the institution of foreign exchange control on September 16th restored confidence to financial markets and prevented the dumping of securities and the export of capital which might otherwise have produced serious disorganization. The prompt establishment of other controls through various war agencies, such as the Wartime Prices and Trade Board, the War Supply Board and the Agricultural Supplies Board, also made its contribution to the restoration of confidence and the rapid adjustment of trade and industry to the new war-time conditions.
There were various economic factors which also worked to improve conditions. The large wheat crop of last year, for which the initial price guaranteed by the government was realized by the producers immediately upon delivery, gave a very important stimulus to business generally. Almost equally important was the phenomenal rise during the first four months of war of Canadian exports to the United States. Our neighbour to the south experienced an intense forward-buying boom and in that we shared through greatly increased exports. Initial war orders were important in contributing to the early expansion of the textile, boot and shoe, and iron and steel industries particularly.
At the turn of the year, however, business activity in the United States receded very sharply. Seldom has there been in that country
The Budget-Mr. Ralston
in so short a space of time so sharp a contraction in production. Under ordinary circumstances, Canadian trade and industry would have shown a similar, if less intense, recession. But as a matter of fact, while the rapid increase in Canadian business activity was slowed down somewhat, the cumulative increase in war orders and the recovery in Canadian exports to Britain, which had been abnormally low in October and November, largely offset the influence of the United States recession. Business activity in Canada flattened out in February and March but generally did not recede. In recent weeks the tempo of United States business has increased sharply and there are already indications that Canadian exports to that country are responding to a more active market. The stimulus to our business which has resulted from these exports is supplementing and reinforcing the expansion due to the acceleration of war expenditures here.
The record of the flow of business which I have outlined is clearly visible in the index of the physical volume of business in Canada. That index stood at 125 in August last, had increased to 139 in January, and stood at 137 in March-April. The increase over the same period in industrial production taken by itself was even more pronounced. A definite increase in consumers' incomes was shown in the rise of retail sales which by December had reached the highest figure since 1930, and, if allowance were made for to-day's lower price level as compared with 1930, retail sales last December would probably be found to have been the highest on record.
These retail sales have continued to be considerably higher than last year. Each month since last September, sales of automobiles have been greatly ahead of the corresponding month of the previous year. For the first four months of war, there was a marked hesitation in construction activity but since January construction has increased and through April and May the value of contracts let was 76 per cent above the value for the same two months of 1939.
According to the preliminary estimate of the Dominion Bureau of Statistics, over one hundred thousand idle wage earners had been drawn into employment during the twelve months to April, 1940. The fall in the numb sr of employable persons on urban relief rolls has lagged behind this increase in employment, but since last November the numbers on urban relief rolls have been lower than those for the corresponding months of the previous year and on the whole the reduction has been accelerating. We have no comprehensive statistics which would indicate changes in the amount of the incomes of wage and salary

earners. There are however, abundant indications that as a result of elimination of short time, earnings for overtime work, an increase in the number of earners per family and increases in wage rates, total wage and salary earnings are rising rapidly.
These are days when no one can predict what the future will disclose. However, if there is no serious interruption in our export trade, the increasingly great numbers of men and amounts of materials being employed in war production will lead to a substantial increase in our national income, that is to say, the aggregate of the incomes of all the people of this country. The heightened tempo of business in the United States will also make an important contribution to the same end.
On the basis calculated by the royal commission on dominion-provincial relations our national income for the calendar year 1939 was in the vicinity of $3,800 million. Using the same method of computation we consider that our national income for the fiscal year 1940-41 will not likely be less than $4,500 million. We must see to it that by far the greater part of that increase is used for war purposes.
I	need hardly say that our war effort is not in any sense to be limited by such financial calculations or by what we can comfortably accomplish. We must make the maximum effort of which this country is capable. Financial provision can be made and will be made for whatever it is physically possible for us to produce or to procure in the way of war services, supplies and materials. The limits of our effort are not fiscal; if there are any such limits they are physical, mental and moral-by that I mean the physical limits of our resources and the mental and moral capacity of Canadians to bear burdens and make sacrifices.
However, in obtaining whatever it is possible for our man-power, equipment and resources to produce or procure, it is certainly wise to adopt the most intelligent means of financing that effort. Plans already laid and approved by this house call for defence expenditures of $700 million. As I shall later explain, such a figure can only be provisional and not in any sense a limit. What concerns us this afternoon is to choose and determine what seem the wisest financial methods of paying for the maximum effort which is physically possible.
If an appropriate financial policy is not followed the ultimate result will inevitably be that the government will be frustrated in its attempt to procure goods for war purposes by the competition of consumers who seek to spend their increased buying power to satisfy civilian wants. In that event, also,

The Budget-Mr. Ralston
the familiar spiral of rising prices, then rising wages and costs, and then prices rising still further would begin to work. Prices would rise more rapidly than wages and salaries, and, by this indirect, hidden and most inequitable process, the civilian population and particularly the wage and salary earners and the receivers of fixed incomes, would be forced to curtail their consumption not only of luxuries but of comforts and necessaries as well. Eventually in such a process our entire economic life would be disorganized; a hectic period characterized by feverish speculation, waste and extravagance would develop; and a collapse of the inflationary structure would be as inevitable as it was at the close of the last war.
The government's financial and economic policies have been so designed as to try to safeguard against that type of situation. They have been evolved with the aim to avoid unjustified price increases or speculative excesses, to keep our economy functioning as effectually as possible and to secure the necessary diversions of man-power, equipment and materials to war purposes in a way which would be the least dangerous to the economy and the most equitable as between different individuals and groups.
We recognize clearly that we still have unemployed man-power and resources, that mobilizing them into productive work will expand the national income, and that by expansion of the national income we can add enormously to the magnitude of our war effort. Consequently our policies have been and are being directed to the end of producing soundly the maximum possible increase in our national income in the shortest possible time.
I have already told you of the part played by our financial policy thus far. My colleague, the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe), has already given you some indication of the steps which he has taken to organize the industrial resources of this country, to meet the expanding war demands of ourselves and our allies. In this connection the measures which he is taking are expanding daily.
In the relief estimates which have been tabled there is provision for the rehabilitation of unemployed workers and the technical training of young men and women.
There is every likelihood in my opinion that the expenditure of $700 million, and more, for war purposes plus the very large amounts which the United Kingdom is spending in this country will bring us before very long to the point when everyone able and willing to work and not needed for military service will find an opportunity for productive employment.
Already we can see evidence that shortages have appeared in certain types of skilled labour. To overcome this obstacle we must have the
cooperation of Canadian employers in providing the necessary apprenticeship and other training, and of our labour organizations in facilitating the necessary entrance of young men into their trades. We must not allow bottlenecks to develop and retard our armament programme in this supreme emergency. Plans are under way to meet such possible dangers, and the government is confident that it can count upon the hearty cooperation of both employers and employees in thus promoting the maximum efficiency of our war effort. Maximum efficiency, maximum production, maximum speed, must be the supreme objective of all of us to-day.
I have only touched upon some of the measures that have been taken to increase the national income. To the extent that we can increase the national income, we can increase our war power without crippling sacrifice in our standard of living. Some reduction in personal consumption there must necessarily be, and it can easily be made by those of us who are above the minimum standard of living.
To sum up:	In the measures which I shall
propose we are endeavouring to ensure that at least a very large proportion of the increase in national income shall be diverted to war purposes while, at the same time, leaving sufficient stimulus to bring the country as rapidly as possible to the maximum use of its labour, its plant and its resources. In this connection it will be seen that many of our tax proposals will not require immediate payment and that much of the planned-for increase in revenue will not be called for during the present fiscal year.
One feature of our economic activity since the outbreak of war, which is of special concern and deserves special mention here, is the great increase in our imports. Most of these increased imports have had to come from countries outside the British empire, mainly because Britain herself, pressed by her own needs, has been unable to supply them.
In normal times we are able to use any excess receipts from our trade with one country to meet any deficits in our trade with another. At this time, however, when Britain has such vital need of gold and United States dollars to purchase planes and other war equipment, we cannot expect her to settle all her trade balance with us in gold or foreign exchange. Consequently, while there has been, since the war began, a substantial increase in our favourable balance of trade with
The Budget-Mr. Ralston
the United Kingdom, a very large proportion of the surplus sterling exchange which we obtain and which formerly we were able to convert into United States dollars in order to meet any adverse balance of payments with that country can no longer be so converted.
Since the United Kingdom could not supply us with goods to pay for all her purchases here, and since, as I have just explained, the sterling with which she was able to pay for these purchases could not be converted into dollars in the normal way, other measures were necessary. The Canadian government undertook to buy and use this sterling in buying Canadian securities from Britain and thus to provide our exporters with Canadian dollars in payment of their exports. While such purchases of Canadian securities held in London will strengthen our long-run financial position on international account, nevertheless two immediate problems face us. In the first place, our domestic market must absorb new securities to a corresponding amount. In the second place, the fact that the surplus sterling arising from our trade with Britain cannot be converted into United States dollars and must be used up by repatriation of securities means that our increased sales to Britain do not help us, as they would in normal times, to pay for the heavy imports of which I have spoken from non-empire countries. The result is that we must find from some other source the United States dollars needed to pay for the greater part of our imports from that country.
To illustrate this exchange problem, let me give in a little more detail the trend of our war-time import and export trade. Comparing the eight months of war ending April, 1940 with the corresponding eight months ending April 1939, Canadian imports from nonEmpire countries increased by $171 million, while our exports for the same period to nonEmpire countries increased by only $86 million. In other words, an adverse merchandise balance of only $18 million in the 1938-39 period had increased to an adverse balance of $102 million in the 1939-40 period. These figures cover only merchandise trade. There are, of course, other important items which increase our net credits in our accounts with non-empire countries, namely, the export of gold, the expenditures of tourists in Canada, and the curtailment, due to the prompt establishment and efficient operation of the Foreign Exchange Control Board, of the export of capital from Canada. There has also been a small but encouraging inflow of capital from the United States. Nevertheless, it is obvious from an examination of these trade figures that rising business activity and expanding consumer 
expenditures in conjunction with failure of empire sources of supply have led to a very great increase in our adverse balance with non-empire countries.
More recently, and despite the utmost care in selecting as far as possible Canadian sources of supply, the government's war orders have contributed directly and indirectly to this increase in imports from hard currency countries. It is apparent that already there has developed, between consumers and private business on the one hand, and the government and firms supplying government orders on the other, an active competition for foreign exchange with which to purchase imports. The problem of policy thus posed is not one of maintaining an exchange rate. The powers of the Foreign Exchange Control Board are quite adequate to do that. The problem is to ensure that, in handling the supply of foreign exchange which may be, from time to time, available, war requirements shall take priority over other requirements, and that to some degree also the requirements of industries which are exporting goods and therefore assisting us to acquire foreign exchange, shall take priority over the requirements of domestic trade. I have dealt with this aspect of our exchange position at some length because it furnishes the background for some of the proposals which we intend to make.
But before I leave this subject of foreign exchange I should say just a word regarding our system of foreign exchange control. Within a week of our declaration of war, the Foreign Exchange Control Board was established and given the necessary powers subject to the direction of the Minister of Finance, to regulate all foreign exchange transactions between residents of Canada and the outside world. Detailed plans for the establishment and operation of such a board has been prepared in advance, in case it should be needed, and, once the need was apparent, the Board swung into effective action very quickly. The Board immediately took over as its initial resources the exchange fund which was created under the Exchange Fund Act of 1935. Subsequently on April 30th an order was made requiring all Canadian residents to sell their holdings of foreign exchange to the Foreign Exchange Control Board before the first of June. Those who in complying with the order could demonstrate a need for foreign balances in order to carry on their normal business transactions, such as commercial and insurance companies doing business abroad, have been permitted by the board to retain such amounts as are considered necessary for this purpose. The private holdings of foreign exchange so transferred to the board were of
The Budget-Mr. Ralston
course purchased at the official rates in Canadian dollars. At the same time as these private balances were purchased, the government, by appropriate orders and transactions arranged to have, the holdings of the board further increased by the transfer to the board by the Bank of Canada of the bank's gold reserves, also its reserves of foreign exchange over and above its short-term requirements and necessary working balances. The reason for all these transactions was the advisability of having all our liquid foreign resources centralized with, and managed by, the agency at present charged with the management of our foreign exchange transactions. Without going into details I can say that the main policy which has been followed by the board has been to restrict movements of capital out of Canada to the minimum while at the same time interfering as little as possible with import and export trade, the tourist trade, the payment of interest and dividends and the flow of normal, current business transactions. In carrying out its work, the board has received general and wholehearted cooperation from the people and business organizations of this country and, I may add, from the business organizations of the United States.
I turn now, Mr. Speaker, to the government accounts for the fiscal year which closed on March 31. Following the procedure which was initiated last year by my predecessor, Mr. Dunning, I do not propose to weary the house with any extensive recital of the details of our revenues and expenditures, our direct and indirect liabilities, our active investments and our financing operations during the past year. All of these details I shall, when I conclude, table in the form of a white paper, in order that the house and the country may have a comprehensive record of our financial transactions during the year. As was the case last year, the white paper will be published as an appendix to the budget speech and therefore will be readily accessible. This procedure enables me to confine my remarks to summarized results rather than to burdensome details.
At the time of the September, 1939, budget, it was estimated that the total revenues for the fiscal year 1939^40 would be 8516 million, including $21 million to be derived from new and increased taxes. Because business expanded more rapidly than was anticipated, the yield of both our old and new taxes has exceeded our expectations. It is now estimated that when our books for the year are closed, our
total revenue will amount to $562 million. (This includes, it is true, a bookkeeping item of $20 million of credits to non-active accounts for which offsetting or contra items appear on the expenditure side of the statement.) The figure which I have given for total revenues represents an increase of nearly $47 million over the previous all-time record revenue which was received during the fiscal year 1937-38.
Dealing particularly with revenue from taxes, let me say that of the September, 1939, tax increases, only the luxury taxes were effective in the past fiscal year. Actual collections under the increased rates of the personal and corporation income taxes would not be made until the present fiscal year. The same is true of the excess profits tax. Nevertheless, tax revenues for the fiscal year 1939-40 are estimated to have been $468 million as compared with $436 million in the previous fiscal year. This increase in tax revenue, to which practically all taxes, except the income tax, contributed, was the result of increasing business activity and, in some cases, of increases in rates. Receipts from the income tax reflected the rates and the incomes of the calendar year 1938. and not the results of the accelerated business in 1939 which will be realized in the income taxes to be paid in the present fiscal year. Tax revenue from the first of September, 1939, to March 31, 1940, was $51 million in excess of the amount collected in the same period in 1938-39. This is a striking confirmation of the fact that the period which was expected to be commercially quiet and hesitant at the start at least, turned out in fact to be one of extremely active business and consumer buying.
Turning now to expenditures:	In the
September 1939 budget, total expenditures for the year would, it was estimated, aggregate approximately $651 million, not including the two items of capitalized defence expenditures and further losses in the marketing of wheat. Our total expenditures for last year are now estimated at $681 million. This includes all our defence expenditures and in addition a further $27 million incurred in wheat marketing. Once the war had begun, it seemed that conservative accounting could no longer justify the capitalization of defence expenditures as provided for in last year's estimates, and all such items have been charged to war expenditures. Furthermore, while at the close of the fiscal year there still remained unsold a small amount of wheat of the 1938 crop, it was clear that the losses of the Canadian Wheat Board in respect of the marketing of that crop would amount to at least $52 million. Therefore, an advance of this amount was made to the board and this enabled the board
The Budget-Mr. Ralston
to pay off guaranteed bank advances to that amount in respect of 1938 wheat. As provision had already been made in the accounts of the year 1938-39 for setting up a reserve of $25 million in respect of possible losses in marketing this wheat, the difference between this sum and the advance of $52 million made to the Board, namely, $27 million, has as ahead}' indicated been included in the 1939-40 expenditures. When we add to our estimated expenditure of $651 million these two items of $27 million of capitalized defence expenditures and $27 million more for wheat losses, you will note that if we had spent what we estimated the total expenditure would have been $705 million. It will be seen, therefore, that since our actual aggregate expenditures were only $681 million we have done considerably better than was expected last September.
The figure of $681 million which I have given as representing our aggregate expenditures for the year may be broken down by main categories of expenditure as follows (using round numbers):
Ordinary expenditures	 $398,000,000
Capital expenditures	 7,000,000
Losses on and non-active advances
to government-owned enterprises. 42,000,000
War expenditures	 118,000,000
Other special expenditures including unemployment relief and
wheat losses	 89,000,000
Other charges	 26,000,000
In the above item of "other special expenditures", the amount for unemployment relief, relief works and western drought area relief totalled $62 million as compared with $47 million during the preceding year. This includes a net expenditure of $7-5 million under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act.
Under "government-owned enterprises'', the main item of expenditure was the net income deficit of the Canadian National Railway, which amounted to slightly over $40 million as compared with $54 million for the preceding year. This substantial decrease is a reflection of improved business conditions and heavier traffic movement, particularlj' during the latter part of the year. A fact to be noted with considerable satisfaction is that while operating revenues increased by 11-8 per cent, the heavier traffic was carried with an increase in operating expenses of only 3-8 per cent.
The net result of the year's receipts and outgoings is that, because our revenues were about $46 million greater and our expenditures about $24 million smaller than were anticipated, our over-all deficit for the year will be about $70 million less than was expected. However, the actual deficit will still approximate $118 million, as compared with $51 million in 1938-39.

As a result of the over-all deficit of $118 million, the net debt of the dominion rose to approximately $3,270,980,000 as at March 31, 1940. Gross liabilities at that date are estimated at $4,028,573,000. On the other side of the balance sheet, offsetting these liabilities in part, the dominion had active assets, including cash on hand, sinking funds, and active loans and investments, amounting to $757,593,000.
At the close of the fiscal year there was outstanding unmatured direct funded debt (including treasury bills) amounting to $3,695,685,000, of which $67,196,000 were held in sinking funds against certain issues payable in London. Bonds and debenture stocks bearing the guarantee of the dominion and outstanding in the hands of the public aggregated $1,084,479,000 as at March 31, 1940. These guaranteed securities were decreased by $987,000 during the year. There are also outstanding certain other contingent liabilities arising out of guarantees given under relief acts and various other statutes. These are fully set out in the white paper which is being placed on Hansard.
It will also be of interest to hon. members to know that as at March 31st last the average rate of interest on the dominion direct funded debt (including treasury bills) was 3-40 per cent as compared with 3-52 per cent on March 31, 1939 and 5-02 per cent on March 31, 1930.
I now come, Mr. Speaker, to what is by far the most difficult part of my task. It is quite possible with reasonable assurance to analyse recent economic trends, to describe our fiscal policies and outline our financial operations for a year which has passed. But it is an entirely different matter, particularly under present circumstances, to forecast the future and to evolve and propose the measures which may be best calculated to meet conditions probably more unforeseeable than those of any period in our history. That, however, is a responsibility which one in my position must take and my task only differs in degree from that of my predecessors.
On the expenditure side, the estimates already tabled provide for a total expenditure on non-war activities of government of $448 million. As you know, these estimates represent a combination of the ordinary main estimates, the supplementary estimates and the special supplementary estimates which have been presented to the house in recent years. My hope is that it will not be necessary to ask parliament for any supplementary estimates for peace-time services of government,

The Budget-Mr. Ralston
unless this parliament approves new undertakings not contemplated when our estimates were prepared.
Just here may I divert for a moment or two to mention the matter of economies in governmental peace-time expenditures. These are important because they release funds for war purposes.
If you will compare the figure I have given with the corresponding total of the estimated expenditures for the preceding fiscal year, you will find a reduction of over S77 million. That very large reduction reflects not only improvement in the operations of the national railways and in the relief situation but it is also the result of a good deal of painstaking examination and re-examination in all government departments in order to obtain the maximum economies in our departmental activities as well as to reduce or eliminate services which however justifiable in peacetime ought not to be regarded as absolutely vital in war-time. Our war effort has unquestioned priority; and the tremendous financial burden it will involve and the drain it will cause on the man-power, equipment and resources of the country make it vitally imperative that all governmental authorities-not only dominion, but-if I may go beyond federal bounds-provincial and municipal as well, should appraise with a sense of national responsibility the justification for the dollars proposed to be spent on normal activities. Every such dollar must, directly or indirectly, come out of the pockets of the people. And it ought almost to go without saying that to provide the enormous sums which must be spent by the dominion this year for defence, the ordinary expenditures of governments-all governments-in Canada must be decreased if they are not to restrict the amount that can be devoted to the driving task of defeating nazism. In the federal field, I have had the effective cooperation of my colleagues and their departmental officers in achieving the economies I have reported. The premiers or provincial treasurers of several of the provinces have discussed this problem with me and I have also had the opportunity of conferring with a number at least of the mayors of our cities and towns on the same subject. The attitude of them all was so instantly and definitely cooperative as to convince me that all that is necessary is that the position be understood to make certain that the response by all governmental authorities will be just as unhesitating and just as reassuring.
The chief difficulty which all governments face in reducing ordinary expenditures is the fact that usually so small a proportion of these expenditures is controllable and there is the
further fact that significant reductions in these controllable expenditures involve throwing out of work large numbers of employees, many of them of long service and some without superannuation privileges of any kind. To give an example, the expenditures under our main estimates last year amounted roughly to $400 million. Of this amount $260 million represented what were regarded as absolutely uncontrollable expenditures; and by that I mean war pensions, old age pensions, subsidies to provinces, interest on funded debt, et cetera. This left only $140 million out of which savings might be made and of this amount $80 million was for salaries and wages. So that, apart from discharging government employees, there was only the sum of $60 million covered by those main estimates which might be su