I have the honour to lay on the table of the house a report of the civil service commission recommending the appointment of Miss Gladys Northcott as clerk, grade 4, in the law branch of the House of Commons.


That the report of the civil service commission laid on the table of the house on the 26th instant, recommending the appointment of Miss Gladys Northcott as clerk, grade 4, law branch of the House of Commons, be approved.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to have some little explanation from the Prime Minister. In all the years I have been a member of this house I never heard of such p, motion before. It may be a new departure. I think the house ought to be informed of what is really going on, and why.


The house has to approve appointments of its clerks where recommended by the civil service commission. The civil service commission has recommended this particular appointment of Miss Northcott as clerk, grade 4, in the law branch of the house. In making the motion I am simply taking the necessary step to have the commission's recommendation approved by the house.

It is the usual formal way of proceeding with respect to appointments of officials of the house.


I thought it was always done through the estimates.


No, the house approves the recommendation of the civil service commission with respect to its own staffs. A day or two ago the civil service commission also recommended that three longterm temporary employees of the House of Commons be made permanent. In a moment I should like to make a similar motion regarding that particular recommendation.


I am not opposing this at all, but with respect to the first case I would ask if ever this procedure was adopted before.
Hon. PIERRE F. CASGRAIN (Secretary of State): Yes, Mr. Speaker. It was done on many occasions in the last parliament, when, for instance, certain long-term temporaries on the staff of the House of Commons were recommended for permanency, a competition was held under the auspices of the commission and the commission recommended permanency. It is the custom to introduce a resolution in the house and have it adopted confirming the appointment recommended by the commission.


Motion agreed to.
That the recommendation from the civil service commission regarding the permanency of three long-term temporary employees of the House of Commons, namely, Miss L. A. Kearns, Miss I. A. Boyce and Mr. L. C. Hill, be approved.


May I ask the Prime Minister a question on this motion? Does making these officials permanent instead of temporary involve any reduction in salary?


Not necessarily. I should think it would leave the salary scale about where it has always been.


Motion agreed to.
Bill No. 57, for the relief of Muriel Agnes Martin Beech.-Mr. Hazen.
Bill No. 58, for the relief of Alfred Reinhold Roller.-Mr. Mcllraith.
Bill No. 59, for the relief of Sarah Iverzner Spilberg.-Mr. Factor.
Bill No. 60, for the relief of Christina Smith Dunlop Andrique.-Mr. Edwards.
Bill No. 61, for the relief of Anna Shepherd. -Mr. Abbott.

Questions
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What is the salary of the governor of the Bank of Canada?
2.	What are the salaries of each of the other officials of the Bank of Canada at Ottawa, excepting secretarial and office staff?
3.	What are the salaries of each of the directors of the Bank of Canada, what other remunerations do they receive, and how much is allowed per day for travel and living expenses?
4.	How many times, and on what dates did the directorate of the Bank of Canada meet since January 1, 1936?
5.	Does any member of the dominion government sit on or with the directorate of the bank? If so, what powers does such member have?
6.	Are the minutes of the meetings of the directorate available to the members of the House of Commons?
7.	Is any or all correspondence exchanged between the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England available to the members of the House of Commons?


1.	Salary of the governor of the Bank of Canada, as fixed by order in council, is at the rate of $30,000 per annum.
2.	The salaries of the deputy governor and assistant deputy governor, as fixed by order in council, are at the rate of $20,000 per annum and $10,000 per annum respectively: no information concerning other officials and employees.
3.	Each director receives a fee of $150 for attendance at board meetings and an expense allowance of $20 per day for time spent in travelling to and from board meetings. The director who is a member of the executive committee receives a fee of $50 for attendance at committee meetings and the same travel allowance as above. No other remuneration is paid to directors. (The governor and deputy governor of the bank and the deputy minister of finance, who are members of the board and of the executive committee, do not receive any remuneration or expenses for attendance at board or committee meetings).
4.	The board of directors of the Bank of Canada met on the following dates subsequent to January 1, 1936: (1936) Jan. 22, Feb. 25, May 20, Oct. 7, Dec. 7. (1937) Jan. 22, Feb. 23, June 22, Aug. 10, Nov. 12. (1938) Jan. 21, Feb. 22, May 30, Sept. 12, Nov. 7. (1939) Feb. 6, April 24, June 26, Sept. 11, Nov. 20. (1940) Feb. 9, April 19 and June 14.
In addition, the executive committee of the bank has met at least once every week.
5.	No, but in accordance with the provisions of section 5, subsection 2 of the act, the deputy minister of finance is a member of the board, but has not the right to vote.
6.	No.
7.	No.


Are there sufficient repair facilities available at Camp Borden and Trenton airports to enable ground personnel to keep the maximum number of planes in operation?


At the present time there are not sufficient repair facilities available at Camp Borden or Trenton to keep the maximum number of planes in operation. Existing facilities are being expanded as rapidly as possible and the Department of Munitions and Supply is organizing the industry to undertake overhauls and to do major repairs. The R.C.A.F. will undertake running maintenance repairs only.


1.	What is the personnel of the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act committees in (a) Manitoba, (b) Saskatchewan, (c) Alberta?
2.	What remuneration did they receive in the form of (a) salary; (b) expenses?
3.	What was the amount spent in each of the prairie provinces?
4.	By provinces, what was the amount (a) received for machinery sold, (b) spent in the purchasing or leasing of land?


1.	There are no provincial committees under the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act but general committees are as follows:-
Advisory committee on water development: J. Vallanee, Regina, Sask., chairman; W. L. Jacobson, Regina, Sask., secretary; B. Russell, Regina, Sask., consulting engineer; L. C. Charlesworth, Edmonton, Alberta; C. J. McGavin, Regina, Sask.; B. B. Hogarth, Winnipeg, Man.
Advisory committee on land utilization: E. S. Archibald (Chairman), Ottawa, Ont., Dominion Department of Agriculture; John Vallanee, Regina, Sask., Dominion Department of Agriculture; W. L. Jacobson (secretary), Regina, Sask., Dominion Department of Agriculture; 0. S. Longman, Edmonton, Alta, Province of Alberta; J. Ellis, Winnipeg, Man., Province of Manitoba; F. H. Auld, Regina, Sask., Province of Saskatchewan; J. H. McCann, Admiral, Sask., Provincial Municipal
Questions

Association; Paul Farnals, Halkirk, Alta., Provincial Municipal Association; James Arthur Ross, Melita, Man., Provincial Municipal Association; A. W. Cameron, Regina, Sask., Provincial Municipal Association; J. D. Guild, Winnipeg, Man., Canadian National Railways; A. Newman, Calgary, Alta., Canadian Pacific Railways; F. J. Freer, Winnipeg, Man., Mortgage Loans Association; A. E. Joslyn, Winnipeg, Man., Hudson's Bay Company.
2.	(a) Nil.
(b) J. A. Ross, $47.30; A. Newman, $26.00; P. L. Farnals, $64.75; L. C. Charles-worth, $64.90 ; 0. 8. Longman, $73.12; A. E. Joslyn, $53.26; B. B. Hogarth, S46.40.
3.	Administration, general, $180,357.81; Manitoba. $204,594.10; Saskatchewan, $2,524,380.65; Alberta, $320,824.39; total, $3,230,156.95.
4.	(a) Nil.
(b) Manitoba, nil; Saskatchewan, $249,586.03; Alberta, $13,178.50.


Has the Minister of Transport and Supplies considered the advisability of using his newly acquired powers to require that the Canadian National Railways and Canadian Pacific Railway should transport Alberta oil to Ontario at such rate as would enable Ontario people to buy, economically, Canadian produced gasoline?


Consideration has been given to acquiring a better distribution of petroleum products, and a controller of petroleum products has been appointed with powers to deal with the matter, after a thorough investigation to that end.


If I may be allowed, I would call the minister's attention to the fact that he has not dealt with the
4.
Manitoba
Claims re settlements	
Other complaints	 j
Complaints	by	board	re	operation	of
elevators	
Saskatchewan
Claims re settlements	
Other complaints	
Complaints	by	board	re	operation	of
elevators	
Alberta
Claims re settlements	
Other complaints	
Complaints	by	board	re	operation	of
elevators	
(Mr. Gardiner.]
crux of this question, in that the hon. member is asking the minister to require the two railways to "transport Alberta oil to Ontario at such rate" et cetera. The minister did not deal with that aspect.


I think the crux of it is in the words, "considered the advisability".


Well, I
would not say so.


The minister is expected to do so, anyway.


That goes as a matter of course.


1.	How many assistant grain commissioners are there in the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta?
2.	What are their names and addresses?
3.	What salaries did they receive during the years 1938 and 1939?
4.	What -was the total number and the total amount of the claims or complaints received by each during said years?


1.	One assistant grain commissioner in each of the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta.
2.	Manitoba-T. J. Harrison, 206 Grain Exchange, Winnipeg; Saskatchewan-R. S. Dundas, 618 Federal Bldg., Saskatoon; Alberta -W. H. Blatchford, 625 Public Bldg., Calgary.
3.	During the years 1938 and 1939 each assistant grain commissioner received $7,500 per annum.
1938	1939
Complaints	Amount	Complaints	Amountreceived	of claims	received	of claims9	$1,759 15	15	$2,897 238	12	38	....	....4	507 72	5	204 538	12	85	31	3.604 17	15	2,008 3429	17	28	33	
Questions


1.	Is Mr. W. A. Kingsland, former vicepresident and general manager of the Central division of the Canadian National Railways, now under superannuation, and, if so, what is the amount of his annual retiring allowance?
2.	Is this the same Mr. W. A. Kingsland who is or was vice-president of the Dufferin Shipbuilding Company?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
Note: Amount of Mr. Kingsland's retiring allowance is considered by the management of Canadian National Railways in the same light as official salaries, which are matters of domestic railway concern, not to be disclosed except as may be determined by the select standing committee on railways and shipping.
prairie airways limited


1.	Has the Prairie Airways Limited been given a contract at the airports in Regina and Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, or either of these, by the terms of which said company will train or provide training for pilots for service in the air force?
Province
Prince Edward Island
Nova Scotia	
New Brunswick	
Quebec	
Ontario	
Manitoba	
Saskatchewan	
Alberta	
British Columbia.. .
Details of loans made under the National in the period October, 1935, to May 31, 1940,
Province
Prince Edward Island.
Nova Scotia	
New Brunswick	
Quebec	
Ontario	
Manitoba	
Saskatchewan	
Alberta	
British Columbia.. ..
(b) None.

2.	If so, what are the terms respecting remuneration or payment for such training?
3.	Have contracts of a similar kind or nature been entered into elsewhere?
4.	If so, with whom?


The answer as the question is framed is, no. It is my understanding that Prairie Airways Limited has been given a contract by the Department of National Defence to conduct an air training school at one of these airports. This question seems to refer to a contract for the construction of an airport.
national housing act-loans by provinces


What were the number of loans and amounts, by provinces, made to date under (a) part I of the National Housing Act; (b) part II of the National Housing Act?


(a) The National Housing Act, 1938, which repealed and reenacted the Dominion Housing Act with important amendments, was passed on July 1, 1938, but lending operations under the new act did not begin until about August 1,
1938. Details	of loans under part I of the	
National Housing Act from		August, 1938, to
May 31, 1940,	are as follows:	
	Family	
No. of	housing units	
loans	provided	Amount8	8	8 43,800218	232	872,26278	96	354,290989	2,383	8,012,7694,753	6,140	18,847,527471	621	2,203,40143	114	276,7371,506	1,608	4,940,1888,066	11,202	$35,550,974
Housing Act, part I, and its predecessor act, are as follows:
Family
No. of	housing units	
loans	provided	Amount18	18	$ 97,834590	607	2,506,760170	194	771,1471,622	3,583	13,504,6916,192	8,692	28,917.951561	771	2,842.03545	116	2S4.9372,239	2,516	7,781,27411,437	16,497	$56,706,629
Questions


1.	Wbat sum of money was spent on grade separation during the last year of record, (a) main estimates, (b) supplementary estimates, and on what level crossings, by provinces?
2.	What work is contemplated for 1910, or has been already allotted?


1.	During 1939: (a) $24,000.00, (b) $205,436.53. As follows:
(a)	Order 57453, dated May 15, 1939, approved of an overhead crossing over highway No. 17, in lot 12, concession 3, township of Dryden, district of Sudbury, Ontario. Estimated cost $60,000. Grant 40 per cent from railway grade crossing fund-$24,000.
(b) Nova	Scotia-Order 57804, dated Aug. 3, 1939. Diversion and overhead bridge over C.N.R. on Lake Shore road and overhead bridge at Egerton, NS. Estimated cost $50,000. Grant 70 per cent from vote 585, 1939-1940, $35,000-$35,000.
Quebec-Order 57220, dated March 31, 1939. Pedestrian subway under C.N.R. at Belzile St., town of Rimouski. Estimated cost $12,600. Grant 100 per cent from vote 630,
1938-	39, $12,600-$12,600.
Quebec-Order 57875, dated Aug. 23, 1939. Overheard bridge over CJ'.R. in St. Agathe. Estimated cost $67,100. Grant 40 per cent from vote 585, 1939-1940, $26,840-$26,840.
Ontario-Order 57803, dated Aug. 3, 1939. Overhead bridge over C.P.R., on lot 14, concession 4, township of Hagar. Estimated cost $91,550. Grant 40 per cent from vote 585,
1939-	40, $36,620-$36,620.
Ontario-Order 57817, dated Aug. 9, 1939. Overhead bridge over T.H.&B. Ry. on Dun-dern street, Hamilton. Estimated cost $104,823.62. Grant 70 per cent from vote 585, 1939-40-$73,376.53.
Alberta-Order 57748, dated July 19, 1939. Highway diversion and subway under C.N.R. on Edmonton-Jasper highway from northwest quarter of section 16, township 53, range 6, W. 5 M, to section 19, township 53, range 6, W. 5 M, a distance of 1-96 miles and to construct subway at mile 61 Wabamum subdivision. Estimated cost $30,000. Grant 70 per cent from vote 585, 1939-1940, $21,000- $21,000. Total, $205,436.53.
2.	One grade separation has been approved in 1940, as follows:
British	Columbia-Order	58864, dated
March 18, 1940. Subway under C.P.R. at mile 3-42 Shuswap subdivision, three miles west of Revelstoke. Estimated cost $86,000. Grant 70 per cent from vote 585, 1939-1940 -$60,200.


1.	Has imported American bacon been used for military camps in Canada during the past three months?
2.	If so, in what amount?
3.	In what proportion to the total amount of bacon used at such military camps?


Return tabled.


1.	How many buildings not owned by the government are being used by the Department of National Defence in the city of Kingston?
2.	What are the names of the owners of these buildings?
3.	What was the cost of conditioning each building?
4.	What rent is being paid per month for each building?


Return tabled.


1.	Is vegetable oil shortening being furnished to the Canadian army in place of lard and other animal fats?
2.	If so, in what total amount?
3.	To what percentage in relation to the amount of lard and other animal fats?
4.	By what authority are such requisitions made?


Return tabled.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I desire to call the
attention of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and the government to a press dispatch from Washington, under yesterday's date, in which it is indicated that negotiations between the United States government and Mr. Henry Ford for the mass production of aeroplane engines collapsed yesterday.
It has been announced by Mr. Knudsen, of the national defence commission, that Mr. Ford refuses to manufacture engines for Great Britain and has thus forced cancellation of plans for early mass production of Rolls Royce motors by the Ford motor company, and that the national defence advisory commission will seek cooperation in the production of this important military equipment elsewhere.

British Children
Having regard to the fact that the French fleet may be delivered to the German government and that therefore, as a result of this and other factors, western civilization on this hemisphere faces immediately a situation of dire peril, what action is this government taking to protect Britain's position?


I will leave it to my hon.
friend the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe) to reply to the part of my hon. friend's question which refers to the manufacture by the Ford company of aeroplane engines.
As to the latter part of the question, it involves the whole defence effort of the country and could not very well be replied to offhand.


The facts of the situation are,
I think, that the committee recently appointed by the President of the United States to obtain production of war materials in the United States were negotiating with the Ford company for an order on behalf of the United States government, combined with an order for the British government placed by the Anglo-French commission in New York. The situation appears to be that the transaction has collapsed.
As far as Canada is concerned, the Ford motor company, of course, is a public company with wide ownership and it has been doing splendid work in the production of war materials.


I am not speaking of the Ford Motor Company of Canada.


Well, I assumed that the
Canadian interests of Mr. Henry Ford would be through the company in Canada in which he is a shareholder.


I had
entire reference to the United States company, which is not, as I understand it, publicly owned. I had no reference to the Ford Motor Company of Canada. I should like to have that made absolutely clear.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. DOUGLAS G. ROSS (St. Paul's): I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Crerar) of which I have given him notice. My question is based on an appeal over the radio by Mr. J. B. Priestley from England, some little time ago, to which I listened, in which he stated that his wish and the wish of people over there was to be able to evacuate about a million children from Great Britain. It is based also upon a telegram which I have received from Toronto. I crave the permission of the house to read the telegram in order to make my question clear:
Douglas G. Ross, M.P.,
Ottawa, Ont.
Undersigned deeply disappointed to learn from radio sources Great Britain that evacuees to be restricted to relatively small numbers. If this due lack of facilities Canada urge immediate reconsideration proposed bases of handling here in belief that mass evacuation imperative from military as well as humanitarian point of view. The five undersigned officers of this company personally offer immediately two houses one in Toronto, one in Ancaster and will undertake to equip and maintain in each house mother and help. Undersigned as responsible citizens undertake personal responsibility in securing proper and qualified persons to manage these houses. Facilities believed to be adequate for housing twenty-five children. Purpose this wire to emphasize that present emergency involves mass evacuation and that previously well prepared plans now inadequate. Undersigned only officers present at discussion others no doubt eager cooperate. Please wire reply care Manufacturers Life.
A. Mackenzie,
Assistant General Manager,
C.	L. Holmes, Actuary,
R.	E. Dowsett, Secretary,
S.	M. Thompson, Treasurer,
Manufacturers Life Insurance
Company
I should like to ask the minister:
1.	Whether the evacuees from Great Britain are to be restricted to a relatively small number, and, if so, what number?
2.	Is this due to lack of facilities in Canada?
3.	What arrangements are made for the payment of passage from Great Britain?
4.	What arrangements can be made with respect to those people in England who wish to pay for the support of their children while here?
5.	What restrictions, if any, are being placed on the permission given for these children to come to Canada, by the government of Canada?
Would the minister care to make a statement?
My hon. friend's question is based apparently upon a statement by Mr. Priestley in Great Britain some time ago in which he expressed the wish that one million children could be evacuated. I know nothing of this, but I assume it was merely a statement of Mr. Priestley's own views on the
British Children

matter. Not so long ago the British government expressed the opinion to us that they were doubtful whether many children would come to Canada except in gravest emergency, and in any event they made it quite clear that no children would be sent to this country without the approval of parents or guardians.


That is fair enough.


That is the information we have. As regards the expression of opinion in the body of the wire which my hon. friend read, to the effect that the gentlemen signing it wish to emphasize that the present emergency involves mass evacuation, that is a matter wholly for the British government to decide. I doubt the wisdom of accepting as fact statements that may be made on this matter by various individuals over the radio.


Are we
to take that as applying to all radio broadcasts, including those of the Prime Minister?


May I make it clear to my hon. friend who leads the opposition that these statements over the radio emanated not from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation but from the British Broadcasting Corporation. Statements of this kind are often inaccurate. I hope to make a statement to-morrow outlining in some detail what has been done up to the present time. So far I have not been able to do so because of communications passing between ourselves and the British government.


Will the minister say that in addition to a statement with regard to what has been done up to the present time he will make a statement as to what may be done in the future? That is more important.


That, I hope, will be covered to the satisfaction of my hon. friend in the statement I shall make, as will the other questions which the hon. member has asked, based upon the telegram.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday a question was directed to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Howe) regarding Trans-Radio press services. Can he make a statement to-day on the matter?


The matter of news services employed by the

Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and associated stations is one for the board of governors to determine; it is within their exclusive province. The board will be meeting in Ottawa to-morrow to discuss that very situation, and I have no doubt they will decide the matter wisely.


On the orders of the day:
I desire to address to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) an interrogatory, of which I have sent him notice, on a matter of considerable public importance. The position with respect to passports for Canadian nationals entering the United States has been clarified by the announcement made over the week-end, but the position with respect to entry of United States and other nationals into Canada has so far not been clarified, and we are still in the dark as to what the real position is. When I referred to this matter on a previous occasion the Prime Minister intimated that it was hoped to arrange for a measure of reciprocity. So far nothing has been announced.
The matter is of considerable importance and, in my opinion, exceedingly urgent. We are now near the end of June. Our tourist season in Canada, at best, is of very short duration. If we are to have any tourist business this season the position should be clarified at once and a public announcement made. I would ask the Prime Minister to tell the house and the country what the present position is and when we may expect a final decision on the part of the government; and if it is possible to make an announcement now, I think it should be made.


My hon. friend was kind enough to intimate that he would ask the question and I am prepared to make an immediate reply.
As previously announced, the government have for some time past been giving careful consideration to the question of border control. We recognize the necessity of special vigilance in view of war conditions. We also recognize the desirability of interfering as little as possible with legitimate access to Canada by visitors from the United States.
The United States authorities have recently instituted a system of passports and visa control on all borders of the United States, to become effective on July 1. I may add

Passports and Visas
that in order to avoid disruption in essential services arrangements have been made to postpone the visa regulation until July 15 for the operating personnel of railway trains, aircraft, vessels and buses.


That is
just for the crews?


That is all. Under this system it will be necessary for a Canadian who intends to visit the United States to obtain a passport from the Canadian authorities and then to secure a visa or permit from one of the United States consuls stationed at different points in Canada.
We have taken steps to review and strengthen the existing system of border control, including stricter immigration inspection at the border and special provision in certain areas which have usually not required attention. The protection of vulnerable points is, of course, being continued and will be increased.
All circumstances considered, it has been deemed desirable to continue for the present the practice of not requiring passports from United States citizens. All that will be necessary is for the visitor to satisfy the Canadian immigration authorities that he is a United States citizen and that he is coming to Canada for a legitimate purpose. There will' be no unnecessary delays or hindrances placed in the way of tourists, who will continue to receive the cordial welcome that has been extended to them in the past.
United States visitors will see in Canada a country intensifying its war effort against nazi and fascist aggression and tyranny, but a country which at the same time is at peace with and in increasing accord and friendship with its great democratic neighbour. If at the end of the summer season it should be found necessary to establish a system of passport control and to set up the necessary Canadian consular service in the United States, ample notice of such intention will be given.


I ask the Prime Minister to forgive me for not having given notice of this question, but I did not expect the matter to come up. It relates to the visa on a passport. The obtaining of a passport is a trifling matter, but people in southeastern British Columbia cannot get one visaed at an expense of less than three or four days of travel and at least $50 to $75 in money. I would ask the Prime Minister to make representations to the United States legation; for that of course is the only channel through which that representation can be made. The various boards of trade out there are passing resolutions and sending communications which are useless, because there is but the one channel through which anything can be done.


We have already been making representations with respect to the difficulties that are likely to arise. The United States regulation has been passed rather hurriedly, as my hon. friend knows, and he will find, I think, that there will be every disposition on the part of the United States authorities to meet us in the reciprocal spirit to which I have referred; when I spoke of reciprocity, I did not mean identical action, it was reciprocal as contrasted with anything of a retaliatory nature, reciprocal as being in the spirit of seeking to meet the mutual needs and embarrassments with which we are faced.


Has any arrangement been made in regard to travel by boat? Has the regulation been waived in regard to travel on boats as well as on railways and aeroplanes?


The only information I have is what I have given the house, but I will look into the matter of my hon. friend's question.


The reason I ask the question is that we are faced with a strange situation in the Yukon. To come out of the Yukon to other parts of Canada it is necessary to pass through Alaska, and when that regulation goes into effect Canadians crossing Alaska will have to have a passport, and a visa from a United States consul. There is no United States consul in the Yukon, so that Canadians can neither go into nor come out of the Yukon. I have put it up to the United States consulate here to-day, but I should like to have the cooperation of Canada's government as well.


My hon. friend will have that.


We have the same situation in western New Brunswick.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to ask a question of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Ralston):	I have received a request
from three employers of labour for an explanation regarding the deduction of the national defence tax from the wages of employees.
National Defence Tax

They have only four more days, they say, in June to comply with this requirement. The provision in the budget in this regard is not clear. I quote:
That every employer be required to deduct the tax imposed in respect of earnings of the employee earned or accruing due during and after July, 1940.
That every employer remit the tax collected at the source on the 16th day of September, 1940, and on the 15th day of each month thereafter.
These employers say that they pay their men for June on July 1. Does this requirement mean that the tax will be deducted from the June wages of these men on July 1? The words are not clear. I would ask the minister to state what the words mean.


In the resolution and the act itself the meaning will be made clear. I believe the intention is that wages from July 1 shall be subject to the deduction.


Then wages due for all June and paid on July 1 will not be deducted or included in the return, as the press in some cases has stated it must be?


That will be dealt with in the bill. I think the intention is that wages earned from and including July 1 will be subject to the tax.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to ask a question of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King). Is it the intention of the government to carry out some scheme of registration under the mobilization act before the first class of men is called up for training under this act? If it is not, will the Prime Minister give the house information as to when the first men are likely to be called up?


The government is proceeding with the preliminary plans for registration. Just what will take place either before or immediately thereafter, or how soon some of the classes to which my hon. friend refers may be called up is a matter which necessarily will have to be considered by the departments concerned. Information will be given to the house as soon as the matter is definitely decided. I regret that I cannot go any further than that in replying to the hon. member to-day.
[Mr. Church.J


Hon. C. D. HOWE (Minister of Transport) moved the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the senate to Bill No. 9, respecting the Beauhamois Light, Heat and Power Company.
He said: The bill in question has but one operative clause, which provides for the diversion of an additional 30,000 cubic second feet through the Beauhamois canal. It provides that this diversion shall take place "in such manner, upon such terms and conditions and with such limitations and reservations as may be prescribed by order of the governor in council." The amendment offered by the senate adds to that a certain direction to the governor in council in preparing the order in council. The added clause is:
1. Page 2, line 14.-After "council" insert "which order shall provide that Beauharnois Light, Heat and Power Company shall settle, pay and fully provide for the claims of riparians and other persons, including navigation companies, who may sustain any loss or damage by the exercise or in consequence of the exercise, in whole or in part, of the right by this act granted, including the execution of any remedial or control works incidental to such exercise of such right, erected by or for the said Beauharnois Light, Heat and Power Company."
I do not know that there is any objection to the amendment. Provision would in any case have been made in the order in council to protect any persons or corporations damaged by the diversion.
That is the proposed diversion?


Yes.


Does this not go a little further than that?


Well, it seems to me it is a clause which would delight the heart of a lawyer anticipating litigation.


A lawyer drew it.


To me it seems vague. It says "who may sustain any loss or damage", that the company "shall settle, pay and fully provide for the claims of riparians and other persons". It seems to me it might at least say "lawful claims".


Oh, that is understood; they must be just claims.


Another vague part is the point which my hon. friend has raised. Does

Beauhamois Power-Mr. Church
it refer to the 30,000 cubic second feet granted by this bill? I take it it does, because it is an amendment to this bill.


Is it the government's interpretation that this amendment refers to damage claims arising by reason of the previous diversion of 40,000 cubic second feet?


I asked that question of our legal advisers, and I am advised that it refers entirely to claims arising out of the diversion of the 30,000 cubic second feet referred to in this bill-which opens up a very delightful avenue of speculation, it seems to me. However, after receiving the advice of our legal advisers I have no objection to the amendment.


Before this motion is adopted I want to point out two or three principles which have been overlooked by the house in connection with this application. This is purely a power bill; not by the widest stretch of the imagination can it be said to be a navigation work and a work for the general benefit of Canada, except in a very technical way. It is not in any sense a bill dealing writh navigation. Between lake St. Francis and lake St. Louis the only navigation consists of small pleasure boats, some of the Canada Steamships boats, the Rapids King, the Rapids Prince and that sort of thing; but really the power bill does not touch the question of navigation as a whole.
In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, we as a parliament have no power to part with these privileges. We should not give away the great water powers of this country in the haphazard manner in which we have granted this application. So far as I am concerned the government must take the responsibility for this bill, which has to do with the war effort only in small part. Principally it is a power bill, taking advantage of the present state of affairs to grab these water powers forever, in perpetuity, which are the property of the people of this country and which should not be parted with except under proper safeguards.
The purpose of this bill is known in ever}' chartered bank in this country and every banking office in New York. When this application first came before parliament, away back in 1927, I introduced a bill to forestall order in council P.C. 422. which was referred to during the debate on this bill in this house and also in the senate. I proposed to transfer to parliament the right of the governor general in council under the Navigable Waters Protection Act, under which the Minister of Public Works had power to grant applications
to develop power out of that river by means of order in council. I proposed a bill to give this parliament power to deal with such matters, and now in the senate amendment to -this bill I find that principle was part of the 1931 act, and will require parliament's sanction to a further 30,000 horse-power.
The Senate amendments are:
. . . Beauharnois Light, Heat and Power Company shall settle, pay and fully provide for the claims of riparians and other persons, including navigation companies, who may sustain any loss or damage by the exercise or in consequence of the exercise, in whole or in part, of the right by this act granted, including the execution of any remedial or control works incidental to such exercise of such right, erected by or for the said Beauharnois Light, Heat and Power Company.
I think before we adopt this amendment we should have a meeting with their honours concerning our war policy in regard to power and its control by a power controller. This whole problem goes back to 1922, at which time I also proposed that we should meet with their honours in regard to such a national policy. I believe we should have a joint committee of both houses to go into the question of a national hydro policy for this country in war time, by which the government of the day could generate and develop power on this international river as well as the interprovincial rivers of this country. I believe the government has power now, under the British North America Act and the War Measures Act, to adopt such a federal hydro policy, so that when navigable works are carried on, power may be developed, generated and distributed at cost to the two central industrial provinces, and monopoly may be avoided.
We should be very careful in parting with these water powers, which are the property of the people. Amendments similar to this were proposed a few years ago in connection with the Sifton bill, which sought all the water powers of the Georgian bay and Ottawa valley in Ontario, right up to the Nipigon, and new Ontario. At that time the department took the opposite stand with regard to the privileges and rights of the province of Ontario in the matter of navigation and water power. When this matter was up in 1922 and 1923, when Sir Adam Beck and the Ontario hydro wanted to develop power at the Morrisburg dam, this government took the opposite point of view and said it would effect the lowering of lake levels and the levels of the port of Montreal. According to the Canada Year Book we have a potential development of 42,000,000 horse-power in this country, of which only 7,000,000 horse-power,

Beauhamois Power-Mr. Church
or less than one-seventh, has been developed. In my opinion this canal is just a blind, a smoke screen behind which they hope to get the bill passed in order to get hold of these water powers during war time, and of course they will be retained in perpetuity, and without adequate safeguards, when peace comes.
Some of this power may be exported. We know there is a tax on the export of power, but once it is exported it is gone forever. Ten years ago the bill I introduced in the house, to give this house full power over permits, was voted down by 85-72; the minister said at that time that under the law, as my bill had failed, they had no power to refuse the first application which was made by this company. At that time they obtained by order in council 422, 53,000 cubic feet per second, and now they are after another 30,000 feet.


I would direct the hon. gentleman's attention to the fact that the only matter before the house at the present moment is the amendment adopted by the senate. The hon. gentleman is now referring to the merits of the bill, which have been discussed in this house already. I would ask the hon. member to confine himself to the amendment now under consideration.


That is quite right, Mr. Speaker, but my suggestion is that we should appoint a committee from this house to meet with a committee from the Senate and go into this question of a national war policy with regard to power. I believe the government should lay down such a policy to protect these water powers in the interests of the people in peace and war alike. During almost ten months of the year we in this country require coal, and now we are parting with our water powers. As the late Theodore Roosevelt said, the people of the continent are faced with a power monopoly. Who own all these power companies to which parliament is handing out privileges? They are owned mostly by Americans in New York. Just look at the returns in the financial annuals and you will see the truth of what I say as to the directors and financial set-up. Now we are handing over an additional 30,000 cubic feet per second, and nearly the full flow of the river, without proper safeguards in the interests of Canada. I can tell you this: If there were a proper power controller for Canada, as in the last war, with power to operate in the provinces where these companies are situated, we would have a proper regulation of power and a redistribution in Quebec. We know how this government at the time of the last war regulated the production of power

in Ontario. Under the bill now before us there is very little provision for the regulation of power companies or the protection of Canada by proper safeguards.
For these reasons I urge that instead of adopting the senate amendments we should meet their honours to see about a federal hydro national policy and the appointment of a proper federal power controller who would have jurisdiction over the output during the war years of these privately-owned monopolies who deal with the people's heritage. We remember that at the time of the last war Sir Henry Drayton regulated the activities of power companies. There ought to be some measure of regulation when in reality we are giving to these companies in perpetuity our magnificent heritage. In Quebec a power controller could adjust war matters there.
In conclusion may I point out I believe the time has come when the government will have to take national jurisdiction over the power and develop it at cost for the people. Under the British North America Act and the War Measures Act, we have jurisdiction in connection with the development and generation of power. That power should be distributed at cost to the industrial provinces which are now suffering.
Motion agreed to; amendment read the second time and concurred in.


Hon. J. L. RALSTON (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
Mr. Speaker, before you leave the chair I should like to draw further attention to a matter raised this afternoon by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson). It was my intention to bring this matter up on the motion to go into supply, because I believe it deserves much more consideration than was given to it merely by a question and an answer across the floor of the house before the orders of the day were called.
The newspaper reports regarding the refusal of the head of a corporation, which has a subsidiary in Canada-


That is not true.


-controlled in all its policies from the other side of the boundary line, and refusing to assist the British com-

Aeroplane Engines-Mr. Coldwell
monwealth in its hour of need, deserve more than passing reference in this House of Commons. I am impelled to make this statement because throughout Europe in recent days treachery to the cause of democracy has not been wholly on the part of a few submerged elements within those countries. It has come frequently from very powerful individuals and from industrial and economic corporations. I am reminded that the gentleman who heads the Ford companies and makes the statement appearing in to-day's press is a gentleman who was decorated by the leader of the German reich, and whose long record is not one that inspires confidence in those of us who believe in democratic institutions.
Already in our country we have undertaken prosecutions of insignificant and to some extent unknown persons for stupidities committed here and there in beer parlours and elsewhere. True, we have got to stop that kind of thing; but on the other hand it seems to me we have got to take cognizance of the possibility of sabotage, treachery, or treason in high places. Last week we placed on the statute books of our dominion an act giving this country the right to take over any industry we needed for our war effort; and I submit to the government that here is an opportunity to show the people of Canada that we are going to mobilize not only manpower but industry as well.
I said we were prosecuting comparatively unknown people-and I am not complaining, when those prosecutions are justified. But what are we going to do when the controlling influence in a great organization such as the one Henry Ford controls throws down the gauntlet and says, "I will not make the badly needed engines for the British commonwealth, and particularly for Great Britain herself." To my mind the whole record of Henry Ford is the record of one of the type who is bringing upon us the very conditions we fear. He is the type of industrialist who has exploited the working man, who has regimented him; and then, when he has sucked the life-blood out of him, throws him into the gutter. That, I submit, has been the Ford method, throughout the years.


Has not Ford paid his working men a pretty good wage?


Ford has paid his men what was regarded as a good wage; but those of us who know the history of the Ford workers know this, that the mass production line of the Ford factory has destroyed those men long before the period of their usefulness should have ended. Everyone knows that who knows anything about industry-that it is one of the cruelest industries in the world.
And because Ford, fattening on human life, as he has done, has set the example, other industries, in order to compete with him, have had to follow.
I remember reading several years ago the papal encyclical, quadragesimo anno-I have not it before me, and the reference I make is from memory-and noting therein the condemnation of an industrialism of this type. It is that kind of industrialism which is causing revolutionary undercurrents all over the world. It is that kind of industrialism which has led to the organization of fascist states, regimented states, states where human personality is destroyed, as they have it in Italy and in Germany.
For him-Henry Ford-anything in the nature of collective bargaining has been an anathema. Workers who wished to bargain collectively have been dismissed. It is true that his personal fortune runs into billions of dollars, and that a great deal of that was made in the British commonwealth of nations.
I say that because some years ago-I have forgotten the date-Canadians agreed that Henry Ford, through his Canadian company, should have the sole right to manufacture under his patents not only to supply Canada but to supply the British empire. Under a friendly tariff policy in Canada we have allowed him to accumulate hundreds of millions of dollars in Canada. Yet-and I must point this out-when the depression came, and after all those millions, yes, billions of dollars, had been made, what happened to the Ford workers? They were immediately thrown upon the relief rolls of our cities, and our public purse had to maintain them.


Will the hon. member permit one question? Is he referring to the Ford Motor Company of Canada or to the Ford Motor Company of the United States? I was referring solely to the Ford Motor Company of the United States.


I am referring to the Ford motor company generally-


Of course there are two.


-because I believe the policies of subsidiaries to be found in other countries are controlled by Henry Ford. Thus the policy Ford lays down for the United States corporation is the policy carried out by the subsidiaries all across the world. When the depression came it is known that in Windsor, Walkerville, Ford-or wherever it is the factory is situated-the workers were thrown upon relief. When that happened and discontent arose we found the very kind of thing which has led to the rise of communism and fascism-the establishment of a sort of

Aeroplane Engines-Mr. Martin
service and espionage department presided over by those who were prepared to use strong-arm methods against the workers.
I recollect that the mayor of Detroit on one occasion said that in the employ of Mr. Ford could be found some of the worst thugs in the city of Detroit. On March 7, I think it was, of 1932, the civic authorities of Detroit gave the hungry working people of the Ford plant permission to make a peaceful parade in that city. When these working people got to the boundary of the city and crossed over into the Ford city of Dearborn, what were they met by? Tear gas bombs, vomit bombs and machine guns. Four men were killed and some fifty were taken to hospital, wounded. No wonder Hitler decorated Mr. Ford!
This is the partial history of a man who is to-day determined to prevent, so far as he is able, his great factory in the United States from helping the cause which we are assisting to the fullest extent. I ask what the government is going to do with this highly placed saboteur, with this man who controls the Ford industry which has a subsidiary in Canada, and controls the policy, let me repeat, of that great Canadian industry. There is no question about that because whatever happens in the United States happens in Canada. Whatever model is produced in the Ford factory in the United States is produced also in Canada. Every change and every 