Mr. Speaker, on Thursday
of last week I tabled a letter which I had written to the premiers of the different provinces with respect to the holding in January of a joint conference between the dominion and the provinces to consider the report of the Rowell-Sirois commission. I have since received replies from all the premiers. I beg leave now to table these replies. In order that hon. members may have the record complete I shall ask the clerk, if it is agreeable to the house, to see that the replies received from the several provinces are printed in the Votes and Proceedings of to-day.


Mr. T. L. CHURCH (Broadview) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 2, to amend the Railway Act (soldiers' fares).
Explain.

Rules oj the House-Reading Speeches


During the last war the
railways voluntarily carried men for single fare on week-ends. Now they carry them every day at half rate. At the present time the Railway Act dioes not provide for any special concessions to soldiers during war time, nor has the board of transport commissioners power to deal with the matter. In view of the fact that many men are taken to camps far from their homes, and the distribution of troops fior training is spread over all Canada, it is most desirable to give soldiers some form of free transportation. Many of them have been killed on the highways while thumbing rides. To give an example of what I have in mind, there are twenty-six men from my own riding who are now in Newfoundland and who would like to get home. I suggest that after this bill receives second reading it be considered by a special committee of the house.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time. RULES OF THE HOUSE


On the order for motions:
Before the orders of the day are proceeded with I should like to amplify my previous ruling in connection with standing order 37.
I have been giving further consideration to the interpretation of this standing order in view of the discussion which took place yesterday. For the purpose of the record I shall read again standing order 37, which is as follows:
No member, except the Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposition, or a minister moving a government order and the member speaking in reply immediately after such minister, or a member making a motion of "no confidence" in the government and a minister replying thereto, shall speak for more than forty minutes at a time in any debate.
It will be recalled that this standing order was adopted on March 22, 1927, but since that date changes have been made in several departments to deal with the exigencies of these days; and where formerly there was only one minister of defence there is now a Minister of National Defence, a Minister of National Defence for Air and a Minister of National Defence for Naval Affairs. There are also two new departments, under the Minister of Munitions and Supply and the Minister of War Services.
I ruled yesterday that the Minister of Agriculture, who is also Minister of War Services, in his reply was not limited to forty minutes. I am of opinion that is a correct interpretation of standing order 37. I am now 14873-9*
asked as to that interpretation should other ministers make reply. It will be noticed that the amendment moved by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) is as follows:
That the following be added to the address to His Excellency:
" We respectfully submit to Your Excellency that this house regrets that the government has continued to soothe the Canadian people regarding the war effort of the nation, thereby creating a false sense of security when a clear-cut call to action is desperately needed.
" And this house further regrets that despite the serious condition of agriculture no effective action is proposed to alleviate that condition and to ensure to the Canadian farmer a just, fair and reasonable return for his products."
And the amendment of the leader of the Social Credit group (Mr. Blackmore) is as follows:
That the following be added to the amendment:
" And this house further regrets the failure of the government to adopt a monetary policy that would permit a maximum war effort without either increasing debt or reducing the standards of living below that necessary for maintaining maximum efficiency;
" Furthermore this house is of the opinion that a continuation of the present financial policy will further destroy the precious liberties so essential to, and recognized as being inherent in a true democracy."
Both of these amendments make use of an embracing term, namely, "war effort of the government," and express their dissatisfaction.
I think I am correct in stating that the intention of the standing order was to give wide latitude to the opposition to attack the policy of the government and just as wide latitude for the government to make a full reply.
During the course of the debate the theme of every speech has been directed to the activities of the government in prosecuting the war effort and a request for a full and complete statement of such war efforts to the house. In order that this should be done properly and adequately each minister could only speak for his department and it would be impracticable if not impossible for one minister to reply for all departments.
I am inolined therefore to take the view that I should give as wide and as broad an interpretation of the rule as is possible in order that the veiy evident desire of the house be satisfied. I believe I will be giving effect to the sense of the house in the manner I have indicated so that in these war days a complete reply, unhampered by time, could be made by the ministers whose departments may be the subject of attack.
This ruling would affect six ministers, namely: The Minister of Agriculture and War Services (Mr. Gardiner), who has already
132	COMMONS
Rules of the House-Reading Speeches
replied; the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Ralston), who is now replying; the Minister of National Defence for Air (Mr. Power), the Minister of National Defence for Naval Affairs (Mr. Macdonald), the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe), and the Minister of Finance (Mr. Ilsley). These ministers are all directly connected with the amendments which "have been made.
While I am dealing with these matters with particular reference to the debate before the house, I would also like to remind the hon. members of the house as to the rule regarding reading of speeches. Last session I made a statement regarding the reading of speeches and I think all will agree that the rule was more closely observed thereafter. I find however that there is a tendency in this debate to read speeches. It would be very obnoxious for the chair to interrupt hon. members who are reading their speeches and I think this is a matter which the hon. members of the house should observe strictly. I therefore request the assistance of hon. members in that regard.
I need hardly state again what I said in the last session regarding important statements made by ministers on government policies which have been and may be read. The same also applies to statements of policy made by leaders of parties or chiefs of groups in the house; but when these statements are not important pronouncements the rule regarding reading speeches should be followed.


Mr. Speaker, I assume the
matter to which you have adverted is not debatable, but may I be permitted to make one or two observations with respect to the ruling?
If I gathered correctly what was said, your ruling is based on the principle of expediency and necessity, not on the strict interpretation of the rule. I should like to have it on that basis rather than to have it recorded as a precedent to be followed in the future.
Let me suggest to what point the ruling may lead the house. The Minister of Agriculture, who spoke yesterday, spoke in his capacity as Minister of Agriculture. But the Minister of National War Services is the same gentleman. Is he to have the opportunity to speak twice in the same debate, but in different capacities? It will be seen that if we follow the ruling through to its logical conclusion it might land us in a miasma of difficulty. I should hope it would be the consensus of hon. members that all these gentlemen should be allowed to make statements of length such as may be necessary

to permit the government to present its facts. However I should rather put it on the ground of courtesy than on that of a strict ruling from the chair.
With all respect I suggest that we ought not to extend the rule beyond what might be considered a proper interpretation.


Mr. Speaker, since this is such an important ruling may I be permitted to say a word on the point of order now under discussion?
I should like to remind the house that since 1927 conditions in the house have changed to a very considerable degree. I believe that will be readily admitted. But if these ministers are to be permitted to speak at greater length than the rule now allows it seems to me that some recognition should be given to the change so far as the opposition groups are concerned, and that in the broadening of the rule the leaders of other opposition groups should be accorded more latitude than is now allowed by the rule.


The house will see the danger of opening the door.


May I say most respectfully to Mr. Speaker, for whom I have the highest personal regard, that I do not think it was within the province of a Speaker of the house to broaden the rule in any particular. I suggest if an interpretation of such a nature is to be made it should be made in the same manner as the rule was originally made, that is to say, by a committee of the house.
May I make one or two observations on the question of the reading of speeches? I agree with Mr. Speaker when he says that the practice is undesirable. But if six ministers of the crown are to be allowed to read their carefully prepared speeches, then I submit that private members ought to be allowed to prepare carefully their replies and read them.


Mr. Speaker, I am and always have been entirely opposed to the forty-minute rule. I believe all hon. members should 'be allowed to express their views. I would point out, however, that there is one aspect of the issue which has not been touched upon. In his ruling Mr. Speaker said he felt it his duty to extend the power given to ministers of the crown in respect to a vote of want of confidence in the government. No one appears to have considered what constitutes such a vote.
I seem to recall that during the strenuous time of 1922-it may have been 1924 or 1925 -the government of that day did allow an amendment to the address moved by a member of the opposition to go through. It by no means follows that an amendment is

Rules oj the House-Reading Speeches
necessarily a vote of want of confidence in the government, unless a minister of the crown or the Prime Minister indicates that he shall so regard it, or unless it contains the specific words, "We move a vote of want of confidence in the government."
The amendment moved a few days ago by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson), while it may appear to express a lack of confidence in the government, did not specifically state that it was a vote of want of confidence. My point is that that fact should be taken into consideration. Under the circumstances I do not think the ministers in question have any right to exceed the limits allowed under the rule.


In connection with the actual wording of standing order 37 it seems to me there is one point to which reference might be made. There is a distinction between a member and a minister not being bound by the forty-minute rule. First of all, with regard to private members the rule states:
No member, except the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition, or a minister moving a government order and the member speaking in reply immediately after such minister-
And so on. Those words would seem to indicate that the only private member who is not bound by the forty-minute rule is the private member who speaks in reply immediately after the minister moving a government order. Therefore only one private member would not be bound by the forty-minute rule. But the rule proceeds to say:
-or a member making a motion of "no confidence" in the government and a minister replying thereto.
It would seem to follow from the wording of the rule that the extension of the forty-minute limit is applicable not only to one minister but to any minister replying to a motion of "no confidence." Further, the extension applies to such minister, no matter whether he follows immediately after the motion of want of confidence or at any time during the course of the debate. Mr. Speaker, I suggest respectfully that your ruling is not based upon any ground of expediency, but rather that it follows as a matter of legal and proper interpretation of the standing order itself.


Mr. Speaker, I find myself in hearty accord with what has been said by the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell). However, considering that we are not all parliamentary experts, I was wondering if it would be asking too much of you, sir, to reserve
your decision on such an important and complicated matter until after this present debate on the address.
I believe that in this particular debate hon. members should be given a reasonable latitude. I think we have been very fair with the government since the commencement of the war in trying to facilitate government business, and have perhaps not said some of the things we would have lilted to say. If you, sir, could see your way clear to reserve your decision until after this .present debate is concluded, it would be more pleasant to those of us who sit on this side of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I rise not to debate either the rule or the interpretation which Your Honour has placed upon it. If that is necessary, perhaps another time would be better. I rise rather to point out why I think the interpretation which you, Mr. Speaker, have given is one which is eminently wise and wherein it should receive general approval by hon. members of this house. I feel certain that it will be generally approved by the people of Canada.
The purpose of calling this session at the present time was to enable the government to inform the opposition and the country of Canada's war effort. That is why we are here at this time. No one was stronger in urging that parliament should meet in November rather than in January in order that hon. members might be informed of the progress of Canada's war effort than the leader of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation (Mr. Coldwell).


I am not objecting to the extension being given to the minister; I think it should be done.


I am glad to hear my hon. friend say that, because it accords with what I wish to say. Nor did I understand the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) to be strong in his objection to the interpretation given by the chair. However, my hon. friend did say that he thought the government ought to be allowed this latitude in order to defend itself; he used the word "defend". May I say that we have nothing to defend in regard to our war effort.


The right hon. gentleman ought to have.


The war effort speaks for itself and defends itself.


What has that to do with the ruling?


My hon. friend's remark had nothing to do with the ruling
134	COMMONS
Rules oj the House-Reading Speeches
We are glad to have the opportunity so far as we may to give hon. gentlemen such information as they may desire to have. For that reason, as I say, I think His Honour has given an interpretation to the rule which is the right one considering the circumstances under which this parliament has been called together.


Why not suspend the rule?


It is not necessary to suspend it. Apparently hon. members are now more or less agreed that with respect to the present debate at any rate the interpretation .placed upon the rule is a wise one.
May I pass on to a remark which was made in the course of the discussion by the leader of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation. He suggested that some consideration might be given to changing the rules in order to give greater opportunity for debate to the different leaders on the opposition side. May I say that a considerable change has taken place in the application of the .rules, a change which I believe does not accord strictly with the practice generally followed in parliamentary debates under British parliamentary procedure. There is a government and there is an opposition. Those who are for us, are for us, and those who are against us, are against us. Those who are not for us are against us. In this House of Commons there are two sides, the government side and the opposition. Every one has the opportunity to be on one side or on the other, it is for him to choose, but the only parties that are recognized under any law or rule pertaining to the House of Commons that I know of are the government and the opposition.
Ministers of the crown have their obligations and as members of the government they receive salaries in recognition of their obligations and duties. This House of Commons has placed the leader of the opposition in a similar position; it has given him a salary; made him an officer of parliament. Under our parliamentary system he represents the opposition. When it comes to speaking on the address, as in the present debate, my hon. friend the leader of the opposition speaks and then I reply. The practice has grown up of having the two leaders of the other groups speak before anyone else. It seems to me that that is giving more in the way of recognition to an opposition in this House of Commons than was ever intended under a procedure conducted strictly on opposition and government lines. It was never intended there should be two or more leaders of the opposition. I mention this only because my 
hon. friend has said that we should give greater recognition in the way of opportunity to other groups.
If this House of Commons begins to extend recognition to different groups we will have the number of groups increasing year after year. We will have a condition in this House of Commons in the course of time which will correspond to the condition they had in the chamber of deputies in France. In that country there were at times so many groups that it was almost impossible for any one group to get a majority sufficiently large to carry on the business of the country without all kinds of log-rolling. We know how disastrous that has proven to be.
Exception was taken to the province of the Speaker to interpret the rules. May I say I think His Honour has acted entirely within his jurisdiction in assuming the powers he has, and is rather to be thanked than criticized.


Mr. Speaker, may I be allowed just one moment? With all due respect to you, sir, and to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) who has just announced officially on behalf of the government that this is to be a session of speeches rather than a session of business, I suggest that we should put aside the rules altogether for the remainder of this part of the session, until the adjournment that will take place before long. There is no business on the order paper except one forlorn bill which has been introduced by a private member. We all want to hear the ministers make their statements as to what the government is doing; we are looking forward with interest to hearing those statements, but this government is going to be hard put to it to keep this house in session more than a few days longer. There are perhaps only six more speeches to be made, so why worry about the rules? Why not expand the rules and let everyone speak as long as he likes and as often as he likes during the remainder of this part of the session?


I should like to say to the house that my decision was not based upon expediency, nor was it intended as a courtesy from the house. The hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Thorson) has referred to the fact that standing order 37 refers to " the member," not to one member, having the right to speak more than forty minutes. I had that in view when coming to the decision that a minister replying to a motion of want of confidence would be permitted to speak longer than forty minutes. In other days there was only one Minister of National Defence, but that has been changed since.

Ocean Transport
I had that fact in mind when arriving at my decision. The minister whose department is under review in the house must necessarily have the rights accorded under standing order 37.
So far as restricting the debate is concerned or giving some latitude I think the house will appreciate that I have been more than lenient at times in giving that consideration to hon. members, and I can assure the hon. member for Macleod (Mr. Hansell) that when the debate takes place he will receive, as will other members, proper recognition so long as I am in the chair.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Cardin) based on a telegram I have received from an officer of a steamship at an Atlantic coast port. If it is not convenient for the minister to reply to-day I should be glad if my question might stand as a notice of motion in order that I may get the information.
It is represented that officers are being threatened by the Canadian National Steamships authorities if they do not sail. I am going to ask the minister to look into the matter and give a statement to the house as soon as possible as to what the exact position is.


I understand that the leader of the opposition has already drawn the attention of the officers of the department to the very question which he has just raised, and an investigation has already been ordered to ascertain the facts.


Mr. Speaker, I hope the leader of the opposition will not object if I say to him that both he and I have a special responsibility in matters pertaining to procedure in the house. One of these matters relates to the asking of questions. A habit is growing up of asking questions on the orders of the day not so much for the purpose of seeking information as trying to give information, or to make allegations which should not be given in the form of asking a question. Questions should be asked, if they are for the purpose of seeking information, in the form of a direct question and be confined ,to that. I hope my hon. friend will join with me in seeking to have hon. members on his side, including himself, follow the rule, and I shall similarly do what I can with hon. members on this side and with myself.


Mr. Speaker, I agree entirely that I have some responsibility in upholding the rules of the house, but I certainly do not accept with equanimity the lecture I have just received from the Prime Minister. I have received a direct appeal from a man who is under threat from the Canadian National Steamships as to what will happen if he does not sail. I applied first to the Deputy Minister of Transport, and he was not able to give me the information. He gave me part of it. If I had got a full answer from him I would not have asked the question in the house. The part I want to know is, are these men under threat by Canadian National Steamships authorities under the Canadian government.	_
I just do not appreciate the lecture which the Prime Minister has given me, and I do not intend to be lectured by him.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Crerar) if he can inform the house whether there are to be any changes in the passport regulations? I understand a meeting was held this week having to do with the matter, and I have received inquiries in regard to it.


I have no information now on the matter that I can give to the house.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Transport (Mr. Cardin) a question arising out of disasters to shipping on the upper lakes this week. Under the aot the minister must order an inquiry either by the wreck commissioner or by a royal commission under the Inquiries Act. There were two hundred Canadian ships out in this storm on the great lakes, some of them old ships which had been out of commission for years. In the case of the Anna C. Minch twenty-one lives were lost, and nine lives were lost on the Aberdeen, which sank in the St. Lawrence river. The Novadoc, of Port William, was also lost on the great lakes.
Will the minister, in view of the law, hold an investigation into great lakes shipping in the fall of the year, and include in the
Great Lakes Shipping

investigation an inquiry as to the adequacy of the aids to navigation, safety devices, wireless, the issuing of clearance papers, lifesaving stations, and whether on the lost vessels there was adequate provision of lifeboats and life-saving equipment? Some of these ships were only river boats.
I would also ask whether some form of compensation or insurance or other aid will be given to the dependents of the men who lost their lives, either by the companies or by the government, or both. The law on the subject is clear.


Mr. Speaker, an inquiry is to
be held in regard to the situation which my hon. friend from Broadview (Mr. Church) has just referred. All the details that he has mentioned will be included in the investigation, except that I cannot of course say that the government will undertake to provide any compensation until responsibility had been established against the government. As to compensation being paid by the insurance companies, that is not a question for the government.


If Canada is a nation, it should look after the sailors on the great lakes.


We are doing so.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) whether the year 1940 has been declared an emergency year under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act.


The Prairie Farm Assistance Act
provides that a decision shall be made in the month of November. The question has not yet been considered by the government. As soon as it is, an announcement will be made to the house.


The house resumed from Thursday, November 14, consideration of the motion of Mr. Brooke Claxton for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Hanson (York-Sunbury) and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Blackmore.
Mr. Speaker, only three and a half short months have elapsed since I gave to the house a summary of our military activities. You will remember that on that occasion I outlined the broad principles of our military policy. The immediate aspect of that policy was to combine with the United Kingdom and the other dominions, as quickly and as fully as possible, to defeat the common enemy. And the long term aspect was to provide for an effective organization of Canada's armed forces so that whatever might befall in the future we should be prepared, to the limit of our strength and resources, to take care of our own responsibilities.
In the "immediate" category I spoke of the strengthening and further organization of our fixed and our mobile defences in the east. I indicated too that we were not overlooking the west coast defences. But I stressed that hand in hand with these measures of north American defence we were concentrating on the training and equipping of the Canadian active service force to serve wherever they might be required either in Canada or overseas. And let me remind my hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson), who seemed to think that we were attaching too much importance to Canadian defence, that I stressed in July that our front line was the island fortress of the British isles. Let me also tell him that, speaking in Montreal in September, I said, "Canada is in this war at the side of Britain, and Canada's front line is in England." And to-day, in spite of the continuous siege of that fortress by every means and every method which science and vandalism and brutality could devise, our Canadians stand side by side with the men of the British isles and of the empire on that front line which still holds firm. The house heard yesterday the eye-witness story told by the Minister of National W:ir Services (Mr. Gardiner) of the steadfastness, not only of the sailors and soldiers and airmen in and around the British isles, but of those stouthearted millions of people which make up their citizenship. They have taught their enemies, they have reassured their friends, that man is greater than the machine, that it takes more than engines of war in seemingly overwhelming numbers, more than the savage deluge of high explosives, to overcome the will to freedom. They have proven that disadvantages in equipment may be outweighed by superiority in fortitude and fearlessness.
In July, referring to immediate activities,
I spoke of the necessity of providing maximum preliminary training for available man-power,

The Address-Mr. Ralston
and also of the requirements for internal security. And as our general and long-term objective I said that our task must be never again to lapse into the inadequate position in which the armed forces of Canada-and Canada was not unique in this respect-had been placed for many years prior to the outbreak of war.
I can say to the house that those principles on which we were working then are the principles we are working on to-day. Any change has been only to emphasize more than ever the vital interest we feel in helping to hold and strengthen that front line on the English channel.
The carrying out of these principles, since I spoke to the house in July, has taken this country through a summer and into an autumn of military activity which I think has been unprecedented. I believe that this activity has produced and will produce effective results. My purpose is to review what has been done regarding this activity in relation to the army, and to indicate some of the plans for the future.
May I utter this word of caution: If hon. members expect ears to be tickled or feelings stirred or emotions aroused by dramatic pronouncements or revelations of new and unknown developments I am sure they will be disappointed. During the last three months the press has carried from time to time practically everything to which I am referring, so that there will be very little in the way of novelty. On the other hand a factual presentation regarding military activities dealing with organization, mobilization and training, and without the drama of actual operations, leaves no room for what might be called colourful presentation. I can only hope that what can be only a resume of activities, drab though it may appear, will be of real interest to the house for the simple reason that it is concerned with Canada's participation in this most momentous of wars.
Canada's task has obviously involved two main activities:	first, the procuring and
preparation of our man-power with all the details of organization and administration which that involves-accommodation, rations, pay, clothing, medical and dental services, personal equipment, and, what is supremely important, the efficient training of that manpower; second, the procuring of equipment for the units and formations which we organize.
I yield to no one in my appreciation of the importance of equipment and of exhausting every means within our power of procuring it, but equipment can never wholly take the place of discipline and efficiency, resourceful-14873-10
ness and courage. Training and intensive training is more necessary than ever, and the work of raising and training men for an army of the size of the Canadian forces is an indispensable and vital part of our preparation and our contribution to the common cause. With that in mind I must express deep appreciation of the untiring interest and work of the staff, both at headquarters and in the various districts, and particularly of the officers, non-commissioned officers and men of our fighting forces, because their work represents thought and care and enthusiasm and unremitting effort, and above all it signifies a patriotism which, whenever the testing time comes will, I think, prove indomitable.
I ought first to mention a change in the names of the military forces of Canada. When I spoke last I mentioned four different groups, the Canadian active service force, the veterans home guard companies, the non-permanent active militia and the veterans reserve companies. Since then we have integrated all these groups into one structure called the Canadian Army, and we have simply divided the Canadian Army into active and reserve units and formations. The active portion is that which we know as the Canadian active service force, which includes the veterans home guard companies, and the reserve portion is that which we know as the non-permanent active militia and that includes the veterans reserve companies. While this is only a change of name it will I think help to avoid confusion, and it gives the military forces a title which better corresponds with the titles of the other services, the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force. It does not involve any change in the names by which regiments and batteries and units are now commonly known, and does not imply any change in the status of units or in the obligations of individuals. These obligations, whether under voluntary enlistment or under the National Resources Mobilization Act, remain as they were before the change of name.
Another change which I think has been generally approved is the change in the name of the veterans home guard to Veterans Guard of Canada. This again does not affect any change in status of its component parts or of its members.
With that preface, here is the broad picture of the strength of the Canadian Army.
First, regarding the Canadian Army (active) which we have known as the Canadian active service force and the veterans home guard companies: On July 29, I stated that there were 31,607 troops of our active formations and unite outside of Canada and 101,965 in Canada, or

The Address-Mr. Ralston

a total of 133,572. The returns for October 29 show over 50,000 outside Canada and a considerable increase in the numbers in Canada.
Regarding the Canadian Army (reserve) which we have known as the non-permanent active militia and which includes the veterans reserve companies and the recruits called for training under the National Resources Mobilization Act: Recruiting for the reserve or nonpermanent active militia units continued to be active until August 15 when it was stopped to allow progress to be made with the training of recruits called up under the National Resources Mobilization Act. On July 29 I stated that the strength of the reserve units was 47,373. This was from the latest figures available at that time. On October 29 the total strength of the reserve units was over double that number, not counting recruits in training centres under the National Resources Mobilization Act. On the same date there were 25,391 of these recruits undergoing training in 39 centres established across Canada. So that on October 29 the total strength of the Canadian army including active units overseas and in Canada, and the reserve units, was over 300,000.
During the period of acceleration in the spring and early summer of this year we set ourselves certain important objectives which included the raising of the third and fourth divisions and ancillary and certain unattached units, the recruiting to full strength of the infantry units of the reserve (non-permanent active militia) the dispatch of large numbers of troops to the United Kingdom and to island posts outside of Canada. We concentrated every effort in achieving the desired results without taking time for matters of reorganization which, though important, could wait. We wanted these things done quickly. Once it became certain that these objectives were within measurable distance of attainment, it was possible to devote more time to matters of organization.
Early in August, in keeping with the general policy of defence measures for Canada, the Atlantic command was formed under the command of Major-General Elkins. This command includes all of the three maritime provinces of New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, and the eastern portion of the province of Quebec. It also includes the units of the Canadian army in Newfoundland. The administrative arrangements in this area continue to be the responsibility of the district officers commanding the military districts concerned, but the operational control of all coast defence troops and of the mobile forces stationed within the command is exercised by the general officer commanding-in-chief of the Atlantic command.

More recently, in October, the Pacific command has been formed consisting of the provinces of British Columbia and Alberta, with headquarters at Victoria. The general officer commanding-in-chief, Major-General Alexander, is responsible for all operational matters which affect the Pacific defences. He will control coastal defences through fortress and area commanders and also all mobile land forces which may be detailed for operational purposes in defence of the Pacific coast.
In the case of both Atlantic and Pacific commands the general officer commanding will be working in the closest cooperation with the equivalent commanders of the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force in the respective areas.
The organization of the third Canadian division has been completed by the appointment of the brigade and divisional commanders. Major General Sansom, who was formerly on General MoNaughton's staff and later on the staff of Canadian Military headquarters in London, has been appointed general officer commanding this division and has just arrived in Canada. The brigade commanders are Brigadier H. O. N. Brownfield, M.C., commanding the 3rd divisional artillery; Brigadier W. G. Colquhoun, M.C., commanding the 7th infantry brigade; Brigadier J. P. U. Archambault, D.S.O., M.C., commanding the 8th infantry brigade and Brigadier E. W. Haldenby, M.C., V.D., commanding the 9th infantry brigade. This division will be concentrated for the present at certain points in eastern Canada along with certain other unattached units.
The organization of the 4th Canadian division is in progress, and its units and formations are located at the moment at various parts in central and western Canada. It is expected very shortly I shall be able to announce the names of the commanders of brigades of that division.
New active army units have been mobilized, including:
An armoured ear regiment;
Two light anti-aircraft regiments with associated signal and workshop sections;
Two army field workshops to provide for the servicing of units of the 3rd and 4th division; and
A motor ambulance convoy.
Twenty companies of the Canadian forestry corps have now been raised and are in training under the command of Brigadier J. B. White, D.S.O., E.D. Seventeen additional reserve companies of the Veterans Guard of Canada have been formed bringing the total number of these reserve companies to 43. These are in addition to the 29 active army companies already authorized in this force, which comprise 6,627 officers and men. The

The Address-Mr. Ralston
Veterans Guard of Canada is under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel H. R. Alley,
O.	B.E., L.D.
Special interest, I think, was taken in the announcement of the formation of the Canadian armoured corps, under Colonel F. C. Worthington, M.C., M.M., an officer experienced in armoured fighting vehicles. The corps is to consist of four mobilized regiments which includes two of the already mobilized cavalry regiments of the active army and four reserve army regiments.
One armoured brigade is already being organized and expanded into a complete group by the addition of the necessary artillery, engineer, army service corps, and ordnance units which are now mobilizing. Units to form a nucleus for a second group are available.
In order to facilitate the training, we secured about 200 tanks from the United States. While these tanks are of an old type, they will serve well in training the many specialists and tradesmen required in this sort of formation. As the house probably knows, we had a number of tanks at Borden in addition to this very much larger number which were secured from the United States. Selected personnel are being given special training in the United Kingdom so that when we are ready to expand the initial groups into larger formations capable instructors will be available.
The Canadian provost corps has been organized under the command of Colonel
P.	A. Piuze. Eleven provost companies have been mobilized and these provide personnel for provost duties in the various military districts and also staff for internment camps and detention barracks. Each military district has at least one company headquarters and a part or whole of a provost company in accordance with requirements. Experience has taught us that an army is not an army unless it has bands. Grants to be used for the purchase of instruments had previously been authorized and authority has been granted for the formation of bands in many active army units from personnel in the present unit establishment.
The house will ask about the activities of these various troops of ours. We naturally think first of our men outside of Canada, on the front line in England and at various strategic points. We have in the United Kingdom the bulk of two divisions and their requisite proportion of corps troops. In addition to these, we have under command of Canadian military headquarters, reinforcements nearly equal in numbers to another division, besides the large numbers of reinforcements still on this side. We get weekly 14873-10i
reports which give us in considerable detail the work which is done by our Canadian troops in England and some of the tasks to which they are assigned from time to time. No troops in England are more fit or ready for any task which comes. They know what their job is and are eager and anxious to take their turn in the battle of Britain. Their presence side by side with the troops of the old land, and the reputation they have already made, is a source of pride to Canada and I know too that at the war office no troops rank higher in dependability and efficiency.
Just here, Mr. Speaker, I feel that I should refer to what I regard as a most unfortunate expression or sentiment which was uttered by my hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) in the course of his speech the other day. He said:
.	.	. our contribution to the first battle of
Britain has been rather pitiful. In fact it has not been a factor in the defence of Britain at all, so far as I am aware. If I am wrong I hope my hon. friend will illuminate the position.
I do feel that my hon. friend did not do justice either to himself or to those he represents, in the use of that expression. Let me remind the house that upon the invasion of Norway the British government at once decided to dispatch troops to the assistance of that country. There was need for prompt action, and a request was made to whom? It was made to Canadian military headquarters, that part of the first Canadian division should be dispatched with a special British force. There was no hesitation, no red tape; we responded at once and troops were detailed from the first division. Preparations for the dispatch of the troops were completed, and the troops left their camps in England on the day following that upon which the request from the British government was received.
That was one instance where, when the need arose, Canada responded; and I think it may be said that the situation loses none of its significance by reason of the fact that operational plans were later changed and the force did not actually do battle in Norway. And prior to last June, as the house knows, on more than one occasion Canadian troops promptly left their camps and were ready at embarkation points under orders to join the British expeditionary force and the French army in their desperate struggle in northern France and Belgium; and the fact that Canadian troops were not actually dispatched on those occasions was due entirely to decisions which were reached by the higher military command. As a matter of fact the actual movement to France of the first division, with a portion of non-divisional
The Address-Mr. Ralston

troops, was under way, and we all know how and why it became necessary to call them back. General McNaughton especially emphasized at that time that no Canadian unit withdrew until ordered to do so by senior military authorities.
I see nothing pitiful, Mr. Speaker, about having troops in England in which the war office had such confidence as to call upon them suddenly for extremely important and hazardous tasks; and I see nothing pitiful in having our troops in numbers equal to about three divisions helping to hold the front line and given the responsibility for a definite sector. No, Mr. Speaker, the leader of the opposition does himself less than justice, as, what is much more important, he does our troops and our country less than justice, when he makes use of the expression " pitiful " in reference to the contribution made in the battle of Britain by Canada's army. It was wholly unwarranted. Let me say further that in this respect I am not mentioning the really thrilling contribution which has been made by the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force, which will be dealt with by my hon. friends the Minister of National Defence for Naval Affairs (Mr. Macdonald) and the Minister of National Defence for Air (Mr. Power).
As the house knows, we have troops in Iceland, Newfoundland and the Caribbean, and in certain instances additions or redistributions have been or are being made to strengthen the strategic position. We owe a great deal to these troops, who constitute the defence outposts of this continent and who, unseen and unheard of, loyally perform their tasks which help to provide security against emergencies.
In Canada the active units are on coast defence on the Pacific and the Atlantic. They are furnishing guards for vulnerable points and for internment camps. They provide a mobile force for use in or out of Canada as required, and they are training at various camps and training centres throughout the dominion, where our accommodation is taxed to the limit. I have had the satisfaction of visiting a number of these camps and units. I have been immensely pleased with the keenness and interest which they are taking in their jobs, whatever they may be. We need have no fear about their being worthy in every way of the high standard which Canadian soldiers have set. I believe the work of the troops on coast defence and on guard duty deserves a special word. Day in and day out, in all kinds of weather, summer and winter, these men perform unspectacular but most important duties. They must keep constantly on the alert, although at times the

incentive for doing so may seem to be lacking. Their faithful service is recognized and appreciated.
With regard to these troops the house might be interested to know that we are endeavouring to give the infantry units who are on coast defence garrison duty at least temporary relief by replacing them with units now at training camps. To make this policy of interchange more feasible it is proposed to organize all coast defence infantry battalions in future on the basis of field war establishments instead of garrison war establishments. As the house will understand, that will enable the infantry units on coast defence to get some change from their present duties and to attain higher standards in training for field duties.
Among these troops in Canada are large numbers of reinforcements which, on account of the very few casualties, have not been called upon. The other day my hon. friend the leader of the opposition asked with regard to our preparation for reinforcements. Let me recall to him what I have just said, that we have large numbers of reinforcements in England and larger numbers in Canada; and on account of the fact that there have been very few casualties these troops have not been called upon. I hope that may answer his query. With regard to reinforcements, it must be remembered that sending a formation overseas does not merely involve the raising of, say fifteen thousand men for a division, with its ancillary troops. It also means that we take on an obligation of reinforcing that division in all its ranks. Under normal war conditions these reinforcements might amount to one hundred per cent in a year. Consequently the capacity of a country to maintain armies in the field depends on the manpower reinforcing ability that lies behind the army and also, of course, on the capacity of industry to turn out not only initial equipment but an adequate and regular flow of equipment to replace wastage.
The establishment of the Atlantic and Pacific commands has meant much more than a mere realignment of senior command. It is a part of the broader policy under which careful consideration has been given to the best disposition of our available troops, with a view to having in readiness mobile and other units in case of emergency. Apart from the concentrations in the Atlantic and Pacific commands, portions of the active army are stationed at points throughout the dominion which are considered the most useful from the strategic point of view consistent with the requirements of accommodation and training.
Then we have the reserve units of the Canadian army (which we know as the non-

The Address-Mr. Ralston
permanent active militia). Here different factors govern. The men in this part of the army are not full-time soldiers. Whether they joined prior to August 15 or have been ca