I have the honour to inform the house that I have received a communication from several members, notifying me that the following vacancy has occurred in the representation, viz.:
Of Hon. William Daum Euler, member for the electoral district of Waterloo North, consequent upon his having been summoned to the senate.
I accordingly issued my warrant to the chief electoral officer to make out a new writ of election for the said electoral district.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the house will

doubtless wish to have a statement with regard to the situation in Europe in view of what has appeared thus far in the press. I do not know that I could better express the situation as it exists than to read to the house the statement which was made by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in the British House of Commons this morning. The text of the Prime Minister's statement was as follows:
The house will be aware that the king of the Belgians yesterday sent a plenipotentiary to the German command asking for suspension of arms on the Belgian front.
The British and French governments instructed their generals immediately to dissociate themselves from this procedure, and to persevere with the operations in which they are now engaged.
The German command agreed to the Belgian proposals and the Belgians ceased to resist the enemy's will at four o'clock this morning. I have no intention of suggesting to the house that we should attempt at this moment to pass judgment on the action of the king of the Belgians in his capacity as commander in chief of the Belgian army.
This army fought very bravely, and both suffered and inflicted heavy losses. The Belgian government has dissociated itself from the act and declared itself to be the only legal government of Belgium and formally announced its resolve to continue the war by the side of the Allies, who came to the aid of Belgium on her urgent appeal.
Whatever our feelings from facts so far known to us, we must remember that that sense of brotherhood betiveen the many peoples who have fallen into the power of the aggressor and those who still confront him will play its part in better days than those through which we are passing.
The situation of the British and French armies now engaged in a most severe struggle and beset on three sides and from the air is evidently extremely grave.
Surrender of the Belgian army in this manner adds appreciably to the grievous peril, but our troops are in good heart and fighting with the utmost discipline and tenacity. I shall, of course, abstain from comment on what, with the powerful assistance of the royal navy and the royal air force, they are doing or hope to do. I expect to make a statement to the house on the general position when the result of the intense struggle now going on can be known and measured.
This, perhaps, may not be until the beginning of next week.
Meanwhile, the house must prepare itself for hard and heavy tidings. I have only to add that nothing which can happen in this battle can in any way relieve us of our duty to defend the world cause to which we have bound our-

War-Leader oj the House
selves, nor can it destroy our confidence in our power to make our way, as on former occasions in our history, through disaster and grief to ultimate defeat of our enemy.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the gravity of the situation at the moment I would ask the house if it would permit me to adopt a course which has been found necessary in Great Britain and which was found necessary in this country during the last war, namely, to delegate to one of my colleagues the responsibility of leading this House of Commons for the greater part of the time in order that in my position as Prime Minister and Secretary of State for External Affairs I may have the needed time and opportunity to give the concentrated attention, the study and thought to the many questions that are presenting themselves to the government as a whole, and to deal immediately with many situations that are becoming more pressing every moment.
My right hon. friend and colleague the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) has at different times, and for the greater part of the last session of the previous parliament, filled in my absence the position of leader of the government, and he has kindly consented to take on that task at the present session. My right hon. friend the Minister of Justice has, however, also very heavy duties at this time, as all of us have who are members of the war committee of the cabinet, and it may be that he also will be obliged to be absent from the house on occasions for a considerable period of time. In view of that possibility I have asked my colleague the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Crerar) if he would take on the duty of second in command, to lead the house in the absence of the Minister of Justice and myself.
Perhaps I need not say to hon. members that no members of the government are more taxed at this present time, and likely to be more taxed in their duties during the session, (than the ministers of national defence. They are and will continue to be obliged to give considerable of their time to conferring with members of their own departments in dealing with the many critical situations with which they and all of us are faced. I hope, therefore, that it will be possible so to arrange the business of the house that measures which relate immediately to war effort can be brought on and discussed at times when it may be convenient for my colleagues the ministers of national defence or myself to be present in the house; and if by any chance their presence will be required elsewhere on short notice, that the house will understand the reasons why they also may have to absent themselves for a considerable portion of the time.
Those, I think, are the only matters upon which I wished to speak immediately. I might add that this afternoon I would like to have the opportunity of conferring almost immediately with certain of my colleagues; and in the arrangement of the business this afternoon it might be understood that some of the bills other than the one which was yesterday before the house, and which are on the order paper, would be taken up first. We could return a little later in the afternoon to the bill with respect to the appropriation for war purposes.


I was not unprepared for the announcement which the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has just made. A day or two ago he intimated to me that owing to the seriousness of the situation and the consequent tax upon his time it would be almost impossible for him to give to the affairs of the House of Commons the attention which he has given in previous sessions. I can appreciate that, and I believe that all members of this house will be prepared to excuse him from attendance, except perhaps upon the most important occasions. As I have intimated more than once, we shall try to facilitate in every way the business of the house. I am sure that the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) who will be taking the place of the Prime Minister as leader of the House of Commons, is quite capable of carrying on the business of the country.
With respect to the suggestion that the two ministers of national defence may find it necessary to be absent, I can quite understand that, but I should like to say that we would not care to excuse them entirely from attendance when measures which they are promoting and in which they are vitally interested are before the house. I do not think that I can add anything further on this occasion.


I thank my hon. friend.
War Appropriation Bill


On the orders of the day:
The Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) intimated last week that a committee might be appointed to which the government might communicate certain information. I believe *that everyone who is in the house this afternoon feels a sense of grave responsibility, and I am urging upon the government that this parliament be taken fully into its confidence and that this committee be appointed immediately so that we may be apprised of the situation, because after all the security of Canada may be involved. The Prime Minister might see fit even to arrange for a secret session of the house. There are many questions running through our minds at the present time, and we are alarmed, and we want to get certain questions answered. I was wondering whether the Prime Minister would speed up the appointment of a committee or make some other arrangement so that we may get the information which some of us would like to hear from the government.


May I say to my hon.
friend that, when I suggested that the house might think it advisable when we came to the second reading of the bill to have its provisions referred to a committee or to a group of committees to permit of certain information being given by the different defence departments which it is obviously not wise to make public, the present situation had not developed as it has since that announcement was made. I rather gathered from what was subsequently said from the other side of the house that there was some doubt in the minds of hon. members whether that procedure would be the best to follow, that hon. members might feel that, if information was given to them secretly before one of these committees, their tongues, if not their hands, would be tied when it came to asking in public certain questions of the government. Many of the things which the government thought, at the time this parliament met, it would be inadvisable to speak of publicly at the time, have already been spoken of quite freely in the house since parliament met. I am sure that in the course of the discussion on this measure respecting war appropriation, hon. members have gained a knowledge of many situations of which formerly they were

wholly ignorant, and have obtained explanations which I hope have helped to account for what may have seemed to some of them an absence of the degree of activity which many of them, very rightly, would expect at a time like this.
One matter which has been impressed upon the government more and more is the necessity of using great care in divulging matters in advance of the time when it would be wise to make mention of them. For example, I might give this house information at the moment with respect to our expeditionary force, the Canadian active service force overseas, but if I were to give that information to-day it would be giving it to the enemy. I might answer questions with respect to the disposition of our naval forces, which answers, if given at the moment, would equally be given to the enemy. Obviously it is not desirable that matters of this kind should be disclosed, and for that reason I had thought that some such method as I have suggested, of giving to hon. members information that could not otherwise be made public, might be made in the manner I have indicated. But, as I have said, on the resolution itself, questions have been asked and answered quite freely and much information has been disclosed which the government, I thought, would not have considered disclosing at this time if matters had not developed as they have. We are now free to say some things which at an earlier stage we did not deem it wise to make known.
There is however one other reason which I regard as having at the moment an urgency which it did not have at the time I made the proposal to which I have referred. It is this, that the time of the officials of the defence forces at this moment, and probably for some little time to come, would be very seriously encroached upon if those officials were taken away from the duties in which they are engaged to come and discuss matters before a committee of the house, whether a secret committee or not. The government has therefore thought it advisable, and still considers it the right course to pursue at the moment, to allow the discussion to go on in the way it has. If ministers find that they are asked questions which it is not in the public interest for them to answer they will say so frankly and take the responsibility of refusing to give such information, just as they must take the responsibility for giving any information which they impart.
I along with my colleagues shall endeavour to see that information that is sought, if answers cannot be publicly given, is given

Conscription-Press Report
confidentially in so far as may be possible to those who have the responsibility of leading parties or groups in this house. I should like this afternoon to have a talk with my hon. friend who has just spoken (Mr. Coldwell) with regard to the present situation and some matters which I should like him to know, leaving to him the responsibility of imparting their significance to those about him in a manner he thinks would be justifiable. Equally I should like to have a talk with my hon. friend the leader of the Social Credit group (Mr. Blackmore). Yesterday I had a talk with the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) and with one or two of his colleagues who are members of His Majesty's Privy Council for Canada. I had not time later in the afternoon or in the evening to see my hon. friends of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation and Social Credit groups but I intend to do so to-day. I purpose this afternoon-in fact, that is the reason I am asking that the house should allow some of my colleagues to withdraw with me at present- to have a conference with the leader of the opposition in the senate, together with my colleague the leader of the government in that chamber, and to ask him to bring with him one or two of his colleagues who were members of the war administration of Sir Robert Borden in order that we may discuss with them the situation as it appears at the present time. If we proceed to attain the desired end in that way, in the light of information with respect to conditions as we know them, we shall be taking the course that I believe will be the wisest one to adopt in the interest of 'he country.


If I may be pardoned, I should .ike to say a word with respect to the subject natter to which the right hon. gentleman aas just alluded, namely, consideration of she question of setting up a secret committee or committees to deal with the appropriation bill. We have given a very great deal of consideration to the matter and we still have an open mind on it. I take it from the Prime Minister's remarks now that the government have come to the conclusion that no useful purpose will be served by referring the bill to such committees and that the matter will be dropped. Our view was that the Prime Minister's first proposal seemed to be just a bit inconsistent, and until the position was clarified we did not care to enter into an undertaking of that kind. Members rather took the view that they did not like to be tongue-tied or hamstrung and they would rather not serve if they could not use the information. At the moment I rather concur
in the view expressed by the Prime Minister, that perhaps the matter should not be brought up again. I should like to make our position clear. We have not actually refused to act on any such committee, but we wanted tc have certain points clarified before we agreed to do so. I do not question the Prime Minister's decision at all at the moment.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King). My question is based upon a news item published in yesterday's Le Canada, Montreal Liberal paper, wherein it is reported that the hon. member for Mercier (Mr. Jean) stated at a public banquet that Liberal members of this house, at a secret caucus of the party, have been given the assurance by the leaders of the party that conscription will not be enforced and that no national government will be formed. Is the hon. member's statement based on truth?


Those of us who have been in parliament for some time have been accustomed to regard the proceedings of caucus as matters wholly confidential to the parties concerned. If it once became the custom to disclose what had been said at a caucus, or to deny or confirm what it is alleged to have been there stated, I am afraid that very erroneous impressions might readily get abroad. I will say to my hon. friend that proceedings of caucus are private and I intend to set an example to members of all parties by doing my utmost to keep them so.


On the orders of the day:
Before
the orders of the day are called I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe). In view of the arrest and internment in England a few days ago of Sir Oswald Mosley and his lieutenant Captain Ramsay, a member of the British House of Commons, may I ask if any steps have been taken to apprehend and deal with the leader of the fascist movement in Canada, Mr. Arcand, of Montreal, and his lieutenant, Mr. Joseph Farr, of Toronto?
Yukon Act-Fur Export


A number of papers and
documents have been seized by the police at the office of that organization and in other places. The representatives of the attorney general of the province of Quebec and the crown prosecutor are at present looking into all these papers and material with a view to taking the necessary proceedings.


I wish to ask the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) a question with reference to the employees of the Bata Shoe Company at Frankford, Ontario, in view of the peculiar situation of this plant. It is only a matter of five miles from an airport, and it is located immediately beside very important hydroelectric plants and quite close to many large railway bridges. The question is this: Will the Minister of Justice consider the immediate reinvestigation and reexamination of all the aliens brought in by the Bata Shoe Company during the last three years?


The question will stand as
a notice for the consideration of both the immigration department and myself.


Hon. T. A. CRERAR (Minister of Mines and Resources) moved the second reading of Bill No. 11, to amend the Yukon Act.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Vien in the chair.
On section 1-Powers to make ordinances.
There is little I can add to the observations I made on this measure when it was in the resolution stage. I might however say that so long ago as 1919 the Yukon territorial council imposed an export tax on fur taken out of the Yukon territory to other parts of Canada or to other parts of the world. Generally speaking that tax corresponded to the royalty imposed in the various provincial jurisdictions throughout Canada. It was imposed for purposes of revenue. It placed no disability upon the trapper or exporter of furs from the Yukon that was not imposed by the royalties levied in the various provinces. It is rather curious that recently the question arose as to the power of the Yukon territorial council at that time 
to impose the tax. This amendment to the Yukon Act simply makes it clear beyond any doubt that they have the power to impose such a tax, and should there be any doubt about their power in the past, what they have done in the interval since 1919 is regularized and made effective.


This seems to be an innocent and harmless bill. I am surprised that in the present circumstances the minister should take the time of parliament to bring forward such a bill, but it should not take long to pass it. According to the explanatory note and the explanation given by the minister on a previous occasion as well as to-day it would appear that there is some doubt as to the legal validity of an ordinance passed some years ago by the Yukon territorial council. He has omitted to say what the legal doubt is. I should like to know what the doubt is, what it is based upon.


The doubt, as I understand it, is as to the legal power of the Yukon territorial council to impose such an export tax.


In principle the bill is quite proper and desirable, but I do not think it should be made retroactive to May, 1919, and when we come to section 2 I propose to offer an amendment in that regard. I shall send a copy of it to the minister now. As to section 1, I think it is quite proper.


Section agreed to.
On section 2-Coming into force. Retroactive.
I understand that this matter has arisen because of litigation now pending, or possibly a prosecution which has been attempted under the ordinance passed by the territorial council. At the bottom of this amendment I believe is the desire to bring such prosecution or litigation within the powers of the council. That may be correct as to litigation that may arise in the future, but as to the litigation now pending, I hardly think it fair for this parliament to legislate a man out of court. I suggest that this amendment be added to section 2 as subsection 2 (a):
This amendment does not affect litigation or prosecutions now pending under the ordinance passed May 20, 1919, by the Yukon territorial council, entitled " An ordinance to provide for a tax on raw furs exported from the Yukon territory" and in respect of such litigation or prosecutions section 1 of this act shall not be retroactive.
I hope the minister will not have any objection to that. It is merely to protect the people of whom I speak.

Yukon Act-Fur Export


My hon. friend who represents the Yukon was good enough to speak to me the other day about this amendment, and mentioned then that he thought-so I understood him-that some litigation was pending. We have no record in the department of any litigation pending under this act. A communication has been addressed to the commissioner in the Yukon to which a reply has not yet been received, but the officers in charge of administration here are quite certain that if litigation had been instituted in respect of the tax imposed on any particular individual they would have had notice of it.


It may be that the information has not yet reached the department. Having very recently come from the Yukon I happen to know that such litigation is pending.


Can my hon. friend give me any particulars of it?


It is, I believe,
an attempt to export fur from the Yukon without observing the proper formality. Only recently amendments were passed to the Yukon game ordinance whereby trappers and persons purchasing furs and persons exporting furs must have separate licences. These people I believe undertook, not at all secretly or in an attempt to evade any obligation, to ship some fur, and naturally got into trouble. This legislation should not be retroactive and thus affect them. The words that I suggest as an amendment would accomplish that purpose. Without the amendment I do not think the proposed legislation is fair. As to the general public and as to what will be done in the future in the way of exporting furs, the suggested amendment will have no effect; it is simply a matter of dealing with the particular case that is now pending.


No one in the past has challenged or disputed the fairness of the tax. No handicap is being imposed upon anyone now in respect of paying what everyone else pays. It would be unfair to those who have paid this tax for twenty years if consideration were given to some person merely on a legal technicality. I do not think this legislation imposes any hardship upon anyone. The litigants in question, if the facts are as stated by my hon. friend, and I do not dispute them since I do not know, could pay the tax and have their furs. There is no discrimination against them; they are simply being asked to do what everyone else has done under the same conditions for twenty years.


I do not think the minister has quite caught the point of the objection of the hon. member for
Yukon. There is a principle involved. As I understand it, the litigation referred to is not ordinary civil litigation; it is a criminal or quasi-criminal prosecution. In that case the question of the constitutionality of the ordinance has been raised as a defence, if I am correctly informed, and it is a perfectly proper and legitimate defence for any accused to raise on advice of counsel. By section 2 of this bill you seek to take away the legal rights of this accused, and that is wrong in principle. The status quo would be preserved for the future by the amendment of the hon. member for Yukon, which affects only prosecutions now under way; in future prosecutions there would be no doubt about it at all, and nobody would be injured. It is a very bad thing to come into parliament and legislate a man out of court. I could use much stronger language than that. I shall not do so, but I suggest to the minister that if he were a legal man he would grasp at once the significance of what I am saying. For a legislature to pass legislation taking away from an accused person a legitimate defence savours of autocracy. I will not go so far as to say it is Hitlerism; it is not as bad as that, but I do suggest to the minister that he ought to accept the amendment. I understand that it has reference to only one case, and it will preserve that man's legal rights. After all this is a British country and we ought to preserve the principles of British justice. I suggest to the minister that to pass this section without the amendment would be a violation of -those principles.


Would that not open the door to all those who have paid the tax in the past, to seek reimbursement?


Oh, no; that is an entirely different matter. It would not give them any rights at all.


As to the act being retroactive, the proposed amendment would not prevent that. The act would still date back to 1919 and be effective except with regard to this one prosecution in which the question has been raised. It would not be open to anyone else to take advantage of this amendment. I think it would be only fair 'to accept the amendment.


Well, Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that we let this section stand. We have asked for a report from the commissioner of the Yukon, and before accepting the amendment I should like to satisfy myself as to all the facts in connection with it and to secure the opinion of the legal advisers of the department as to its real scope and effect.
Yukon Act-Fur Export

If that is agreeable to the committee I will move that the committee rise, report progress and ask leave to sit again.


The
motion is not debatable, but before it is put would the minister at the same time ascertain from the officers of his department just what is the occasion for this bill if it is not as the result of pending prosecutions under the ordinance? There must be something that brought it to a head. The export tax has been in effect for twenty-one years without ever being challenged, as I understand it; the question has not arisen until now. Perhaps we might have all the reasons for bringing in this -legislation at this -time. I am just suggesting that the minister might get that information.


Yes, I can get that, but I rather suspect that these amendments have come under the eye of some student of the law who has raised the question.


They do not usually arise in that way; they arise in concrete cases.


Not always. These acts are very often under review.
Section stands.
Progress reported.


Hon. T. A. CRERAR (Minister of Mines and Resources) moved the second reading of Bill No. 12, to amend the Northwest Territories Act.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Vien in the chair.
On section 1-Jurisdiction of provincial courts in civil matters.
At the present time the superior courts of the provinces of Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia have jurisdiction, west of the eightieth meridian, over civil matters arising in the territories north of their respective boundaries. I am not in a position to inform the house why that jurisdiction was not extended or applied east of the eightieth meridian. At any rate the amendment proposed here seeks to give to the superior courts of Ontario the necessary jurisdiction in that part of the territories lying east of the eightieth meridian. That meridian, I might 
point out, runs north through Hudson bay, about two-thirds of the distance from the west coast of the bay.


Is it
approximately an extension of the Manitoba-Ontario boundary?


No, it is somewhat east of that. In paragraph 2 it is proposed to give the courts surrogate powers to deal with estates in the territories adjacent to their respective provinces. Doubts have arisen in the minds of some of the surrogate court judges as to whether they have the power now to deal with these matters. This is particularly so in the western provinces. By way of illustration may I point out that in the northwest territories north of the province of Alberta considerable mining activities have developed, particularly along the north shore of Great Slave lake. At that point there is now a considerable population. Two small mines are operating, and in the natural course of events people will die and leave property. Their wills will have to be probated or administrators will have to be appointed. This particular section of the bill is being enacted to make clear beyond doubt that these powers exist.
Curiously enough, in the Northwest Territories Act as it stands at present, power is given to the governor in council to arrange with the lieutenant-governor of Manitoba for care of insane persons, or persons who might become insane in the territories adjacent to Manitoba. Section 2 gives power to the governor in council at Ottawa to make similar arrangements with the governments of all the provinces.


Has there been any application from Ontario to take over this section east of the eightieth meridian as part of that province? I ask that in view of the expenditures made by Ontario at points very close to the boundary. Then, who asked for the bill? Did Ontario ask for it? Has Ontario asked the federal government to confer on these territories civil and surrogate jurisdiction?
Almost eveiy session during periods set aside for the discussion of private and public bills, members are asked to approve of principles and, secondly, to approve the legality of legislation. Has a law officer of the crown attached to the minister's department recommended this bill? Does the Department of Justice recommend it, and if so does it state that it comes within the British North America Act? I ask that question because the bill deals exclusively with property *and civil rights of the provinces.

Northwest Territories Act
The committee should not pass the next section of the bill. We know that sane people have been found in mental institutions, as has happened in Ontario; and the law courts have had no jurisdiction to take them out. To give the governor in council power to detain people in an institution when, in fact, those people may not be insane, is a most dangerous principle.
I should like to hear an explanation of the first point I have raised. Was the bill referred to the Minister of Justice, and has he decided whether it is within the provisions of the British North America Act? Has he decided whether parliament is at liberty to amend the Northwest Territories Act, and thereby confer additional jurisdiction outside that act? I ask that because the Northwest Territories Act has some jurisdiction in respect of property and civil rights, although the territories do not constitute a province. It may have been held in the courts that there is a lack of jurisdiction over surrogate matters, or matters connected with wills and property. In my view however the bill should have been reported on by the Department of Justice, and we should have a statement from the various provinces affected indicating whether they are asking for it or were consulted. Were the attorneys-general of the provinces affected by the measure shown a copy of it, and did they approve of it?
We have had other bills seeking to amend the Northwest Territories Act, and we know what was done with property, civil rights and education on those former occasions. On one or two occasions the privy council had to interfere, and in view of that fact we should be most careful, especially in war time, not to sanction a bill of this kind without first knowing what we are doing.


I am not a lawyer. Sometimes I thank heaven I am not.


Oh, don't say that!


You will have a greater chance of getting into heaven.


Consequently my opinion on the point raised by the hon. member for Broadview, whose legal knowledge I do not question, may not be very valuable. After all, however, this is simply a common-sense arrangement. To-day we have northwest territories which . are not part of any of our provinces, and are under federal administration.
There is no new principle in the bill, because already, for years past, judges in the superior courts of Ontario and the western provinces
have had jurisdiction over civil matters in that part of the northwest territories west of the eightieth meridian. This bill seeks simply to give such power in the territories east of the eightieth meridian. It seems to me there cannot be any question of contravention of the terms of the British North America Act in what is suggested in the bill with respect to the winding up of estates, the probating of wills and matters of the kind. I believe there can be no doubt that we can confer those powers on judges.
The amendments are proposed only to help administration. They have been approved and passed by the law officers of the crown, and I believe there can be no question of their validity. If some action of this kind is not taken the federal administration will probably be under the necessity of setting up its own courts in the northwest territories. Certainly at the present time that is neither necessary nor desirable.


This
measure would seem to involve an extension of the principle already indicated in the Northwest Territories Act. There must be some provision made for civil procedure in those territories, and the bill seeks to divide the jurisdiction at certain geographical points for purposes of convenience. Paragraph 2 is new, and seems to have arisen from the growth of the population in the area affected.


It has applied to Manitoba in the past.


That fact is not indicated in the explanatory note. I can see no objection to the passing of the bill; in fact it seems to me it ought to have the endorsation of all hon. members. I would suppose the minister would be good enough to call the attention of the law officers in the Department of Justice to the academic question raised by the hon. member for Broadview. That could be done before third reading. It is a question involving constitutionality, and the law officers might give some consideration to that phase of the matter. I say that because there is some point in what the hon. member has said, but I am not so sure that it is a practical one.


Is there any intention of turning over any portion or portions of the northwest territories to a province?


No, that has not been seriously considered. I believe that individuals in the provinces have written letters to the newspapers suggesting that the provincial boundary should be extended to the north pole, but, so far we have not seen any keen disposition on the part of the provinces to assume
Northwest Territories Act

the extra financial burden which would be involved in the administration of the additional territory.


The premier of British
Columbia on different occasions has mentioned that he would like to take in the Mackenzie River basin. Have any negotiations along that line taken place? What is the present situation?


I can say at once that no such negotiations have taken place.


Section agreed to.
On section 2-Confinement of insane persons in provincial institutions.
May I ask the minister if these insane persons are to be taken completely out of the control of the law courts and their care turned over to the minister? In other words, are those who are placed in these institutions subject to any regulation or control by the law courts of the land, and do they preserve their property and civil rights in the province, or is the liberty of the subject repealed entirely by the new section 75 which appears in clause 2 of this bill? It states:
The minister may, subject to the approval of the governor in council, arrange with the lieutenant governor of any province for the removal to and confinement in any asylum . . . of any insane person. . . .
As I pointed out a moment ago, in Ontario *the grand jury found that one person who had been confined in a mental institution was sane. As I read this section the minister is removing the law courts from control over these people and taking power to confine them, subject to the approval of the governor in council.


I think the hon. member is wholly mistaken. This legislation takes away no civil rights from anybody. All it does in effect is this: If to-morrow an individual in the Yellow Knife area north of Great Slave lake requires care in an institution we want power to arrange with Alberta to put him in an institution in which he can get proper treatment. None of his civil rights is taken away or interfered with. We have this right to-day in the territory adjacent to Manitoba and we simply seek to secure the same right in the territory adjacent to the other provinces.


May I ask who is meant by "commissioner" in the new. section 75, which provides that an insane person may be kept in custody until the pleasure of the commissioner is known? Is it the commissioner of the northwest territories?


Yes.
,


Who is the commissioner of the northwest territories?


Doctor Camsell, at the present time.


As the act now stands the minister is empowered to " make such arrangements with the lieutenant governor of Manitoba as seem reasonable as to the compensation to be made by Canada to that province." I am wondering why that expression is not included in the new section 75 which is being substituted for the old section. It looks as though the minister is to be allowed a certain amount of dictatorial power.


No. It provides for making arrangements. We have to arrange for the placing of these individuals in appropriate institutions. We could not, for instance, take some person from Great Bear lake down to Edmonton and hold a pistol at Mr. Aberhart's head and say: You have to put this fellow in the asylum. No, we have to arrange the matter with him, and I hope that if the occasion should ever arise we shall be able to make a favourable arrangement with the premier.


I was just wondering why the same expression was not used in the new section.


Section agreed to.
Bill reported.
Mr. CRERAR moved the third reading of the bill.
I should be quite agreeable to taking the third reading now but the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church) has raised a legal question and therefore it would not do any harm for the third reading to wait until the next sitting.
Motion stands.


Hon. J. G. GARDINER (Minister of Agriculture) moved the second reading of Bill No. 13, to amend the Dairy Industry Act.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Yien in the chair.
On section 1-Cheese.
Would the minister give us a general idea of what the bill purports to do and whence came the demand for this change? I was not aware that there was any great

Canada Grain Act
amount of processed cheese made in Canada, or even imported, unless put up in packages as outlined in the first part of this clause.


The explanation which I made on the first reading was probably open to some misinterpretation. In accordance with the provisions of section 8, subsection 2, of the Dairy Industry Act, it is illegal to cut from processed cheese packed in bulk portions of indiscriminate weight for sale to customers. That is, if anyone has a package of more than a pound, a half-pound, a quarter-pound, and so on, it is illegal to cut it on the counter and sell it to the customer.


Just why is that?


The existing legislation has not been enforced for the reason thait a very important part of the trade in processed cheese consists of selling portions cut from packages having an initial weight of five pounds. The old way of selling cheese in stores was to cut a slice, weigh it, and hand it to the customer. Nowadays processed cheese is usually put up in small boxes or packages, but there has grown up a practice of putting it up in five-pound loaves or bricks, and when persons come in who do not want five pounds, the merchant cuts from the five pound loaf. Under the law as it is to-day that practice is not legal, but it is thought to be a legitimate trade in that type of cheese which could be very properly controlled, and this bill simply provides that in future it will be legal to cut from loaves provided they are of not less than five pounds weight.


Why is the weight limited to five pounds? Why not three pounds? Is there no demand for the smaller size of package, or what is the reason?


I understand the customary loaf or brick is a five-pound loaf or brick. It is not thought wise to reduce it to a lower amount if the present weight meets the conditions of the trade as now carried on.


Section agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
Hon. JAMES A. MacICINNON (Minister of Trade and Commerce) moved the second reading of Bill No. 7, to amend the Canada Grain Act.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Vien in the chair.
On section 1-Binning of tough with straight grades as a means of drying.
The minister will recall that last year there was quite a long discussion and consideration in committee having to do with the general revision of the Canada Grain Act and the question of the drying and mixing of grain. Drying through such a process as is outlined here was considered at some length. Would the minister inform us whence came the demand for this provision, that is, allowing tough grain to be mixed with straight or dry grain for drying purposes?


I think that the question arises under section 2 rather than section 1.


The purpose of the bill is simply to correct three inaccuracies in the wording of the amending act.


In the numbering.


The section with which we are now dealing relates merely to the correction of the numbering of paragraphs. I can go fully into the matter if the hon. member wishes.


The minister might give us some information as to the effect of the amendment he made last year in this respect, as they related to the marketing of the crop last year. Probably the Minister of Agriculture will recall that provision was made for a certain amount of mixing so long as it did not interfere with the ultimate grading of the grain as it was weighed out or shipped out of the terminal elevator for export. What was the effect of the amendment last year?


This section is only for the purpose of correcting the numbering. At present there are three subsections, and the purport of the present section is to make subsections 3, 4 and 5 read 4, 5 and 6. Therefore the question is out of order under section 1. Shall section 1 carry?


Section agreed to.
Sections 2 to 4 inclusive agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
Seeds Act
Hon. J. G. GARDINER (Minister of Agriculture) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to amend the Seeds Act, 1937, to empower the minister to prescribe fees for seed control services.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Vien in the chair.
Will the minister explain the resolution?


We test in our laboratories approximately 100,000 samples of seeds each year. The tests are made in large part for the purpose of selling seeds under grade certificates as required by the Seeds Act. Those having seeds require them to be tested for selling purposes and they are given a certificate showing that the seed is of a certain type. The practice has grown up of having seed tested for all kinds of purposes, and these tests could very easily be made at home. There is no difficulty about making them. Instructions can always be obtained free of charge as to how to make tests and how to consider them. It is proposed to charge a small fee for tests in order to stop a practice which has grown up which takes up a great deal of time and causes a great deal of expense in this branch of the department in carrying out tests which are not absolutely necessary. In addition to that it is intended to charge enough to cover at least a part of the cost of giving the service to those who have considerable quantities of grain to sell. The fee will be a very small one.


Is there
any authority at the present time to charge such a fee?


No.


The object is to legalize the charge?


Yes.


I notice in the report of the
Minister of Agriculture for the year ended March 31, 1939, a statement at page 106 that under the Seeds Act and regulations revenues amounting to S37.744 were collected for the fiscal year. What were these services for? Were they for regular inspection, when perhaps a conviction was going to be registered?


I am not prepared to
say at the moment, but when the estimates are
[The Chairman.]
under consideration I will discuss the item. There is no power under the act to charge the fees proposed here.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Gardiner thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 19, to amend the Seeds Act, 1937.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Hon. J. G. GARDINER (Minister of Agriculture) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend The Wheat Cooperative Marketing Act, 1939, to provide for the calculation of initial payments paid to selling agencies, and also to grant authority for payment of liabilities of the minister under any agreement and of administrative expenses.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Vien in the chair.
Will the minister explain?


The first important
change is simply an enlargement of the definition of primary producer. At present primary producer means any person who is engaged in the production of wheat and it is intended to widen that definition to provide that "producer" shall be deemed to include any person entitled, as landlord, vendor, mortgagor or otherwise, or by contract or operation of law, to wheat grown by the producer, or any share therein. It makes provision whereby under a crop agreement a person entitled to a third of the crop may deliver under the act as well as a person entitled to two-thirds. The next section provides for the correction of an inaccuracy in connection with the wording in the definition of selling agency. Another section merely provides for wording to clarify the meaning of the section in the original act, and the remaining provisions are to make it possible for the minister to make any payment which may be necessary as a result of the operation of the act. The act now provides that if under the agreement entered into between the department and the selling agency the wheat is not sold for the full value of the advance, then the minister may pay the difference between the amount for which the wheat was sold and the amount of the advance. But there was no provision in the act giving authority to the minister to make the payment

Wheat Cooperative Marketing
and this section provides that authority. It also enables the minister to make payments on administrative costs.


The minister might at this stage give us more information with respect to this proposal. Speaking generally on the measure, not exactly to the amendment, I might say that last year I opposed a similar bill, from the standpoint that I did not think it necessary, that it did not serve any useful purpose and was intended-I think the term I then used was to succour the grain trade or salvage some of those who needed help and under present conditions I think the same observations would apply. The minister might tell us how the act worked last year, how many cooperatives were set up, the number of elevators and firms that went in, and what happened to many of the small independent dealers or operators in the trade. We might also have figures with respect to the amount of wheat marketed through the cooperatives. It is important that we should have a statement as to the losses sustained in their operations and what amount the government will have to pay to make up that loss, the difference between the guaranteed price of sixty cents-was it?


Fifty-six cents.


-and the price at which
they sold the wheat. I should think there would not be a very great loss because it was during only a very short time in the marketing season that wheat was below fifty-six cents. That also might be stated-for how long a period was the open market price below the guaranteed price? We should also have a statement as to the effect of the competitive selling by these cooperatives of wheat against the other organizations handling board wheat, for instance. Did any direct benefit accrue to the producers generally from this legislation?
The Turgeon. report distinctly recommended that the wheat board should be kept intact ready to operate, certainly in case of an emergency or crisis; and, I believe on the same page of the report, it stated that open market or exchange could not function in the case of an emergency. Surely we have an emergency now. From the information given yesterday by the Minister of Trade and Commerce it would appear that the wheat board will be called upon this year more than ever before to operate, especially if the grain exchange is closed.
As I see it, this proposed legislation more or less continues the competition. It is not necessary; no doubt the 