On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a question of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), but in his absence I shall put it to the government. I have just received a telegram from the editor of the Canadian Tribune stating that he has been advised verbally by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police of the temporary suspension of his paper. Is it the policy of the department to suspend without official written notice from the department to the publisher? If that is so, we should understand the position.


Mr. Speaker, I would assume the department would give official written notice; but whether written notice would be given in the first instance, or through an officer at the time of taking action, is a point I would have to leave to the Minister of Justice to assume. I expect the minister will be here to-morrow.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Pensions and National Health (Mr. Mackenzie) if at this session it is the intention of the minister to recommend the appointment of a standing committee of the house on health?
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Pensions and National Health): No, it is not.


On the orders of the day:
['This item will stand.\nItem stands.\nProgress reported.']
I wonder if the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. MacKinnon) would be prepared to give the house a statement as to the amount of wheat sold since August 1 last, to whom sold and the average price received? If he has not the information at hand to-day, perhaps he can give it to-morrow.


I have not, of
course, the information at hand, but I shall look into the matter referred to by the hon. member for Qu'Appelle and give some answer at the earliest possible moment.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Bradette in the chair.


S6. Departmental administration, $220,800.
Mr. MaoNICOL:	Yesterday the Prime
Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) was asked some questions in connection with the proposed agreement between Canada and the United States in connection with the St. Lawrence waterway. I should like to make an observation or two in reference to what I understand is to be part of that agreement.

Supply-External Affairs
On January 26 the Toronto Telegram contained an article entitled "Seaway Draft Includes Plan for Diversion," I should like to quote briefly from that article as follows:
Diversion of Ontario waters into the great lakes is provided for in the draft agreement reached at Ottawa between representatives of the Canadian and United States governments on development of the St. Lawrence, according to Doctor T. H. Hogg, chairman of the Ontario hydro commission.
The diversion plan would permit Ontario to flow water from the Albany river into the great lakes.
I presume that should really read "from the Albany river watershed into the great lakes." If that statement is correct, the proposed agreement will provide for the diversion of water from one watershed into another. I am very much concerned over this because I have covered the district thoroughly and am well acquainted with the situation in connection with the waterways of northern Ontario. Article 3 of the Boundary Waters treaty relating to boundary waters and questions arising between the United States and Canada, under which was set up the international joint commission, reads:
It is agreed that, in addition to the uses, obstructions, and diversions heretofore permitted or hereafter provided for by special agreement between the parties hereto, no further or other uses or obstructions or divesions, whether temporary or permanent, of boundary waters on either side of the line, affecting the natural level or flow of boundary waters on the other side of the line, shall be made except by authority of the United States or the dominion of Canada within their respective jurisdictions, and with the approval, as hereinafter provided, of a joint commission, to be known as the International Joint Commission.
When the proposed St. Lawrence treaty is passed by this house and by the United States congress, if this article states the matter correctly it will contain a clause permitting diversion of water from the Albany river watershed. The Albany is a wholly Canadian watershed; it belongs to the James and Hudson bays. In spite of what has been said to the contrary, this country will be settled at some time in the future. There may not be great numbers of farmers as there are in southern Ontario, but there is some fine arable land up there. Important mines will be developed, similar to those which are located east and west of this area. After this settlement occurs it will foe found that this water which may be diverted under the treaty is needed for the development of power to be used in the north. According to article 3 of the Boundary Waters treaty the United States congress would have to give its assent to the cessation of the flow of this water
southward once it has been diverted. In my judgment this water will be forever lost to northern Ontario as far as any future development is concerned.
I feel quite strongly on this question. I regret exceedingly that other hon. members are not denouncing this proposed diversion. In my judgment it is wholly unnecessary. I feel sorry for the Prime Minister. I do not think that he agrees wholly with this diversion, but the premier of Ontario has given him such an unpleasant time-I will go so far as to say that it is largely undeserved-that perhaps he thought he could be placated by letting him have the water from northern Ontario. I would not do that at all; I would fight him to the last ditch and not allow the diversion of any water from northern Ontario.
I have been trying to stir up northern Ontario over this question, but I have not been very successful; few people seem to be able to comprehend the significance of the loss of this water. At present the country is unsettled and people cannot appreciate its future needs. I was glad, however, to read an editorial in the Northern Tribune, which is published at Kapuskasing, a town which is represented by you, Mr. Chairman. The editor of this paper endorses the stand I have taken. I had hoped that all northern Ontario editors would rise to the defence of that section of the country. In my judgment this diversion will be nothing less than an outrageous tragedy.
I should like to quote briefly from what the editor of Northern Tribune has said. I feel he almost deserves a vote of thanks by this house for having had the courage to write this editorial. It reads:
The north has a good friend in parliament, in one respect at least. Mr. John R. MacNicol, M.P. for Davenport Toronto, has made almost a life study of the Hudson bay watersheds.
That was a nice thing for that editor to say about me, because I live at least a thousand miles away from the area I am talking about. He goes on:
In particular, Mr. MacNieol has contended that the water powers of the north belong to the north, as a pledge of her future, and he has strenuously opposed every proposed alienation of those water powers as diversion enterprises for the benefit of other areas. Unfortunately, his has been almost the only voice in parliament raised with any vigour to defend our interests; and so it is easy to understand why we can't make a successful fight.
This question is a very complex one, and its understanding requires considerable travel and study. I have been up and down these rivers, and I would that every hon. member would rise in his place and denounce the
Supply-External Affairs
proposed incorporation into this international treaty of the diversion of waters from northern Ontario. The editorial continues:
This newspaper has always maintained that the north's water powers and streams belonged to us up here and should be conserved. The very politicians and other orators who paint such glowing pictures of the future of Canada's north show by their attitude on this matter of water powers that they lack the conviction which should fortify their utterances. If we are going to have prosperous industrial centres and sound agricultural development adapted to the tempering climate, in the future so raptly envisioned, why are we now alienating the potential water powers that would be a necessity to ensure that future?
Alienating. for the present? No, not if the international treaty applies. But as a matter of fact they will be alienated forever, because, as the government well knows, the United States congress would never permit the stoppage of the flow of these waters once they were diverted. Why? What effect have they on the waters of the great lakes? They have none at present because Chicago is taking so .much extra water, but if Chicago can ever be stopped from robbing the waters of the great lakes, once you have .plants established all along the great lakes, riparian rights will be established alongside the harbours of the lower lakes and rivers based on the water levels thus established and the United States could never be prevailed upon to permit the stoppage of the flow of that water.
I do hope that the Prime Minister, if he feels this is necessary for the sake of peace between the government of Ontario and the government of Canada for the duration of the war, will see to it that a clause is put into the agreement providing that when the war ceases the diversion also shall cease and the water shall thenceforth belong to northern Ontario.
Diversion is being denounced everywhere. It is being denounced in congress and throughout the United States by their leading men. At the present time Chicago is again proposing to submit a bill to congress to ask for the diversion of more water. I am thoroughly familiar with the situation in Chicago. They find it perhaps more difficult than any other great city in the world to obtain the water supply required to take care of their domestic sanitary problems. While I am wholly opposed to their diversions I cannot wholly blame them. While I oppose them, I admit that they have the right to go after more diversions.
On January 13 of this year a meeting was held in Detroit of the Great Lakes Carriers' association, which was attended by the engineers of various great cities such as Milwaukee

and others along the shores of the great lakes. The secretary of the association, Mr. R. F. Malia, said this:
The state of Illinois intends asking .the supreme court on Monday to amend the decree handed down in 1930 restricting the Chicago diversion.
The report goes on to say:
Mr. Malia stated Illinois was expected to ask the supreme court .to permit the diversion of lake Michigan water to be increased from 1,500 cubic second feet to 5,000 cubic second feet.
That is exactly the amount that is going to be poured into lake Superior and finally into lake Huron and lake Michigan, and away would go our water at once, just as I predicted it would, if these diversions were allowed to take place. I have not the slightest doubt that the United States congress will in due course accede to the request of Chicago and the state of Illinois. They have their ears tuned to the political winds just as we have here, and had the Prime Minister not happened to have his ear attuned to the political winds in Canada I do not believe he would have tolerated these diversions for one second. But he was in a tight corner. The works for one of them had already been completed before they got the necessary permission. Just fancy a provincial government committing an act like that in violation of an international treaty without the consent of this government! But the provincial government proceeded to erect works on the Kenog-ami river, fourteen miles north of Long lake, cut through the height of land and constructed a canal through the international watershed, in spite of the opposition of this government. When these works were completed and $2,000,000 had been spent on them, they finally got the consent of this government to proceed and let the water flow. I would not have given my consent. I would have let those works rot until kingdom come before I would have allowed an international agreement to be set at naught.
The very same thing is going to happen again with the Ogoki river. I only wish I had the power or strength or knew what I could do to arouse public opinion in this matter-particularly in northern Ontario, Mr. Chairman, which is going to be the great loser; for a large volume of potential power on this river will be lost forever to northern Ontario. I have been trying my best, I frankly admit, to stir up Saskatchewan and Manitoba, but I have not yet made any headway. They have some interest in the matter because they have a great port on Hudson bay, the port of Churchill. I have been there and I predict that some day it will

Supply-External Affairs
be a great port. I do not know whether the diversion of water from Hudson bay will affect it or not, but the late Captain Bernier, in a letter from which I quoted last session, was of the opinion that it might. I have communicated with the engineers and the ministers of public works of Saskatchewan and Manitoba but I have not been able to get them to move yet. Manitoba and Saskatchewan should send delegations down here to protest against the inclusion in this agreement of anything that might at any time affect the levels of Hudson bay. I do not know that the levels would be affected. I have read an article that said that such a suggestion was silly. I am not engineer enough to know whether it is silly or not, but Captain Bernier was a great authority and I am prepared to take his word. He made some strong statements about the water levels of Hudson bay. He is dead and gone, but he was a very great engineer and sailor, and did a great deal for Canada. In my opinion he should have been knighted. He never received the recognition he deserved.
Now, let us review the position. Starting in the east, on the St. Croix river, at Grand Falls, or Sprague's falls, as it is sometimes called, there is a dam across the river at the international boundary, and the whole flow of the St. Croix river is now taken through the state of Maine and poured back into the river a little further down. That may be under an agreement between the province of New Brunswick and the government of the state of Maine; I do not know. But the fact which stands out is that the whole of the river goes through the state of Maine to be used for power purposes. Then, on the St. Lawrence river, the southern branch just east 'and south of Cornwall, as the Prime Minister knows,
25,000	second feet of water are diverted out of that river down to Massena, down the Grass river, and back into the St. Lawrence, in open defiance of the Ashburton-Webster treaty and our own international joint agreement. That condition was to last only until the end of the last war. The last war ended in 1918, and that water is diverted just as freely to-day as it flowed in 1918; we cannot stop it.
At the other end of the line, Chicago has taken 10,000 second feet. I do not know whether that has been reduced recently, but that is the amount they were allowed, and according to the article I read, application is to be made to take more than the 1,500 cubic second feet allowed by the supreme court.
I wish I could impress sufficiently upon the Prime Minister that when this treaty comes up again, whatever we are compelled to-day to do
for the so-called production of power, these points should be seriously examined. I do not believe the argument about power production. Just a short time ago the hydroelectric commission issued a statement that they have ample reserves of power; and surely to goodness 80,000 horse-power will not have any great effect on the production of munitions, particularly when they must have had more reserves of power than that.
Finally, to come back to where I began, if the diversion of the Kenogami river and the Ogoki river, two tributaries of the Albany, comes under the jurisdiction of the Boundary Waters treaty, the flow could never be stopped without the consent of the United States congress. That means that from lake Superior to James bay there would be a corridor right across northern Ontario over which we would have surrendered our sovereignty as far as the absolute control of our water goes, and as to which we would be subject to the consent of the government of the country to the south. I have not a word other than the kindest to say of the government of the United States. In that country we have the best neighbours in the world; we should thank God for such neighbours. But that fact would never induce me to surrender any sovereignty which this country has. It may be that water has to be poured into the great lakes, but that is not my opinion, because I believe that if the Warren report of 1921 and the report of the engineering board of review of 1920 were carried out at Niagara Falls, there would be ample water on both sides of the river. The reports state that we both can take 10,000 second feet, and the level of lake Erie would be raised as it should be, and the building of the proposed works in the Niagara river would likely not cost more than is going to be squandered in northern Ontario.
We are told that those commitments will cost $3,000,000, but having in mind what the Chippewa canal cost as compared with what we were told it would cost, and having in mind also the disparity between the estimated and the actual cost of the Kenogami works, I have not the slightest doubt that the cost of the northern Ontario works will be many millions more than we are told it will be. And that expenditure it is proposed to make in war time. Those bon. members who come from the west via the Canadian National railways passed recently the station of Ferland, north of lake Michigan. What did they see there? They saw large piles of equipment and numbers of men going up to build a railway and construction works to take material up to Wa-boose falls, on the Ogoki river; and this in war time, when men are needed in much more
Supply-External Affairs
important places than in the bush, and where next summer they will encounter hordes of mosquitoes and black flies. That is where the grandfathers of the black flies come from; they are so big that they take a cube of a quarter of an inch out of one's neck, and send word back to their relations to come and get some more like it. If I were prime minister of Canada-which would be impossible-I would not allow this work to go on while men can be employed elsewhere much more effectively. While our school children are denying themselves ice cream cones and picture shows in order to buy war savings stamps, these millions should not be squandered in northern Ontario. I would not allow it; it is unnecessary. I repeat this because I want to make it as impressive as I can. If the Prime Minister is compelled to insert in that agreement that the waters shall be diverted from northern Ontario, it should be stipulated that diversion shall continue only until the war is over. The war cannot last, I hope, more than three or four years, and it would take that length of time to do the work, so that it may well be delayed until the termination of the war.
I should like to make a few remarks, as member for Port Arthur, in reply to the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNicoI). I seldom speak in this chamber as member for Port Arthur, and I think there is a feeling in my riding that I have come to be too much of a statesman and too little a member for the constituency. Port Arthur is a great riding. It is large in area. It extends from the boundary of Fort William east past White River, and from the shores of lake Superior to the shores of James bay. In that riding is the entire development which the hon. member for Davenport has been discussing-the Ogoki and the Long Lac diversions.
My hon. friend is a great friend of the north country. He is, I believe, one of the few members who have gone as far north as Churchill to make himself familiar with northern conditions. I believe that he has toured the Ogoki country and made himself familiar with that section. But in my opinion, I am sorry to say, he looks at the north from the viewpoint of Toronto. Looking out from his home in Toronto over lake Ontario-and a most beautiful view it is-I fear that his vision is foreshortened, that he cannot appreciate the vast expanse and huge development of the northern ridings which you, Mr. Chairman, and I represent. His discussion would lead the house to believe that the Ogoki is being diverted wholly to provide water power at Niagara falls. We have no objection to supplying water for Niagara falls

provided we get the use of the water in the north; and I am happy to say in connection with this particular diversion that we do get a very material benefit from this development, in the north itself. The Ogoki water is diverted into lake Nipigon. From lake Nipigon to lake Superior, a distance of about fifty-five miles, it passes through two separate power developments, both of which, I may say, are in operation and developing power. In the course of that passage it develops, I believe, an additional 110,000 horse-power- certainly over 100,000 and possibly 125,000. Similarly, from the water that is diverted into the Long Lac-and there again we have a ready-made development-there is a potential horse-power of 35,000. My hon. friend suggests that it is far better to keep the water running into Hudson bay. I hope to see all parts of my riding equally developed. I believe we have a magnificent country there and I expect to be the member until the population along the borders of Hudson bay about equals the population along the borders of lake Superior. At the present time, however, for some reason the population has become established along the shores of lake Superior. We have two large cities there and fifteen or twenty thriving communities, all forming a part of the riding, and all adjoining lake Superior. In that area there are very considerable war industries. In Fort William we have the largest aeroplane plant in Canada, giving employment to about one-third of the entire number of persons engaged in the aeroplane industry in the whole of Canada.


What are they making?


Hurricanes, the aeroplanes that are winning the war; and they are turning them out at the present time at the rate of fifteen a week. In Port Arthur we have a shipbuilding plant that has a splendid record in the production of corvettes for the Canadian navy. We have other war industries in these towns. We have a large mining industry which is served from the Nipigon power development. We have in the Long Lac mining fields, which obtain power wholly from the plants I am speaking of, a large production of gold which is greatly needed to provide exchange for war industry. At the head of the lakes we have four pulp and paper mills. While these are not producing gold they are producing pulp and paper which is so largely used in the United States and which is converted into gold. We are short of power in that area. In the north we believe, and my hon. friend will find it rather difficult to convince the people at the head of the lakes otherwise, that it is good business to divert

Supply-External Affairs
water now flowing into Hudson bay into the more populous part of that area and to use that power at the head of the lakes.


I am not trying to convert them. I am opposed) to it.


The hon. member will have
some difficulty in proving that it is not good business. Then, as the water flows into lake Superior, I may say, speaking as member for Port Arthur, I lose interest pretty well at that point, but it has served its purpose to the people I represent, though as Minister of Munitions I retain a lively interest in it. It passes through Sault Ste. Marie and there it generates power which is badly needed for the great steel industry at that point. It then flows on to Niagara, and through the generosity of the United States government it is not necessary to wait until the water actually flows down, which will take some time. Instead we are able immediately to use this flow from Ogoki for the production of power at Niagara Falls to serve existing plants.
My hon. friend speaks lightly of the value of 125,000 horse-power at Niagara falls.


It is 80,000; that is
45,000	less.


It depends on how you look at it. I was taking the combination of two different developments which would represent 125,000.


This will be developed
beside the falls.


Well, we will compromise
between 80,000 and 125,000 and call it 100,000. My hon. friend, being a reasonable man, will not object to that, I am sure.


I state the facts, and the fact is that it is 80,000.


I cannot for the life of me understand why the minister should refer to Toronto. The diversion of water might help Toronto through the development of power and therefore, from the minister's point of view, I ought to be in favour of it. But I am looking at the broad picture. I wonder how the minister will be able to develop power on the Ogoki when it is required, or on the Kenogami. I have been on these rivers and I know there are fine falls on them. On lake Ogoki there is a suitable place for settlement by and by. Where will they get their power? From the Albany fifty miles to the north; but that water should stay there for development in that area. Port Arthur can get ample power without that. There are four magnificent falls on the Nipigon river south of the outlet of the lake. One of them, one of the most beautiful I have ever seen, is the Virgin falls. From all four, over 100,000 horse-power could be produced. If power is required at Port Arthur why are not the falls on the Nipigon river developed at once, as they can be? They have developed Cameron and Alexander falls, where I believe there are one hundred thousand horsepower, and the other falls would produce another 100,000 horse-power. I should think the minister would be up on his feet fighting for the territory he represents; there are only black flies and mosquitoes there now, but later there will be many people and they will want power.
Supply-External Affairs


I should like to discuss this problem briefly but from a point of view different from that taken by the minister and the hon. member who has just sat down (Mr. MacNicol). I wish to say a word concerning the harnessing of this energy at Cornwall. The constituency which I represent, similarly to that of the hon. member for Grenville-Dundas (Mr. Casselman) will be materially affected by the proposed development of the St. Lawrence waterway, from the point of view both of navigation and of power. If the project is proceeded with by the single-stage scheme, with a control dam, there will be built at Barnhart island a dam and power house which will affect in a substantial manner the whole face of the town of Cornwall and the countryside surrounding it. Since it is not yet known what the terms of the agreement will be and how the east end of the river will be affected, it is impossible at this moment to say just what may happen so far as Cornwall itself is concerned. What we do know, however, is that the elevation of Cornwall is much below that of the development upstream, the consequence being that certain dykes will have to be constructed to protect Cornwall.
On the other hand great advantages will be derived from this development, and in discussing this scheme with the people in that vicinity, I find that in principle they are in favour of it. Unquestionably some of the effects may be detrimental. The hon. member for Grenville-Dundas spoke of the flooding. It is true that there will be a great deal of flooding, with a single-stage development much more than with a double-stage development. He spoke of 26,000 acres as likely to be flooded; I suppose that, included both sides of the river. On this estimate a great deal of the countryside will be flooded, and, as he said last evening, much of the property of those settlers whose ancestors have been there for perhaps a hundred and fifty years or more will suffer on that account. It may be not unwise to suggest, with great respect and deference, the setting up of an arbitration court to deal with such matters. If the legal aspect of the problem alone be considered it may be that the replacement value will be the only return the owner will get if expropriation follows. Therefore I suggest the setting up of an arbitration court with reference to the flooding.
My hon. friend spoke of inability to obtain maps. I have had the same difficulty. I presume the reason is that the agreement has not yet been concluded. I have tried on more than one occasion to get such maps and each 
time have been refused. I believe, however, that there is a map in the office of one of the engineers which anyone can see if he wishes.
I should like to say a word as to the navigation aspect of the matter. The canal in connection with this scheme will be in United States territory. We know that there are good reasons for that from an engineering standpoint. I do not want to go into that now; I shall probably have an opportunity to do so later. But there is one thing concerning that canal which vitally affects the town of Cornwall. The canal follows the south channel of the river, going through United States territory and coming out at one extremity between Cornwall island and St. Regis point, thereby entirely avoiding the town of Cornwall. With very little additional expense the canal could be made to go through the island of Cornwall and come out immediately opposite the port of Cornwall, giving added advantage to the town, where unquestionably industry will follow in coming years. If that is not done, then as far as deep sea navigation is concerned Cornwall will be entirely off the map. With
2,200,000	horse-power at its door it would be unfortunate were this suggestion not to be given the careful consideration it deserves.
I also, with the hon. member for Grenville-Dundas, was a member of the delegation which waited upon the Minister of Public Works. I believe the delegation was unanimous in approving this project in principle. They may have been divided so far as the question of a one-stage or two-stage scheme is concerned. I think the people in that vicinity consider also that on the whole the agreement will be not only in the best interests of the community immediately affected but in the best interests of the people of Canada.


This morning I heard a broadcast over a C.B.C. radio station to the effect that it is the intention to go ahead with a one-stage development. Undoubtedly that development will involve a tremendous amount of property damage. But do not let that stand in our way; let us go on with the work. When the Prime Minister makes his announcement of policy respecting the export of power let him tell us, and everyone in the United Kingdom, that there is unanimity of opinion on the part of this government and the government in Ontario, so that those people overseas who are looking for places to establish big industries will look with favour on Canada and particularly on the possibilities offered by the St. Lawrence development.


The proposed St. Lawrence development is a matter of such vital importance to the people of Quebec that we cannot view it with unconcern, especially as we are threatened with seeing it carried out without having been submitted to the approval of the electors of Quebec or of Canada.
The province of Quebec has always strongly objected to the proposed development as being contrary to its own interests as well as to the general interest of Canada. From 1930 to 1935 the head of the Quebec Liberal government, Hon. Alexandre Taschereau, unceasingly fought the proposal, which he condemned in the most unequivocal terms. From 1936 to 1939 the National Union government led by Hon. Mr. Duplessis constantly and vigorously opposed the project. And at the present session of the Quebec legislature the opposition has taken further means to obtain information respecting the position and views of the Quebec government in its relations with the dominion government on the subject. This information the premier, Hon. Mr. Godbout, refused to give.
Recently I placed on the order paper of the house a request for the tabling of all correspondence exchanged between the dominion government and the Quebec government on the subject. Hon. members are aware that the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) refused to table this correspondence, under the fallacious pretext that to do so would be to divulge information that should remain confidential between the governments of Canada and the United1 States.
It is unthinkable that we should have to face the possibility of this proposal being carried out without having been submitted to the approval of the people of Canada and especially of the provinces more directly concerned. It is unbelievable. It is inconceivable. In collusion with our provincial govern-

ment, contrary to our interests and in spite of our opposition, the government is about to alienate our chief source of wealth. Once more, I reiterate my request that the government table the correspondence exchanged with the Quebec government, in order that the people may know how our resources and interests are being dealt with, in collusion, as I have said, with the provincial government which has not submitted! the question to the people either.
Since the people of Quebec are opposed to the proposed development and have not been declared incapable of managing their own affairs, they are entitled to be kept informed regarding the tergiversations of the two governments-federal and provincial-and the means taken to carry out the plan.


The discusion on the St. Lawrence waterway opened with some remarks by the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MaoNicol). With respect to the engineering aspect of the question I feel that what has been said by my colleague, the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe) covers all that the committee would wish to have at this stage in the way of reply to my hon. friend. There was, however, one particular appeal which he made to me, that I be not unduly influenced by the attitude of the Ontario government. May I say to him quite frankly that with regard to this, as with all public questions, I have tried to maintain an attitude which is not influenced either by fear or favour. So far as the Ontario government or any other provincial government is concerned, that is and has been and always will be my attitude. However, when concerned with public affairs, I always greatly welcome harmony and accord as being wholly preferable to discord. I must say it has been a pleasant experience to have had the cooperation which the federal government has had from the government of Ontario in such negotiations as have recently been carried on with the province of Ontario respecting the St. Lawrence waterway.
Last evening the hon. member for Grenville-Dundas (Mr. Casselman) spoke particularly with reference to the situation of Morrisburg. He asked if it would not be possible for him to see the plans as they might affect the constituency which he represents in this house. This morning I had a word with the legal adviser of the Department of External Affairs and he informed; me that as the plans are not final, and cannot be so in the nature of things until the whole matter has been concluded between the United States and Canada, if it is, it would not be advisable to give

Supply-External Affairs
publicity to them in their present stage because there may be modifications that would 'be considered 'before the final adjustments are made. There cannot, however, be any objection to my hon. friend calling at the department and asking Mr. Read, the legal adviser, to show him the plans. This, I may say, will be gladly done. May I add that Mr. Read is of the opinion that it should' be possible at an early date to have reproductions of the plans prepared and published. His memorandum to me states that the final plans for the development of the international rapids section have not 'been settled and cannot be settled finally until after the conclusion of an agreement or treaty with the United States and the setting up of an international commission which, among other things, would be charged with the duty of the preparation of the final plans. It is impossible, therefore, at the present stage to indicate with precision the limits of flooding, or even the locations of dams, power houses and other works. It is, however, possible to show in a general way the nature of the development and the limits of the flooding. He then goes on to say that a plan has been prepared, but it cannot be made available for general publication without the concurrence of the United States authorities. But it is hoped that reproductions may be made generally available in the near future.


I thank the Prime Minister and I assure him that I shall be very glad to call at Mr. Read's office.


I am glad it has been possible to meet my hon.'friend's wishes in that particular. May I say also that I regard it as being fortunate that this discussion should have taken place this afternoon. Important suggestions have been put forward by hon. members who have spoken, such as the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNicol), the hon. member for Stormont (Mr. Chevrier), the hon. member for Danforth (Mr. Harris), and others. The hon. member for Stormont referred to an aspect of the development which would affect the port of Cornwall. I cannot say more at the moment than that I shall see that what he has said is brought to the attention of the officials who have the matter in charge with a view to having his suggestions carefully considered.
The hon. member for Danforth has asked me to make a statement as to the government's policy with regard to the export of power. I think that our policy in that regard is pretty generally known and has been clearly defined in the past. In a word, it is not to permit the
alienation of power from Canada. I would define that as being the policy of the present government with regard to the export of power. Of course, it is possible that in certain circumstances it might be advisable to have provision made, when there is a surplus of power in Canada, to permit such surplus being used temporarily to meet a special situation in an adjoining country. The use of surplus power to serve a temporary purpose and to prevent waste, while carefully securing the interests of Canada with regard to its power development in its entirety, is quite another matter than permitting export in the nature of alienation. I agree with the hon. member for Danforth that it cannot be made too clear that the government of Canada believes that there are tremendous opportunities in this country for industrial development, and that those opportunities will be vastly enhanced as additional power is developed. It is the purpose of the government to further in as rapid a way as may be possible those measures which will serve to increase the industrial development of this country.
Last night I gave offhand a statement of the situation as regards the agreement with the United States which is being made the subject of negotiation at the present time. Not having the exact information before me at that time, I feel it might be advisable for the sake of the record to make a further brief statement which will outline with greater precision the present stage of the negotiations.
The negotiations with the United States with regard to the St. Lawrence development took place in Ottawa and Washington in January, 1940. They were deferred and resumed later in September when a proposal was made, which culminated in the exchange of notes on October 14, enabling diversion of the Ogoki and Long Lac waters into lake Superior and the immediate utilization of
5,000	cubic feet per second at Niagara. The use of this water commenced at the beginning of November. Under the exchange of notes, temporary great lakes-St. Lawrence basin committees were set up by the two governments to work in cooperation and to supervise engineering investigations, with a view to facilitating work, in the event of the conclusion of an agreement. These committees have been carrying on their work at Ottawa, Washington, and Massena. General negotiations with representatives of the United States took place at the beginning of January, 1941, and a draft agreement has now been prepared and is under consideration by the governments.
Negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement with Ontario for the taking over of the power works in the St. Lawrence, in the
Supply-External Affairs

event of the conclusion of an agreement with the United States, were carried out in the autumn of 1939 and resumed in April and December, 1940, and again in February of this year. The agreement has been prepared and is under consideration by the governments. Then, with respect to the province of Quebec, there are certain aspects of the St. Lawrence development which are of interest to the province of Quebec and negotiations were carried out in the autumn of 1940 and at the end of January of this year with respect thereto. They are still under consideration by the governments.
That is the position as it is at the moment, and that I think is as much information as I would be justified in giving to the committee at this stage.


Mr. Chairman, I had not intended to take any part in this discussion of the St. Lawrence waterway because I apprehend that there will be, I hope at least there will be, ample opportunity for such discussion at a later stage before the development becomes operative, if it ever does so become.
In the first place I should like to make this general observation, that Canada should, as intimated by the member for Danforth (Mr. Harris), confine her expenditures of large sums of money at the present time to the conduct of the war, and this development in my view can by no stretch of the imagination be called a war measure.
Without at this time making any further declarations for or against the policy of entering into the construction of the St. Lawrence waterway project, I should like to revert for a moment to the statement which the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has just made on the question of government policy. It may be of some interest if I refer to a debate that took place in this house as long ago as the 15th day of June, 1925, during my first term as a member of this house. The then member for Lambton West, Mr. LeSueur, on a motion of the minister of railways that the house go into committee of supply, moved in amendment:
That the Speaker do not now leave the chair, but that it be resolved:
That in the opinion of this house the export of hydro-electric power from Canada should be permitted only on yearly licence, and no licence should be issued beyond those at present outstanding except for off-peak power.
I had the honour to second that amendment. I cannot 'honestly say that I was able at the time to contribute very much to the sum total of the knowledge of the House of Commons, but there were those who did. Among those who participated were the then

leader of the opposition, Right Hon. Arthur Meighen, and the present Prime Minister, who was at that time also prime minister. I find upon looking up the record that my memory is substantially correct, that there was a suggested amendment which met I think with the unanimous approval of the house. That amendment was suggested by the right hon. gentleman himself, as I recall it; I have not taken the time to go through the whole record. But this is what was moved and finally agreed upon, and it will be found at page 4288 of the debates of the house for the 1925 session, if anybody is interested in looking up the discussion:
That in the opinion of this house the export of hydro-electric power from Canada should be permitted only on yearly licence, and that hereafter no licence for export of power beyond that already granted should be issued except with the concurrence of the province or provinces in which it is proposed to develop such power and of any other provinces adjacent to such development and interested therein.
It will be noted that the principle against the export of power is there stated, and no exception is made with respect to off-peak or surplus power. But a very important consideration was imported into the opinion then expressed by the house, namely, that "no licence for export of power beyond that already granted should be issued except with the concurrence of the province or provinces in which it is proposed to develop such power and of any other provinces adjacent to such development and interested therein." As I understand it, that was the policy laid down by parliament at that time and assented to by all parties represented in the house. In substance the Prime Minister's declaration of policy to-day does not depart from the principle therein stated.
The Prime Minister has used the word "alienated." I interpret that to be synonymous with non-permission to export, and if I am wrong I wish the Prime Minister would correct me. The Prime Minister, as I have understood his declaration on that point in the short address which he made, stated it was the policy of the government not to permit the alienation of power in Canada, and I have interpreted that in the sense I have endeavoured to express.
The Prime Minister did raise the question of the use of surplus power and intimated that an exception would be made in certain circumstances with respect to the alienation of surplus power. That is an exception which hon. gentlemen who think the matter through will agree has very far-reaching implications. Surplus power is in a measure a technical term. It may be synonymous with off-peak power. I am not a technician and I do not

Supply-External Affairs
know the effect of all these technical terms. But I do know this, that history has taught us and the experience of this country has been that once a licence is given for the export of power, whether it be prime power, if that be the correct term to use, or surplus power, or off-peak power, that power is gone for good, once and for all, and may never be brought back. I think that is the history of the export of power in Canada.
In the past there have been two schools of thought on this subject. I remember very well a very good friend of mine in this house for many years who took the view that surplus power, power which was not at present being consumed in Canada or which might not be immediately needed for consumption in Canada, was a commodity which this country might very well sell to bring in a financial return which would redound to the benefit of the people of Canada. That I always thought was rather a short term view of the whole question. It might bring in an immediate return, which would of course be recurrent in its nature, but, taking the long view, that power would be gone, and gone for good, and would never be available for industry in Canada, something that we have been endeavouring to stimulate and build up in this country for many years.
If I interpret the Prime Minister's remarks correctly, the government are leaving the door open so that as and when circumstances warrant a substantial portion of the power developed under agreement or treaty or whatever it may be will be available for export from Ontario to the United States. I warn the Prime Minister here and now that in my view such a policy will not redound finally to the benefit of Canada.
I am intrigued by the idea which has been suggested to me that one of the fundamental considerations which has induced Ontario to go into this development is that they might be permitted to export a part of this power. It ought to be made clear to this house and to the country, if the government of Ontario in the course of these negotiations with the federal authorities have raised that question, just what the attitude of the federal government is in that regard. Is it to be in the agreement? We ought to know. In the interests of the future industrial life of Ontario this, in my view, ought not to be permitted, and I warn the Prime Minister of the danger of leaving open a loophole for export of so-called surplus power or off-peak power, or whatever you may call it. It is all a valuable commodity, something which may be required in the future of industry in this country.
So far as I know, from the point of view of Canada the only possible excuse for the development at the present moment of this project is that a shortage of power is threatened in Ontario. I am not in a position to speak about that. I should have supposed that, if that were so, there is ample opportunity to develop power at sites other than the international section of the St. Lawrence and bring it into operation months and years ahead of the production from this development now under consideration, and thus be available to supply power in case of a shortage.
Be that as it may, the point I am endeavouring to make is this. Is it a condition precedent to entering into an agreement with Ontario that the hydro electric commission of that province, a government department controlled by the province, are to have the right to export power from this development? Second, has the government gone so far as to agree to that principle? A word on these points from the Prime Minister would be reassuring. He may say that the agreement has not yet been concluded. I assume that is correct; I have no reason for thinking otherwise; and I want to warn the Prime Minister that the people of Canada, and in particular the people of Ontario, will be watching this whole thing to see whether the government of Ontario are predicating their assent to an agreement with respect to the development of the St. Lawrence waterwa