It is with regret that on behalf of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), I have to inform the house of the death of one of our most esteemed colleagues, the member for St. Mary, Montreal, Doctor Hermas Deslauriers. Doctor Deslauriers was one of the deans of the house, having come to parliament twenty-four years ago and having been reelected at every subsequent general election. This remarkable tribute of confidence from one of the largest constituencies of the metropolis of Canada speaks more eloquently than any words of the sterling qualities, the fine character and the public spirit of our late friend.
In his extensive medical practice Doctor Deslauriers came in daily contact particularly with the working men of Montreal, and he was always ready to defend their interests and present their claims to the proper solution of social problems.
In this parliament Doctor Deslauriers has always been a loyal, conscientious, courteous and genial colleague, and his passing will be deeply regretted.
(Translation) Mr. Speaker, to Mrs. Deslauriers and her children I wish to convey the sympathy of the house in their sad bereavement, and I ask Your Honour to do so on our behalf.


My colleagues and I desire to be associated with the tribute which the right hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) has just paid to the memory of the member for St. Mary, Montreal. We wish to join as well in the expression of sympathy which is to be conveyed to his widow and family.

Doctor Deslauriers was a familiar figure in this house, although in recent years his voice was not often heard. As the Minister of Justice has said, he has been continuously a member of this house since 1917, a very long record indeed. It is a tribute to his popularity among the people whom he represented.
In performing this sad duty, one cannot but reflect on the high mortality rate exacted by public life. Since the last election, five of the members of this house have been called in death. This sad fact indicates only too clearly the strain and stress placed upon those who undertake public service. It is, if I may say so, a reminder to all of us here that by tolerance and moderation in this house we may help to relieve in some measure the strain which is incident to public service.


On behalf of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation group I express our deepest regret at the death of Doctor Deslauriers. He served this country in the capacity of a member of this house for twenty-four years, and, as the right hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) stated, he did so to the benefit of the community which he represented. We wish therefore to join in the expression of regret at the loss of a member of this house and of sympathy to his bereaved family.


The members of the Social Credit group also desire to associate themselves with the government and the opposition in their expressions of regret at the loss of this good man. We desire to extend to his bereaved ones our sympathy in their hour of grief.
Hon. PIERRE F. CASGRAIN (Secretary of State): I wish to add a few remarks to the truly appropriate words with which the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) expressed the sorrow felt by the house at the death of the member for St. Mary's.
Doctor Deslauriers was a personal friend of mine; we entered parliament on the same day. He was one of the senior members of the house. The immense majorities by which he was returned at every general election show how highly his constituents approved his conduct as a public man and appreciated his great worth.
Deslauriers had no enemies. Humble, modest, deeply devoted to the cause of the people, he was also the poor man's doctor. Innately kind and compassionate, he was ever ready to do a good turn to all who knocked at his door.

Privilege-Mr. Cockeram
By the people among whom he lived, his passing will be deeply felt. He will be long regretted. To his bereaved family and to his electors whom he loved, I offer my most sincere sympathy.
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temiscouata) (Translation): Mr. Speaker, it is with deep sorrow that I learned this morning of the death of one of my neighbours in this house, Dr. Deslauriers, who has just been spoken of in such eloquent words of well-deserved praise. He was not an old man, having died in his sixty-second year. Born in a family of farmers at St. Charles de Richelieu, a parish of patriots, he owned a model farm in the eastern townships and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to show to his colleagues the magnificent ears of wheat he produced on it.
He was the right-hand man of Hon. Mederic Martin, at one time a member of this house and mayor of Montreal, and now a member of the Legislative Council of the province of Quebec, whom he succeeded as member for St. Mary's division in the House of Commons. The majorities by which he was returned bear witness to his popularity. His constituency had elected a Liberal member ever since 1896. The largest majority given prior to his election was 2,177, for Mr. Martin, in 1911. In 1917 Dr. Deslauriers was returned by acclamation; in 1921, by a majority of 10,757; in 1925, by 10,704; in 1926, by 11,957; in 1930, by 10,444; in 1935, by 5,639, and finally in 1940- a striking tribute to his popularity-by 18,400, one of the largest majorities, probably the second largest, in the whole country. He was, as has been noted, an excellent physician and throughout his constituency he was known as the poor man's doctor. However, his reputation extended beyond that. He also performed wonders in the field of agriculture. The immense majorities he obtained were doubtless due to the fact that, as a doctor, he had brought into the world quite a number of his electors who showed him their gratitude by voting for him.
Dr. Deslauriers took an active interest in social matters. He never lost sight of the interests of his electors, whom he met each weekend, and he will be remembered as a conscientious member of parliament, ever faithful to his duty, and a model Liberal. His passing is regretted by all who knew him. I offer my sincere sympathies to Mrs. Deslauriers and to her children, one of whom is a fellow-member of the bar.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of personal privilege, to discuss a matter which I am convinced involves a principle of the utmost importance. I am a member of this House of Commons; I am also an officer in his majesty's forces, in the Canadian active army. In my capacity as a member of parliament I attended a meeting of the political party to which I belong in the riding which I represent. I was asked to discuss the status and development of Canada's war effort as I saw it and the present military situation in Canada. As a member of parliament, answerable to the people of this country and the people of my riding, I believed that it was my right and my duty to comment on the situation as I appreciated it.
What I said did not meet with the approval of the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Ralston). He wrote a letter to me which raises a very important question as to my personal privileges as a member of this house, and also in regard to the status of every member of parliament who wears his majesty's uniform. The issue raised thereby and therein is of the utmost importance to me and to every member who now wears or may in future wear his majesty's uniform of any of our armed forces. As it affects others besides myself, and as the course to be followed is one which should be clearly understood, I place the facts before the members of this house and ask for their guidance.
I have deferred raising this question before, partly on account of my military duties and partly because, as I am free to confess, it seemed to me that the minister's letter was more or less of an ultimatum demanding that I resign my commission, or keep quiet-that is, unless I undertake to avoid any discussion of the most important of all subjects for discussion at this time. After considerable thought I have decided that this is a question of great principle and magnitude, upon which I should not compromise, and I rise therefore not only for my own benefit but for the benefit of other members of parliament now in uniform or who may be in uniform in the future, so that they will know what their position really is.
I will now read the letter written to me by the Minister of National Defence. It is dated April 16, and was delivered to me on April 22. The ietter is as follows:
Ottawa, 16th April, 1941. Dear Major Cockeram:-	_
A newspaper report of a speech which you made in Toronto was brought to my attention
Privilege-Mr. Cocker am

the other day. I felt that it called for some notice by me.
I am writing you now not as Minister of .National Defence but as a fellow member of parliament and as one who has occupied the dual position which you now hold, namely, representing a constituency in the legislature and at the same time being an officer in his majesty's forces.
I know it is hard to define the line between these two functions, but I really think that there is a line and a very definite one between them. Your duties as a member of parliament entitle you to express your opinions in the fullest possible way on all public matters, but your obligations as an officer are governed by King's Regulations and Orders which require that an officer restrain himself from any expression of opinion regarding the administration of the army otherwise than through the recpgnized channels, namely, by way of complaint to superior officers.
Obviously, an officer who is not a member of parliament cannot, consistently with his obligations and while serving, express himself publicly as you have done at a political gathering and if an officer, simply by being a member of parliament, is not bound by the regulations, then officers who are so bound have a right to feel that they are being discriminated against in requiring that they adhere to the rules.
In this respect, the two functions, if you want to exercise them to the full, must inevitably come in conflict, and the only way in which a man can carry out his functions is to decide that the exercise of his rights as a member of parliament will be limited by his obligations to the service.
If be cannot do that, then obviously the 'man-fashion" thing to do is to abandon the attempt to hold both positions. The army obviously cannot make "fish of one and flesh of another" and there is nothing in king's regulations which excepts members of parliament, or anybody else for that matter, from the age-old restriction which prohibits officers discussing publicly matters which affect the administration of the service.
I think that it is possible for a man to perform his duty to his constituents and at the same time to refrain from exercising special privileges as an officer which are not open to his brother officers, but the individual must, of course, decide whether he is willing to do that.
I have already had before me the case of a member of parliament who did not happen to be of your political faith, who expressed opinions in public regarding administration and who was dealt with promptly and told that, if he felt that his duties as a member of parliament prevented him from observing Ins obligations as an officer, then there was no alternative but for him to choose which function he felt he should perform and that in so far as there was conflict, the rules governing the conduct of officers would have to be observed while he remained an officer.


I wonder if the hon. member would mention the name of the officer?


I do not know the name; this is the minister's letter. To continue:
I just mention this to let you know that you are not being singled out in any way for this note of caution.

I want to believe that you did not understand just what the situation was, but, as I say, I am writing you as a fellow member of parliament to give you the views I have just expressed for your consideration as a citizen of Canada.
I trust that you can adapt yourself to the situation so that you can carry on in both capacities, but I did think that I should remind you of what you must realize and of what you may have inadvertently overlooked in the instance in question.
For obvious reasons, I have not discussed at all the merits of what you are reported to have said. If you are a member of parliament, these things will be discussed in the proper place, but if you are an officer, the subject is not open for discussion.
Yours very truly,
J. L. Ralston.
I do not intend to discuss the viewpoint expressed in the letter, which speaks for itself. I merely wish to point out one very contradictory aspect of this letter. It starts by stating that it is not being written to me by the Minister of National Defence in his capacity as Minister of National Defence, but merely as a member of parliament. It then goes on to say, however, that disciplinary action has been taken against another member of this house. The Minister of National Defence, who in his letter first assures me that he is not writing as such, then makes this comment:
I just mention this to let you know that you are not being singled out in any way for this note of caution.
This comment makes it abundantly clear that the Minister of National Defence did not intend me to treat this letter merely as an expression of his opinion as a private member, but that he did intend it to be received as a note of caution and warning from the Minister of National Defence in his capacity as such. And as Minister of National Defence he then went on to lay before me the alternative that I must remain silent upon the general public aspect of military matters, although they are an inseparable part of Canada's war effort, or resign my commission.
I challenge that position. The Minister of National Defence says that at least one other hon. member has been similarly threatened. I believe it is my duty, therefore, Mr. Speaker, to lay the facts before you. I think this is a matter upon which there should be a clear understanding on the part of every hon. member of this house. It is a subject which will assume increasing importance as time goes on. I think it is a matter of supreme importance that the democratic principle of the right and duty of members of parliament truly to express themselves on public matters must prevail. I have not criticized my superior officers. I have criticized matters of public policy, but

Privilege-Mr. Cockeram
have not divulged any information that has come to me in my capacity as a member of the armed forces; and on that basis my remarks are wholly in order and fully justified.


I had not the faintest idea, Mr. Speaker, that this matter was to be brought up to-day. I have seen the hon. member quite a number of times, but he has never mentioned this matter which I do feel was something with regard to which some notice should have been given if it were to be discussed.
I say to the hon. member quite frankly that before I wrote him the letter I did have some consultation, though not with anyone in authority in the Canadian forces; I endeavoured to find out what had been the practice in Great Britain. I was informed that there, in a case which seemed to me somewhat similar, the course which I adopted with regard to my hon. friend had been taken by the then minister; that is to say, not to write him an official letter, not to- give instructions to officers that he be brought up on the carpet, as it were, to answer for anything that had been said, but simply to write- him a note in, a personal capacity in- order that he might have the views -of one who happened to be a member of this house and who also happened to occupy the position of Minister of National Defence; and who, some years ago, was in somewhat the same position when he happened to be a member of the- provincial-legislature and at the same time an officer of his majesty's forces. And I wrote the letter in that spirit.
My hon. friend says the letter was not written as the letter of a private member at all, and that it was intended as a threa-t. I say to my hon. friend that if a threat had been intended I would not have bothered to write the letter; I would have taken the usual military procedure in -this connection in order to have the matter properly dealt with by the military authorities. But I did not do that in this case; I wrote the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker-


Order.


I wrote my hon. friend
what I thought was a courteous letter; what I thought was a letter which might go from one member of this house to another; what I thought might be regarded as a letter from one officer and gentleman to another officer and gentleman. And I am a little surprised that without notice at all my hon. friend should bring up the matter in this house in this way.
I am not going to deal with the merits of the case this afternoon. I do not know what
disposition my hon. friend desires made of this matter. But I am going to say that I recognize, as well as anyone in this house, the difficulties which confront members who happen also to be officers of his majesty's forces; and I think I have been just as tolerant as I possibly could be in that respect, having regard to what I consider to be the public duties of members. But I do feel that my hon. friend and members of this house generally ought to realize that there cannot be discrimination between those who are members of his majesty's forces; that a member of parliament cannot put on the uniform and still transgress or infringe upon the usual regulations that govern officers in regard to the discussion of what may be regarded as matters of administration and policy. It seems to me that would not be fair to the officers in the forces generally; and I really do not believe my hon. friend asserts that as a proper principle upon which he might insist. As I said in my letter I believe an officer can reconcile the two positions. I realize that he has to be a bit careful about it, because there may be questions on which he would like to express an opinion but which may contravene what are regarded as the usual military regulations, and regarding which he may have to keep silent; but that is a matter to be decided by himself. He has selected the two positions.
The other position-and perhaps this is the position that ought to be taken by the department, though I do not think they have ever been forced to take it in England and I would hope we should never be forced to take it here-would be to call upon a member of parliament to choose one or the other, whether to continue as a member of his majesty's forces, or to continue as a member of parliament. I do not think there is need for that. But if my hon. friend feels that an issue should be made of it at this time, and some rule laid down, I suppose that will have to be done.
Since I have taken this matter up I find that a practice has existed in the British parliament which might be of assistance to hon. members in this house-I am speaking now not to my hon. friend alone, but also to any other hon. members who happen to be officers in the army-under which the Secretary of State for War endeavours to meet members who happen to be officers as well, to discuss any problem with them frankly and clearly, but not in the public way in which my hon. friend sought to discuss matters of policy in the speech to which he has referred. That may be the way out. It is only a compromise, of course, but it is one which, it seems to me, seeks to give a fair and reasonable opportunity for the expression of opinions on the

Privilege-Mr. Cockeram
part of a member representing a constituency, and eliminates the discrimination which would otherwise exist if a member of parliament who is an officer were allowed to express his opinions, while other officers were not.


They have a national government over there.


What is the difference?


They had no election.


I am sure that that interruption does not add very much to the debate. I do not know what it has to do with the matter.


As a matter of information, would the minister allow me a question? Is it not true that members of his majesty's armed forces in Great Britain who are also members of parliament have raised in the House of Commons questions of national public policy with respect to the defence of Great Britain, both before and since the war?


In the House of Commons,
/es.


I do not know that there is much distinction. There may be. They have, as I understand it, raised questions of public policy with respect to the defence of Great Britain and the armed forces, and in regard to public policy generally. But I am not aware of the question having arisen with respect to speeches made outside the House of Commons. I am frank about that.


I think that is quite correct. There have been occasions on which officers have raised questions of public policy in the House of Commons, when they have stood in their places as members of parliament. But I have no information as to members of parliament who are officers in his majesty's armed forces and who have gone outside to political meetings and discussed matters of policy with regard to the armed forces and the war policy generally.
I say to you again, Mr. Speaker, what I said at the outset: I realize the difficult position in which hon. members are placed. I recognize their desire to serve. I know, too, that as members of parliament they have certain duties. But I repeat that I believe those duties and the duties incumbent upon them as officers can be reconciled, if one who is an officer and a member desires to do so. The letter which I wrote, and which my hon. friend has read, I think in every line will indicate my desire that my hon. friend should see the possibility of that reconciliation. There was not in any clause of the letter a threat that my hon. friend had either to shut his mouth or to get out of the army. TMr. Ralston.]


I do not wish to prolong this discussion, but does the minister not think that his reference to doing a man's part was most uncalled for?


I did not say that.


"Man-fashion".


Yes, that is the term I meant.


This is what I said:
In this respect, the two functions, if you want to exercise them to the full, must inevitably come in conflict, and the only way in which a man can carry out his functions is to decide that the exercise of his rights as a member of parliament will be limited by his obligations to the Service.
If he cannot do that, then obviously the "man-fashion" thing to do is to abandon the attempt to hold both positions. The army obviously cannot make fish of one and flesh of another, and there is nothing in king's regulations which excepts members of parliament, or anybody else for that matter from the age-old restriction which prohibits officers discussing publicly matters which affect the administrations of the Service.
Certainly nothing there was intended to be offensive, and I am sure that my hon. friend, having heard it read, will see that there is nothing offensive in it. I wrote the letter as one member of parliament to another. I can say to my hon. friend-and I rather expected my hon. friend might have mentioned it, although he may not regard it as much of a compliment-that he is the first officer to whom I have addressed a personal letter of that kind. It is done generally through the officers of the department. But my hon. friend was a senior officer in the Canadian army, and I thought perhaps he would not mind and that perhaps it was due him as an efficient member of parliament that I write him that note.
I believe the position I took will commend itself to hon. members. If I am wrong in this, then of course we shall have to ascertain just what the situation is, and what my hon. friend desires to have done.


Will the minister permit a question?


Yes.


Did the minister receive from the hon. member who has voiced his complaint, prior to his public statement, any communication with regard to the grievances he claimed on the public platform?


I need hardly say to my hon. friend with regard to the point he is raising that the hon. member did not refer the matter to me or, so far as I know, to any officer in the department-nothing whatever with regard to the fact that he was going to make a speech, or what he was going to say.

Private Bills-Procedure


With
respect to administration?


No.


Or with respect to policy?


That is correct.


Parry Sound was just trying to help out.


To the hon. member who has brought up the question of privilege I say that the letter was written in the spirit and in the light of the status which was set out therein. I regret that he has brought it up without notice to me or without any discussion whatever, or any reply or acknowledgment of the letter.


In reference to the
statement of the minister as to the customary practice in Great Britain with respect to service members of parliament, may I quote Prime Minister Churchill as reported in Parliamentary Debates of November 19, 1940-


Order.


The hon. member has raised a question of privilege, and was entitled to do so. The minister has replied. But no discussion or debate can take place, because there is nothing before the house. According to the rule stated some time ago, the letter which has been quoted should be tabled, and I ask the hon. member . (Mr. Cockeram) to do so.


It was read into the record.


May I reply to the minister?


No.


Mr. LIONEL CHEVRIER (Stormont) presented the second and third reports of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines, and moved that the second report be concurred in.
Why is it considered necessary to print the evidence of this committee taken in connection with a private bill at a time when we are trying to cut down other public printing expenditures?


The permission of the house was sought to print the evidence, and was obtained.


Why is it asked for the second time? That is the effect of this report.


Motion agreed to.
That the fourth report of the standing committee on standing orders, tahled on Tuesday, May 27, in so far as it relates to the petition of Elizabeth (Elspeth) Brown Rattray Selkirk Morphy, praying for the passing of an act to dissolve the marriage of the petitioner, be now concurred in.


Motion agreed to.
That, for the remainder of the session, all private bills from the senate when received from that house, shall be deemed to have been read the first time and ordered for second reading, and that standing order 105 respecting the posting of bills be suspended in relation thereto.


I do not recall any motion similar to this having been made on a previous occasion. I assume it is to expedite divorce bills; if so, I have no objection. If there is any other object in view, we should have an explanation.


It has always been the custom.


I understand it is the custom to move such a motion toward the end of the session. A similar motion was adopted on April 21, 1939.


It is a
new departure.


This procedure seems to be a departure from the usual way of doing business in this house. I could not hear precisely the criticism of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson), but since this motion has come down this afternoon without some members of the house being apprised of the intention to move it, it might well be allowed to stand so that we may examine its implications. There is a responsibility upon all of us to see that the procedure of parliament is not interfered with to the extent of creating an undesirable precedent. I suggest that the motion stand until to-morrow.


I have no objection to the motion standing.
Motion stands.
Questions


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What are the names of all persons who were continuously employed for a period of more than three months iby/or in the office of the government film commissioner during the fiscal year 1940-1941, who were in receipt of government remuneration in the form of salary, fees, allowances or other forms of payment?
2.	How and on what date was each person appointed?
3.	How long was each such person continuously employed ?
4.	What were the duties performed by each of such persons?
5.	What was the total amount paid to each of such persons, (a) in salary, fees and/or allowances; (b) for travelling expenses?
6.	What are the names of each of such persons who are still employed by/or in the office of the government film commissioner?
7.	What are the names of all persons, not continuously employed, who were in receipt of government remuneration in the form of salary, fees and/or allowances from the national film board in respect of personal services during the fiscal year 1940-1941?
8.	By whom and under what authority was each of such persons employed?
9.	What form of service did each of such persons render?
10.	What was the total amount paid to each of such persons, (a) i.n salary, fees and/or allowances; (b) for travelling expenses?


1.	Ross McLean, Stuart Legg, Jean McIntyre, Janet Seellen.
2.	Under Section 12 (1) of the National Film Act.
Ross McLean-January 13/40.
Stuart Legg-October 18/39.
Janet Seellen-October 19/39.
Jean McIntyre-December 18/39.
3.	Continuously throughout 1940-41, except Stuart Legg whose resignation took effect January 15, 1941.
4.	Ross McLean-General assistant to the commissioner.
Stuart Legg-Supervisor of war films executed for Director of Public Information. Jean McIntyre-Stenographer.
Janet Seellen-Secretary to the commissioner.
Ross McLean	
Stuart Legg	
Jean McIntyre.... Janet Seellen...
Travelling Salary expenses 13,000 00 $ 573 93 2,845 16	1,111 72
870 00		
1,440 00		
6.	Ross McLean, Jean McIntyre, Janet Seellen.
TMr. A. Fournier.]
7.	Graham Mclnnes, Lois Rae, Jane Marsh, Margaret Bjornson, J. F. C. Wright, Cecil Hyndman, J. Cunningham, Morley Callaghan, R. A. Farquaharson, J. McCook, Lou Golden, Grattan O'Leary, T. C. Daly, Stuart Legg.
8.	Under authority of Government Film Commissioner acting on behalf of National Film Board, Director of Public Information and other departments for whom film plans were prepared.
9.	Script research and contributions to scripts except C. Hyndman who was borrowed from CBC for a special liaison job.
10-	Travelling
	Fees	expenses
Graham Mclnnes.	$2,535 00	$1,015 77
Lois Rae		290 00	
Jane Marsh		35 00	
Margaret Bjornson	125 00	119 55
J. F. C. Wright...	365 00	
Cecil Hyndman...	238 32	341 68J. Cunningham...	600 00	277 73Morley Callaghan.	628 30	R. Farquaharson..	30 00	J. McCook	30 00	Lou Golden	40 00	Grattan O'Leary..	75 00	T. C. Daly	245 00	Stuart Legg	250 00	373 99


1.	Who constitute the board which rules on the application of a member of the forces for payment of dependent's allowance to his mother?
2.	How many such applications have been received?
3.	How many have been granted?
4.	How many have been rejected?
5.	How many mothers are receiving such allowances?
6.	What is the aggregate amount now payable each month as dependent's allowance to mothers ?
7.	Can an application for enlistment ascertain whether an allowance will be payable to his mother or must he first enlist and rely upon a future recommendation of the board?


1.	The Dependents' Allowance Board consists of Mr. A. H. Brown, acting chairman; Colonel S. H. Hill, Lieutenant-Colonel J. G. Raymond, LieutenanGCommander A. E. Fort-ington, Flight Lieutenant G. W. Dunn, Flight Lieutenant J. H. Hollies.
2.	The total number of applications for dependents other than wives and children is available and is given in answer to question No. 3. This includes fathers, sisters and brothers, as well as mothers. Applications for dependents allowance to mothers are not segregated from applications for dependents allowance to all dependents

Questions
other than wives and children. To obtain the information in regard to mothers alone would mean the examination of applications in over 17,000 cases.
3.	Total number of allowances awarded to dependents other than wives and children to March 31, 1941, 17,410.
4.	Total number of applications for dependents other than wives and children rejected, as of March 31, 1941, 6,558.
(This figure includes rejections of applications which have been subsequently approved on reconsideration following changes in the regulations or reinvestigation or review.)
5.	Number of accounts in pay to dependents other than wives and children, as of March 31, 1941, 14,115.
6.	Aggregate monthly amounts in pay to dependents other than wives and children, as of March 31, 1941, $305,139.
7.	The recruit is advised of the provisions for the payment of allowances to dependents of the forces prior to his attestation for service. His application for dependents allowance is received by the paymaster of his unit upon being taken on strength. Decision on an application for a dependent mother is made by the Dependents' Allowance Board following upon receipt of the application and the investigation report which is ordered by the paymaster at the time the application is received by him.


1.	What was the former occupation, experience and address of the director of human and material resources in the Department of National War Services?
2.	What are the duties of this office?
3.	What qualifications had this gentleman for the position which he now holds?
4.	How many reports have been filed by this official and with what departments were they filed?


1.	(a) Barrister and solicitor, (b) Professional and business. Honour graduate in law from Osgoode Hall, Toronto, 1921, from which date he practised law in the city of Brantford as senior member of the firm of Waterous & Wallace, until coming to Ottawa in September, 1940. Appointed king's counsel in 1935. Practised a great deal of industrial law as solicitor for and/or director of a number of manufacturing companies. Was president of the Brant county bar association. Military- Served three and a half years during the war of 1914-18 in Canada, Great Britain and France with Canadian artillery. In 1932 reentered the militia to organize and command a battery of artillery which, some three and a half years later, won first place award for field batteries
in the dominion. He is a graduate of the militia staff course and counter battery staff course. Served two years on the executive of the Canadian artillery association. Civic and social service-For the years 1938, 1939 and 1940 was mayor of the city of Brantford. He is a past president of numerous civic organizations such as the Kiwanis club, and a past member of the executives of the Ontario and Canadian mayors' associations, (c) 167 Eagle avenue, Brantford, Ontario.
2.	To administer the division of human resources and to administer the division of material resources, as set up under order in council P.C. 4748.
3.	All the qualifications indicated in the answer to 1 (b).
4.	No actual count of the reports has been kept, but they would number possibly several hundred, and were filed with the Department of National War Services.
ARTICLE IN Life-"vacation news about Canada"


1.	Was the article by Lowell Thomas, appearing in the magazine Life, on May 19, 1941, entitled ^Vacation news about Canada , paid for by the dominion government?
2.	If so, has the government taken steps to prevent further advertisement being given to said magazine?


1.	Article in question formed part of the advertising programme arranged some months ago by the Canadian travel bureau, through an advertising agency, for the purpose of attracting United States tourists to Canada, and was paid for from the travel bureau appropriation.
2.	The 1941 contract with Life has been completed. Any question of renewal will have consideration when further United States advertising is being planned by the bureau.


1.	How many horses, owned by the government, were in use in Canadian cavalry units or other military forces in Canada on, (a) September 1, 1939; (b) March 31, 1941?
2.	(a) How many of such horses were sold,
and (b) what was the total amount received for same?	_
3.	Were any of such horses given outright, without payment, to any officers of the Canadian active or reserve forces?
4.	If so, what are the names of officers who received these horses, and when did they receive them?
5.	Are these officers entitled to use such horses in their particular military employment?
6.	What are the names of the officers, if any, who paid for such horses, and how much in
each case?
Questions


1.	(a) 314; (b) 9.
2.	(a) 192 were sold; the balance of 111 were overage and unfit for service, and therefore were destroyed; (b) $16,304.
3.	Yes. Two officers were allowed, for sentimental reasons, to retain their regimental chargers in order that they could be placed out to pasture for the rest of their natural life on giving an undertaking that they would not be used for work in any capacity and would be well cared for. These horses were overage and unfit for further service and were to be destroyed.
4.	Captain de L. H. M. Panet, R.C.A. (Permanent Force), 31st October, 1939; Major G. F. Berteau, R.C.D. (Permanent Force), 20th August, 1940.
5.	No.
6.	None.


1.	How many cases of evaporated milk have been sold to Great Britain for delivery between April, 1941, and April, 1942?
2.	How many eases have been allotted to each milk company?
3.	How many cases have been allotted to each
of the following:	(a) Carnation company;
(b) Nestle company; (c) Borden company; (d) Libby company?


1.	509.000 cases. This amount will be increased, as arrangements are not yet completed.
2-	Cases
Carnation Company Limited. .. 100,000
General Milk Products of Canada
Limited	 75,000
Libby, McNeil & Libby	 75,000
Borden Company Limited		75,000
Silverwood Dairies Limited.. ..	4,000
Fraser Valley Milk Producers Assn	 180,000
Total	 509,000
3.	Answered in No. 2.


1.	Has any order, or request, either verbal or in writing, been given by any board or branch, under the Department of Agriculture to farmers, cheese factories, condensaries or other milk manufacturing plants, with respect to the products which may be manufactured by said organizations or individuals?
2.	If so, to whom was the said order or request made and by whom?
fMr. P. C. BJack.1
3.	Has the said order or request had the effect of restricting the manner in which farmers may market their produce?
4.	If so, in what way?
5.	What was the request or order?
6.	What is the basis of the authority of the order?
7.	Has the order been equitably enforced among all producers?


1.	(a) No order has been issued or any request made by any board or branch under the Department of Agriculture to farmers with reference to dairy products which may be manufactured.
(b)	Orders have been issued to cheese factories with respect to the size of cheese which may be made, whether they may be white or coloured, waxed or unwaxed.
(c)	Manufacturers of concentrated milk products have been requested to restrict sources of milk supply to those from which milk was secured in 1940 No order has been issued to this effect.
2.	All orders issued or requests made have been by the dairy products board. This question otherwise answered by 1 above.
3.	The request that condensaries restrict their sources of milk supply has had the effect of restricting the manner in which some farmers might market their milk.
4.	By manufacturers of concentrated milks not purchasing from some producers from whom such manufacturers did not purchase in 1940.
5.	Answered by 1 above.
6.	Order in council P.C. 2138 of the 23rd May, 1940, as amended.
7.	No order has been issued to producers.


1.	What has been done by the government to provide a supply of coal for Canada during next fall and winter, in view of the heavy demands for fuel for industry, brought about by the war?
2.	Will the government make a study of the matter for the information of the house, after consulting labour and industry?
3.	Was coal rationed by the government during the coal famine in 1917? If so, under what legislative action or rules and regulations?
4.	Will further study and consideration be given to resolution adopted in the house in 1922-23, regarding a national coal supply, so that more coal can be used, mined and coked under the British flag, from Nova Scotia, Alberta and Wales?
5.	What study is being made, or action taken, regarding the use of other forms of heating, as a substitute for coal?


Return tabled.

Special War Revenue Act


1.	Was it brought to the attention of the Department of Pensions and National Health that some distillers producing gin were not complying with the regulations under the Food and Drugs Act?
2.	If so, on what dates, and what distillers were not complying with said regulations?
3.	Did the above mentioned department issue several circulars to that effect?
4.	If so, when and to whom?
5.	Did the department make a distinction as between gin and blend?
6.	If so, what was it?
7.	Were there specific instructions given by the department to distillers, manufacturers or companies?
8.	If so, when and what were they?
9.	Were there any extensions granted to distillers, manufacturers or companies to comply with departmental regulations?
10.	If so, (a) what were they; (b) for what distillers, manufacturers or companies; (c) through the intervention of whom or what counsel; (d) for what reason were they granted?
11.	Did the said distillers, manufacturers or companies finally cpmply with departmental regulations?
12.	If so, when in each case?


For a copy of the account of Mr. L. A. Forsyth, K.C., for fees and expenses in the Bren gun probe, as mentioned at page 3813 of Hansard of May 10,	1939, showing the
said account, (a) as rendered amounting to $11,144.08; (b) taxed and paid as $8,644.68.


I have the return called for by this motion, and I shall table it now.
Return tabled.


On the orders of the day:	[DOT]
I had intended to direct a question to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), but in his absence I shall ask the right hon. gentleman who is leading the house (Mr. Lapointe) to communicate the question to the Prime Minister.
May I ask the Prime Minister whether it is customary, and, in his opinion, desirable, that announcements of important cabinet changes should be made, while this house is in session, at a calf auction rather than in
this house? Will the Prime Minister lay on the table of the house any letters of resignation or other correspondence in connection therewith between himself and the retiring Minister of National War Services?


I have no doubt that the Prime Minister will be highly pleased when he sees the question of my hon. friend.


The answer is the point.


He will certainly deal with it at the proper time. Meanwhile may I tell my hon, friend that there has been no change in the government portfolios or anything of the kind to which my hon. friend has referred in such picturesque language. It is largely a matter of imagination.


What did happen, then?


As the minister concerned perhaps I may be permitted to say that yesterday when speaking at a calf sale, and following my usual practice of agreeing, perhaps a little too fully with the press, I did refer to press statements to the effect that a certain change would take place, and probably agreed to an extent which made it possible for some persons to interpret it as an announcement. But there was nothing more than a passing reference.


Call it the department of ghosts behind the scenes.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. The telegrams on which the question is based have just reached me, and the minister has not had an opportunity of going over them, but I will pass them over to him and perhaps he can give me a reply to-morrow. This wire is signed by Clifford Sifton and many others asking for reconsideration of the tax on the admission price to skating carnivals and other sporting events, and particularly that consideration be given where the proceeds or part of the proceeds go for charitable purposes.
Labour Conditions-Oshawa


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour based on a letter from the secretary-treasurer of the Canadian Hosiery Workers' union.
The letter makes reference to the conciliation board sitting at the present time on the question of wages at the Schofield woollen mills at Oshawa, and the union protests the appointment of Mr. John Robinette, of Ontario, to investigate a previous dispute which culminated in a strike in that plant, which strike the Department of Labour declares illegal. The workers returned to work, taking advantage of the conciliation machinery, and a board is now sitting for the purpose of considering wages in that plant. The union representative makes the statement that the investigation instituted by the department into the previous dispute is interfering with a proper presentation to the board of the matter now in dispute. Is the investigation into the previous dispute being carried on with the full knowledge of the minister, and will he inform the house as to the necessity for the investigation being carried on by Mr. Robinette?


The hon. member for Cape Breton South (Mr. Gillis) was kind enough a short time ago to send me a copy of the question he proposed to ask. I think the information in one respect might mislead the house as it has the hon. member. A board was appointed and is now sitting to investigate the grievances alleged in connection with the Schofield woollen mills. Prior to that a strike had taken place without any application for a board, and it was entirely an illegal strike. The commissioner, Mr. Robinette, is sitting to determine the matter of responsibility and culpability in promoting that illegal strike. There is no reason why there should be any conflict between the work of the commissioner and the work of the board. The board is there to endeavour to adjust grievances such as may exist, and the commissioner is there to determine on whose shoulders the responsibility should rest for promoting and inciting an illegal strike.


If the board should find that unfair wages were paid and that the workers had reason to strike, and if the commissioner should find that the strike was illegal, are the workers to be prosecuted?


I do not wish to prejudice the situation by any advance statement, but I might clear the air a little by saying this: the question in the one case is the right to conduct an illegal strike. The workers could perfectly properly and quite reasonably have applied for a board, and it would have been appointed. They elected, however, to go out on strike. The hon. member for Waterloo South will appreciate the fact that there is a wide difference between justification for an application for a board and justification for going out on strike prior to any board being applied for.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata): May I ask the Minister of Mines and Resources what decision he has reached regarding the unveiling of the tablet at St. Patrick, that wonderful summer resort in the lower St. Lawrence where the late Sir John A. Macdonald chose to spend his summers for so many years? The tablet is in front of what was his summer residence.
Mr. Speaker, since my hon. friend the member for Temiscouata raised this question a few days ago I have had an opportunity of looking into the matter and learning what the practice has been in the past. As my hon. friend stated the other day, a few years ago a tablet was erected to commemorate the fact that Sir John A. Macdonald spent a good many summer holidays at St. Patrick in the beautiful county of Temiscouata, represented in this house by my hon. friend. It has not been the practice in the past to celebrate in a national way the erection of tablets to commemorate incidents that are more or less local in character.
I understand the practice has been, where silch celebrations have taken place, to have the attendance of the representative from the province concerned on the Historic Sites and Monuments board. There is much merit in the suggestion which has been made by the hon. member for Temiscouata, and I have decided to invite Mr. Justice Surveyer, who is the representative from Quebec on the board, to be present to unveil the tablet and pay a tribute to Sir John A. Macdonald, possibly at the same time as the ceremony takes place at Kingston or on some later occasion.

Pension Act-Mr. Bruce


On the orders of the day:
Has the Minister of Labour come to any decision with respect to the application of the school board of the city of Toronto for assistance in connection with their new building for the training of air mechanics? We are getting near the end of the session, and as this is a very important matter I should like to know whether anything is being done about it.


I had the privilege of meeting a delegation from Toronto, including the chairman of the board of education and some members, with regard to the extension of the vocational	school-the	Central technical
school, I think. I am afraid I am not particularly optimistic as to getting the government to agree. I hope to have a definite answer within a few days, although I think I can assure my hon. friend that he will not find it an entirely helpful answer.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, which perhaps he may not be in a position to answer to-day. A short time ago the bacon board made public announcement, which appeared in the newspapers, that the use of pork in Canada would be limited from now on. Does the minister care to make a statement either now or to-morrow as to the implications of that order and how it is to be enforced?


I would prefer to make a statement to-morrow.


Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Pensions and National Health) moved the third reading of Bill No. 17, to amend the Pension Act.
Before this bill is given third reading I have a question to ask of the minister arising out of his
re