MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT AND NATIONAL DEFENCE TAX-REFERENCES TO "GLOBE AND MAIL*' EDITORIAL
Mr. J. L. O'BRIEN (Northumberland, N.B.):	On a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker: on May 15, when the national defence tax was being discussed in this house I made reference to the method by which it was deducted from the indemnity of members. At that time I said, as reported at page 2850 of Hansard:
Now that we are pondering the problems of those in the lower income 'brackets, it seems to me that we should attempt to unscramble our
[Mr. Pouliot.l
own positions as members of parliament. We, of course, have to pay the national defence tax, and I wish it to be clearly understood that I am not objecting to paying that tax, but I am objecting to the method by which the tax is collected.
I quote the following from the editorial page of the Toronto Globe and Mail of May 19:
Members of parliament will pay national defence tax on their sessional indemnities. They'd better. Such exemption-and it has been discussed-would be for the average taxpayer about the last straw.
I submit, Mr. Speaker, that from my remarks no such implication could properly be attached to any hon. member of this house. I made my point crystal clear-that I was not objecting to the deduction, but only to the method used to deduct it, in that an indemnity is not a salary.
The Globe and Mail item does not mention my name, but since I was the only member making such a reference I here and now protest against statements of members of this house being twisted by any editor in order to attempt further to lower the standing of members of this house in the public opinion by implying that they seek to avoid their obligations.
On a further question of privilege relating to the same article, which said the members of parliament will pay, it should have read that members of parliament "have been paying" the national defence tax.


Mr. J. P. HOWDEN (St. Boniface) presented the first report of the standing committee on railways and shipping owned, operated and controlled by the government, and moved that the report be concurred in.
I am not opposing this motion; but what is the reason for the reduction of the quorum from twelve to eight? Eight is a small quorum for such a large committee.


It was felt that at this late stage of the session we might have difficulty getting a larger quorum, and the change is being made in order to ensure that we shall be able to carry on the work of the committee.


Motion agreed to.

Bren Gun
Yesterday I answered verbally a
question asked by the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot). The latter part of my answer related to a question the purpose of which, the hon. member explained, was to inquire as to who represented the government in connection with the drafting of the Bren gun contract. I replied at that time to the effect that the government was represented by the judge advocate general and by the officials of the Department of Justice. I spoke from memory; as a matter of fact I had not understood the hon. member's question. But last night I had the matter checked up, and I find that I was quite in error in my reference to the officials of the Department of Justice. What I find is that the judge advocate general himself represented the department in connection with the contract, and that he did not consult the Department of Justice about this particular contract. What the judge advocate said, and what I must have had in my mind, was that there was a clause in this contract which was similar to a clause in previous contracts, about which clause he had consulted the Department of Justice, and as I remember, what he said was that he considered that what was good enough for the Department of Justice was good enough for him to insert in the contract.
I regret the error and hasten to correct it.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question either to the Minister of National Revenue or to the Minister of Transport, based on a telegram which I have received and which I understand has been received by a number of other hon. members. The telegram reads:
Understand International Forwarders requesting permission to transport bonded goods on number 3 highway between border points. We urge opposition to move on grounds transportation facilities already adequate and heavy trucks would damage our highway system.


Who
signed the telegram?


My question is: Has a request been received by the government and, if so, has the government reached a decision with respect to the matter?


Who
signed the telegram?


Don't be so suspicious.


There is no reason why I should not say who signed the telegram. It is signed by the reeve of a municipality in my county.
Mr. NORMAN J. M. LOCKHART (Lincoln): Before the question is answered I should like to supplement what has been said by the hon. member for Haldimand. I have received a similar telegram from one of the municipalities in my constituency, asking for the same information.


There is an application before the government from International Highway Forwarders, requesting permission to bring trucks in bond through Canada between different points in the United States. Up to the present time that request has not been approved; and while further representations have been and are being made, no decision has been arrived at.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, to-day I notice that this parliament is being guarded by soldiers in uniform. Is this parliament hill your province, Mr. Speaker, or is it not? Whom do these men obey, the king or this' parliament? Have they the right to apprehend persons about to enter this building? If so, the government could prevent its opponents from entering this chamber. If they have not the power to prevent entry and guard this building, what useful purpose are they serving?


Order.


On the orders of the day:
I desire to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce based on order in council P.C. 3281. This order in council was passed on May 14, six days ago, and I should like to know why it has not been tabled. In effect it is an amendment to the Canadian Wheat Board Act. Since it contains some drastic regulations I should like to ask the minister

Wheat

why he did not amend the wheat board act, which would have given us an opportunity to discuss the matter in this house.


The order in council referred to by the hon. member was passed on May 14. Immediately afterwards representations were made by the wheat board that they wished to make further investigations in connection with the matters referred to in the order in council. That investigation has been completed, and I anticipate that! either the present order in council will be amended or a new order in council dealing with the regulations governing the delivery of this year's wheat crop, including the material contained in the present order in council, will be substituted.


May we expect this to be done within the next day or two? The news of this order in council is going out through the west and upsetting the morale of the producers.


I expect to have the new order in council within two or three days.


Will the provisions of this order in council apply to the wheat and grain products of Ontario, or only to the west?


It is my understanding that the order in council deals with the regulations governing the acceptance of wheat under the government's wheat policy for this year.


Last Friday, May 16, I asked the minister about these regulations concerning delivery of the 1941 wheat crop, and he said it would not be possible to make them public. Later I discovered that they had been dealt with in an order in council passed two days before I made my inquiry.


In the answer I gave to the hon. gentleman's question I dealt with the matter about which I thought he was asking, namely, the regulations regarding the quota, not the question of deliveries.


On the orders of the day:
A month ago I asked the Minister of Trade and Commerce if it would be possible to allow the ratepayers to have the forms used in connection
fMr. Perley.]
with the census a couple of days ahead of time, in order that they might fill out the forms themselves. The minister said he would consult his officials in the matter. One of these forms contains 168 questions.


The hon. gentleman did ask that question; I promised to consult the officials of the bureau of statistics, and I have done so. They told me that if it did not interfere with the secrecy that must be maintained in taking the census, there should be no practical objection to the change. However, they also told me they were considering whether or not they might have these questions appear in the public press, instead of distributing copies individually. I expected to have an answer before this time, but I will try to get it as soon as possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN-FRANQOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata): Mr. Speaker, I would ask the government to make at the earliest possible day, if possible to-morrow, a statement as to the purchase by or transfer to this government of Canadian Pacific Railway securities, stocks or bonds, held in England. As the matter has been referred to in the press it is of vital importance that we should know what has been done.
Does the hon. gentleman ask for a statement to-day or to-morrow?


To-morrow.


I will make it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. NORMAN J. M. LOCKHART (Lincoln): I should like to direct a brief inquiry to the Minister of National Defence based on two or three letters received to-day. Is it true that the permanent huts or quarters in some of the established camps have been turned over to the four-months trainees, while the regular units that formerly occupied them have been put under canvas some distance away? That is the advice I have received to-day.
I do not know what the local situation may be to which the hon. gentleman has

Succession Duty Act
reference, but I can say that both active and reserve recruits are being trained together in the same camps. I will ascertain whether the situation that he describes does exist.


Perhaps in fairness to the minister I should be a little more specific. My question is in connection with Petawawa camp. I am informed by letter to-day that permanent troops have been moved twelve miles out and placed under canvas, while the new trainees have been moved into the permanent quarters.


I shall be very glad to make inquiries.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Fournier (Hull), in the chair.
1.	That succession duties be levied upon or in respect of the following, that is to say: -
(a)	The succession to property, wherever situated, and beneficial interests therein, except real property situated outside of Canada, where the deceased was at the time of his death domiciled in Canada or in one of the provinces thereof;
(b)	The succession to property situated in Canada, or to beneficial interests therein, where the deceased was at the time of his death domiciled outside of Canada.
Resolution agreed to.
2.	That, in addition to the properties owned by the deceased at his death, the succession shall be deemed to include, for purposes of taxation, the following properties, namely:

_ (a) Property transferred by the deceased in his lifetime in contemplation of death;
(b)	Property transferred by way of donatio mortis causa;
(c)	Property transferred by gift in the lifetime of the deceased after April 29, 1941, and within three years prior to his death;
(d)	Property transferred by gift in the lifetime of the deceased where benefits -are reserved to the deceased during his lifetime;
(e)	Property -held jointly by the deceased and one or more persons and payable to or passing to the survivor or survivors, except that part of such property Which was contributed by the survivor or survivors, provided that where the joint tenancy or holding is created by a person other than the deceased and the survivor or survivors, such property shall be deemed to have been contributed to equally by the deceased and the survivor or equally by the deceased and each of the survivors;
(f)	Property comprised in a settlement;
(g)	Annuities or other interests purchased or provided by the deceased to the extent of the beneficial interest arising on his death;
(h)	Money received or receivable under policies of insurance effected by the deceased or by a personal corporation on his life in proportion to the premiums paid by the deceased or by such personal corporation;
(i)	Property of -which the deceased was at the time of his death competent to dispose;
(j)	Property transferred to or settled on any person after April 29, 1941 by the deceased and within three years before his death in consideration of marriage;
(k)	Property transferred for nominal or insufficient consideration to the extent of the difference between the consideration and the value thereof;
(l)	Estates in dower or by the curtesy.
I am opposed to this resolution, just the same as I was opposed to Bennett's social legislation. I am opposed to it in its entirety, and if I do not speak on every resolution called, it does not mean that I am not against it. I am against this piece of legislation from the first to the last, for reasons stated yesterday and for other reasons I could give in proper time. It is bad, rotten and dangerous legislation.


Paragraph (a) of resolution 2 refers to "property transferred by the deceased in his lifetime in contemplation of death." Does the federal department intend to proceed as the Ontario government has done, and search bank accounts for thirty years back? As to the expression "contemplation of death," every man contemplates death. How far back is the government going?


I cannot say how far back the investigations will go, but if I am correctly informed, in Ontario gifts made many years ago are deemed to be property passing on the death, whether made in contemplation of death or not. Under this resolution, for a gift simply to be recorded as property passing on the death it must have been made within three years before the death.


Would it not be wise to put in paragraph (a) an addition indicating that -this would go back only three years?


No; this is an entirely different thing. The gift to be regarded as property passing on the death must be made after April 29, if I remember correctly. But gifts are not covered by paragraph (a) of section 2. That paragraph covers something else, namely, property transferred by the deceased in his lifetime in contemplation of death. It would include some gifts, but something more than gifts is required under paragraph (a); it must be a gift -made in contemplation of death. That is regarded as property passing on the death, even though it may be made many years before such death.


Then the government could go back even thirty years? The Ontario government has done that, and it does not seem fair.
Succession Duty Act


As I said before, the hon. member is talking about something which is different.


No.


Yes, he is talking about gifts made, whether in contemplation of death or otherwise. I am quite sure that under the Ontario act gifts are regarded as property passing on the death, even though they were made many years ago. I believe that those are the investigations to which the hon. member refers. The instances in connection with property transferred by a deceased in his lifetime in contemplation of death would be very few in number, and it would be extremely difficult to prove what was transferred or made in contemplation of death unless it were done comparatively recently. But there is no limitation as to time.


Resolution 2 (g) refers to "annuities or other interests purchased or provided by the deceased to the extent of the beneficial interest arising on his death." It would seem that a tax is here to be paid in respect of succession duties, both on capital and on interest, in addition to income tax. It is true that annuities are taxable under the income tax legislation?


Yes.


And according to this resolution they are again taxable under the succession duty provisions. Is there not some conflict in regard to what is capital in the passing and what is income? It seems to me that only the interest on annuities should be subject to income tax, or there should be no tax on the annuities.


The annuities taxed here
are those beginning at the date of death. They are annuities after the death, payable to someone after the decease. The deceased is not taxed on those for income tax.


Is there not double taxation here?


No.


It looks as if the government is taxing the succession in the form of succession duty and then taxing it again by way of income from year to year.


That is correct. If $100,000 passed to a beneficiary he would be taxed on the $100,000 under the Succession Duties Act, and he would be taxed on the income from that $100,000, as the years went by, by way of income tax.	'


Resolution agreed to.

3.	That the rates of taxation be based upon the following factors, namely:-[DOT]
(a)	The "aggregate value" of the succession, that is to say, the fair market value of all property, wherever situated, owned by the deceased at the time of his death together with the fair market value of the properties mentioned in paragraph two of this resolution, after funeral expenses and debts are deducted therefrom;
(b)	The value of the individual property or benefit passing to each successor; and
(e) The relationship, if any, existing between the successor and the deceased.
Do "funeral expenses"
include medical expenses prior to death?


Ordinarily medical expenses would be included in debts. Funeral expenses and debts may be deducted. The amount owing to the doctor would be a debt.


Yesterday the leader of the opposition raised a question in respect of an estate being mulcted once, twice, or three times in rapid succession, in the event of deaths. I am not sure whether the minister gave a final answer. He will be aware of instances in other countries-I am thinking of one or two cases in the United Kingdom which have come to my knowledge-when two and even three deaths in less than two years have played havoc with the property distributed under the terms of a will.
Mr. ILSLEY': No provision is made in these resolutions, nor do I think there is any in the bill to afford relief against several impositions of succession duties at short intervals, or what are called quick successions. The matter could perhaps be considered before the bill is introduced, but as at present prepared there is no such clause. In that regard I believe it is similar to many other succession duties acts.
Under the Consolidated Revenue and Audit Act there is power to remit penalties and duties and amounts due the crown. That power is used very sparingly. It is exercised only in well-recognized classes of cases. It is very rarely indeed that an exception is made to the rules laid down, but that power does exist in the crown and could be utilized if it were considered proper to do so in order to relieve a particular case.


It seems to me that it would be well worth serious consideration. As the minister says, the need would not arise often, but it would be wise to make provision for it in the act.


I take a somewhat opposite view. I think the proposals now before us are modest compared with succession duties

Succession Duty Act
elsewhere, and in no event would any great hardship be imposed upon an estate under this particular resolution even if there were three or four deaths in quick succession. Even if the imposition were much heavier, in my opinion death duties are long overdue in this country. They provide a method of distributing wealth which under modern circumstances is very badly needed. This legislation is to be commended, and I do not think we should give the government power to vary it on any grounds.


The one piles on top of the other.


I have in mind a case that occurred in a city in Ontario. I shall not mention the place, because many would know the estate to which I refer. The father, the head of the house, died. At the time of his death he was operating a large plant which employed five or six hundred men. Most of his estate was left to his son. Shortly afterwards, apparently not too long afterwards, the son also passed away and another succession duty had to be paid. This resulted in the closing of the plant and the throwing out of employment of a number of men. Surely my hon. friend to my left would not be in accord with anything like that. This may be an extreme case, but perhaps the regulations should be such as to prevent such a plant being closed up because of two or three taxes being imposed in quick succession.
Will funeral expenses cover a lot in the cemetery and a tombstone?


The commissioner informs me that it is intended that a suitable monument would be included in the funeral expenses. I do not believe the term "funeral expenses" is defined in the bill. When the bill itself is before us I think it will be found that some of these things are provided for.
I am obliged to the hon. gentleman for bringing to my attention this case of quick succession, and also to the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell) for expressing his views. It shows the difficulty that a moderate, sane government faces when attempting to meet all views. I should think the reasonable course to follow is to make no provision at all in the bill. In another year's time we shall know what our experience is. Under the Consolidated Revenue and Audit Act there is power to grant by order in council relief in such cases if it is considered desirable so to do. I am not saying that it is desirable, and it might be that years would go by before such a case would arise. At such time relief can be granted by order in council, or we can come to the house and state the case and propose an amendment.


In the case I mentioned the succession duties were somewhere around $100,000 upon the decease of the head of the family. The son took over the plant, but he died within a short time and the two succession duties ruined the estate so far as the plant was concerned.


The question that arises is whether power should be given by the bill to the governor in council, apart from the powers it already possesses, to deal with such cases and if so, with what limitations, or whether the whole matter should be dealt with legislatively. I understand that in some acts it is provided that a portion, perhaps half the succession duty, is payable should certain conditions exist. I am not prepared to insert such a clause in this measure. It may be different from the other acts; it may be different in its incidence, and it may be that that would be improper for this act while it is proper for others.


In many cases, particularly where the estate is small, the husband will leave his whole estate to his wife and nothing to the children. The wife may die in a few years, as happens quite often when she is about the same age as the husband. Then the estate is subject to double succession duties, which would be in addition to the provincial duties. This makes the tax very high in the aggregate. Those of moderate means who do not consult solicitors or notaries when drawing their wills do not realize that they can leave a life interest to their widow and have the property pass on to the children upon her death. This is of some consequence to people in moderate circumstances who quite often draw their own holograph wills, and the result is that in a few years the estate is subject to two or more succession duties. This point should be considered if the minister will not consider some amelioration of the tax itself.


In considering hardships
that may arise in connection with quick succession matters, I suggest to the minister that one form of relief which ought to be considered in dealing with estates such as the one mentioned by the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNicol) is to give the commissioner authority to receive the succession duty on the second estate in instalments over a period of years with interest at, say, three per cent. This would enable a going concern to carry on. Such a firm would be required to pledge its assets primarily to the department to ensure payment over a period of years. I think this would cure the difficulty. Like the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar, I am opposed to any exemption on
Succession Duty Act

the second or even the third estate when quick succession occurs. In the case instanced by the hon. member for Davenport, the man apparently was able to employ 500 men, and the hon. member said that the succession duties were very large. On the theory ot having an eye to what is left, there would even in that case be plenty left for those who take an unearned increment which falls into their lap by devolution. My suggestion is that by giving power to amortize over a period the succession duty to be paid we would do away with the hardship and protect the country so far as insistence on payment of death duties is concerned.


I will bear in mind what my hon. friend has said. A bill will be placed before the house, of course, when the resolutions are through, and I think it contains a provision which meets substantially the views my hon. friend has just expressed. If not, I will see that the matter is given full consideration.


Will the word "debts" include the cost of taking out probate or administration? It is not really a debt due by the deceased, but one incurred afterwards by his
estate.


All these questions can be
answered better on the bill, which is much longer than the resolutions. To answer them now would make it necessary for me to refer to the draft bill. I should say that the hon. gentleman is quite right, that provision must be made for deduction of the probate expenses, and I shall be very much surprised if it is not provided for in the bill. At any rate I will keep the point in mind so that it can be considered when the bill is before us.


In Ontario they allow
the surrogate court fees plus, I believe, up to 8100 for ordinary solicitor's fees in connection with an estate. It depends of course on the size of the estate.


Yes.


Will the minister take into
consideration allowing as a debt any succession duty that is paid to the province in which the deceased was domiciled? I think every province has a succession duty, and if some such provision is not made it will mean that there will be taxation on the money that is actually paid out to the province in succession duties.


That is introducing a very
important departure in our fiscal legislation. I may say right here that we are going on the assumption that succession duties due to the province would not be regarded as a debt.


Resolution agreed to.
i. That, for the purposes of taxation, the successors or beneficiaries shall be divided into four classes, as follows:
(a)	Class A.-The widow of the deceased, any child under eighteen years of age at the date of the death of the deceased, and any child who at that date was dependent upon the deceased for support on account of mental or physical infirmity;
(b)	Class B.-The grandfather, grandmother, father, mother, husband, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law of the deceased or a child of the deceased eighteen years of age and over at the date of the death of the deceased, and who, at that date, was not dependent upon the deceased for support on account of mental or physical infirmity;
(c)	Class C.-A lineal ancestor of the deceased (except the grandfather, grandmother, father or mother) a brother or sister of the deceased or any descendant of a brother or sister, or a brother or sister of the father or mother of the deceased or any descendant of any such brother or sister;
(d)	Class D.-Any person in any other degree of consanguinity to the deceased than as previously mentioned, or a stranger in blood to the deceased.
Referring to the words "any child" in paragraph (a), what relationship would the child be to the deceased? Does it mean a daughter or a son?


Oh, yes.


It does not say so. It says "any child."


It means a child of the
deceased.


It
does not say that. Could it be an adopted child?


Yes.


It is not veiy clear.


No, I know it is not. These are the resolutions, and this is all expanded in the bill.


That point will be covered in the bill?


Yes.


Resolution agreed to.

Succession Duty Act
5. That the rates of taxation shall be according to the following scale for the value mentioned, the rates for intervening amounts to be specified in greater detail in the bill:-
Aggregate value of the succession to property passing in the case of initial duties dependent on such value	Initial rates dependent on aggregate value	Value of individual benefits, including exemptions in the case of additional duties	Additional rates dependent on value of the individual benefits, including exemptions	Class A	Class B	Class C	Class Ds	%	$	%	%	%	%1,000	1,000	1	2	2-55,000	5,000	2	2	2-5	310,000	10,000	2-25	2-5	3	3-525,000	0-5	25,000	2-5	3	3-5	435,000	1	35,000	3	3-5	4	550,000	1-5	50,000	3-5	4	5	675,000	2	75,000	4	5	6	7100,000	2-5	100,000	5	6	7	8125,000	3	125,000	6	7	8	9150,000	3-5	150,000	7	8	9	10200,000	4	200,000	8	9	10	11300,000	4-5	300,000	9	10	11	12400,000	5	400,000	10	11	12	13500,000	5-5	500,000	11	12	13	14750,000	6	750,000	12	13	14	151,000,000	6-5	1,000,000	13	14	15	161,500,000	7	1,500,000	14	15	16	172,000,000	8	2,000,000	15	16	17	173,000,000	9	3,000,000	16	17	17	175,000,000	10	5,000,000	17	17	17	17
Would the minister explain how the first column works out? It is not clear to me. I looked it over once or twice, but I do not understand just how it works out.


Let us take an estate of $100,000, which descends to two adult children. Each of them will receive $50,000. If the hon. member will run down the first column until he comes to $100,000, and then move across to the right, he will come to a rate of 2-5 per cent. Take 2-5 per cent of $100,000. Each of the children receives $50,000, and we are trying to ascertain what each of these children pays in succession duties. Let us move across to class B, where we find the rate is 4 per cent. That is 4 per cent of $50,000.


No, 6 per cent.


You go up above the $100,000 bracket.


I am taking an adult child who gets a $50,000 share of a $100,000 estate, and the rate is a combination of two rates- 2-5 per cent of $100,000 and 4 per cent of $50,000. Those two have to be added together.


That makes it 6-5 per cent.


I am wrong about that. It is only on the S50,000 that each child pays, and the rates he pays are 2-5 per cent plus 4 per cent. That is 6-5 per cent of $50,000.


It would be two and a half per cent taken off.


And does it work out that, if there are two children left, in the first place you deduct $2,500, at 2-5 per cent on $100,000?


No. I am sorry if I got the hon. member off on the wrong track. You do not take a percentage of the $100,000 at all; you take a percentage of the value of the share which descends, but you apply two rates to that: 2-5 per cent, because that is the rate applicable to the $100,000 estate, and 4 per cent, because that is the rate applicable to a $50,000 share in the estate.


So, then, the total rate is 6-5 per cent on the $100,000?


No, on the $50,000.


The minister said that
where there is an estate of $100,000, and it is left to two children, each one receiving $50,000. the rate will be 6-5 per cent on the $50,000.


For both the children, yes.
Succession Duty Act


On each of the $50,000
legacies?


No, not on each, on both. You do not take 6-5 peT cent of the whole value of the estate and take it away from each of these children. It just happens that there are two children; there may be ten children getting $50,000 apiece; that is, you have a $500,000 estate, and it would be ridiculous to take the proportion of the whole estate and subtract it from each of them; you take the proportion of the value of the estate which goes to each child.


I may be stupid about this thing, but the minister says, first, that the $100,000 is subject to the 2-5 per cent rate.


That is the way to find
the rate.


Then you go up two
columns to the $50,000. Here are two children sharing in the $100,000 net estate. Each gets
S50.000.	The rate which is payable by each of these children is 6-5 per cent. Am I wrong in that?


You are right.


That is, on the amount passing to each of these children. So that you have 6-5 per cent on the $50,000 passing to John, and 0-5 per cent on the $50,000 passing to Mary?


That is correct.


So that you have a 6-5 per cent rate on the $100,000 estate.


But not from each child,
as the hon. member said before.


Oh, no; not from each
child. But the total rate on the estate is 6-5 per cent.


Correct.


Suppose, then, the estate had been $5,000,000, and one child receives $50,000. Do I take it that in that case the rate of duty which the child would pay would be 10 per cent plus 4 per cent?


That is correct.


So that according to this scale, the larger the estate the larger the duty, no matter what amount each individual receives?


The larger the duty for the same amount received.


But my point is that if the whole estate were $100,000, the duty each child would pay would 5-5 per cent?


It would be 6-5 per cent.
CMr. Ilsley.]


But if it is $5,000,000, then the child, although getting only $50,000, would then pay 14 per cent?


That is correct.


Is it not a fact that you cannot distribute an estate in that way? If this is a $100,000 estate, and the rate is two and a half per cent, that duty is the first charge against the estate, which brings it down to $97,500; so that there could not be two equal bequests of $50,000 each?


No; that may be the case in the provinces, but it is not so under this act. The only reason we are concerned about the value of these estates is to get the rate. We have a combination of two rates here, one set of rates graded in accordance with the value of the estate, and the other graded in accordance with the amount received. The hon. member for Brantford City is quite correct in saying that a person receiving $50,000 from a $5,000,000 estate is taxed at a considerably higher rate than a person receiving $50,000 from a $100,000 estate. If we had adopted the principle of the estate duty, we would have graded it wholly in accordance with that-


Is this first division here not the estate duty, which is the first obligation on the estate?


No, it is not the first obligation on the estate.


Then my understanding is that the duty is paid by the beneficiary both on the sum left to him and the aggregate value of the estate?


He does not pay on the
aggregate value of the estate; that is the mistake I started out with. He pays only on the value of what he gets. But the percentage is a combination of two rates, and one of those rates is higher, the higher the estate is; the other is higher, the higher the amount he receives. A pure succession duty would mean that we would have no regard whatever to the value of the estate; we would grade our rates entirely in accordance with the value received. A pure estate duty would mean that we would have no regard for the amount received, but would grade the rates entirely upon the value of the estate. When a person having a $5,000,000 estate died we would simply send our bill for 20 per cent, or whatever the rate might be, without regard to whether it went to the descendants in small amounts or in large amounts. But we did not adopt the pure estate duty, although there

Succession Duty Act
are many who thought we should; it is so much easier to administer. Instead we combined the estate duty principle and the succession duty principle. The amount in any case depends on three factors: (1) the size of the estate; (2) the amount received; (3) the relationship.


I wish to point out what strikes me as a very considerable unfairness to the child who happens to be one of a family of ten to whom the father left $5,000,000, $50,000 to each child, as against the child of the father who left a family of two and an estate of only $100,000, $50,000 to each child.


That is not the
minister's fault.


The child of a family of two whose father left S100,000, or $50,000 to each, would receive a net legacy of $46,750; but the child of a father who left $5,000,000 and ten of a family, each of them bequeathed $50,000, would receive only $41,000. It would therefore be much better to be the son of a father who left only two children and $100,000 than to be the son of a father who left ten children and $5,000,000.


It is much worse when you come to the case of a friend and put it in class D.


I am talking about the
sons.


Resolution agreed to.
6.	That the exemptions from duty under the said Succession Duties Act shall be as follows:
(a)	Where the whole property passing does not exceed $5,000 no duties shall be payable;
(b)	Property passing to or for the benefit of the widow of the deceased to the extent of the first $20,000 in value or amount;
(c)	Property passing to or for the benefit of the widow to the extent of $5,000 for each child of the deceased under 18 years of age at the time of the death of the deceased or dependent upon him for support at that time, if such child does not benefit in respect of property passing on the death of the deceased, provided that if such child does benefit the exemption shall be $5,000 less the amount of the benefit;
(d)	Property passing to or for the benefit of a child of the deceased under the age of eighteen years or dependent upon him for support at that time on account of mental or physical infirmity to the extent of the first $5,000 in value or amount;
(e)	Property passing to or for the benefit of the orphan child or children of the deceased under eighteen years of age at the time of his death or dependent upon him for support at that time on account of mental or physical infirmity, where such property does not exceed $15,000 in value or amount, provided that this
exemption shall be in addition to those provided for in the preceding paragraph (d), and provided further that where more than one child benefits the exemption herein provided for shall be divided among such children in proportion to the value of the property or benefit passing to each of them;
(f)	If the deceased died from wounds inflicted, accident occurring or disease contracted on active service with the Canadian naval, military or air forces in or beyond Canada, in such circumstances that if the deceased left a widow she would be entitled to receive a pension in respect of his death under the Canadian Pension Act; (i) the exemptions granted in the preceding paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) shall be increased by 50 per cent; (ii) the amount of the tax payable in respect of the succession by persons in Class A and Class B shall be reduced to the sum which, if accumulated at compound interest at the rate of 3 per cent per annum from the date of death with half-yearly rests, would at the expiration of the period of the normal expectation of life of a person of the age of the deceased at the time of death (calculated in accordance with approved mortality tables) amount to the tax which would otherwise be payable;
(g)	Property passing to any one person and not exceeding $1,000 in value or amount;
(h)	Property passing to or for the benefit of any charitable organization in Canada operated exclusively as such and not operated for the benefit or private gain or profit of any person, member or shareholder thereof;
(i)	Property passing to or for the benefit of the Dominion of Canada or any province or political subdivision thereof;
(j)	Property given by the deceased in his lifetime and representing the ordinary or normal expenditure of the deceased;
(k)	Property on which gift tax has been paid under the provisions of the Income War Tax Act, except to the extent to which the duty payable under the act exceeds the gift tax so paid.
There is one paragraph of this resolution which, I think, should receive very careful consideration; I refer to paragraph (f), which provides for the exemption in the case of a man in the active army being killed or dying of wounds or disease. This succession duty tax is put into effect because of the war. It is the war that has brought it about. Here we have our young men offering their lives, going overseas; many of them will not return, and it just does not fit in to have succession duty tax imposed in respect of those men. The psychological effect of imposing the tax in a case like that is not good; it is too much like blood money. These men are serving Canada, they are not serving a province. We were told yesterday that in Ontario there is an exemption in the case of men killed overseas but under this new dominion legislation, by paragraph (f), succession duty will be levied on their estates. It is true that some consideration is given; where a man's widow would get a pension the

Succession Duty Act

exemptions in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) are increased by 50 per cent, and the amount of the tax is also reduced where the money goes to the close relations under classes A and B. There should be no succession duty tax at all in such cases. Let us leave alone the estate of the man who is killed overseas or dies as a result of wounds or disease.
Furthermore, as the paragraph reads now even this exemption can be obtained only where the widow would be entitled to receive a pension. The present pension provisions are so framed that where a soldier dies in Canada, certainly *where he dies as a result of disease, it is extremely difficult for his widow to qualify for pension. The exemption should be absolute. In other words paragraph (f) should read:
If the deceased died from wounds inflicted, accident occurring or disease contracted on active service with the Canadian naval, military or air forces in or beyond Canada, there shall be no tax levied.


I anticipated that this point would be raised, and had I thought a minute I might have anticipated that it would be raised by my hon. friend. This is a matter about which I would ask hon. gentlemen to be calm. Just consider the position. In the first place there is an exemption of $30,000 for the widow as against an ordinary exemption of $20,000. That will cover the case of the overwhelming majority of persons in the forces, practically all of them. There will be some persons for whom that exemption of $30,000 for the widow and a 50 per cent increased exemption for the children also, if there are children-


$7,500 for the children.


Yes, for each child. In some cases a certain amount of succession duty may be payable. But let us say a member of the forces dies as a result of active service, leaving a brother here in Canada. It is the brother who is taxed, not the member of the forces who was killed. Is there any reason why the brother should completely escape succession duty taxation? What we do here, I should like the committee to understand, is to make full provision for any reduction in the expectation of life. If a person is killed at forty and his normal expectation of life would be sixty-five or seventy, we take the present value of what his estate would be at sixty-five; in that case it might be discounted as much as 50 or 75 per cent. I think this fairly meets the situation.
This principle is taken from the English act. When I read the section over I thought it did sound a little actuarial, if I may use that

expression, to put in an act relating to members of the forces, but unless we exempt them altogether, which they have done in Ontario, and which I do not think is fair, the only thing we could do would be to leave it to the governor in council to grant exemption where they think it desirable to do so. Unless it is left to the governor in council we must spell it out in the act, and that puts us to the unpleasant necessity of writing here as fair a section as we can. My information is that this is based on the English section, except that the English section has a limitation of the privilege which is less favourable to the members of the forces than this.


With respect to paragraph (a) of section 6, I have in mind the widow of a man who operated a corner grocery in the west end of Toronto. They owned their store, stock, and so forth, but had a bitter struggle, as the average corner grocer has, and to-day the struggle is greater than ever owing to the operation of chain stores and the early closing by-laws which compel them to close in the evening before they otherwise would. In one way I think the early closing by-law has merit; it gives them a chance to go out and enjoy life, but many would rather stay in their stores and try and make a dollar or two.
I have been trying to visualize the result to a widow who is left a corner grocery which, with the stock in trade-much of it old- would amount to $5,000-


There is an exemption of $20,000 in favour of widows.


Then my argument on that is unfounded.
In connection with paragraph (b), the words "for the benefit of the widow", would the husband who receives his wife's estate be exempt?


No.


With reference to paragraph (i) "-or any . . . political subdivision thereof", does that mean to the Liberal party or the Conservative party?


No. A municipality would be the best example I can think of.


Would that be in the bill?


I think it will be clear in the bill.


Paragraph (b) provides that a widow shall be exempt up to $20,000. That is whether she has children or not? It is

Succession Duty Act
presumed that 820,000 is the minimum that would be exempt going to a widow whether she has children or not?


That is correct.


A child is entitled to only $5,000 exemption if its mother is living, yet if its mother is dead the child is entitled to $15,000 exemption. What is the reason for the distinction? And what is the reason for the distinction between an only orphan child for whom $15,000 would be exempt or say two orphan children who would receive $7,500 each?


The mother gets an exemption of $20,000 on her own account and $5,000 on account of the child.


Section 6 (c) in part: "-if such child does not benefit in respect of property passing on the death of the deceased, provided that if such child does benefit the exemption shall be $5,000 less the amount of the benefit".


It will be $20,000 in that
case, if the child gets $5,000, so they will get the full amount of the exemption. Then the widow only gets $20,000, but with the widow getting $20,000 that reduces very greatly the necessity for an exemption at all in respect of the infant.


That was why I asked in
the first place whether $20,000 was the amount the minister felt was the minimum to which a widow was entitled, whether or not she had children.


That is correct; she is
entitled to $20,000.


I suggest that there is not
such a great distinction between an orphan and a child who has a mother as these sections would indicate. There is a difference of $10,000 in the case of a single child.


She has $20,000 with which to help support her child.


But she is entitled to $20,000 if she has no child, so that this must be considered to be the minimum necessary for her to get along.


What is the objection again? I am afraid I cannot follow this.


Perhaps I have not explained it very clearly. It appears to be taken for granted that out of her $20,000 the widow can assist in the support of her children. Otherwise there would not be a distinction in the exemptions between an orphan child and one who has a mother.


Follow that on through.


The suggestion I was going
to make was that if under subsection (e) an orphan child is entitled to $15,000, then a child who has a mother should be entitled to the same exemption.


No.


Otherwise you are contemplating that the mother is going to take care of that child out of the $20,000.


Is not the point really
this, that since the mother, who is a widow, under subsection (b) is given $20,000, why should she be exempted only for the same amount under subsection (c) when she has a child? If that is the observation I think perhaps there is something to be said for it, because the exemption where the widow has a dependent is the same as where she has not.


The widow gets $20,000 on
her own account and $5,000 for each child. That is fhe situation if the child receives no exemption itself. If the child gets an exemption it means that the child is getting a substantial amount of property, does it not?


It means the widow does
not get the $5,000.


It is not necessary, because
the child will have a substantial amount of property; otherwise the child would get the exemption.


If the child gets exactly
$5,000 on the death of the father the widow does not get the $5,000 under the provisions of subsection (c); yet if that child has no mother it is entitled to an exemption of $15,000. I do not understand the reason for the distinction.


There the child has received not an exemption of $5,000 but a benefit or legacy of $5,000, and the mother has received an exemption of $20,000. The orphan child has no mother and should have an exemption of $15,000 where there is the equivalent of $25,000 in the other case. It is not an exemption of $25,000 but of $20,000, and the child has some property in its own right.


The minister mentioned the
type of legislation they have in Great Britain in connection with men in the forces. In Great Britain men are conscripted into the army while in Canada they are volunteers. In Canada we are trying to raise a large number of men, and as time goes on wo will want to raise more. I suggest that it is unwise to levy succession duties on the estates of men who are killed overseas. The house should
Succession Duty Act

see that these estates are exempted. Certainly some provision should be made in the case of a soldier dying in Canada