I have the honour to
inform the house that I have received the following communication:
Ottawa, April 4, 1941.
Sir:

I have the honour to inform you that the Right Hon. Sir Lyman P. Duff, Chief Justice of Canada, acting as deputy of His Excellency the Governor General, will proceed to the Senate chamber to-day at 3.15 p.m., for the purpose of giving the royal assent to certain bills.
I have the honour to be Sir,
Your obedient servant,
F. L. C. Pereira, Assistant Secretary to the Governor General.


Mr. Speaker, as the house is already
aware, a motion has been passed for the adjournment of this house at six o'clock on Wednesday for a substantial period. I understand the date of the adjournment was fixed on the conditional understanding that possibly the budget would be brought down the first of the coming week. The Minister of Finance (Mr. Ilsley) has announced that this is not now physically possible. It has been represented to me from both sides of the house that a large number of hon. members would desire, if possible, to have this house adjourn to-night at six o'clock for the Easter vacation, thus anticipating the adjournment by three days.
I understand a large number of hon. members have either departed or are about to depart by afternoon or evening trains. I would ask the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) if the government would consider making a motion that when the house do adjourn at six o'clock to-night it shall adjourn for the Easter vacation, rather than having the adjournment on Wednesday next.


Mr. Speaker, may I interject that until five minutes ago I had no knowledge that this suggestion was going to be made. I should like it to be clearly understood that, so far as our group is concerned, we are not asking that this be done; indeed, we are opposed to it.
We consider that the wheat regulations require a thorough discussion before we leave this house for the Easter vacation. We have
Easter Adjournment

had no opportunity to discuss these proposals and regulations. The policy was announced on March 12, and it was discussed briefly on March 27. The regulations were distributed in our mail-boxes on the afternoon of April 2. So far as my own constituents are concerned, this is the gravest problem which confronts them, and I am absolutely opposed to leaving this house until we have had an opportunity of discussing this matter thoroughly, in order that, before they put their seed in the ground, they may know exactly where they stand.
One other suggestion I would advance is this:	Owing to the economic circumstances
brought about by the agricultural situation in western Canada, the provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba particularly, and probably the other prairie province of Alberta, are faced with a grave relief situation which has not yet received any consideration at this session. Therefore we do not feel that we can consent to such a motion, if it is introduced by the Prime Minister.


Mr. Speaker, I am of the same opinion as the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell). I have not been at all satisfied with the way in which we have been able to deal with the problems which face us this year. I do not think anyone is to blame for this, but I believe that several matters which are vital to this country at the present time should be discussed. Not only is the *wheat situation a grievous one, but the agricultural situation generally throughout the country is precarious. I see no reason why we should not stay here for three or four more days in order to let hon. members express their opinions concerning these problems, even though we do nothing about them.
When it was proposed that we Should take a recess from April 9 until April 28, I raised no particular objection, but the thought passed through my mind that we were throwing away a great deal of valuable time. When we come back on April 28, the time left to discuss vital matters will, in my opinion, be altogether inadequate. Therefore, I am inclined to disagree with the suggestion that we lengthen the recess, although I have no desire to be an obstructionist in this regard. I merely express the feeling which, I am sure, prevails throughout my constituency and province.


Mr. Speaker, as Your
Honour has just announced, the deputy of His Excellency the Governor General will proceed to the Senate at a quarter past three o'clock to give the royal assent to the bills which

have passed both houses. The proceedings of this house will be interrupted at that time. As has been mentioned, this matter of adjournment has come up rather suddenly. I think it has come up as the result of a feeling which is general with respect to the desirability, all circumstances considered, of extending by two days and a half the vacation which has been arranged for Plaster. It really means an accommodation of more than two days and a half because hon. members will be able to take advantage of Saturday and Sunday.
As the proceedings of the house may be interrupted at any moment, I was going to suggest that this matter might stand until after the deputy of His Excellency the Governor General has given royal assent. Possibly in the intervening period one or two of my colleagues could hold a conference with the hon. members who have spoken and, if thought advisable, I could, later on, introduce a motion which would permit adjournment to-day until the time fixed for reconvening after Easter. May I point out to my hon. friends who have taken some exception to a longer recess, that by the rules the matters which would come up for discussion next week would be the motion of the hon. member for Haldi-mand (Mr. Senn) in the nature of amendment to the house resolving itself into a committee of supply. In all probability the debate on that particular motion would not be concluded by Wednesday afternoon, and there would not be a chance for the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) to go on next week with the matters to which my hon. friend has referred. The minister is, I understand, quite prepared to go on with those matters this afternoon. So far as the government is concerned, we have no desire to press consideration this afternoon of the other bills on the order paper. By having the Minister of Agriculture go on immediately with his estimates, by having a full discussion on the matters referred to, I would hope that it might be possible to meet the objections which hon. gentlemen opposite have raised and bring about a general agreement as to adjournment at six o'olock to-day. I shall have something more to say on this after the royal assent has been given.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Fournier (Hull) in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Special
422. To provide for payments on reductions in wheat acreages, under conditions prescribed by the governor in council, for administration expenses in connection therewith, and for tem-

Supply-Agriculture

Wheat Acreages
porary appointments that may be required notwithstanding anything contained in the Civil Service Act, $35,000,000.


I am sure that my constituents will expect me to have something to say on this vital question of reduction in wheat acreages. Having spent all my life on the farm, for over half a century working and tilling the soil, I should know something about farming; and so far as the wheat problem is concerned, I have solved that problem for myself. Years ago we decided to curtail our wheat acreage and to go into more diversified farming, and I am glad to be able to say that after twenty-two years in the cattle business, the wheat problem does not worry me at all. I believe that the same thing could be said of thousands, yes thousands, of farmers in the Canadian northwest, that those who have taken up diversified farming have been able to stand up in the trying times that we have endured in the last ten years.
The memories of hon. members may go back to November 21 of last year to the speech I made in this house outlining what I thought the government should do with regard to the wheat problem. At that time I took the stand'that we had come to the position where the farmers themselves must realize that we cannot continue to raise wheat in this country to the same extent that we have done in late years. This huge surplus must be reduced if we are to have any hope of ever getting the price up to where it should be.


A message was delivered by Major A. R. Thompson, Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, as follows:
Mr. Speaker, His Honour, the deputy of His Excellency the Governor General, desires the immediate attendance of this honourable house in the chamber of the honourable the Senate.
Accordingly, the house went up to the Senate.
And having returned,
Mr. SPEAKER informed the house that the deputy of His Excellency the Governor General had been pleased to give in His Majesty's name the royal assent to the following bills:
An act to authorize an agreement between His Majesty the King and the corporation of the city of Ottawa.
An act to amend the Meat and Canned Foods Act. (fish and shellfish)
An act to amend the Precious Metals Marking Act.
An act respecting the appointment of auditors for national railways.
An act to amend the Trans-Canada Air Lines Act, 1937.
An act for granting to His Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of the financial year ending the 31st March, 1942.
An act for granting to His Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of the financial year ending the 31st March, 1941.
An act for granting to His Majesty aid for national defence and security.
An act for granting to His Majesty aid for national defence and security.
The house resumed in committee of supply, Mr. Fournier (Hull) in the chair.
When the proceedings were interrupted for the royal assent, we were considering item 422.


Mr. Leader: Eighty-five.
Mr. McNevin: We will discuss that suggestion later, but for the purpose of this illustration I will say 75 cents.
I believe-and I am now talking right at the Minister of Agriculture-that if the government had been bold enough to say, "We will pay 85 cents a bushel on 230,000,000 bushels," that proposal would have carried in this house. I firmly believe the Ontario members, realizing our disabilities out west, with their desire to help, would have said, "We will support that suggestion." I wish now to ask why the government did not bring in that recommendation. That is what the people of this country asked for; and I believe-I speak subject to correction-that every member of this house would have supported it. It is only right and just that the western Canadian farmers should have this concession, if that is the proper term for it.
May I now discuss the proposed bonuses. I contend, Mr. Chairman, that they will not benefit the average farmer. They may be of assistance to the man operating a large, mechanized farm; but, do you know, sir, that is the very guy who brought this problem upon us. I say that without intending to be disrespectful. I have just as much regard and good-will for the large farmers as I have for the smaller ones; they have just as much
right to live in this country, but they are the people who have heaped up this huge surplus. The smaller farmers and their families, living on the land, are the greatest asset of the nation. Many hon. members representing rural constituencies have said to their electors that the farmers are the backbone of this country. I have made that statement; and I have declared that agriculture is the basic industry of the country. Therefore the smaller farmer and his family, making a living on the land, is really the one who should be considered. What percentage of the population of this country live on the farms? I am informed that it is at least one-third.
In that connection I should like to repeat some figures which I placed on Hansard on a previous occasion. According to the table which I placed on record at that time, thirty-five per cent of the farmers in the three prairie provinces sow less than fifty acres of wheat a year; that is according to the 1935 census. Those farmers have a slim chance of reaping any benefit from this bonus, after having, had no wheat for perhaps three or four years. Why, I know several farmers who have not sown wheat for the last ten years, and they do not come into the picture at all, although I believe some regulations will be drawn up to take care of them. Further than that, sixty-two per cent of the farmers of the west sow less than one hundred acres of wheat a year. Therefore I think there is truth in the statement that this policy will not benefit the smaller farmers of this country.
I should like to give an example of how this policy will work. When some people speak of summer-fallowing, and being paid a bonus for it, it occurs to me that they think we can summer-fallow for nothing. It costs money to summer-fallow. As a rule, in farm leases in Manitoba they allow $5 an acre for any summer-fallow the tenant has not done, but I am going to be conservative and place the figure at $2 an acre. That is not all velvet. I can assure you, Mr. Chairman, that it costs a great deal more than $2 in my district if you do the summer-fallowing right, but we will put it at that figure. The bonus on one hundred acres of wheat at $4 an acre will be $400. The cost to the farmer would be at least $200, which would leave him a net revenue of $200 from his summer-fallowing.
This is what I would do; this would be my alternative. ' I would take that one hundred acres and sow it in wheat if the government had a policy that would allow me to do so. It is a poor field of summer-fallow that will not produce at least twenty bushels to the acre. That would give me two thousand
2174	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
bushels from the one hundred acres. Of that two thousand bushels the government will take only two-thirds, or 1,333 bushels, which at 15 cents a bushel would amount to $199.80, or almost equal to the summer-fallow bonus. This will leave me 666 bushels, which the government does not want. What is the farmer going to do with those 666 bushels of wheat? Well, he will just put them in his granary. Can you think of any form of crop insurance, Mr. Chairman, that would stand a man in better stead than a binful of wheat; and can you think of anything that would bring this problem to the mind of the farmer more vividly than to find himself with a binful of wheat which he could not deliver? The next year he would hesitate before putting in much more wheat.
The coarse grain bonus is, I think, the most attractive of the three proposals. If I have to make a decision between summerfallowing, sowing to grass or sowing to coarse grains, I will sow to coarse grains. If I take one hundred acres of summer-fallow, I can produce forty-five bushels to the acre. We usually sow barley on the second crop, some of it on the poorest land we have; but if we sow barley on the good summer-fallow, we can just double the bushelage of barley in this country right under this very plan. If we do that, what will be the result? We are just going to have the wheat problem transferred to a barley or some other coarse grain problem. That result is inevitable.
I believe the bonus relative to pasture land has some merit, but it is a long-range programme. It is something which cannot be of much benefit to the farmers this year, beyond the $2 bonus which is to be paid. There is certainly room in Canada for more grass land; that is where diversified farming comes in. We could develop our cattle industry and our sheep industry away beyond its present size, if that development were permitted. The other evening and afternoon when I listened to some of my good friends on the Conservative side of the house arguing that there should be more restrictions on trade with the United States-they referred particularly to fresh fruits-and when they were told by the Minister of Finance that such restrictions would endanger the Canada-United States trade agreement, I could not help thinking they had not realized what that agreement meant to western Canada- yes, to the whole of Canada.
In these days, statesmen do not talk about restrictions in trade. The tendency is altogether the other way. Men are talking about cooperation, and the possibility of removing 
barriers of trade between nations. The United States trade agreement of 1936 and again renewed in 1939, proved a godsend to the cattle raisers of Canada. Where would we be to-day, with our markets across the ocean shut off, were it not for that trade agreement? Now that we have not the market in the old country, where would we be if we did not have that outlet to the south? Some will argue, "You cannot even fill your quota." No, we cannot; but that outlet is removing the surplus from the domestic market, and assures us of a higher price all round. There is no doubt about that.
It is wrong, therefore, for us to suggest anything which would interfere with the Canada-United States trade agreement. That arrangement stands out as an oasis in a desert, so far as the legislation of this government is concerned. The farmers' position is not good, and I am satisfied it is not going to be any better under this new policy. The farmers are willing to shoulder their responsibilities in this war. They are willing to pull more than their weight, and, indeed, they are doing so. But why should farmers be asked to be the shock-absorbers of the whole nation? That is what has happened. All other prices are rising. Look at the profits being paid by every company in Canada, and then look at the position of agriculture, the basic, backbone industry of the country.
Farmers cannot do other than keep on tilling the soil; that is their occupation. We cannot pull up stakes and go somewhere else. We just have to keep on going, whether we do or do not receive a fair price, and take our chance on the next crop. I find, upon looking into figures received by farmers in recent years, that although those living on the land comprise one-third of our population, they enjoy only ten per cent of the national income. Nevertheless, while agriculture is not prospering, many secondary industries, founded upon the work of the agriculturists, are making money.
I shall mention some of those industries. Take the meat packers, the milling companies, the farm machinery companies and the grain trade. Each of those industries is dependent upon agriculture, and to-day each is prospering. Why? Because they can transfer their energies to something else.
I have before me figures showing that in 1939 Canada Packers had a net surplus of $1,238,736, and, in 1940, a net surplus of $1,667,809. In 1939 Swift Canadian had a net surplus of $376,598, and in 1940, $394,109. Lake of the Woods Milling company is a firm which has suffered in recent years, but,

Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
on account of the war, its business is improving. In 1939 that company had a surplus of 8596,691, and, in 1940, 8476,601. The Massey-Harris companjq too, suffered in past years, but now they are making money, and they made money for several years before the war. In 1939 they had a surplus of 8705,337, and in 1940 they had an operating surplus of 83,132,158. But through their method of bookkeeping, which no doubt is a correct one, they show, in 1940, a net income of 8805,568.


Have they paid dividends recently?


Just to the preferred shareholders, I believe. If hon. members wish, I could give the source from which I have obtained these figures.
I should like now to say something concerning the grain trade. Before dealing with that trade, may I correct a statement I made in the speech I delivered last November. At that time I said that the storage paid to the line elevator companies was three-quarters of a cent a bushel. That was an unintentional mistake, and I am glad to correct it at this my first opportunity. Instead of stating that it was three-quarters of a cent, I should have said it was two-thirds of a cent. This amounts to one cent a bushel per annum. This does not look like very much, but on hundreds of millions of bushels on which storage is paid, it can be readily understood that the total amount involved will be considerable.
The grain trade have been pretty well looked after by the parliament of Canada. I refer not only to recent years. They have been looked after as long as I can remember, and they are being well looked after to-day. They are making money; in some departments they never made as big dividends as they are making at the present time, right in the midst of this war. The charges the nation will have to pay the line elevator companies-and in that I include the pool elevators and the United Grain Growers-to carry the surplus will amount to approximately $65,000,000 a year.
When the Minister of Trade and Commerce made his announcement he said, speaking of the surplus and the problem of taking care of it:
To meet this situation the government entered into an arrangement with western elevator companies for the construction of approximately
50,000,000 bushels of temporary terminal storage space at Fort Willian-Port Arthur. The arrangements made were approved by order in council of February 19, 1941. I am assured a large part of this new space will be ready by July 31 of this year and the remainder in August and September. These facilities are being constructed by the elevator companies. The government has agreed to maintain all elevator tariff charges now prevailing without reduction until July 31, 1943. and to allow the companies to write off as depreciation for income tax purposes 50 per cent of the actual cost of construction in each of two successive years.
The point I make is this, that the government of Canada have guaranteed to the elevator companies two years' storage, whether we get rid of this surplus or not. Someone has said that the old country will be bombed, that the wheat fields will be set on fire, that the grain will be destroyed and that this wheat will be needed. If that comes true, it means that we have entered into a contract, if not written, at least oral, by which we undertake to continue paying these storage elevators for the next two years at the rate of approximately $65,000,000 a year. The minister goes on to say:
It is further agreed by the companies that after the 31st day of July, 1943, they will, upon request, each enter into agreements (upon the basis of payment of reasonable remuneration for each operation) as may be mutually satisfactory in the light of the operating experience gained during the jjeriod up to July 31, 1943, for the operation of its temporary facilities during the balance of the time such facilities are needed.
There are hon. members who will argue that it will be four years before we can get rid of our surplus wheat, so this will be rather an expensive proposition for the government and the people of this country. A meeting was held at Portage la Prairie and a resolution was passed asking the government to provide some means of assistance, even if only to aid us in providing storage facilities on the farm where this is needed. Of this $65,000,000 that we are paying out to the elevator companies, not one dollar is going to the farmer. There was a time when we hoped that we were going to get another ten cents a bushel on our 1939 crop, but we did not get it. Why? Because it had been eaten up in the payment of these storage charges. I know this may be something the government cannot help at the present time, but they seem to have slipped a cog in this connection by not paying attention to the necessity of providing more storage facilities on the farm where this is needed. We need these granaries, and we need them filled with grain as a security against crop failures.


Does the farmer of the west really believe that it is an obligation of the government to build granaries on the farms?


No, he does not, but the
suggestion was made that loans should be made to the farmers or they should be provided with lumber for that purpose. Then
2176 ^	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
storage charges could be paid to them instead of to the line elevator company, and the government would get their money out of the storage charges when the wheat was sold. That is all we are asking for.


It is a wonderful thing if
you can get it. We in Ontario do not take eagerly to having the government provide granaries for the farmers in the west. We have had to erect expensive buildings to carry on our operations, and we are always glad to have a little wheat in our granaries. We do not expect the government to lend us money. We find it somewhere.


I am sure the hon. member for Brant is one of those who would be willing to cooperate with western members in order to try to understand our problems and to arrive at some solution which would be beneficial both to the east and to west. We do not want the government to build our granaries; all we ask is that it be made a little easier for us, especially when they are ready to pay out this money to the line elevators.


Is it not true that wheat is the only commodity which the farmers of Canada have been denied the right to sell? Consequently there is some obligation to the farmer.


One could make a whole
speech on that question. There is no doubt there is something in what the hon. member has said.


That is not so.


What other
commodity is there?


I am sorry to interrupt the hon. gentleman, but he has spoken for more than forty minutes.


Go on.


I thank the committee for listening to me. and I shall conclude right away. I have been speaking as a farmer and as a representative of farmers. I am speaking not only for myself, but also for my constituents. On several occasions I have found it necessary to oppose the government. That is not because I wanted to; it was 6imply because I believed honestly that I am here to represent my people before supporting the government or any other party. That is my honest belief. I am simply trying to discharge the duty which has been imposed upon me.


We have had dollar wheat since that circular was issued.


If the hon. member in
the eorner will keep quiet, he will have his chance to say all he wishes when I have
finished. I was going on to say, Mr. Chairman, that dollar wheat is exactly what we are recommending. The circular continues:
Dollar wheat will run your farm and pay your taxes.
Dollar wheat will pay the hired help and pay your repair bill.
Dollar wheat will pay your insurance and buy your wife a new dress.
The circular ends with the words in large type, "Vote Liberal."


They did vote Liberal.


And they have been sorry ever since. I may say, in answer to the hon. member who interrupted, that it is a good thing we have an election every few years because, while the people may make a mistake once we remember the old saying, "You can fool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all of the people all of the time."


You have done it twice.


I have represented fairly-and I say "fairly" advisedly-the people who sent me here, and I shall continue to do so for as long as they see fit to send me here.
The group with which I am associated recommend that the government take immediate steps to pay one dollar a bushel at the local elevator for the first 2,000 bushels of wheat. Again, this may be claimed to be impossible. According, however, to the figures just given by the hon. member for Portage la Prairie, 35 per cent of our farmers sow less than 50 acres, and 62 per cent, less than 100 acres. We cannot expect a number of these farmers to raise 2,000 bushels, and if they do not raise it, naturally they cannot deliver it. Quite a number of them will not deliver more than one or two hundred bushels. I believe that our proposal is fair and will give agriculture a chance to pay its way; and if agriculture prospers, I believe that the rest of Canada will prosper as well, because, as I have pointed out on several occasions, when the west is prosperous, eastern Canada is prosperous also. I have on former occasions quoted figures in this house showing that in 1926, when wheat averaged SI.40 a bushel, western Canada purchased from eastern Canada approximately $82,000,000 worth of farm machinery. That was just one item alone. Then in 1932 and 1933 when wheat was away down in price, to the lowest price in three or four hundred years, the west's purchases of farm implements dropped to around $8,000,000, or only ten per cent of what we purchased in reasonably good times.
2180	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
I think any sane, sound business man must take cognizance of facts such as these, and act accordingly.
The government, I believe, should continue to pay storage on the balance of the quota of wheat on the farm, as is being done at the present time. I also believe that the government should pay an advance on that part of the quota which the farmer holds on his farm because he cannot deliver it. The farmer must get a living anyway, and if the wheat is there to be delivered, the government would not be taking any great chances in making an advance.
The question of storage was brought up by the hon. member for Portage la Prairie. If we allow something like ten per cent for working space, the elevators have a storage capacity of 582 million bushels, and paying eight cents a bushel on their full capacity means that somebody will have to pay $46,560,000 a year for storage. As we are now in a war period, I think the people of Canada should pay this charge rather than that the farmers themselves should be made to stand this expense.
Agriculture is pretty well wrecked now. If this is allowed to go on, complete wrecking of the industry will be the result. I do not think Canada can afford to have agriculture in any worse plight than it is at the present time. Do not forget that there are war debts to pay, and that all taxes are paid either directly or indirectly by the agricultural industry.
In addition, I believe the government should continue where it left off, with international cooperation with the wheat producing countries. This has been advocated for the past three or four years by the hon. member for Acadia (Mr. Quelch), myself and others.
I should also like to see the grain exchange closed. We have been told that it is being kept open at the request of the cereals board in England. That argument does not appear to me to have any force, because seemingly the British government has closed the exchanges over there since the war started, and if that course is good for England, why is it not good for Canada? Perhaps we are yet capable of being skinned a little more. That skinning should cease, and cease right away.
In conclusion, may I allude to that old theme, Canadian unity. We have heard the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King),several of the cabinet ministers and private members plead for national unity. We have been told by others that unity is impossible while one part is slave and the other part free. I suggest that it is about time to free a very large percentage of our people who have been and

are slaves, and I make this plea to the government now, that they take into consideration this group's recommendations which I have just placed on record.


Like the hon. member for Portage la Prairie (Mr. Leader), I am probably not so much concerned personally about the wheat problem because, as in his case, cattle has solved my problem. As a Canadian citizen, however, I am vitally concerned about this very important matter of wheat.	.
The Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner), speaking on the floor of this chamber on Wednesday, March 26, in reply to the hon. member for Haldimand (Mr. Senn), attempted to place the blame on the opposition in this house for the fact that we have not had an opportunity to discuss agriculture, and all its difficulties, at a much earlier date. He stated that when he first attempted to bring in his estimates, on February 27, I asked him to make a statement. I did ask him at half-past ten on that evening, as he stated, if he would make a statement in order to give some lead to the agricultural producers of the country as to what might be expected of them, in the matter of agricultural production, to assist in the war effort during this coming year; and I suggest that that request was very much in order. Then, on March 5, the hon. member for Haldimand rose to introduce an amendment to the motion to go into supply. He was not allowed to complete his speech until March 26. During the interval, on March 12, the Minister of Agriculture announced this acreage bonus scheme which we are now discussing.
May I say that, as a result of my experience as a member for three or four years of the advisory committee under the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act, I, speaking on November 14 last in this chamber, advocated a scheme somewhat similar in principle to this one, but on a much broader basis. I am convinced that something must be done to reduce the wheat acreage of this country, but, like other speakers, I also am convinced that the producers, on the quota which they are allowed to deliver, must receive somewhere near a parity price for what they are allowed to deliver. I spoke several times last year and, I think, proved conclusively that the parity price at that time was approximately $1.25 a bushel, Fort William-certainly a great contrast to this allowance of 70 cents.
I am opposed to handling this matter in the manner proposed by the government. I was disappointed that the minister did not introduce a bill covering these regulations or the operation of this scheme. Such dictatorial

Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
powers as are involved in a matter of this kind should not be given to one individual by order in council.
May I also point out that, notwithstanding the difficult plight of agriculture from coast to coast, the agriculture committee of this house has not met once during the last two sessions of parliament. It is hard to understand why that committee has not been called together to discuss the serious condition of agriculture, about which the government professes to be so much concerned.
Under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act the Minister of Agriculture is almost a dictator, but only farmers producing under twelve bushels an acre have come under his rule. Under this new scheme all the farmers of the prairie provinces will come under his dictate. I am certainly of opinion that this authority should not be given one who enjoys the reputation of a great partisan administrator. As some evidence of what may happen, let me quote from the report of the auditor general for the period ended March 31, 1940. Referring to the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act, he states on page 61-to cite just one case- Commitments of approximately $1,315,575.20 were incurred in excess of the amount appropriated without certificates of the comptroller of the treasury being secured in the manner provided for by sections 26 and 29 of the Consolidated Revenue and Audit Act, 1931. These overcommitments, by group classifications, are made up of: land utilization, $22,036.47; water development, small projects, $909,553.00, large projects $384,185.73.
By an amendment to the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act (chap. 7 assented to 5th April, 1939), the minister may, subject to the approval of the governor in council, enter into agreements with provinces, cities, towns, persons, etc., for projects or schemes for the conservation of water. Payments during the year were made in several cases on ministerial authority only. . . .
The report goes on to quote examples. I would point out that this was taking place during the latter part of 1939-not so many months prior to the general election of March, 1940.
Turning to page 66, we find, with reference to the Prairie Farm Assistance Act:
Regulations made under the act and approved by order in council dated November 23, 1939 (P.C. 3820) provided for the establishment of a committee of review, the duties of the committee to be to examine data, to review yield categories, to consider applications open to question and to report its findings to the Minister of Agriculture. Under the statute before it was amended in 1940, the determining of the acreage yield, which formed the basis of acreage awards, rested with the Minister of Agriculture and the law officers expressed their opinion that the non-concurrence of the committee did not preclude the minister from awarding assistance. Several awards were made by the minister covering yields not accepted by the committee.
Farmers were not required to make applications for assistance. While section 5 of the act gives the power to make regulations to require farmers to furnish information and section 11 makes it an offence if any person falsely claims assistance, the farmers filed only acreage reports and the value of the certification to these reports was often negatived by changes unsigned by the farmers.
There are many other similar references on these pages, all illustrating the great extent of the authority which is vested in one minister under regulations brought in as these have been. I am very much of the opinion that there should be a minimum clause in these regulations in order to protect the small producers. It was pointed out by one of the previous speakers that the average number of acres of wheat produced by the farmers is fifty. Throughout a large part of Manitoba a minimum of eighty acres would not be too much for the farmers, and I do not think any farmer should be compelled to reduce below that acreage. There should also be some restrictions on the large farmers with an opportunity to cash in on this scheme. Moreover, when this scheme was being considered by the government, the Minister of Agriculture, I believe, invited the provincial departments of agriculture and municipal officials to Ottawa. They were amazed to read on the train, coming to Ottawa, the announcement of the policy before they had been consulted.
The three provincial governments have taken the stand that the initial payment on wheat should be at least 85 cents. The western union of municipalities, after due consideration, recommended that the payment should be 95 cents a bushel on this quota basis, and I believe the quota they advocated was approximately that which has been arrived at.
The Sirois commission in their report point out that from 1896 to 1913, under a vigorous immigration policy carried out by the government of that day, assisted by the railways and the real estate companies, a vast expansion took place in western Canada, and land ranging from 10,000,000 acres to
70,000,000 acres was settled, with the result that wheat acreage expanded accordingly. The officials under the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act contend that there has been conducted throughout a considerable part of that area a soils survey by the soils experts of the three provincial governments, and they suggest that 6,000,000 acres of land should be taken out of grain production. Some headway has been made in this direction. A large part of that land lies within the boundaries of Saskatchewan. The statement is often made that, from patriotic
2182	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
motives, this great expansion, in wheat production took place during the last war. On going over some of the records, I find that wheat acreage in 1914 in the prairie provinces was 9,335,400 acres. In 1918, at the conclusion of the war, it was 16,125,451 acres. In 1939 it was 25,813,000 acres, and in the last year, 1940, it was 27,750,000 acres. Therefore, by far the greatest expansion has taken place since the last war.
In the last two years, when international prices were tumbling because of oversupply, Canada has increased acreage by 11J per cent, while the rest of the world has been reducing acreage by 10 per cent. We must, therefore, face, in some manner, the issue of wheat production. More than that, while the peoples of the world procured their wheat requirements from an average of seventeen acres out of every 100 cultivated acres, we in Canada have been attempting to produce wheat on every sixty out of 100 cultivated acres in the prairies. That should convince us that we ought to cease burying our heads in the sand and face the situation.
Whether we like it or not, the economy of western Canada is facing a radical change at this time, and we must give some thought to what lies ahead of us in this regard. In the four-year period from 1925 to 1928 inclusive, we produced in the prairies 1,745,000,000 bushels of wheat. At that time the index purchasing power was 96 compared with 100 in 1913. In the recent period, from 1937 to 1940, we produced 1,511,000,000 bushels, and the index purchasing power was 50-2. In other words, in the previous four years, 1925 to 1928, we produced a quantity in excess of this year's quota requirements, and the price was still considerably more than the index is now at this particular time. Moreover, in 1928 Canada was supplying 40 per cent of the world's exports of wheat, according to the Sirois report, book I, page 144. Therefore, at that time, before people were preparing for the war-and they have been doing it for the past ten years-this unusually large surplus threatened a slump in the prices. Germany, Italy and France began to erect tariffs of $1.62, $1.07 and $1.85 a bushel respectively, which added to our difficulties during that time.
The hon. member for Portage la Prairie suggested that the chap who operated the tractor was more responsible for our difficulties than anyone else to-day, and there is some truth in that statement. I would point out, however, the great transformation that has taken place in agricultural production in

recent years. Mechanization has affected that production to a considerable extent. The following extract is illuminating:
It is stated on good authority that in 1830, unaided by machinery, it required about 57 hours of man labour to grow and harvest an acre of wheat yielding 20 bushels. The introduction and use of machinery brought the hours of labour required to grow an acre of wheat down to 3-3 in 1930.
It has been accelerated since then.
Having once made the change from horses to tractors, land formerly used for forage, pasture and coarse grains is converted to wheat production to obtain a larger cash crop, and one which can best be depended upon where rainfall is scarce.
I quote still further:
Notwithstanding criticism to the contrary agriculture has kept pace with industry so far as efficiency is concerned. In the United States between 1910 and 1930, output per worker increased 39 per cent in manufacturing and 41 per cent in agriculture. A long-range contrast shows that 150 years ago it took 19 persons living on farms to produce enough for themselves and for one person in town. To-day 19 persons on farms can produce enough for themselves and for 66 living in towns. That condition is undoubtedly comparable with the situation which obtains in this country as well.
People have been forced into mass production by machinery owing to the necessity of having to reduce cost of production. According to the Canadian Cooperative Farm Implements Journal, a binder in 1913 sold at Regina for $167, and it took 261 bushels of wheat to pay for it. In 1936 the same binder sold for $281, and required 319 bushels to pay for it. In 1940 it sold for $340 and required 637 bushels to pay for it. That is conclusive proof of the position into which producers have been forced, to some extent perhaps against their better judgment.
Since the outbreak of war, labour in this country has been placed in a highly protected position. Those in industry are protected by the government of the day, but agriculture is left to look after itself. The farmers would be content with the prices that prevailed before the great depression. They would be more than content; they would be delighted if returns from farming were on the basis of 1929. This government has seen fit to place labour on the basis of the wages prevailing from 1926 to 1929, plus any increase which may be brought about during this war effort. The yearly average of agricultural prices on this basis, taking Winnipeg as the index, would be as follows:
Wheat	 $ 1.20
Hogs, live weight	 11.00
Cattle, best killing	 9.20
Butter fat	40

Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
I would point out that cattle is the only agricultural product to-day on anything like equality with the prices prevailing before 1930. If we take the index of all farm products for the period from 1926 to 1929 as 100, the figure for 1940 would be 69. Costs are down, but not to anything like the same extent, and those costs have increased considerably since the beginning of the war. The exchange situation alone has automatically increased the price on important machinery such as tractors.
The situation, the'-l, is that labour is in a sheltered position; industiy is booming; finance is thriving because industry is active, but agriculture is left to look after itself. According to the Searle index, labour in 1939 received wages 91 per cent higher than those of 1913-14. Further than that, we have the statement of the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe) on Februray 25, that some $307,000,000 has been supplied by the government to industry in this country by way of capital assistance. Of that total, approximately $10,000,000 went to British Columbia; $16,000,000 to the three prairie provinces, and by far the greater part of the remainder to Ontario and Quebec.
I had the privilege of visiting the city of Hamilton not long ago. I was amazed at the work being carried on there, but I was later surprised to learn that that city, with a population of approximately 160,000, had received something like $26,000,000 by way of capital assistance to industry. Why, even the city of Niagara Falls, which is not very large, received $14,000,000 for this purpose. So, Mr. Chairman, you see how all this money which has been put into circulation by the government has intensified the difficulties of agriculture at the present time. It was pointed out by the hon. member for Haldimand that even before the outbreak of this war, agriculture, which includes approximately one-third of the population of this nation, received only about one-twelfth of the national income, and this great disparity has been increased since the war.
I believe farming should be considered, first, as a way of life and, second, as a business; that is, the farmer should be encouraged in every way to produce a livelihood for himself and his family. In this regard I should like to make some reference to the processing tax. Last year this matter was discussed; and, if I remember correctly, the Minister of Agriculture expressed the opinion that the producer who took his own grist to the mill should not have to pay this tax. On September 3, however, 1940, order in council P.C. 4387 was passed setting up the regulations
governing the payment of this processing tax and, after some protest by producers throughout the country, on February 1, 1941, order in council P.C. 134/813 was passed, rebating this tax to the producers of Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island.
In Manitoba, from which I come, we have forty-three flour mills, two of them located in my own constituency. The secretary of the provincial millers' association is also one of my constituents. I communicated with the various millers through the province in order to ascertain what they had collected from the producers and turned over to the government during the first six months of the operation of this tax; and after having received that information, I am satisfied that, if this policy is continued, these local grist mills will be forced out of business, which will be an added hardship on those farmers who normally have their gristing done in this way. I have here the information from fifteen of these mills as to the amount collected by them from July 20, 1940, to February 1, 1941, as follows:
Turtle Mountain Milling Company-
Deloraine	 $ 3,200 00
Steinbach Flour Mills-Steinback..	4,333	70A.	W. Snider-Wawanesa	
1,012	20Treherne Flour Mills-Treherne....	585	22Holland Flour Mills-Holland....	459	40Morden Milling Company-Morden.	1,527	15
Somerset Flour Mills-Somerset. .. .1
B. P. Kent Milling Company-Virdenf	6,000 00
Harrison Milling and Grain Company-Hoilmfield	
1,200	00Winkler Milling Company-Winkler	1,700	00Morris Milling Company-Morris..	5,331	55Gardenton Flour Mills-Gardenton.	3,318	00lloblin Flour Mills-Roblin	
889	65
Hamiota Flour Mills

Hamiota....	4,445	54
Pine River Milling Company-Pine
River	 1,452	45
Total	 $35,454 86
Average per mill tax paid on gristing, July 20, 1940, to January 31, 1941, $2,363.
I do not know why there should be this discrimination as between these four eastern provinces and the rest of the country; and I think some consideration should be shown those producers who wish to have their own gristing done. They should not be taxed for having their own flour produced for their own consumption.
I am convinced that somebody must endeavour to create a plan for agriculture in this country from coast to coast. During the early years in western Canada, such a plan was not needed, but to-day the situation has entirely changed. On those prairies we have some three million people, many of whom were born and raised there and who desire to
2184	COMMONS
Supply-Agriculture-Wheat Acreages
continue living there. We have many scientists of one kind and another, experts in agriculture, and I believe the government should get these people together and evolve some policy to assist in that new economy which is coming to this country whether we like it or not. The other day it was pointed out by one hon. member that seldom was