Mr. T. L. CHURCH (Broadview) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 61, to amend the Judges Act.
He said:	Mr. Speaker, this bill contains
two sections, the first of which has to do with the use of federal judges on royal commissions. The frequency, in recent years, with which judges are drafted for all kinds of such work impairs the efficient administration of justice and causes congestion in the law courts, and as they are largely only factfinding commissions when appointed they duplicate the efficient powers and functions

Questions
of parliament, of the committees thereof, and of the many outside boards of recent innovation in war work, and furthermore they are a costly adjunct to good parliamentary government of the people, by the people and for the people, cause delays and interfere with parliament's right to immediate solution of social and economic problems of urgency to good government, thus a system of "judicial commission government" is slowly being built up in Canada.
The second section adds to the act a provision under which judges are to be bound by the decision of the court of final appeal, in respect to any question of law competent for such judges to decide, and shall take notice and be bound by the then last decision or judgment of the judicial committee of the provincial, or other court of final appeal rendered by such court upon or with respect to such application of law. This amendment is to apply to all the provinces of Canada. Federal authority should be paramount and supreme. One of the cardinal principles of the British constitution is that the courts are subservient to the legislature.
The legal maxim or doctrine known as stare decisis is overruled where inconsistent to this amendment and this bill will be law for all Canada, notwithstanding the provisions of any law, statute, usage, custom, or doctrine of law to the contrary. Judges are federal as well as provincial officers, although the provinces have jurisdiction over the constitution of the courts.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
ST. PAUL l'eRMITE, QUEBEC
1.	What amount has been paid to date by the dominion government in connection with the Cherrier plan at St. Paul l'Ermite?
2.	What amount has been contributed to date by the government of the United Kingdom?
3.	What is the total amount advanced to date in connection with the Cherrier plan?


1.	$1,617,553.35.
2.	It is required of the dominion government that no information be given regarding United Kingdom government contracts.
3.	Answered by No. 2.


1.	Were tenders called for the construction of a bridge over the Missaguash river, Nova Scotia?
2.	If so, who was the successful tenderer?
3.	What was the amount of the tender?
4.	Who were the other tenderers?
5.	What was the amount of each such tender?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Construction of sub-structure, Greenlaw & Estey. (b) Construction of superstructure, Dominion Bridge Co., Ltd.
3.	(a) $26,972; (b) $31,840.65.
4 and 5. (a) Diamond Construction Co., Ltd., S30.202; 01 ts & McNabb, $31,426.50; B. H. Williamson, $31,903; H. H. Latimer and A. D. Morrison, $47,307.50. (b) The Canadian Bridge Co., Ltd., S34,748.64; Hamilton Bridge Co., Ltd., $35,337.60.


1.	How many pounds of butter have been shipped each month to Britain since the war started?
2.	Will consideration be given to sending a large gift consignment of butter to Britain?


1.	Exports of butter to the United Kingdom during the months from January to December, 1939, 1940 and 1941.
1939	1940	1941
Month	Pounds Pounds Pounds
January		..
February		900
March		..
April		..	100
May		..
June		..
July		..
August		..
September	..	..	73,700	..October	
71,000	..November	,.	..	39,300	..December	..	..	13,200	..2.	This is a matter of government policy.


1.	How many married women are employed on the staff of the administration office of the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act in the city of Regina?
2.	What are their names?
3.	Were they appointed by the civil service commission?
4.	If not, by whom?


1.	Three.
2.	Mrs. H. McPhaden, Mrs. M. Pearce and Mrs. V. Calhoun.
3.	No.
4.	Registrars appointed under the provisions of the Farmers' Creditors Arrangement Act
Questions

are allowed such disbursements as may be necessary for stenographic and clerical assistance. The persons referred to in question 2 were appointed by the registrar of the Saskatchewan board of review.


1.	Was the post office at Marion Bridge, district Xo. 3, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, transferred to district No. 16, Cape Breton?
2.	If so, when and for what reason?
3.	What number of people -were served by the office in district No. 3?
4.	What number of people will be served by the office in district No. 16?
5.	Upon whose recommendation was the transfer made?


1.	Marion Bridge post office was moved a distance of 1/10 of a mile.
2.	(a) On the 4th March, 1941. (b) The retiring postmistress gave up the office, a transfer became necessary and the office was placed in charge of an acting postmaster.
3 and 4. The department has no information of the areas designated as district No. 3 and district No. 16.
5.	Dr. D. J. Hartigan recommended present acting postmaster.


1.	From who was the site of the post office building at Birtle, Manitoba, purchased?
2.	What price was paid for this site?
3.	What was the cost of the construction of the building?
4.	Who were employed as building inspectors on this construction?
5.	What amounts were paid to such inspectors for this work?


MUNITIONS AND SUPPLY-FUNDY AND MaCMILLAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANIES
1.	Has the government ascertained from the provinces the rate of taxation imposed on admission tickets to motion picture theatres?
2.	If so, what is the present rate in each of the provinces?


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, petitions, reports and other documents passing between the government of Canada, or any official thereof, and the farmers in township 28, range 20, W. 2nd, in the province of Saskatchewan, or with the rural municipality of Mount Hope No. 279, from October 1, 1940, to date, in connection with the resurvey of said township in order to ascertain whether the farmers living there were entitled to the payment of bonus under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act, together with a copy of all correspondence with regard thereto that has passed between the Minister of Agriculture and the superintendent of prairie farm assistance at Regina, Saskatchewan.


It is not in the public interest to give much of the information asked

Private Bills-Procedure
for, and some of it would be simply opinions which have been passed back and forth between officials in the department. Other than that, what can properly be given will be given.


On the motion:
That private bills be considered by the house, after routine proceedings, during the sitting of Thursday, the 15th of May instant and that standing order 15 and the resolution of the 17th of February last in relation thereto be suspended.	.
Mr. Speaker, if the house will allow me I should like to amend this motion by substituting Friday the 16th for Thursday the 15th. If that amendment is satisfactory I would move:
That private bills be considered by the house, after routine proceedings, during the sitting of Friday, the 16th of May instant and that standing order 15 and the resolution of the 17tli of February last in relation thereto be suspended.


Mr. Speaker, there is no objection, of course, to the amendment, but if we do pass this motion I am wondering whether we are to have a repetition of what took place here last week. I regret that the Prime Minister was not in his seat at that time; otherwise he would know exactly what I mean. I assume that the object of this motion is to allow promoters of private bills to get their legislation before the house. That is a proper thing at the appropriate stage of the session, but I do suggest to the Prime Minister that if we are to have a repetition of what took place here last week we had better not pass this motion. I further suggest that it would be very much better if we proceeded with public business rather than with some of these private bills. I personally do not see any chance of their getting through, although I am not opposing any one of them; but I deplore more than I can say the situation which was created here last week, arising, as I have no doubt every hon. member knows, out of indirect opposition to one of the bills, which on its merits, it seems to me, should have a chance to go to the railway committee.


As my hon. friend is aware, it is pretty difficult for me even to suggest that I control the tenor of debate or what may take place in the course of it, but I would agree very strongly with the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson)
when he says that public business should not be impeded in any way by a discussion of private bills. The purpose of this motion is to permit all these bills -to go to a committee, and if advantage is taken of that permission to occupy the time of the house at too great length with matters that are not wholly relevant I think it would be proper to adjourn the order and proceed with another. I would hope that what the leader of the opposition has said would be sufficient to guide those who may participate in the debate on private bills.


Mr. Speaker, this motion is debatable, and I should like to take one or two minutes to say that formerly, even with a war on, the house was allowed from eight to nine o'clock on Tuesday and Friday evenings to discuss private bills, and also the first three Thursdays of the session after the orders of the day had been disposed of. In my opinion that practice should be restored so that it would not be necessary to have on the order paper a motion such as the Prime Minister has just moved. Nowadays we do not know what business is coming up. We are given no notice of various motions, and they pass unopposed when they should be opposed.
My next point is that there has been a bill on the order paper ever since the war started regarding soldiers' fares and insurance. Surely that should be covered by this motion. There is no reason why, at a time when we are asking for 32,000 more recruits, soldiers' grievances and soldier legislation should not be dealt with promptly.
Members on all sides of the house have asked for free fares, and I moved for leave the other day. I ask the Prime Minister to include these two matters in his motion. The Prime Minister and the government and fifty-six outside boards and commissions have been given all the functions and privileges of the House of Commons itself. The Prime Minister has Pooh-Bah powers to deal with this legislation I have mentioned on behalf of the soldiers, and it is in the public interest that it should be dealt with without further delay.
Motion as amended agreed to.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw the attention of the Minister of Pensions to a statement that

Defence of Canada Regulations
appeared in the Calgary Herald of May 8. I understand that a copy of this statement has been forwarded to the minister. First of all I shall quote the statement and then ask some questions regarding it.
The heading in large letters says "Soldiers willing to live off government." It goes on:
By Thomas R. Henry-
Science Editor
Richmond, Va., May 8.-Canada's war experience to date gives some validity to Adolf Hitler's charge that the democracies are "jaded and effete."
Such was the confession made before the American Psychiatric Association meeting here, by Dr. J. P. S. Cathcart-


Order. I would ask the hon. member to make as brief as possible his statement of the foundation of the question he proposes to ask.


I shall be very brief, Mr. Speaker. I will just complete that sentence: -by Doctor J. P. S. Cathcart, chief psychiatrist of the Department of Pensions and National Health of the Canadian government.
I will just quote the last paragraph:
Another alarming symptom, Doctor Cathcart said, is the number of thefts reported from army camps-so much so that locks for kit-bags are being sold to most recruits.
An alarmingly high percentage of men, he said, have had previous prison records. Most of them -are in the army only with the idea of serving as short a time as possible and then retiring on a pension.
The question I would ask the Minister of Pensions is this. Will the minister assure the house that the government will take steps to ensure that no government employees holding responsible positions make defamatory statements against the army in the future? I ask that the government dissociate itself entirely from this libellous statement made by Doctor Cathcart. How can the government expect the men of the armed forces to have any confidence in a man who will attack the Canadian army by making such public statements outside of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the article in question has been called to my attention. In the first place the officer in question states that the newspaper report is not an accurate report of what he did state on that occasion. In the second place, I have already taken steps to see that such public statements are not made in the future without the approval and permission of the minister of the department.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of statements which have been made in certain speeches delivered outside the house or published in pamphlets, I have been asked to make a statement concerning the following matter.
It has repeatedly been said by certain people that persons have been interned solely because they have been members of a trade union. Some of these charges even went so far as to suggest that the defence of Canada regulations were being used to persecute and intimidate organized labour. These charges are positively untrue and must be categorically denied.
Of the total number of communists interned -the number is ninety-eight-under the provisions of regulation 21, twelve are definitely known to have been active in, and members of, labour unions. It must be pointed out, however, that these people were interned not because of their membership in the trade union, but by reason of the fact that they had been prominently associated with the Communist party and its activities.
The Communist party of Canada, ever since its inception, has attempted to undermine and capture the labour unions of this country. The communists, in conformity with the set policy of the party, do not enter the trade unions for the purpose of improving the working conditions of their members, but mainly for the purpose of turning the economic organizations of the workers into effective instruments of communism. During its twenty years of existence, the Communist party has resorted to various schemes in its attempt to capture the trade union movement. These schemes or intrigues have been bitterly contested by the majority of the workers in the trade unions, with the result that many of the known communists have been expelled from the ranks of organized labour. There are still, however, many communists who have been able to retain their membership in the trade unions and are doing their utmost to implement the policy of the Communist party.
The Communist party, ever since the outbreak of the present war, has been definitely committed to a policy which is calculated to

Income War Tax Act
impede our war effort. By fomenting strikes and discord, it seeks to cripple our defence industry. This policy has been reiterated in a set of directives recently issued by the central executive committee of the party. Those directives are on our files. The following is a quotation from the directives which has direct bearing upon the activities of the communists in trade unions:
The present bureaucracy which controls the trade union movement and which has tied it to the war chariot of the capitalists by cooperating on war boards, accepting the decrees of the ministry of labour, signing "war-time" agreements, and pledging "industrial peace" during the war (P.C. 7440), will oppose fiercely any militancy in the fight against the wrar programme. The trade union bureaucracy has to be fought within the union locals by the militants.
In view of what is known of the activities of the Communist party in labour unions and industries generally, it can hardly be expected that a communist should be given immunity because he happens to be a member of a trade union.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Munitions and Supply with regard to a statement made by the hon. member for Neepawa (Mr. MacKenzie), as reported in Hansard, page 2598:
Canada did a big job in North Africa by providing the transportation equipment for that swift campaign.
The question is this: Did Canada buy these transports and give them free to the British government, or were they paid for by New Zealand, Australia or the British government?


I cannot answer the question
categorically. Various countries order motor vehicles in this country, and the Department of Munitions and Supply does not check the distribution; we simply manufacture them and ship them as ordered. We do know that motor transport was shipped in great volume from Canadian ports direct to Africa, but the ownership of the vehicles shipped we do not know; at least, I do not know.


The house in committee of ways and means,
Mr. Fournier (Hull) in the chair.
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Income War Tax Act and to provide: -
1. That the rates of tax applicable to persons other than corporations shall be increased to the rates of tax set forth in the following schedules: -
A. Rates of tax applicable to persons other than corporations and joint stock companies.
(Fur paragraph A of the first schedule, see page 2766, May IS.)
Yesterday the Minister of Finance, at the request of the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar, placed on
Hansard, at page 2771, a table showing the "number of individual taxpayers, the amount of net income on which assessments were approved and taxes assessed during the fiscal year 1939-40; classified as to income class groups and per cent". That, of course, does not take into consideration the budget changes of last session. What I should like to know is this: Has the minister had prepared for the purposes of this resolution a table or classification showing what is expected to be received in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1942, from the present proposed changes? Is the minister able to give us information as to what amount, under the proposed assessment, is to be received, for instance, from those in the income class up to S2.000? We all know that, under the budget as brought down, the tax is at the rate of fifteen per cent on the first SI,000, and there is a graduated scheme increasing as it ascends. I should like to be able to compare the table on page 2771 of Hansard with a table of what it is estimated will be received in the next fiscal year, from the various income class groups. From such a comparison we would gain an understanding of the relative sacrifice which is to be made by each particular class of our citizenship.


That information is not available, at the moment at least. No estimate has been made by income groups. Someone asked me that question yesterday.


I do not recall that it was asked. I would, however, remind the minister that in his budget speech he estimated an increase of so many million dollars from this class of taxation.


Page 2356 of the budget
speech, I think.


He made an estimate of the yield from increases in existing taxes, the estimate from graduated

Income War Tax Act

personal income tax being $75,000,000 for a full year, and, for the remainder of the current fiscal year, 1941-42, $45,000,000. Presumably there was a carefully prepared estimate upon which these figures are based. It seems to me that it would not be very much trouble to go a little further and put those figures in a table comparable with the one which the minister put on Hansard yesterday. It would be quite illuminating.
I think I understand the reasons for the question yesterday. We must be absolutely fair about these matters. I said a year ago that the people in the intermediate income ;ax groups were making a tremendous and a very sudden sacrifice. That is being repeated this year. Those people are not complaining about that. But let us have the facts, and let us show that they are making a real sacrifice-because they are. I must say to the minister, and I believe he will agree with me, that if there had been a tremendous outburst in the country against this, it would not have been unexpected. On the contrary, there has been the most patriotic acquiescence and agreement from that particular class of our citizenship. It is all to their credit that this should be so, but let us give the country the facts and let the country know just how much these people are paying, in the way of increased taxation, in the different categories.


I shall have an estimate
prepared and put it on Hansard.


Yesterday I asked the minister to give some consideration to the question of municipal income taxes in the various provinces. It may be news to some hon. members that in New Brunswick all the municipalities have enjoyed -if that is the proper term to use-the field of income tax as a source of revenue. That goes down even to what I term the rural municipalities, but it is used chiefly in the larger cities. In New Brunswick we have no provincial income tax, and therefore the province has nothing to give up in that field. According to an interview given by the premier .if New Brunswick on his return to Fredericton, che question of the corporation tax is under consideration, and I hope the minister's proposals will be accepted. But before they can agree on the question of income tax, the municipalities will have to be consulted, because in the municipal field there will be a substantial amount of public revenue which will have to be made up from some other source if the provinces ask them to vacate this field. What is the position in relation to New Brunswick and Nova Scotia where there is no income tax? What does the minister propose to do in cases like these? The

province is giving up nothing, but the municipalities are giving up a definite field of taxation. If the minister makes an arrangement with the provinces under either A or B of his alternative proposals, will that be passed on to the municipalities, which are giving up that source of revenue? The minister will agree that his language in his budget speech did not go far enough to make it absolutely clear that that must be passed on. It is left at the option of the provinces.
I agree that the municipalities are the creatures of the provinces and that the provinces are the bodies with which the minister must deal; but I urge upon him to insist that if these municipalities give up that field of taxation, the loss which they sustain shall be made up in any grants that the dominion may make the provinces and that they will not be scalped-is that a good word to use?- by the provinces. It must be passed on to the municipalities and not retained by the provinces. That is the point which I am making. I say this because in previous grants in aid to certain provinces the whole benefit that should have accrued to the municipalities was not passed on to them, and I do not think the dominion government would have made those grants in aid to the extent to which they were made unless it was intended that they were to be passed on to the municipalities. I should like the minister to make it quite definite, in his negotiations with the provincial governments, that under any arrangements between this government and the provinces- and I speak especially with reference to New Brunswick and Nova Scotia-the municipalities will not suffer by reason of their vacating the income tax field.


There is a situation of some difficulty in New Brunswick, particularly by reason of the fact that small units, even school districts I believe, impose income taxation.


They do not go as low as that, do they?


I am not sure about that, but I am told that very small municipal districts of that sort, districts subordinate to the provinces, impose income taxation on very low incomes, in some instances just a few hundred dollars, four or five hundred or less-less than three hundred dollars, my colleague the Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Michaud) says, so far as his province is concerned. The offer to the provinces is conditioned upon the province and the municipalities leaving the income tax field. Whether we shall expect a complete vacating of the field in the case of these extremely low income taxes, whether they should not be regarded as something a little different from income taxes in the sense in

Income War Tax Act
which we mean it, is something that will have to be considered with the provinces. I have discussed this matter with my colleague the Minister of Fisheries and with the Premier of New Brunswick, Mr. McNair. Mr. McNair is concerned about the situation there.


So am I.


He says that his government is being put in this position, that approximately one and a half million dollars in this type of income taxation-


That is, municipal?


Yes, municipal taxation-will be given up by the municipalities in New Brunswick, and a demand will be made upon the provincial government there to compensate for this taxation which is being given up by the people of that province; whereupon the province of New Brunswick, it is assumed -and nothing else has ever been thought of either by Mr. McNair, by my colleague the Minister of Fisheries, or by myself-will have to pass the amount on to the municipalities. I hope I am not making it more difficult for Mr. McNair in stating it here, because I have not his authority to do so, but his concern is that the municipalities will consider that possibly some growth of revenue should be allowed for; and if the amount is fixed in that way by the province, the province will have only so much to pay over to the municipalities and will perhaps be open to attack from some of the municipalities for having frozen their income tax revenue at that figure. I pointed out to Mr. McNair that the freezing of income tax revenue was an essential part of the proposal. It is the amount paid in a certain year that the dominion agrees to pay to the provinces where the province adopts that part of the offer. So far as New Brunswick is concerned, it may be that they would adopt the debt service rather than the other. I do not know yet. Whether it would be more advantageous for them to take it out of the debt service or the amount of taxation less succession duty, I do not know. In any event the situation there has been carefully, although not completely, explored and is under consideration by the officials of my department and also by the government of New Brunswick.


The minister has made a very fair statement. There is no doubt there will be hardship if the situation is "frozen," to use his own word. Take Fredericton. We have had a progressive increase in income taxation in that city for many years, and I understand that this year there is a substantial growth. That tax is designed to collect money from salaried people from whom not another cent would be col-
14873- 178J
lected, except by way of a poll tax. All I am concerned about at the moment is that if they decide to adopt the proposal-and it must be up to the province to adopt whichever alternative they wish to choose-then, municipalities will not suffer. I want the municipalities protected. What will happen in Fredericton, or Saint John or Moncton, which are the three largest municipalities? If they lose their income tax, the burden will be loaded on to real estate, and real estate has every cent of taxation it can bear, especially in Saint John.


And other cities.


I am
speaking especially of the local situation there. It is especially difficult in the city of Saint John although not so bad in Fredericton, but all three will suffer. They must have certain revenue to carry on their services, and all three will have to put on additional imposts on real estate. That ought be be avoided, if possible.


I wish to support the leader of the opposition in his suggestion that the minister bring down an estimate of what he expects to get from each classification in the income tax schedule. I agree with the leader of the opposition that there has been no outcry against this income tax and the increase. I believe the people are quite willing to bear the additional burden, on account of the need of the country at this time.
I mentioned yesterday that there was some criticism and some speculation as to the accumulation of wealth which is alleged to be going on in the dominion during the war. I had specific reference to the statements which have been made that more than twenty new millionaires have been created during the war. Incidentally, I have been told since yesterday that the manner in which that is arrived at is by taking the number of people in the high income group of S50.000 a year and over and saying that the additions are all millionaires. Obviously, of course, that cannot be correct in every instance. Perhaps some of the increase in the higher income brackets will be due to some extent to substantial bonuses that have been given to various employees, managers and so on, in industry, and I hope that sort of thing will be carefully checked up by the department, because it may be one means of escape from the excess profits tax.
I know that some of our industries have gone into the field of social welfare work for their employees; that is to be commended. I believe that is something which will be of benefit to the country when peace comes, and I am not criticizing the firms which are
Income War Tax Act

adding to their social benefits to their workers, because, as I say, we may benefit quite largely from that when the war is over. I suggest, however, to the minister that it would be in the public interest that, instead of lumping together the 488 persons who constitute -166 per cent of those who pay income tax and who receive 4-72 per cent of the income, we should classify them, in order that we might know and understand what these incomes are.
If, for example, we take the first group, up to S2,000, we find that there are 124,132 persons, or 42'35 per cent of the taxpayers who had, on an average, some 81,348 of taxable income. On the other hand, with regard to the last group, 483 persons, who had incomes of more than 850,000, we find that their total income was $16,606,971, which would give an average for the 483 individuals-and these are individ^ uals, not corporations-of $97,814 taxable income.


I think the hon. gentleman can make a better case than that.


I shall be glad to have the minister's help to do it.


He has given $16,606,971 as the total income. That figure is the total taxes. The total income for those 483 persons was $47,244,305.


Yes; I read the wrong column of figures. But my calculation was on the $47,000,000, which gives an average of about $97,800 per individual.
In my opinion, that gives rise to a good deal of criticism, and I think quite rightly, because it indicates that there must be a considerable concentration of wealth. If the minister could give the committee a table such as the leader of the opposition suggested, showing exactly the amount that would be paid by each of the new groups, we would have a better and fairer picture of the situation than we get by simply lumping these figures together. The minister said yesterday that he did not wish to satisfy idle-he did not use the word "idle"-he did not want to satisfy curiosity as to individual incomes. But in the United States-I am not sure about Great Britain'-the names of the individuals, with the amount of income tax paid, are given. I am not asking for that.


That is only to satisfy idle curiosity.


No, I do not think so, but I would say that the people of the United States or of Canada have a right to know who are in control of the finances of the country in which they live. The growth of these huge estates and huge incomes is causing a

tremendous amount of discontent, which discontent is, I think, properly based. I would say to the minister that if he listens, as I do occasionally, to the broadcasts which are being made by propagandists from Germany and Italy, he would find that their propaganda is largely directed at the moment to the working people of the democracies, and it is just these inequalities that they are emphasizing. I know perfectly well, as do most other hon. members, that that kind of thing is pure propaganda, that in the country from which it comes, every working class organization has been crushed out, and that if our people listened to that kind of propaganda and followed it, all our working class organizations in Canada would be crushed out. There are, however, many people who do not know that. Consequently, in my view we must pay attention to what may seem to the leader of the opposition and others idle curiosity; but it is not idle curiosity, it is the legitimate desire to know exactly the position in which our country stands in these respects at the present time. Therefore I should like to see a classification of incomes so that we may have that information.


I will consider that suggestion, and consider it seriously. I do not think any classification that I would produce would be so fine that anyone could be identified, but perhaps we can go considerably further than we have without coming to that point. The United States system is to publish the incomes, the salary incomes, above a certain amount. I have read them myself in the New York Times and been very much interested to see the salaries of motion picture directors, officials of General Motors and so on.


International Nickel.


In this country we follow the English system of not publishing those particulars, and I do not think I should like to depart from it now. The end for which the hon. gentleman argues, namely that people should know how much these men are earning, is pretty doubtful; I do not think such publication would serve any good purpose, and I would not want to make such a change in policy. I understand the hon. gentleman is not asking me to; he is merely asking me to produce a classification a little more in detail than that already produced.


I want
to endorse the stand the minister has taken. When the income tax was first introduced it was distinctly understood that the figures in regard to the income taxes paid, the amount

Income War Tax Act
of individual incomes and so on, would be kept secret, and we have proceeded on that basis ever since. There are elements in this country which would like to know your income and mine, but that is none of their business. If I obtain my income legitimately I am entitled to have it kept away from the prying eyes of the curious and those who would use that information for improper purposes. I would protest against publicity being given to any figures which would identify the income received or the amount of tax paid by anyone.


I should like to
express myself as directly opposed to the position taken by the leader of the opposition. I see no good purpose to be served at all by keeping these incomes secret. Why should a man be afraid to let people know his income, if he has earned it legitimately? In little towns and cities all over this country eveiyone knows the salaries of the school teachers and the principals of the schools. Usually at election time the income of the premier of the province or the ministers of tire crown is no secret. Generally speaking these matters are brought out and paraded up and down with altogether indecent publicity. I see no reason why a man making a million dollars a year in this country should object to the fact being made known to all the people; and if he is unable to justify that amount let him be ready to pay a greater income tax.
I would go even further. I quite agree with the stand taken by the hon. member for Parry Sound yesterday; I believe he was the first to express the idea that all incomes of more than $50,000 should be made public, to the extent of making known the names of those in receipt of such incomes. But I see no reason why the amount of money a man receives in the way of regular salary, in return for the service he gives the country, should not be placed in one category, and the amount of money he receives from investments placed in another. We set out to fight this war, according to what was said, on the basis of equality of sacrifice. How can we possibly establish the fact that sacrifice is equal unless these things are made known to the people? And how can they know them unless the details of the incomes of the people of Canada are made known frankly and accurately. I do not find myself at all in sympathy with the leader of the opposition or the minister in this respect. I am in agreement with the leader of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation and the hon. member for Parry Sound.


When the committee rose
at six o'clock last evening we were considering the question of exemptions in respect of British children. I had hoped that the minister might alter his views in regard to granting exemptions to the foster parents of these children, but since he has not indicated any intention of doing so I should like to add a few words to that discussion.
I have a letter from the president of the alumni federation of the university of Toronto, in which he says:
Last year a number of children were brought from Great Britain to Canada through private or semi-private arrangements and without cost to the governments of Great Britain or Canada. Under present regulations, income tax exemptions cannot be claimed for these children.
By an arrangement between the University of Toronto and a group of British universities, some 140 children have come to Toronto. Practically all of them are living in the homes of members of the staff or alumni of the University of Toronto. In many cases this hospitality is provided at inconvenience to the family of the hosts. In some eases it involves definite sacrifice, and in every instance more or less expense. It would be a just and generous action on the part of the dominion parliament to grant the usual exemptions for income tax in respect to all guest children living in Canada.
As no financial aid can be sent by the parents of these children in Great Britain to their foster-parents in Canada this exemption for income tax purposes would be of material assistance. In the aggregate, the loss in tax revenue would not be great, as the total number of guest children in Canada is not large.
The saving to the government by the privately sponsored transfer of each guest is many times the tax accruing from each exemption in the income brackets of most of the staff and of the alumni of the university.
I should like also to place on record a letter from the bursar of Trinity college, Toronto.
The present dominion income tax act allows $400 exemption for the full year if during part of the year one maintains a child in Canada "under the cooperative scheme sponsored by the governments of the United Kingdom anil Canada brought from the United Kingdom under a government plan" provided that the total tax you can deduct is $80 under this exemption.
During the year 1940 many members of the staff of the university received into their homes war guests brought to Canada under a scheme arranged between the University of Toronto and Oxford. Under the Ontario government income tax act, exemption was granted for these children, but under the dominion act no exemption was given. In addition to those brought out under the university scheme there are hundreds of children brought out privately, and for whom no exemption is given. The cost of maintaining these children is increasing, and with the greatly increased income tax, the burden is very great. . . .
If this exemption is granted it will be a great help to many who are quite willing and eager to do their part in the war in any way
Income War Tax Act

they can, but the present plan discriminates against those who have received children privately, in many cases without knowing the parents.
I should like also to mention those children brought out under the Lady Tweedsmuir scheme, numbering some fifty in all. Those children, as with the children sponsored and adopted by the university professors, were placed in charge of the children's aid society of the province, just as were the children brought out under the government sponsored scheme. An Englishman sent to Canada two of his children in charge of a nurse. He thought he would like at the same time to pay the expenses of two children of poor parents who wished them to come to Canada. He did so; the two children of poor parents came to Canada under this private arrangement and were adopted through the children's aid society. The people who took those children find themselves in exactly the same position, so far as discrimination is concerned, as the people who received the children sent out by the man who was able to pay their expenses to this country.
Yesterday the minister stated, as one reason for finding it difficult to accede to this request, that it would open the door to exemptions being claimed by foster-parents generally throughout Canada. The argument, I maintain, is not a good one. This is a war emergency which we hope will not last for more than another year or two. When the war is over this will cease to be a form of taxation. I should think a refusal to grant these exemptions would have another effect, namely, that of discouraging people in this country from acting as foster-parents of children wishing to come to Canada in order to get away from the bombing and other dangers that at present exist in Great Britain. I think it will have a serious effect in this regard, and I do hope the minister will reconsider this matter. The amount involved is not large, and there is a great and rising public demand that this should be done.


Mr. Chairman, I come from a district which pays a large percentage of this income tax, and I desire to protest against certain features of the schedule and the basis upon which the whole schedule has been prepared. I compliment the minister upon the able commissioner of income tax he has. In fact, the heads of the excise, customs and income tax branches are all very efficient. In these days when parliament is here to-day and gone to-morrow, the back-bone of good government, be it dominion, provincial or municipal, is the permanent staff. They are the people who bear the brunt of the work, they are the people who give us good and

efficient service. If we depended upon them more we would be running a business as efficiently as a department store, and be giving real service. ,
I was the head of a municipal council when the government in 1917 took away the income tax by force, making a duplicate tax for war purposes. A deputation of representatives of the municipalities came to Ottawa to protest against this law of the jungle, because that is all it was. This government took away from the municipalities certain functions and taxation which they had exclusively from the time of confederation. At that time, in 1917, the then Minister of Finance said that this was only temporary, for the duration of the war, and that this tax would be given back after the war. But after the war, it was increased by geometrical progression, two, four, eight and so on, and now we do not know where it is going to end.
I wish to protest against this particular system. Yesterday the minister said that he was desirous of not injuring the provinces. Unfortunately we have a duplicate municipal system in this country, and the result is that we have overgovernment and overtaxation. At the start it was never intended that we should have provincial governments. They were the creation of the fathers of confederation for political and not economic purposes. The result is that we have two local municipal systems, provincial and municipal, one within the other. They do not have this in Great Britain.
What has been the result? One result is a triple income tax in British Columbia- dominion, provincial and municipal. The province of Ontario came along and took away the tax. The federal government, after taking away the income tax, proposed a sales tax and all that kind of thing, but fortunately the senate vetoed it. Sooner or later the municipal institutions will starve. Their fate is in the balance because their powers of taxation are seized. After 1917, the only tax, save a portion of income taxes and other small revenues, which could be imposed by the municipalities was upon real estate. Prior to 1917, they had the exclusive right to impose income tax as well as certain other indirect taxes which enabled them to carry on and maintain their municipal institutions. We have been slow to see how the right to possess private property has been taken away and the people have become proletarian. As I have said before, the right to possess private property was inherent in Canada and was derived from nature and not from man, and the state has no right to abolish it but can only regulate its use.

Income War Tax Act
2S17
During this debate yesterday, copious tears were wept for the poor provinces. These provinces are almost all Liberal in constitution, and some hon. members have been very liberal with their tears. But where do the municipalities come in? The municipalities supply more real public service to the community than do the provinces or the dominion. I have before me the financial statement of the city of Toronto for 1941, and as I look over its budget I find that almost three mills on the dollar of purely federal burdens are included for social services: relief, relief works, technical education, suburban roads, hospitalisation, air plants-purely federal burdens.
What does this gasoline tax mean? The municipalities pave their streets, construct curbs and give police protection; but what does the dominion do? They are simply giving a bonus, a subvention and direct cash subsidy, to the automobile manufacturers and the oil and gasoaline companies to provide a right of way By good roads. We are maintaining roadways at the public expense to parallel our own national railways and take business in this manner away from them. Is it any wonder that the government has to impose such a large income tax upon the class of people we have here? Not half of the budget is for primary war purposes, but secondary home defence.
I have looked into this matter very carefully, and so far as I can see the man with the low income of the first eight classes is .going to have to pay the bulk of this income tax. The former exclusive municipal income tax was only about one-third or one-fourth of the present tax schedule. The municipalities who, prior to 1917, had the exclusive right to this tax, were able to provide health, medical, hospital and other social services; they were able to operate health departments, and all kinds of municipal services, food inspection branches and all that sort of thing. They were able to give the proper municipal services to the people who paid municipal taxes by income tax levies. This heavy burden must now be borne by real estate. With no federal moratorium, with no insurance, the result will be confiscation of real estate and property.
If you examine the budget in relation to *this particular clause of the resolution you will find that half this income tax would do if it were a real war budget. But it is not a real war budget. Only half of it is being used for war. We are maintaining such luxuries as useless embassies, and $4,500,000 has been the total cost to date of the league. Three sessions ago it was proposed to give the provinces the right to impose a sales tax. The provinces and municipalities had several forms of taxation such as a gasoline tax and an income
tax. Now the federal power takes them and doubles these taxes. Then they impose succession duties, another invasion. Then relief assistance by federal power was taken away from the municipalities. This problem has been dumped by Ottawa upon the doorsteps of the municipalities. This sort of thing should not continue, and it was never intended by the fathers of confederation that we should have this dislocation of our whole system of taxation to the grave damage of municipal institutions in Canada.
During the sessions of 1926, 1927, 1928 and 1929, when the late Mr. Robb was Minister of Finance, I introduced a resolution to restore the income tax to the municipalities, in view of the heavy burden which had been placed by the federal government upon that particular form of government. At one session the debate on this resolution continued afternoon and evening for two days, and the then Minister of Finance said that he was sympathetic, that he believed that something should be done along these lines, to relieve real estate and for a municipal realty system. Why does the minister not give the municipalities part of this federal income tax? Why should they not be given some of this revenue to help take care of their social services, such as hospitalization, education, relief and all that kind of thing?
Apparently the minister has hearkened to the hon. gentlemen on my left. I think they are largely to blame for the minister imposing such a heavy income tax upon the people and taking it away from the municipalities which will starve to death. I referred to this the other night. I represent an industrial riding, one of the largest in Canada, and I should like to know where are the large industries which are supposed to be making fortune