Mr. Speaker, hon. members are aware that it had been the intention of the government if possible to proceed last week with the debate on the Hong Kong inquiry, but it was arranged at the request of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) on Friday last that the debate would stand over until to-day. The intention of the government had been to proceed by way of a motion to adjourn the house to discuss a matter of urgent public importance, but my hon. friend the leader of the opposition feels that it would be preferable to go through the routine proceedings first, the questions and so on, and to have the debate take place on a motion that the house go into committee of supply. In the circumstances we shall proceed in that way.


Will the Prime Minister's notice of motion be reached before that stage?


Yes.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	How many applicants for pension arising from disabilities in service during the present war have been refused pension upon the ground that physical ailments were concealed by them at the time of enlistment?
2.	How many of them have been refused upon the grounds of wilful concealment?


No pension has been wholly refused on the grounds that a pre-enlistment condition was concealed or wilfully concealed on enlistment; on the contrary, in accordance with the provisions of section 11 (1) (c) of the Pension Act, pension has been awarded in 388 cases for aggravation only of disabilities resulting from conditions found to have been wilfully concealed on enlistment.


1.	What was the amount of the special allowance which was granted for 1941 to the International Nickel Company of Canada for depreciation or depletion under the agreement made with that company under the War Exchange Conservation Act?
2.	By what amount did these allowances decrease the total taxes payable to the treasury by the said company for the year 1941?


1.	By the agreement made under the terms of the War Exchange Conservation Act the International Nickel Company of Canada was permitted to take a maximum of $5,000,000 special depreciation in 1941.
2.	It is not the practice of the government to disclose in answers to questions the amounts or rates of taxes paid by various taxpayers, but regardless of the rate of taxation paid by this company in 1941 it is the general practice in granting War Exchange Conservation Act agreements to assure that the profits from the expansion of any company's facilities which are made possible by an agreement are sufficient to take care of any special depreciation granted. In the case of International Nickel Company of Canada, as well as in the case of other agreements granted, the project itself and the additional production, with resulting earnings, would not have taken place unless the special depreciation had been granted. There was, therefore, no loss to the treasury in 1941.


1.	Was the allotment or percentage of rationing or curtailing the quantity of commodities such as confectioneries, soft drinks, chewing
Questions

gum, etc., of towns such as Amherst, Pictou and New Glasgow, Nova Scotia, based upon present population or the population at that time of the 1941 decennial census?
2.	Will allowances be made for recent increases in population?


1.	Production of commodities, such as confectionery and soft drinks, has been limited^ by the fact that sugar supplies furnished to the industry have been restricted to 70 per cent of the amount of sugar used in 1941. This restriction is based on the supply of sugar used by each industrial user and has no relation to the population, except that, if the population increases, business will presumably increase as well. Such increases in business may be provided for under special powers granted to the supervisor of rationing and the sugar administrator in section 31 of board order No. 150. Rationing by means of coupons gives every citizen of Canada an equal amount of sugar. The wartime prices and trade board has not rationed any of the commodities referred to according to towns or other geographical areas.
2.	See answer to 1.
ASSISTANT GRAIN COMMISSIONERS-FARMERS* COMPLAINTS


1.	What were the salaries and general office expenditures of the assistant grain commissioners in (a) Alberta, (b) Saskatchewan, (c) Manitoba, (d) Ontario, during the crop year 1941-42?
2.	How many complaints from farmers were received by each of the above commissioners in their respective provinces during the above mentioned crop year?
3.	On how many complaints were settlements awarded and what was the total money paid for settlements affected at each office in above provinces during the crop year 1941-42?
4.	What duties were performed by F. J. Rathbone of Fort William, in 1941, and how many grain shipments did he inspect in the above year?


General
office
Salaries expenditure
1.	Alberta	
$7,500	00	$2,365	21Saskatchewan	7,500	00	1,373	29Manitoba	
7,500	00	942	00Ontario	
7,500	00	990	702.	Alberta	
7Saskatchewan	
2Manitoba	
15Ontario	Nil3.	Settlements awarded:Alberta-2	
$253 97
Settlements affected:
Manitoba-3	 $50 00
4.	(a) Investigations of complaints at eastern elevators on grain shipped from Fort William and Port Arthur, watching car distribution, periodic visits to terminal elevators with chief weighmaster and chief grain inspector, investigation of staff complaints at Fort William and Port Arthur.
(5) Inspection of grain shipments not part of assistant commissioner's duties.


How many pounds of sugar were in storage in Canada (both wholesale and retail) as on May 1, June 1, and July 1, in each of the years 1938 to 1942, inclusive?


Statistics on sugar stocks in wholesale and retail establishments are not collected. The following table shows stocks of raw and refined sugar in refining establishments. Publication of refiners' stocks has been discontinued since January 1, 1942.
Amount of Raw and Refined Sugar in Refineries-May 1, June 1 and July 1, 1938 to 1941
Pounds	Pounds	PoundsMay 1	June 1	July 11938-Raw sugar	144,317,344	145.289,559Refined sugar	
139,755,199	171,932.271	165,200,005Total	316,249,615	310.489,5641939-Raw sugar	110.834,133	134,673,901Refined sugar	138,267,368	149,773,628Total	249,101,501	283,447,5291940-Raw sugar	104,770,235	77,027,404Refined sugar	
121.915,537	117,230,504	120,770,036Total	222,000,739	197,797,4401941-Raw sugar	95.596,427	159,618,127Refined sugar	146.086,162	163.277,767Total	241,682,589	322,895,894
[Mr. P. C. Black.)

Questions


(a)	No.
(b)	They are receiving cost-of-living bonus.


Has the government or the Department of Transport given consideration to, (a) the matter of increasing salary of buoy contractors, or (b) granting to buoy contractors a cost-of-living bonus ?


(a) and (b) No. It is the
practice to establish contract prices for buoy services by tender, and not to increase them without a further call. Salaries are not paid.


What are the monthly collections for Canada of the excise tax 25 per cent on soft drinks, since commencement, 23rd May, 1941, to latest month available?
Mr. GIBSON;
	Excise Tax	
1941	collected	
June 	$ 17,385	47July 	
253,043	33August 	
947.379	66September 	
1,004,618	35October 	
762,887	82November 	
635,834	54December 	
596,671	051942	January 	
590,114	22February 	
596,535	28March 	
842,148	53April 	
134,292	04May 	
617,174	25June 	
682,482	67Total 	
$7,680,567	21


In the matter of the cost-of-living bonus now paid to postmasters, (a) how is the amount of bonus determined; (b) what is the individual net amount paid per month or per quarter to postmasters receiving salary and/or remuneration in the amounts of $100, $300, $500, $1,000, $1,500, $2,000 per year?


(a)	Five per cent of commission received on postage stamps sales only.
(b)	As postmasters are paid 5 per cent of commission received on postage stamp sales only the answer to this question would depend on the percentage of the postmaster's total commissions represented by postage stamp sales.


1.	Is L. Scott employed in Wartime Housing Limited ?
2.	Was he at any time connected with L. C. Scott Construction Company Limited or Eastern Timber Company Limited?
3.	If so, what was or is his interest therein?


1.	No.
2.	No. Not connected with and no relation.
3.	Answered by No. 2.
FORT WILLIAM AIRrORT


1.	What is the cost to date of the airport at Fort William?
2.	From whom was the land purchased and at what cost?
3.	What was the cost of the improvements?
4.	Who were the contractors?
5.	What was the total sum paid to the contractors?


1.	$198,852.33.
2.	No record of purchase of, or payment for, land originally acquired, but it is understood the municipality of Fort William acquired this at a cost of $40,000.
Additional land required purchased by Department of Transport as follows:-
Municipality of Neebing	
$	500 00Margaret Flanagan	
922	50Canadian National Realties	..	944	00Grand Trunk Pacific Railway.	242	40A. Sears	
1,416	00Vickers Estate	
5,263	70E. F. Noyes Estate	
5,605	00Total for land	$54,893 603.	$143,958.73.4.	Tomlinson Construction Company; E. A. Bell; E. Anderson; City of Fort William; Hydro Electric Power Commission.5.	$72,001.44.
Questions


1.	How many boats or vessels have been disposed of by tLe commission set up in connection with the boats or vessels owned by those of Japanese origin?
2.	How many of such boats or vessels remain to be disposed of?
3.	What was the total amount paid for the boats or vessels disposed of?
4.	What has been the total cost of the commission since its inception?
5.	What has been the total expenditures incurred for repairs made to boats or vessels damaged, including engine repairs?


1. To July 16th, 1,072.
2. To July 16th, 195.
3.	S958.410.24.
4.	To June 30th, expenditure, $12,505.51; less disposal charges and survey costs payable by vendors, $11,249.34. Net cost of committee since inception to June 30th, $1,256.17.
5.	To June 30th, $2,474.47 paid.


1.	Who are the press censors in Ottawa and what experience have they for such work?
2.	Who appointed them and what are their salaries and expenses?
3.	Was the debate on the motion of Mr. Roy (Gaspe), on Thursday last, and the speeches of those who addressed the house on it, censored? If so, by whom, why, and under what authority, law statute or usage?
4.	Whose remarks were so censored and for what reason?


1.	The two press censors for Canada, now known as chief censor of publications, are Fulgence Charpentier and Wilfrid Eggleston.
Fulgence Charpentier has had fifteen years' experience in newspaper work including ten years as member of the parliamentary press gallery, being successively secretary, vicepresident and president of said body in 192425-26. Mr. Charpentier holds a B.A. degree, served with the Canadian expeditionary forces in 1918, and studied law at Osgoode Hall. He was appointed joint press censor for Canada in February, 1940.
Wilfrid Eggleston has had fifteen years newspaper experience, including nine years as member of the parliamentary press gallery, being successively secretary, vice-president and president of that body in 1932-33-34. He was appointed press censor on November 1, 1939. He became deputy press censor for Canada on February 1, 1940, and was appointed joint press censor for Canada on May 1, 1940.

2.	Appointed by order in council. Fulgence Charpentier receives no salary as censor, these duties being imposed upon him in addition'to those of editor of French Journals of the House of Commons; Wilfrid Eggleston receives $15 a day; both receive their actual and necessary travelling expenses when absent from Ottawa in the discharge of censorship duties.
3.	No. Newspaper correspondents consulted the censors about the propriety of reporting certain remarks made in the debate referred to by Mr. Roy (Gaspe) but were advised that if these remarks were to be permitted by the House of Commons to appear in Hansard, the censors could not refuse to pass them for publication elsewhere.
4.	Answered by No. 3.


1.	What action, if any, is the government taking regarding a bill which has been introduced in congress at Washington, by representative Sabath, for the further diversion of 5,000 second cubic feet of water of lake Michigan?
2.	Have any representations been made by Canada to the rivers and harbors committee, or to the state department at Washington, on the subject, advising that such a diversion will by opposed by Canada?
3.	Who is looking after Canada's interests in this matter?
4.	What protection will be afforded to preserve the great lakes levels from further diversions in war-time?
5.	Will an opportunity be afforded to discuss this matter before the adjournment of the house?


1.	The government is watching the progress of the Bill but is taking no action at present.
2.	No. If representations were made they would be made to the United States State Department and not to the rivers and harbors committee of the House of Representatives. Representative Sabath's bill is one of many that have been introduced in recent years in congress for the purpose of authorizing increased withdrawal of water from lake Michigan. The current bill has not reached a stage in congress at which representations by the Canadian government would appear to be necessary or desirable. The State department is aware that the Canadian government would oppose an increase in the diversion of water from lake Michigan. When a similar bill was being considered by the rivers and harbors committee in 1938, Secretary of State Hull wrote to the committee chairman on March 12, 1938 as follows:
I have no doubt whatever that passage of the bill would cause a very unfavourable reaction

Questions
in Canada and would lead to strong protests by the Canadian government. In the circumstances, I find it necessary in the interests of our relations with Canada, to convey an adverse opinion on the proposed bill.
3.	The Department of External Affairs and the Canadian Legation in Washington.
4.	Canada has a three-fold protection against increased diversion from lake Michigan: First, a United States Supreme Court decree which stands in the way of an increase; second, Canada's rights in international law; third, the common interest of Canada and the United States at all times and especially in war time in the preservation of the levels of the great lakes system.
5.	In the government's view, it is neither necessary nor desirable to have a discussion of this matter before the adjournment.


How much gasoline was shipped from bulk plants in New Brunswick to dealers in Quebec during, (a) May, (b) June, in the years 1940, 1941 and 1942?


If I may answer this question it would be that the government has no information. It has not been the policy of the government to give quantities or movements of strategic materials.


What about the 40 per cent?


I think the intention of the hon. member must have been to point out the differentiation in the rationing as between the two provinces. Quantities of gasoline have been moved in from one province to another and that of course creates confusion and discontent. I believe that was the intention of the hon. member.


Although I do not know of any case, it is possible that quantities have been moved, and they may have been moved the other way. But I do not think we can produce these figures, nor do I think it desirable, if we do obtain them, to give them to the public.


1.	What is the estimated cost of synthetic rubber per pound processed from petroleum products ?
2.	What is the estimated cost of synthetic rubber per pound manufactured from alcohol produced from wheat and other grains at the Canadian market price?


The process of making synthetic rubber is absolutely new, and has never been carried out on a large scale. Therefore estimates of cost of making the product in various ways are not available. Certain figures have been given in the United States, but they are very much at variance. I think it is quite out of the question to attempt to estimate the cost of production.


1.	Has Canada participated in the discussions held between Sir Frederick Leith Ross, economic adviser to the British government and American officials regarding organizing supplies of wheat, dairy products, edible fats, coffee and other foods and materials for distribution in war ravaged countries after cessation of hostilities?
2.	Is a wheat pool being established whereby 100 million bushels of wheat have been set aside for distribution after the war, (.a) if so, what countries have designated their willingness to contribute and, (b) what amount of wheat is being proposed as Canada's contribution to the pool?
3.	Under what agency will this wheat be distributed and, will Canada be represented on any such administrative body?
4.	Under what agency will all food supplies and materials other than wheat be distributed and, will Canada be represented on any such council set up for the distribution of dairy-products, edible fats and other materials?


1.	Sir Frederick Leith Ross will shortly be arriving in Ottawa. He will engage in discussions with Canadian government officials on matters concerning post-war relief.
2.	It has been agreed to establish a relief pool of 100 million bushels of wheat.
(a)	Canada., the United Kingdom and the United States have agreed to contribute to this pool. The governments of Argentina, Australia, Canada and the United States have agreed to make further contributions to the pool when required by the international wheat council in quantities to be determined by them in consultation with the council and on such basis as may be agreed among them.
(b)	25 million bushels.
3.	The international wheat council shall be responsible for the administration of the relief pool and shall, wherever possible, arrange for distribution of relief wheat through such intergovernmental relief body as may be set up and given general responsibility for the distribution of relief. The international

Questions as Orders for Returns
wheat council consists of one or more delegates of each contracting government. Canada is a contracting government under the memorandum of agreement of June 27, 1942.
4.	The nature and composition of such agency has not yet been determined, and is now the subject of inter-governmental consultation.


In view
of the fact that we appear to be in the last week of the session, and that it would be desirable to have answers to the remaining questions on the order paper, may I ask that they be brought down before we adjourn?


In connection with the
same matter I would ask to have returns to questions asked by me and appearing in Votes and Proceedings of July 20. I should like to have those answers to-day, if possible, because they relate to the subject which will be under discussion as the first order of business.


1.	Has the Department of Naval Affairs a bureau of publicity and press liaison or personnel officers?
2.	If so, where do they work, what are their names, salaries and other emoluments?
3.	What naval experience had they before appointment and what was their last occupation and place of employment?


On July 21 the hon. member for Broadview asked a question respecting the bureau of publicity in the Department of Naval Services. The question does not appear on the order paper to-day, but I should like to treat the question as an order for return and to table an answer at this time.
Return tabled.


1.	How many officers and ratings are in the Royal Canadian Navy?
2.	How many officers and ratings are in the Royal Canadian Naval Volunteer Reserve?
3.	When a man joins the Canadian navy is he placed in the naval reserve or is he placed directly in the navy, similar to a Canadian joining the army or the air force?
4.	How many, (a) captains, (b) commanders, have been given these ranks in the Royal Canadian Navy since the outbreak of war?

5.	How many have been given similar ranks in the Royal Canadian Naval Volunteer Reserve since 1939?
6.	In regard to promotions, does the seniority rule apply with respect to promotion and recognized service at sea as against land service in senior appointments?


Return tabled.


1.	What are the names and addresses of those processing codfish, pollack, haddock and hake livers in Nova Scotia?
2.	How many pounds of codfish livers did said firms buy or process during 1941 and up to June 30, or to the last reporting period in 1942?
3.	What per cent of medicinal cod livers, as designated by USP standards, did each produce?
4.	What per cent was crude?
5.	What per cent of crude was sold to be made into medicinal?
6.	What per cent was poultry grade?
7.	What price was obtained for each grade?
8.	What per cent of the products of each grade was exported to the United States or other points?
9.	What was paid to the fishermen for the livers at Lunenburg, Halifax, Loekeport, Shelburne, Clark's Harbour, Port LaTour and Yarmouth?
10.	Who were the buyers at these points?
11.	What various prices were offered or paid by buyers at these points?
12.	How many are buying codfish livers in Nova Scotia who do not process them?
13.	What prices do these firms pay the fishermen, and what prices do they get from the processors ?
14.	Who in Nova Scotia are equipped to produce medicinal cod liver oil according to USP standards?
15.	What is the capacity of each of such plants and at what per cent are they operating at the present?
16.	What inspection or supervision is there as to condition of these livers when delivered?
17.	On what basis are prices set?
18.	Has any dealer or processor used pressure to prevent fishermen from selling such livers?
19.	What price is paid for cod livers by (a) Lunenburg Sea Produce, (b) Loekeport Cold Storage Company, and which of these companies produce and market medicinal oil?
20.	What per cent of oil from cod livers should be medicinal grade?
21.	Are haddock, pollack, hake and cod livers of the same value?
22.	What price w'as paid to fishermen selling swordfish livers at Cape Breton points during 1941, and what price did dealers get for same?


1. What are the prices being paid to fishermen for cod livers, halibut livers and swordfish livers, at the following points: Westport, Freeport, Digby, Port Maitland, Yarmouth, Pubnico, Woods Harbour, Clark's Harbour, Shelburne,

Motions jor Papers
Lockeport, Liverpool, Lunenburg, Halifax, North Sydney, Glace Bay, and any other point or points on the island of Cape Breton where fish buyers or liver buyers maintain buying depots?
2.	What are the names of the firms or individuals buying livers at Clark's Harbour, Lunenburg and Halifax? If any of these are not processors, to whom do they sell their livers?
3.	What are the names of firms or individuals processing codfish or other livers in Nova Scotia?
4.	What percentage of oil from said livers is medicinal grade? State percentage medicinal oil obtained by each processor? What percentage is known as crude?
5.	What percentage, under modern facilities, of cod livers should be of medicinal grade?
6.	What percentage of the cod liver oil produced in Nova Scotia is shipped to the United States?
7.	What percentage is sold in Canada?
8.	What percentage of crude cod liver oil produced in Canada is sold in the United States?
9.	What percentage is sold in Canada?
10.	What is the price of medicinal cod liver oil in Canada?
11.	What is the price of medicinal cod liver oil in the United States?
12.	What is the price of crude cod liver oil in Canada and the United States?
13.	Has the government made any effort under pure food regulations or otherwise, to improve the quality of cod livers landed at ports where there is a cash market for same?
14.	Has the department any knowledge of fresh fish buyers or buyers of cod livers intimating that, unless they got the fish they would not buy the livers? If so, have they taken any steps to protect the fishermen?
15.	How many buyers are there in Lunenburg? What is the price being paid per bucket of 25 pounds?
16.	What price was paid fishermen at Cape Breton for swordfish livers in 1941, per pound, where were these livers sold by the parties buying them from the fishermen and at what price did they obtain by the pound?


1.	What age classes have actually been instructed to report for, (a) medical examination, (b) training or service, to July 15, 1942, in each of the 13 military districts under the National Resources Mobilization Act?
2.	How many have been instructed to report for (a) medical examinations, (b) training or service, in each age class by districts?
3.	How many exemptions have been granted in each age class by districts?


1. How many requests for the use of Japanese labour have been made to the British Columbia security commission by companies or firms in British Columbia?
2.	Have any such requests been granted to persons, companies or firms whose place or places of business are within the prohibited military area of British Columbia?
3.	How many persons of Japanese nationality or origin are at present employed in the greater Vancouver area, including the district of New Westminster?
4.	Were permits given by the British Columbia security commission for the employment of persons of Japanese nationality or origin within the two above named districts and, if so, what are the names of the firms or companies employing such persons of Japanese nationality?
5.	Is the curfew law still in effect for those of Japanese origin or nationality in the greater area of Vancouver and the district of New Westminster?


For a copy of the itemized expense accounts of the field supervisors, J. II. Hoyt, W. B. Nixon and J. E. Phinney, Saint John district, Soldier Settlement Board of Canada, for the year 1941?


For a copy of all letters or other documents dated since July 1, 1942, exchanged between Lieut.-Colonel Alan Cockeram, D.S.O., E.D., and the Prime Minister of Canada.


Mr. Speaker,
I should like to draw the attention of the house to something which is rather novel in procedure. Certain gentlemen outside of parliament who for reasons of their own wish to have attention drawn to certain matters write letters-at least some of them do-to the Prime Minister, and then seek to have those letters tabled so that publicity may be given to them, regardless of what they may contain, before there is any debate or discussion on the subject. For my part I propose to be very carefully advised as to whether certain documents should be tabled. We have had one experience of an effort to have communications tabled which contained statements for the reliability and accuracy of which I should not have wished to be responsible, or for even the publicity of which I should have wished to take responsibility. I do not intend therefore to permit a precedent of tabling letters which are sent to me, not so much, if I may say so, for the purpose, in some cases at least, of simply tabling material in the public interest, as of having publicity given to the statements which they contain regardless of how accurate or inaccurate the statements may be.

Long Adjournment

The letter referred to is one which was sent to me, but which also carried the intimation that the leader of the opposition had been furnished with a copy of it. To me it is quite clear that the purpose is to have the communication tabled at this stage in order to serve some ends of publicity which, for my part, I do not think are warranted in existing circumstances. Therefore I would not wish to agree to the tabling of the communication.


It is the
inalienable right of every citizen to write a letter to the Prime Minister, as was done in this instance. It is a public document the minute it is deposited in the mail, because it is written to the Prime Minister in. his capacity as Prime Minister. Therefore if any hon. member desires to ask for its production in the house he has the right to do so, and I do not think the Prime Minister is on sound ground when he takes the position which he has taken this morning. It is a public document, and the public are entitled to see it.


May I say
to my hon. friend that the Prime Minister has a very great responsibility with respect to documents he tables. I have had some communications slandering my hon. friend in the most violent way.


I have no doubt about that.


And I do not
intend, unless the house so orders, to have those letters tabled here. Someone who has a grievance against some other person writes to the Prime Minister, and then seeks to have world-wide publicity for something which may be wholly libellous. I am going to take the responsibility of making sure-*


Nothing
like that in this.


-that, before they are tabled, communications which come to me are communications which should properly be tabled. If my hon. friend thinks this particular communication-and this may not be the only one; there may be others- is one with which the country should be acquainted, then he may take the responsibility for the statements it contains, and use them in the course of debate at the right time.


I do not know that it is a public document anyway.


I certainly
stand by the position I have taken already and will not assume responsibility for tabling any or every communication that comes to me from outside sources.


That when this house adjourns on completion of current business of the session it stand adjourned until January 27, 1943, provided always that if it appears to the satisfaction of Mr. Speaker, after consultation with His Majesty's government, that the public interest requires that the house should meet at an earlier time during the adjournment, Mr. Speaker may give notice that he is so satisfied, and thereupon the house shall meet at the time stated in such notice, and shall transact its business as if it had been duly adjourned to that time.


Mr. Speaker, I am not dissenting from the motion, but I should like to make this observation. January 27 is exactly six months from to-day. We have had a very long session, and doubtless hon. members are of the mind that it is time we departed from this place, especially as I think a tremendous amount of time has been wasted in the needless debate of political matters. I am not objecting to the great length of the adjournment, but I should like to suggest to the right hon. gentleman that if in our opinion the condition of affairs is such that we think there should be an earlier resumption of parliament, he should give full consideration to such representations as we may make in that regard, and, if possible, accede to them. In the course of the next six months there may arise very important circumstances which would demand the immediate resumption of parliamentary discussion.


The suggestion of my hon. friend is a reasonable one; indeed it is something I have had in mind all along. I can hardly imagine a situation in which the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) would consider the calling of parliament warranted where I myself would not be likely to entertain a similar view. However, the government has the responsibility of calling the members together either at a definite or some other date, and will have to act, of course, in the light of that responsibility.
With regard to the length of time that parliament has been sitting in the course of the year, it is much longer than the parliament of Westminster has taken, so that perhaps we are erring on the safe side in the motion as it appears.


Motion agreed to.

Hong Kong Inquiry
On the orders of the day:
May I remind the Prime Minister that on July 8, replying to a question in connection with the status of the national hymn or anthem "0 Canada," he said that a statement would be made shortly. Certain bodies are asking about this, and I should like to know if we may have the statement before we adjourn.


Perhaps I might answer my hon. friend at once. As the hon. member has said, there are certain bodies that wish to get an answer to the question as to whether or not the status of "O Canada" should be established at this time. May I say that there are times and seasons for the discussion of all matters, and I should think that at this time of war when there are other more important questions with which parliament has to deal that we might well continue to follow what has become the custom in Canada in recent years of regarding "God Save the King" and "0 Canada" each as national anthems and entitled to similar recognition. That is the position which the government takes and I think it is one which will be generally approved by the country.


What about "The Maple Leaf Forever"?


"The Maple Leaf Forever" in some respects is a little out of date, but if my hon. friend would like to add it on occasions to the other two I am sure there will be no objection.


On the orders of the day:
Would the Minister of Finance give some answer as soon as possible to the question I asked about the overlapping of July and August payments of excess profits and income taxes? I have had a number of inquiries in this connection.


I shall make a statement when the Excess Profits Tax Act is under discussion.
44561-301^


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of National Defence for Naval Services if, when a list of those who went down with the Spikenard, was ascertained, notict was sent to the Department of National Defence or the Department of National War Services so that the hearts of the parents of those presumed to be dead would not be racked again by having their sons called up for active service? I have a letter in connection with one young man, Samuel C. Walker, 117 Lappin avenue, Toronto, who was reported to have died when the Spikenard sank and last week his parents received a notice that this young man was called up.
Hon. ANGUS L. MACDONALD (Minister of National Defence for Naval Services): I cannot answer my hon. friend definitely on his question whether notification is sent to the Department of National War Services, but I shall find out and give him an answer to-morrow.


Following the question asked by the hon. member for Davenport I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence if there is any procedure adopted by the department with respect to notifying the Department of National War Services when a man has enlisted. Instances such as the one brought to the attention of the house by the hon. member for Davenport are prevalent throughout the country. Boys have enlisted, some being overseas, and then notices are received that they should report. I have heard of two instances where the boys were killed on active service and notices to report were received at their homes. Is there not some procedure which could be adopted by which this kind of thing could be eliminated? It is causing considerable distress.


I understand that there is such a procedure. That is all I can say to my hon. friend. He has called attention to it very particularly, and I shall certainly ask about it.


Hon. J. L. ILSLEY (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
Hong Kong Inquiry
Mr. Speaker, about seven months ago, on Christmas day to be exact, at Hong Kong, many thousands of miles away from their homeland, a small force of Canadian troops, numbering in all 1,985, after fighting beside the troops of Great Britain and India, were finally forced to surrender. We have had as yet few details of that engagement, but we know that they fought gallantly. We know too that they fought against overwhelming odds, that they fought without air support, and that they fought under other terrible handicaps. At the commencement of my remarks to-day I should like to say something in which I believe every hon. member will join. I wish to praise those men for the gallant stand they made, and to say further that their loved ones in Canada may well be proud of the part they played in the battle for freedom. Let us not overlook that fact.
To-day it is our duty to discuss the report of a commissioner appointed to inquire into the organization, authorization and dispatch of these Canadian troops to Hong Kong-a *commissioner appointed pursuant to a request made by my leader, the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson), for a parliamentary investigation. His request was not granted in that form, but a commissioner was appointed to inquire into the whole situation, and reported early in June, just about seven weeks ago
In fairness to those of us who have to discuss this report to-day I think it should be made clear that we have only the report itself on which to base our remarks. The report proper is a short one of about five-and-a-half pages, with an appendix of fifty pages. This appendix contains certain extracts from the evidence, but does not contain all the evidence; and furthermore it contains in certain cases extracts from cables-not whole cables, but merely extracts. It consists in part of a discussion of the evidence and of arguments, and I think one may say without fear of contradiction that the appendix is really drawn to justify the report of the commissioner. So that to-day, Mr. Speaker, there cannot be a proper and adequate debate, and we are further limited by the secrecy imposed by the commissioner. But some day there will be a free and full discussion, and Canadians will learn the whole story of this expedition.
In the meantime I propose to discuss the report and appendix from the point of view of what lessons can be learned therefrom by the government and by parliament and by the Canadian people, believing, and sincerely
fMr. Usley.3
believing that thereby I may help to prevent a similar or even greater tragedy and may help in increasing the efficiency of the Canadian army.
First of all, the report shows a dangerous lack of understanding of the Japanese and of the actual situation in the Pacific by the war committee of the cabinet, of which the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) is chairman, by defence headquarters, and by the Department of External Affairs, of which the Prime Minister is also head; because obviously from this report each one of those bodies believed that the Japanese would not fight, believed that the Japanese could be overawed by a show of force, believed that the Hong Kong Canadian force was going out to do garrison duty such as the battalions which composed that force had done in Newfoundland and in the West Indies.
I would refer the members of the house to page 15 of the report in support of these contentions, where I quote from evidence given by the Minister of National Defence for Naval Services (Mr. Macdonald) when he used these words:
We knew that a good deal of stress was laid in all dealings with Japan on the element of a show of strength-
That belief may or may not be justified in the case of native tribes, although even with them I think it is out of date. But certainly it did not apply in the case of a first-class power like Japan.
Then, at page 4 of the report, we find the attitude of the war committee of the cabinet given in these words:
The moral effect of the expedition might operate as a sensible influence for the preservation of peace there.
In other words, the war committee of the cabinet thought that they could bluff Japan. Well, may I point out to the members that in the last few years there has been far more bluffing by Japan in her relations with Canada than there has been successful bluffing of Japan by Canada.
Then General Crerar, who was chief- of staff at the time, gave his opinion, found at page 20 of the report. It is contained in paragraph 10 of his recommendation to the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Ralston), when this proposal to send a force to Hong Kong was first considered officially. That paragraph reads as follows:
As you know, these units returned not long ago from duty in Newfoundland and the West Indies respectively. The duties which they there carried out were not in many respects unlike the task which awaits the units to be sent to Hong Kong. The experience they have had will therefore be of no small value to them in their new role.

Hong Kong Inquiry
And the commissioner shows himself to be of the same frame of mind at page 38 of the report where he says, referring to the men from the Midland regiment who were added to this force prior to its departure :
It is true that after April, 1941, the Midland regiment was engaged in defence duties within Canada which interfered with the regular course of their training. At the same time, as I have already indicated, the assumption of coast defence and other duties had peculiar value in developing in the individual soldier the special qualities required for the type of task that they might be expected to perform in Hong Kong.
But what was the actual situation in September of last year? Japan had been fighting on the continent of Asia for nearly ten years. She had an army well led and skilful, and made up of tough and ruthless soldiers, perhaps the most savage killers in any army in the world. They had conquered Manchuria, large portions of China, including Shanghai and Canton, which is near Hong Kong. They had occupied French Indo-China, and obviously the only uncertainty about war between Great Britain and Japan was as to the time it would begin.
The war committee of the cabinet and defence headquarters and the Department of External Affairs should have known that war with Japan was imminent. That fact was well known on Canada's Pacific coast. Out there we had been warned time and again, by Canadians and Britishers returned from the far east, that war was coming. It was so well known, in fact, that when we learned that. the destination of these Canadian lads *was Hong Kong, we shuddered at the deadly risks they ran, and we prayed that they were wTell trained and well equipped and that this would not be another case of bungling by the higher-ups.
May I point out to hon. members of the house that the people on Canada's Pacific coast have been right all through about Japan. They have been right about the keeping out of Japanese from Canada. They have been right about prohibiting the shipment of scrap metal from Canada to Japan. I pointed out to this house in 1939 that a year or two before, I had seen with my own eyes an old Canadian destroyer, His Majesty's Canadian Ship Vancouver, broken up into scrap steel and scrap iron for shipment to Japan, and I protested against that on May 12, 1939. But we got no action by the government. Canadians on *the Pacific coast were also right about the possibility of the invasion of Canada by the Japanese by way of the Aleutians and the mainland of Alaska-and let the government not forget that that danger still exists. We were right about the risks which these men were running in going to Hong Kong. But
here in Ottawa, three thousand miles away from the Pacific ocean, members of the war committee were too busy with their departments to pay the proper attention to these affairs which really mattered; the defence department was too negligent, and the Department of External Affairs was ill-informed or too busy with its appeasement policies to realize the peril.
The report reflects little credit on any one of these bodies. Particularly damning is their failure to appreciate the effect of the change of government in Japan on October 16, 1941. On that day Matsuoka left office and Tojo became premier. Tojo had been for years violently pro-axis. Each of these three bodies I have mentioned should have made it their business at once to find out whether war was likely to follow from the change. The United States knew that the answer was "yes." That will be found at page 16 of the report, which reads as follows:
Mr. Drew urged that from the report of Mr. Justice Roberts touching the occurrences at Pearl Harbour, it is evident the American government in October had in its possession information pointing unequivocally to an early outbreak of hostilities with Japan, and he argued that such information ought to have been in the possession of the Canadian government. The evidence establishes in point of fact that the Canadian government had no such information.
Now we have a joint defence board, with members from the two countries, the United States and Canada. Surely one would have expected that the Canadian representatives would have found out what the Americans knew, through this joint defence board. Apparently they did not. Many Canadian newspapers knew that war was about to break, and the man in the street in Vancouver knew that war was coming upon that change of premiers in Japan. Yet these three groups- the war committee, defence headquarters, and the Department of External Affairs-did not, and we find their attitude stated at page 17 of the report, as follows:
It was known that Tojo was sympathetic with the axis powers and there was an impression-
I repeat that word "impression."
-there was an impression in Ottawa that his accession to power might increase the risk of war in the Pacific. However, shortly after the Japanese cabinet change information reached Ottawa to the effect that the Japanese policy of maintaining peace in the Pacific was likely to be maintained. This view was confirmed on October 26, the day before the expedition sailed, in the message from Canadian military headquarters in London already quoted. These expectations were falsified by the events of December, but the messages would tend to quiet any apprehension that might have arisen.
Hong Kong Inquiry

By the way, this cable from Canadian military headquarters in London is one of the cables from which we have only one sentence, the sentence reading:
Consensus opinion that war in far east unlikely at present.
I demand of the Prime Minister that the whole of that cable be tabled, because I doubt very much whether the rest of the cable will bear out in full the meaning which might be taken from the one sentence.
Therefore it is quite apparent that the authorities in Ottawa were easily lulled into a sense of security on this question of war with Japan, despite the change in the Japanese government on October 16, and the excuse which is given is the same old stock excuse, that the British did not tell us-blaming it on the British government. Actually the British must have known that that change meant war, and I ask the Prime Minister to tell this house whether he too did not know the change in all probability meant war.
I repeat, the report shows a lack of understanding by the war committee, by defence headquarters, and by the Department of External Affairs. I suggest by way of remedy that there be far less departmental and administrative work for the members of the war committee. Their work as a war committee is the most important work in Canada to-day, and they should not be hampered by having to spend so much time on their departments. I suggest also that there should be some sort of foreign affairs section set up in defence headquarters. I assume that that would be an expansion of the intelligence section, but no matter how it is done, Canada should have a defence headquarters that knows what is going on beyond the boundaries of Canada. As for the Department of External Affairs, I suggest that a few hardboiled realists should be added to the staff, which now consists largely of well-trained and highly intelligent young men, but perhaps a little too theoretical.
The second lesson which should be learned from this report is that Canada must think for herself. Some official body here, the war committee or defence headquarters, should have studied the situation at Hong Kong. They should have known that our troops there would have no air support, that the island was crowded with hundreds of thousands of civilians, many of them refugees. They should have known the difficulties about water, and should have considered whether it was sensible and reasonable to send more troops into Hong Kong. Apparently that was not done. I quote from page 14 of the report,

where the Minister of National Defence for Air (Mr. Power) who was at that time acting Minister of National Defence, says:
And I do not think there was ever any question really or any discussion as between General Crerar and myself as to any reason why we should not take it on.
That is, the expedition.
It struck me as being the only thing to do, and I suppose it struck General Crerar that way too; at least I took it for granted that it did.
At this stage I would like to pay tribute to the government for one of the grounds on which they decided to send the expedition, and that was that they thought it was Canada's turn to do some fighting. I have no quarrel whatever with that. My point is that the whole situation at Hong Kong should have been reviewed by some body here in Ottawa. If that had been done they would have known the grave risks which these men were running and they would at least have taken care that the force left the shores of Canada with its full equipment and composed of men who had received the maximum of training which could be given in Canada. Instead of that we find that this unfortunate Hong Kong force was treated as in the same category as a garrison being sent to Newfoundland or the West Indies. The arrangements were not even carried through by the senior officials in the Department of National Defence; they were left to directors in the different branches of that department.
We must not depend on others, we must not depend on Great Britain or on the United States to do our thinking for us. Canada must think for herself and form her own opinions and express them. It is so important on questions having to do with the conduct of the war, and it will be even more important on questions having to do with the peace settlement. Let us not forget that fact, that Canada must think these things through herself. Unfortunately we not only did not think for ourselves on this Hong Kong situation, but when tragedy occurred there was a very subtle placing of the blame on Great Britain.
Then the report clearly shows the necessity for giving Canadian troops complete battle tra