Mr. Speaker, as hon. members are aware, shortly after sundown last night the life of the Right Honourable Raoul Dan-durand, leader of the government in the Senate, came to its earthly close. Less than twenty-four hours before, Senator Dandurand had been present in the Senate conducting its proceedings, as he had been wont to do in all but five of the last twenty years. Of the Senate itself, he had been a member for forty-four years. In years of service, he was, in fact, its oldest member. Indeed, in years of continuous service, he was the oldest living member of the parliament of Canada.
On November the 4th of last year Senator Dandurand celebrated his eightieth birthday anniversaiy. Some weeks later, when parliament had reassembled, this anniversary -was made the occasion of a presentation ceremony in the Senate, at which felicitations on his long and distinguished career were extended to him on the part of leaders and members of both houses of parliament.
Despite his great age, the Senator possessed a remarkable vitality of body and mind. He had suffered no infirmity in the course of his [DOT] life. In the early morning of yesterday he felt as well as ever. At breakfast he experienced a sudden seizure of pain, which, however, did not last for long, but left him very weak. He rested throughout the day, at times conversing with his accustomed keenness of expression, with those at his side. The end came peacefully. One might truly say it was a fitting, indeed a beautiful close to a long, a great and a good life. Having sat in the Senate since the closing years of the last century, Senator Dandurand was in himself a link with the past -with the earlier political life of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, and of those others who have laboured to establish firmly the foundations of our nationhood. Like Sir Wilfrid, he strove, in public and private life alike, to promote under-

Right Hon. Raoul Dandurand
standing and cooperation between the two great races of the dominion, and on this basis to preserve and strengthen the bonds of a common nationality.
Although his own career, and many of the traditions with which it came to be identified, had its origin in an earlier generation, Senator Dandurand did not live in the past. He took a keen and active interest in the questions alike of peace and of war. To the deliberations of the war committee of the cabinet he brought a wide knowledge of international affairs, and a strong sense of practical reality. To the last, his life was characterized by a spirit of helpfulness. As a former Speaker of the Senate, as government leader in that chamber for many years and as a member of the administration, he gave exceptional service to Canada.
Senator Dandurand was first and foremost a citizen of Canada, but he was also, in larger measure, I believe, than any other Canadian of his generation, a citizen of the world. His deep and abiding affection for the people of his native province and of his native land did not preclude a kinship with mankind which so broadened his interests as to embrace other lands and other races. There will be those in many other countries, as well as throughout our own, who will deeply regret the passing of one whom they had come to regard as a personal friend and as a tireless worker on behalf of international goodwill.
For six years in succession, Senator Dandurand represented Canada at the assembly of the League of Nations, and in 1925 was elected president of the league assembly. During practically the whole three years that Canada was a member of the league council, he was a Canadian representative on the council. At the league he won for himself an enviable international reputation as an authority on social questions and as a champion of the rights of minorities. The record of his devoted labours at the league is a part of the history of international affairs.
It has been well said of Senator Dandurand that there was about him an innate distinction of manner, combined with a gentleness of spirit which made him one of the beloved as he was one of the most familiar figures in Canadian public life. He exemplified in his career the finest traditions of public service, and indeed helped, by precept and example, to add to them. His life and work may well serve as an inspiration to those of our own and of succeeding generations who seek to play a useful and honourable role in the administration of the affairs of our country.
Personally I cannot say how grateful I feel for all that the close association and friendship which I shared with Senator Dandurand has meant to me in the course of my public life.
We had been friend's over forty years. For fifteen of those years he and I shared responsibilities in the cabinet and leadership of the government, in the Senate and House of Commons respectively. During the still longer years I have had the responsibility of the leadership of the Liberal party, in opposition and in office, I doubt if I could possibly have begun to 'cope with many of the problems of one in that position without the wise counsel, guidance and loyal cooperation he so constantly and unswervingly accorded me. In all his personal and public relationships Senator Dandurand was fidelity itself.
Although his voice will be heard no more in the councils of the nations, in the hearts alike of his fellow-countrymen and of the friends of justice and peace in other lands, the memory will long endure of Senator Dandurand's continuous and untiring efforts to promote the common well-being of mankind.


Mr. Speaker, this parliament and the people of Canada have been greatly shocked by the announcement of the sudden death of the Right Hon. Raoul Dandurand last evening. His death marks the passing from the political scene of one of Canada's best known public men.
Born fourscore years ago in the city of Montreal, where he made his home, received his education and practised his profession, he rose to be a national figure in the fields of finance and statesmanship.
The friend of Sir Wilfrid Laurier, he was, at the comparatively early age of thirty-seven, appointed to the Senate. There his qualifications marked' him out for advancement and he soon became a commanding figure. In 1905 he rvas appointed Speaker, and in 1921, when my right hon. friend became Prime Minister, Senator Dandurand was made a member of t'he cabinet and the representative of the government in the Senate, which position he occupied until 1930, and again in 1935 until the time of his death.
His achievements in the realm of international politics are well known, particularly in relation to the League of Nations, of which he was a warm supporter. He occupied, respectively, the position of a Canadian delegate to the League of Nations, President of the Assembly and, later on, a delegate to the council of the league, a reputation which no Canadian since Sir Robert Borden has surpassed.
Contemplating in retrospect the life and career of Senator Dandurand, one cannot help but be impressed by the realization of w*hat a full and happy life he had. Even prior to his appointment to the Senate, he
Right Hon. Raoul Dandurand

had played a leading part in the public life of his native province; and' during the forty-four years he was a member of the Senate, no one took a more important and active part in the deliberations of that body.
In July last he received the highest honour at present in the right of Canadians to receive-membership in His Majesty's Imperial Privy Council.
My own relations with him were friendly. I often met him in Ottawa and1 on the trains. He was an engaging personality and a first-rate raconteur. Many times I have enjoyed my conversations with him.
He was a vigorous champion of his own opinions and of the aspirations of his compatriots.
His passing leaves a very distinct blank in the government of the country. I desire to extend to my right hon. friend and to his followers my sincere expressions of sympathy and regret.


Mr. Speaker, we join in mourning to-day the passing of one whose life was both useful and full. That Senator Dandurand was what we seldom see in our own dominion-and what we hope we may see more of in the years to come-a Canadian statesman with an international outlook, was recognized not only in our own country but in other countries of the world. He received distinguished honours at the hands of the people not only of Canada, but of France, from whose culture he derived so much inspiration. I shall always associate the late Senator Dandurand with the noble efforts that were made following the last great war to secure world peace. He was faithful to the ideals of collective security- sometimes called a noble experiment which failed; but I believe- the day will yet come when upon the foundations' laid by him and others like him will be erected a structure which will not fall and will not fail.
I did not know Senator Dandurand well, but I often used to see him in the corridors and the picture which I shall carry in my mind as long as I remain in these associations is of a noble and friendly figure Standing beside the throne in the Senate chamber, and bringing to my mind the words of Geoffrey Chaucer, "he was a verray parfit gentil knight."


Mr. Speaker, naturally when one passes who has filled for so many years so large a place in the public eye as Senator Dandurand, the first reaction is one of shock and regret. But I believe that in the contemplation of this man's life and of his passing most people will feel that he has been blessed in his going hence as he had been in his living here. He

has had a long, rich and abundant life, full of activity, full of striving for the ideals which guided him; a life crowned with a large measure of success. I do not know how anyone could ask of life anything finer. Now that he has closed that life without pain, without regret, I think there is cause for satisfaction and comfort.
We join with those who will extend sympathy to the bereaved ones, for no matter how far advanced one may be in years, when he passes there will be an empty place at the fireside and there will be hearts that are lonely because he is no longer here. To these we extend our sympathy and condolences.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to lay on the table order in council P.C. 1916, which contains several amendments to the reserve army (special) regulations. There are amendments respecting clothing allowance, notification of change of address, and penalties for failure to report: that has to do with men called up for training under the National Resources Mobilization Act.
Several hon. members have asked with regard to the regulations, which I mentioned in Hansard at page 818, whereby we are endeavouring to secure a more uniform method of administering provisions for leave or postponement by utilizing, even though men have commenced their training, the boards which have been appointed under the Department of National War Services. An amendment to that effect is embodied in this order in council which I am laying on the table.
In order that the house may have a general outline of the provision, it is this. Applications may be made by men who are in training under the National Resources Mobilization Act for leave at any time within three months after enlistment or after the commencement of training, and those applications may be granted under circumstances similar to those under which a man would have been granted postponement of training had he applied before his training commenced; or,
as the order in council provides, leave may be granted where the circumstances show extreme hardship to dependents. The procedure is that the man who is already in training applies to his commanding officer, giving the grounds of his application, which should be verified by affidavit or by statutory declaration. The commanding officer forwards this material with his own recommendation to the district officer commanding-that is necessary in order that they may get in touch with the board-and the district officer commanding transmits that material to the board with any recommendation he has to make. The board then review the application just as they would review an application for postponement if made previous to training, and the provision in the order in council is that the district officer commanding shall give effect to the recommendation of the board, with one exception. That is to say, he has no discretion to turn down the recommendation of the board unless at that particular time the military situation is such that the exigencies require that leave be curtailed or refused; in that case he may refer the matter to national defence headquarters. Hon. members will understand, of course, that that is under special circumstances, but the general provision is that the recommendation of the board is to be accepted by the district officer commanding.
While that procedure is, under the order in council, permissive, instructions are being issued by the Department of National Defence that that is the procedure which shall be followed.
There is also a provision in the amendment whereby the boards are given specific authority to hear these cases. Another provision is to the effect that boards are given authority to hear any other cases or classes of cases which are specially referred to them by the adjutant general. That applies not only to men in training, but to the Canadian army home defence or the Canadian active army- either one.
I believe that this outline will give hon. members who have been asking about this matter the necessary information. The order in council is tabled so that hon. members may get full particulars if they desire.


I take it that this applies only to those who are called up under the compulsory training plan and not to men who have voluntarily enlisted. A case came to my attention this morning of a woman in my own constituency who has four sons. One is in the army overseas, another is in the navy, a third is working on home defence, and the
Questions

fourth son, she tells me, has been called up for the air force. I do not understand that; he must have enlisted voluntarily. But she ipleads with me to do something to get her fourth and last son out of the armed forces. I have written her explaining what I understand to be the position. I suppose this amendment will not apply in a case of that kind.


No. This does not apply to the air force. The general provision to which I have just referred may, however, apply to the Canadian active army or to the home defence army. That is to say, there is power in the order in council for the adjutant general to refer those cases to the board. The order in council does not provide that they must be referred to the board. As the order in council stands the only cases which are specifically provided for, in connection with which the board's decision is to be taken, are cases where men are called up under the National Resources Mobilization Act and are actually in training.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1942 VICTORY LOAN
['1.\tYes.\n2.\tFebruary 24, 1942, by order in council P.C. 1426.']
I would ask the hon. member to be good enough to consent to this question being dropped. The information will not be available for several weeks at least and perhaps for a longer period than that. When it is available the breakdown into categories will not correspond with the breakdown contained in clause 3 of the question. If it were made an order for return it would not serve any purpose because the information available up to the time the order for return is passed is the only information that goes into the return. I think therefore the only course left is to drop the question for the time being.
Question dropped.


1.	From whom did the government purchase the boat San Katy'i

2.	What was the purchase price?
3.	What was the cost to the government of reconditioning this boat for mine laying purposes?
4.	Is the said boat now in service?
5.	If not, why?


1.	Northumberland Ferries, Limited.
2.	$83,900 has been paid. There is a pending reference to the exchequer court of Canada to settle the claim of the former owner, for a larger amount.
3.	$97,213.39.
4.	Yes.
5.	Answered by No. 4.


1.	Since the inception of the Unemployment Insurance Act how many persons have received payments thereunder?
2.	What are the numbers and occupations by provinces of such persons?
3.	How many of the said recipients have been on service in his majesty's forces during the present war and of those how many are in receipt of payment under the said act as of this date?


To furnish the information asked for will necessitate communicating with the nine regional offices of the unemployment insurance commission and as soon as the information is received by my office the question will be answered.


The question stands.


Stands.
ORDER IN COUNCIL P.C. 2686*


1.	Was order in council P.C. 2686, June 19, 1940, revoked?
2.	If so, on what date and in what manner?


1.	Yes.
2.	February 24, 1942, by order in council P.C. 1426.


1.	How many cheques were issued on wheat acreage reduction bonus for, (a) $50 and less; (b) $50 to $100?
2.	What were the total amounts paid under each of the above classifications?


1. Is M. G. Armstrong, M.D., in receipt of pay of any description from the dominion government ?

Questions on Orders of the Day
2.	Is he the medical examiner for employees in the munitions or chemical works at Nobel or vicinity?
3.	If so, on what basis is he paid?
4.	What was the total amount paid to him by the dominion government in the calendar year 1941?


1.	How many loans were made in each province by the Canadian farm loan board during the last fiscal year, and what was the amount of each loan?
2.	How many farms on which loans were made have been abandoned in each province since the formation of the said board?
3.	How many of the abandoned farms has the board at the present time and where are they located?


1.	Has J. A. A. Leclair-Dupuis Limited, of Montreal, obtained contracts to construct Avar defence projects?
2.	If so, what amount has been paid to the company for each contract?
3.	How long has this company been in existence?
4.	Who are its president, manager and directors ?
5.	What kind of work does this company carry on, and at what place in the province of Quebec?
6.	Upon what date and in what year was this company incorporated?


On the orders of the day:
I desire to direct two questions to the Minister of Justice (Mr. St. Laurent), based upon a translation of an article appearing in Le Droit, published in the city of Ottawa on the ninth instant in a column of comments entitled "From day to day". As the minister is away, and as there is no hurry about it, I shall ask that the matter be taken as a notice. The comments in principle are such that with the permission of the house I will read them.


I do not like to interrupt the leader of the opposition, but I gather from the statement he is about to read that if will take the form of a question which would call for consideration by the minister before it can be answered, and therefore it would fall within the category of such questions as I have already ruled should properly be placed upon the order paper. I suggest to the leader of the opposition that he put the question on the order paper.
44561-so


I sent
notice of this question to the minister.


May I interrupt to say that I did observe on a former occasion that when questions were asked, and the purport of the question had been sent to the minister, the minister came prepared to give an answer, and this in effect simply accentuated a practice which I have ruled is improper. As I said yesterday, if a question is improperly asked1 on the orders of the day it is just as improper for the minister to answer it. If we are to adhere to the rule, all these questions which are not of immediate interest and which do not require an immediate answer should be placed on the order paper.


I bow to your ruling, of course, Mr. Speaker, but I had not even come to the question.


I gathered, however, from the form which the question was about to take that it was one that should certainly be put on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to ask a question of the Secretary of State. Owing to the fact that most of the returning officers for the plebiscite, and their assistants, will have to travel many hundreds of miles in their automobiles to make arrangements for polling booths, et cetera, will special gasoline cards be secured for these men to carry on this work?


I am afraid I shall have to make inquiries and in the meantime regard the question as a notice. So far as I know, the oil controller has not given special consideration to the matter. However, I will inquire and advise the hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, with due deference to your desire to limit questions that may be asked on the orders of the day, may I ask the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Raltson), in the light of the increasing development and activity in the construction of army quarters in other parts, whether he will be good enough to

Wheat Board Act

inquire into the lack of use of the camp grounds at Niagara-on-the-Lake, and see whether it could not be utilized to a greater extent.


This is another question of the kind that should be put on the order paper.


The house resumed from Wednesday, March 11, consideration of the motion of Mr. MacKinnon (Edmonton West) for the second reading of Bill No. 13, to amend the Canadian Wheat Board Act, 1935, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Douglas (Weyburo).
The subject matter of these three bills, commonly referred to as the wheat bills, similar in character, now constitutes an item that must receive attention yearly in this chamber. They represent something of great magnitude in the civil and commercial life of the country, apart from war, perhaps greater than any other question within that category.
The first bill to which I wish to refer is that introduced by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. MacKinnon), Bill No. 13, the amendment to the Canadian Wheat Board Act. The only point in that bill that is of importance is the abolition of the 70-cent price and the substitution therefor of 90 cents. When this question was under discussion a year ago I very strongly urged upon the government an increase in the price of wheat, and with the increase from 70 cents to 90 cents I may say at once that I am in full accord.
I think we all recognize and recognized a year ago that 70 cents is a very low price for wheat. I do not think it is necessary to discuss that question at great length. I realize that there has been a demand for dollar wheat, but we all know that the world situation affecting wheat is at present most difficult, and I assume that the Minister of Trade and Commerce has taken that into consideration in relation to his recommendation of a price of 90 cents.
With regard to the wheat acreage reduction bill, this item a year ago was dealt with through the supplementary estimates. At that time I think I raised the point that it should have been dealt with by a bill; therefore I congratulate the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) upon the method of dealing with the matter this year.
Before proceeding to discuss the various items to which this bill relates I wish to make

a few general remarks covering some other matters of importance in the work and production of Canada. One item has already been referred to, industrial wages, from the point of view that industrial wages had risen more rapidly and to a higher point than had the farmers' income. I believe that is true to a great extent in the more central and highly industrialized centres. When you go out into the more remote districts I think you will find in the factories producing munitions and war materials and the materials for civilian consumption that the wage rates are fair and good, but not exorbitant. In fact I can go a step further and say that under present conditions, particularly in the province in which I live, they compare perhaps favourably with the returns to agriculture. Of course there is no question that those industrial wages,are high enough to attract labour away from the farms, and this creates a situation which I am sure is receiving careful consideration by the government. Later this session I may have something further to say on that point.
The next item to which I wish to refer is lumber. Lumber is an important commodity in the riding I represent. The timber controller's office informs me that since the outbreak of the war in September, 1939, of the lumber that enters into the construction of homes and such buildings, what might be described as rough lumber, white pine has increased in price 15 per cent, spruce 16 per cent and hemlock about 20 per cent So that you have an average increase of approximately 17 per cent in the price of lumber since the beginning of the war. Now, that is not a very heavy increase. We had a very heavy production of lumber in 1940 and again in 1941, but it is possible that without some further increase the production might not be as heavy late* on, because labour for lumbering operations is becoming scarcer and higher wages are demanded.
The next item to which I wish to refer was mentioned by the hon. member for Wood Mountain (Mr. Donnelly), that is, the rate of interest paid by the government for the money borrowed to carry on the war. I learn from the Department of Finance that since the outbreak of the war there has been lent to the Dominion of Canada in the form of war savings stamps and certificates and bonds, not including conversions but new money, the sum of $2,300 million at approximately 3 per cent. If you compare the interest rate paid during the last war, which averaged perhaps 5J per cent, you will find there has been a saving in annual interest, on that huge sum, of about $51,000,000. We recognize, therefore, that those who lent their money to the

Wheat Board Act
government, and they represent all classes, are receiving a substantially reduced income from that source.
I wish to refer to index figures covering a number of major agricultural products of all the provinces of Canada, also the general level of manufactured products, in fact all products. Taking the 1926 level as 100, manufactured products for civilian consumption stand now at 93-2. If we take all products, agricultural and manufactured, and all others, it stands at 92-2. Poultry and dairy products stand at 101-3; live stock products at 115-2. It is true-and this point has a direct bearing upon the whole discussion in which we are now engaged-that cereal products are indeed low in price, and perhaps on the same basis would come somewhere between 55 and 60. I should explain further that since these percentages were compiled we have had some increase in the price of cattle, in the price of lambs, a 3-cent bonus on eggs, and some additional payment to the whole milk and condensed milk producer; so that if the figures were brought up to date some of these indexes would register a reasonable increase.
The Minister of Agriculture has had something to do with the bonus for eggs and the bonus for milk, cheese, et cetera, and in that regard I think he deserves a word of commendation. There has also been an increase in the price of cheese. I believe the situation of the Ontario farmer is now reasonably satisfactory. I have not always agreed with everything brought before the house by the Minister of Agriculture, and I might add that perhaps this bonus system is not the best and soundest system. Nevertheless under present conditions it apparently represents the only instrument by means of which these matters can be successfully dealt with. I believe from the standpoint of an Ontario farmer I can state truthfully to the Minister of Agriculture that they have been fairly dealt with.
Perhaps the 20-cent increase in the price of wheat is not sufficient, but it is a substantial increase in price. I wish to make a comparison between the situation of agricuh ture in Ontario and in the western provinces. I find in the "Canada Year Book" for 1941 a statement showing investments in agriculture in the various provinces of Canada. These investments are listed under three headings, namely lands and buildings, live stock, and implements and machinery. The figures are found at page 154, and they relate to the year 1939. I do not believe that any major or radical change has taken place from that time up to the present. I find in this list that Alberta has invested under those three headings the sum of 8599,000,000, Saskatchewan $841,000,000, Manitoba $329,000,000 and Ontario $1,408,000,000.
44561-80}
If we have the gross income of agriculture in all the provinces we can arrive at what should be a fair estimate of the gross return per $100 unit throughout the various provinces, to indicate whether or not the farmers in one part of Canada are enjoying greater prosperity than are those in some other part. It is difficult to secure accurate figures respecting income, but we have estimates. I assume that as between the various provinces those estimates are fairly representative of the established and true situation.
I find that from the gross sales of agricultural products Alberta received, in round figures, $150,000,000 in 1941. A few days ago the hon. member for Wood Mountain (Mr. Donnelly) gave for Saskatchewan the figure of S180,000,000. The figure for Manitoba in the estimate prepared by the bureau of statistics stands at $80,000,000, and we have in Ontario an estimated income of $285,000,000. We received in Ontario cheese bonuses during the last year amounting to $4,500,000. We have provincial hog bonuses in Ontario and Quebec, but they do not run into very much money. I will add to the $285,000,000 gross income of Ontario farmers the sum of $5,000,000 for the cheese bonus, and I believe in allowing that amount there will be some to spare.
The minister told us the other day that in the western provinces about $60,000,000 was to be divided among the farmers as payments under the wheat acreage reduction plan, the Prairie Farm Assistance Act and the Prairie Farm Income order in council. I understand that that sum will probably be divided as follows: Saskatchewan, $35,000,000; Alberta, $15,000,000 and Manitoba, $10,000,000. So that if we take the $150,000,000 gross income for Alberta and add this $15,000,000 we have a figure of $165,000,000. If we divide that $165,000,000 into the $599,000,000 of gross total investment we have $27.75 per unit of $100 invested. In each case of course that represents the sum out of which the farmer must pay his interest charges, his taxes, his threshing expenses, his living expenses and other costs incidental to the operation of his farm. If there were anything left I suppose it would come under the heading of profit. It would seem that there should be a column for profit and loss, because I assume in all provinces we do occasionally run into grievous losses.
I now come to Saskatchewan, with its estimated income of $180,000,000. If we add the $35,000,000 for the payments to which I have referred we have the figure of $215,000,000. As I said a moment ago, in that province invested capital stands at $841,000,-
000.	Computing that on the basis I have indicated we find that the income per unit
Wheat Board Act

runs to about $25.30. We come to Manitoba with a capital investment in agriculture of $329,000,000 and an income of $80,000,000. Then there is the 810,000,000 for bonus payments which must be added, making a total of $90,000,000. If we work that out we find that it comes to approximately $27.50.
Coming to Ontario, with its gross income of $290,000,000, and a capital investment of $1,408,000,000, a computation on the same basis indicates a return of $20.50. There is another point I suggest should receive some consideration, because 1 realize that interest charges in western Canada are substantially higher than they are in the east. But we have in Ontario certain set expenses which are higher than they are in the west. In order to produce crops in western Canada in 1941, 10,000 tons of fertilizer were used. That fertilizer cost approximately $55 a ton, making a total expenditure of $550,000. The cost of fertilizer in the west is high because of the excessive freight charges. The fertilizer used has a higher content of potash, nitrogen, et cetera, and less filler. This is done to save freight. The farmers of Ontario consumed 126,000 tons of fertilizer which cost approximately $32 a ton. Therefore they spent a little over $4,000,000 to purchase fertilizer to produce the crops that they have for sale.
Another important item is taxation. Again I shall give round figures, but I have the totals in every instance. In Alberta there are quite a few local districts where they collect school taxes, but I got my figures from the bureau of statistics and I am including all taxes, school and otherwise. In some of the w'estem provinces there are provincial improvement plans, but I have also included those. I shall give the taxation of the rural municipalities in the west and the organized townships in the east in order to give a fairly clear picture of the situation. In Alberta approximately $7,500,000 is paid in rural taxation. In Saskatchewan the total is approximately $11,500,000, and in Manitoba, approximately $5,000,000. But the total of rural taxation in Ontario is approximately $26,500,000.
I am not presenting these figures with any desire of minimizing the responsibilities or the difficulties or the problems of the farmers of western Canada. I have every sympathy with them in their troubles, but I give these figures to show that we have pressing problems in Ontario. If you will take the total receipts and divide them by the number of farmers engaged in agriculture, you will find that the gross income does not differ to any extent as between provinces. I have the figures here, but I do not want to tire the house with too 
many. Figuring on that basis there is probably a difference of not more than $100 in the average income of the farmer as between provinces. Of course, there are large units in the west where no doubt the carrying charges are high, but in Ontario we are faced with high municipal taxation and a high fertilizer cost. In addition, in order to produce these crops, we brought in-perhaps the Minister of Agriculture could give this information better than I

during the year 1941 from western Canada many millions of dollars' worth of western grain. That had to be paid for out of our income in order to make this production possible. I think we must have a broad viewpoint of the whole agricultural situation throughout the country.
Referring to the wheat acreage reduction bill, a year ago I took strong objection to the payment" of a bonus for coarse grains, and I cannot say that my objection to that principle has lessened. I believe that it created an inequality in the production of live stock. It is said that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump, and up to a certain point the freight assistance provided in the year 1941 was of major assistance to the Ontario farmer. But I do not believe he will reap as much benefit from this in 1942 as he did in 1941 because the price of western grain will be higher. We brought in considerable wheat last year and because of a very insistent demand for Ontario wheat, we could exchange our wheat at the elevator for western wheat and make twenty cents on the exchange. Of course that is something that I do not think anything can control, because western wheat does not suit that particular market and that is why the situation prevailed. This condition will not prevail with western wheat at 90 cents should Ontario harvest a reasonably good crop. I hope that that situation prevails in all the provinces. The Minister of Agriculture has been criticized, sometimes severely, throughout western Canada-


How about the east?


Probably in the east too; more last year than this year. I think the bulk of this criticism has arisen from the fact that the minister has had to deal with these problems at a time when they were more difficult than ever before. When I look at the wheat acreage reduction bill, the Prairie Farm Assistance Act and the prairie farm income order in council I cannot help but think that the Minister of Agriculture has devised means and developed ideas to give assistance to the farmers of the western provinces, and in some instances as well to the farmers in the east, to a degree never equalled by any of his

Wheat Board Act
predecessors. I doubt if it has been equalled by anyone in a similar position in any of the food exporting countries of the world.
The hon. member for Rosthern (Mr. Tucker) referred to the number of telephones, electrical and running water installations in the homes of western Canada, and I think he referred also to the number of automobiles owned. It is true that there are a greater number of farms in Ontario with these conveniences, but it should be remembered that this part of the country has been settled longer. The district from which I come was settled in the late twenties and the thirties of the nineteenth century. I see by the reports that at the outbreak of the great war about 10,000,000 acres were under cultivation in western Canada, or put into wheat. If we go back to the beginning of the twentieth century, the development would be much smaller. Therefore, this point must not be forgotten, that there was a civilization approximately seventy years old when settlement started in the west. Naturally these services will develop and grow. I would like to see every farm in every province in Canada with the conveniences of electricity, telephones and running water, as well as automobiles. There is no class of people under the sun who are more entitled to or have greater need for these conveniences than those who live and work on the land.
There may be a reason for the attitude taken by the western farmer that his problems are greater than those of the farmers in any other part of Canada. I do not believe there is an agricultural section of Canada in which the land was more easily acquired than it was in the western provinces. There were homesteads, preemptions, cheap lands. Remember, I am not minimizing the problems in any part of the country. The farmers had many problems in the province of Ontario, and the same thing applies to the west. I believe also that the land in the west was recovered from nature and turned into production with less effort than the land in any of the older provinces of Canada. That may not apply to some of the northern and eastern districts of the west, but it does apply particularly to that triangle to which the Minister of Agriculture referred, bounded by a line running from Morden to Lloydminster, from there down to Calgary and on to the United' States boundary. That land was brought into cultivation with a minimum of effort as compared with the effort required in many of the other provinces. The farms out there are large, and in common with all the agricultural districts of 'this dominion, the farmers of the west have enjoyed periods of prosperity and good times. Each agricultural area in Canada has 'had1 its heyday. I think it will be agreed
that western Canada had its heyday. And during that heyday land in the western provinces blossomed forth in the production of bountiful wealth to a 'greater extent than in any other part of Canada. I threshed in western Canada for several years; I have seen the golden grain piled on the prairies, and the farmers were getting a good1 price for it at that time. I regret the difficulties that came later when farmers in some parts of the west suffered from drought and when the farmer's equity diminished and in some cases disappeared.
The reason I cite these facts is that I believe that the conditions I describe have left an imprint and had an effect upon the mentality of the people of western Canada. And now when their farm income is just about on a par, sometimes a little better, with that obtained in the other provinces, they are not used to being cramped to the same extent as farmers in many other parts of the country.
I think it was the hon. member for Moose Jaw (Mr. Ross) who said 'that the wheat grower had made a noble and most important contribution to the war effort. I agree absolutely. I would be the last to detract in the slightest degree from their accomplishments because they are doing a great work and making a splendid contribution. In one of the galleries of this House of Commons since the session opened on January 21, a western farmer and his wife have sat during many sittings. I have talked to this man. He is a splendid fellow. I have heard western people say that they grow the finest wheat in the world. I would say that this fellow is as fine a fellow as you could grow anywhere in the world. He comes from that wheat area where, as the Minister of Agriculture said, it is difficult to grow anything but wheat and what is his situation? He said to me: "I left my farm on the first day of December." It is not a power farm; his power is horses, and he said: "I locked the stable door." The important point to remember is that his horses were on the outside of the stable, not on the inside, when he locked the door, and they went out on the prairies to hunt their living for the winter. "I am worried about them," he said. "There is not much snow, and I am anxious lest they be short of water. I am going to be back there on the first of April, and I hope they will be all right."
In the case of the dairy farmer-not in Ontario alone but in all the provinces of Canada-who produces cheese, milk, butter, hogs and cattle, what is called the mixed farmer, the door, mark you, is not shut and latched with his stock outside. The stock are all inside, where they must be watered and fed and tended, and not just on one day in the week
Wheat Board Act

or in one month out of five, but seven days a week and every week throughout the entire winter. I ask that this be borne in mind. The wheat farmer has made a great contribution to the war effort, but I believe that the mixed farmer is making perhaps a greater contribution to the war effort. I recall those famous words of Churchill about blood and toil and tears; certainly the mixed farmer knows what sweat and toil is, and if you are going to use that as the yardstick to measure their war effort, you will have to give a place alongside the wheat farmer to the mixed farmers throughout the length and breadth of this dominion.
There has been a request-I will put it that way-from the other side of the house and from here and down there to my left for a better understanding of the problems of the western farmers, and Ontario was mentioned particularly when hon. gentlemen from the west were speaking. I think we must have a better understanding, if it is possible to get it, but I hope it will be a mutual understanding, that we shall understand the problems of the west better, and that likewise the farmers of the west will understand our problems better. I do not think we have many differences of importance. I think our differences are minute and imaginaiy. Our objectives are similar. Our interests may differ in some respects but we have much in common. I would say first that as farmers we should perhaps be a little better satisfied with our lot. I say to the farmers from the east and to the farmers from the west, let us go forward together jointly and unitedly, in our common task of feeding our armed forces and our civilian population, and assisting to feed the armed forces and civilian populations of other parts of the empire and, whenever and wherever the opportunity offers, of our gallant allies, to the end that we may attain ultimate triumph and victory for our cause and bring about a just and honourable peace to this distracted and distorted and war-ravaged world.


The motion for the second reading of Bills 12, 13 and 14, and the amendment moved by the hon. member for Weybum (Mr. Douglas), deal with the most important domestic matters to come before parliament this session. Thus far the speeches made by those who have taken part in the debate have revealed a wide knowledge of world conditions, and of the situation of Canadian agriculture-which, with other natural resources, forms the principal basis of our 'wealth.
The country affected by this legislation was opened up largely after the northwest rebellion of 1885, which occurred not so far from

the constituency which you, Mr. Speaker, represented for many years so ably and faithfully. It was at this time that the attention of the civilized world was called to the great prairie country, the potential granary of the empire. It appealed to the fancy and imagination of the whole civilized world. This wonderful new land ' of promise and opportunity showed it would be one of the glories of the Victorian era. Militia units from Toronto, including the Queen's Own, the Royal Grenadiers and the Governor General's Bodyguard, the battalion commanded by our late admired magistrate Colonel George T. Denison, the York Rangers and soldiers from Halifax and Winnipeg, constituted this force. Many of them marched across lake Superior in the depth of winter, twenty to thirty degrees below zero, and endured the terrible hardships of winter in order to save that great country from secession and prevent Canada from being dislocated. After the war, numbers of these men received a small grant of land which they never saw, and many went west with their families into the territory which is now the three prairie provinces, aided only by the small grants which they then obtained. There was afterwards a heavy migration to the prairies from Ontario and Toronto.
I believe in a principle for confederation of "each for all and all for each." What is for the benefit of the prairie provinces is for the benefit of Ontario, the maritimes, and the great Pacific province. But let me remind hon. gentlemen that the winning of the war is the first and most important business of Canada. While we have many great domestic problems, including this one of agriculture, nothing will matter if we do not win the war, because if the enemy wins there will be no such thing as a price; everybody will be working as a slave for an alien government, and life will not be worth living.
The discussion on this subject lasted last year about three weeks, and it is instructive to notice where the demand for a policy of parity prices in war time comes from. You will find that those who, in this house and out of it, for many years past have argued that the interests of the great grain growing industry lay north and south instead of east and west and required free trade with all the world, have now veered around and, instead of preaching free trade from the housetops on the prairies, are adopting methods of triple protection and supporting the principle of protection for this, Canada's greatest industry.
In the government's present policy, embodied in the wheat measures now before the house- it is not a long-term policy-it is not yet clear what they propose to do for wheat growers in the present year and what they

Wheat Board Act
propose to do in the years to come are two different things. The prairies alone are in on it. The other provinces will benefit by it but little. I have long contended that it is the desire of every good citizen to see agriculture put on the road to recovery, but this means a long range policy in the interests of all the provinces, to be put into effect before it is too late. After all is said and done, when the war is over there will be such a general wreckage in Canada and the world that it will be difficult to salvage anything. I believe that long before that time comes we shall require all the increased production which has been spoken of. But the ships are not available; we have lost the command of the sea in the Pacific; and it is difficult to see where we shall get the supply of labour or the ships or transportation necessary to take care of the crops and of our export trade.
I notice that the government, in connection with these bills, is not proposing to take a plebiscite on this particular question. Most of the plebiscite supporters are not in the chamber to-day. May I remark that the committee of agriculture is going to have a big proposition on its hands. However, I have never yet known any committee appointed by the government which did not do exactly what the government wanted them to do. They are a majority and write the report. They may function to delay, hinder and prevent the solution of this question. But it is the government that is responsible for the state of agriculture to-day and for a solution of any ills in it in all Canada.
In my opinion the government in the past has worn a coat of many colours in relation to the grain growing industry. The bill is said to deal with an emergency, and the legislation is under the War Measures Act in pursuance of the provision for "peace, order and good government". But if it is a wartime measure, why in the name of sense are those men who are getting $1.30 a day, about the price of a bushel of wheat, not to be considered, as man-power is an industry. If any of us served at the front and faced death twenty-four hours a day, we would be less inclined to give first place to material things like the price of grain and forget ourselves and dependents. Are soldiers who go away to fight for us not entitled to some economic protection, as well as grain growers? The hon. member for Trinity (Mr. Roebuck), part of whose riding I used to represent, objected the other day when I was about to speak on this matter on Bill No. 5, 