On the order for motions:
Mr. Speaker, I desire to lay on the table order in council dated February 6, 1942, relating to a ceiling on salaries and to make a brief statement in explanation. I am tabling for comparison a copy of the original order.
This amending order is intended to clarify the application of the original order and to alter some details of its provisions in regard particularly to promotions, new appointments, and the payment of bonuses. I should like to draw attention to the fact that in clarifying the definition of salaried official, this amending order definitely places some employees under the wages and cost of living bonus order, thereby entitling them to the cost of living bonus from their employers.
All persons receiving salaries or wages of less than $175 a month are excluded from the

class of salaried official and made subject to the wages and cost of living bonus order. All those receiving $250 or more a month are considered to be salaried officials unless their duties or responsibilities show clearly that they are not above the rank of foreman or comparable rank, in which case they are subject to the wages order. The national war labour board, or its regional boards, are made responsible for determining the status of any employee or any class of employees in case of doubt or dispute. The national board has already issued a number of general interpretative rulings on this matter and will be issuing others in due course.
Another change is intended to remove the source of what is regarded as discrimination within many organizations where highly paid workmen or foremen are entitled to a cost of living bonus under the wages order while junior salaried officials earning no more, or even less, are prevented from receiving such a bonus by the provisions of the salaries order. The amending order permits an employer to pay a cost of living bonus to salaried officials earning no more than other employees of the same employer who are entitled to such bonus under the wages order. This special permission is not allowed to apply to officials receiving more than $4,200 per year, and the general limit of $3,000 on those permitted to receive the bonus remains applicable where the special circumstances are not present.
Other provisions of the amending order extend the control to salaries of those hired after the original order went into effect. An employer is not permitted to pay to a newly-appointed salaried official a rate of salary higher than the rate previously paid to another official performing substantially the same services, or if there is no such guide, the employer shall not pay a rate of salary higher than is reasonable and proper, having regard to the rates paid to salaried officials for similar services in like business. This provision is intended, among other things, to check the practice of employers trying to entice employees from one another by the promise of higher salaries.
To avert any danger of an employer paying a higher initial rate of salary than he otherwise would to a newly-hired or newly-promoted official because that rate must not be subsequently increased under the terms of the order, the amending order provides that an employer may, in accord with his established practice, and by arrangement, pay first a probationary or temporary rate of salary, to be followed by a higher rate, in cases of new appointments or promotions tailing place after the order went into effect.

Privilege-Mr. Ralston
There are a considerable number of minor changes in wording, and definitions. A specific limitation is put on directors' fees instead of relying upon the general restrictions on salaries being applied. The intent of the original order is made clear by explicitly stating that the amount of any cost of living bonus being paid when the order went into effect shall be considered as part of the rate of salary at that time. The definition of employers subject to the order is altered to exclude all public hospitals, and all religious, charitable and educational institutions not carried on for gain. Notification is required of promotions within three months, of the first payment of the increased salary, where it is not already required in advance. I will not attempt to go into further detail, as copies of the order are available to all those interested.
Perhaps I should add that in the administration of this order by the income tax division, it is possible to obtain a close check on what is happening to all salaries by an inspection both of employee's and employer's tax returns. There is one other minor change which it may be necessary to make for administrative reasons, in addition to these amendments, and this may involve another brief order shortly.


Last night while I was not in the house the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) raised a question of privilege with respect to a passage between himself and myself when I was speaking yesterday afternoon. My hon. friend mentioned the matter to me in the corridor, and I do not accuse him of any intention to cause embarrassment by raising it while I was not in the bouse. I really did not understand from him that he was going to raise it in the house; I thought he was going to mention it to me. In. the short time at my disposal I have endeavoured to have gone over by my "research department," as he calls it, the matter of the speeches which were made and the effect of what was said at the time. I should like to refer to the language a little more extensively than he has. When speaking yesterday I referred to the passing of the National Resources Mobilization Act and the limitation which was contained in section 3 which restricts compulsory service under the act to service in Canada. I said, as reported on page 453 of Hansard:
The present leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) was in the house at the time; he took no exception to that limitation. His only suggestion was that the act might be extended to service in Labrador. And he and his party supported that measure with that restriction in it.
The leader of the opposition then said:
Did I not say I was prepared to accept that as a half-way measure?
I took it that he was referring to the limitation to service, in Canada. I then said:
I am quite satisfied my hon. friend used no such language.
My hon. friend then referred to my research department having let me down. Apparently he then started his research department going over the debate. I must say that if my department let me down, his department has worked overtime because he has gone back to the speech which he made, not while the bill was under discussion or in committee, but before it was even introduced, a speech which was made after the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) had announced the general terms of the measure. Last night he quoted a passage saying that he had made a proposal to the government that the government should take authority to mobilize all the man-power and all the material resources of this nation for the aid of the mother country and for the defence of Canada. I say again, that speech was made considerably before the bill was introduced, before even the resolution was introduced, and I do not think he would find that phrase again repeated when the bill was under discusssion.


When in committee.


But he has referred to two passages in which he did, I freely admit, refer to half a loaf being better than no bread. That is on pages 913 and 914 of Hansard of June 19, 1940. And he quoted these two passages last night (see page 471 of Hansard of yesterday) to show what he had said when the bill was in committee. There he says:
I should like to emphasize the fact that the bill is purely and simply enabling legislation, and while it falls short of what many people in this dominion think is necessary and have been demanding, yet on balance and on the principle that half a loaf is better than no bread at all, we on this side of the house are prepared to accept the principle of the bill and to accept the measure for what it is worth.
Then in the second column of page 917 of Hansard of 1940 he says about the same thing. I quote his remarks on page 917 (see page 471 of Hansard of yesterday):
I tell the Prime Minister it has not been easy to support the principle of this bill, having regard to the volume of representations I had received beforehand in favour of something more far-reaching, and the protests I have been receiving this morning that we should still have
Privilege-Mr. Ralston

something greater. But as I said before, for the defence of Canada if for nothing else I am willing to support the principle of thi^ bill; because half a loaf is better than no bread.
My hon. friend, I freely admit, did use that expression; 1 had forgotten that; in fact, it had not been called to my attention for, I think, the fairly obvious reason that I was discussing what was said with regard to section 3 of the bill which has to do with the matter of restriction of compulsory service. These two passages which my hon. friend quoted last night were spoken on section 2 of the bill.


Oh, no, on the whole bill.


I beg my hon. friend's pardon. It was while section 2 of the bill was being discussed in committee. I referred my hon. friend to the pages of Hansard, and he will find that is the fact. I have had my research department go back through my hon. friend's speech to find out what he was referring to when he said that half a loaf was better than no bread. Was he referring to the matter of restriction of compulsory service in Canada, or what was he referring to? I am not going to trouble the house to read all the passages, but I say this to my hon. friend, and he can look it up for himself. The four objections he was taking to the bill were: first, that the emergency declaration-he did not make this objection very clearly-which he had asked for from the Prime Minister was, he thought, not sufficient if simply put in the preamble to the bill. Second, he protested or complained that it was only enabling legislation and that therefore the government could do nothing or something just as they saw fit. Third, he went extensively into the procedure as to the Military Service Act of 1917, and hon. gentlemen will find when they read his long speech, made before the bill was introduced at all, that he was suggesting that there should be inserted in the mobilization bill all the provisions which were in the Military Service Act of 1917, or similar provisions with regard to exemptions and so on. His fourth objection -and he brought this out particularly-was that there was not sufficient indication of how the government was to act with regard to the mobilization of wealth. That was very much on his mind, and he dealt with it extensively in his speech.
These were the four things I found which he might have referred to as half a loaf. But what I did not find is that he ever thought or suggested that it was half a loaf simply because compulsory service was confined to Canada. Let me read a passage from that same speech from which my hon. friend first quoted last night-
(Mr. Ralston.]


Order.


Mr. Speaker, is this a matter of privilege?


You are greatly disturbed and perturbed since Monday night.


Here is what my hon. friend said-and, I remind the house that the Prime Minister had in his statement prior to the bill said that recruitment for overseas service would be maintained on a voluntary basis.
Mr.HANSON (York-Sunbury): Mr.Speaker, on a point of order, surely this is carrying a question of privilege beyond all reasonable limits. We may disagree about the interpretation of what I said, but the point to which I referred last night was the minister's denial that I had ever said that I accepted the principle of the bill on the theory that half a loaf was better than no bread. It looks now as though it was simply a question of interpretation of my remarks, and I am sure there is no question of privilege in that.


The minister is entitled to speak on that.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, I point out to my hon. friend that he interrupted me when I had referred to the restriction of the bill and said:
Did I not say I was prepared to accept that as a halfway measure?
Meaning, I took it, the restriction in the bill, and I am pointing out that if that was the interpretation, I was justified in what I said. He did not say that that restriction of the bill made it a halfway measure.


With regard to the point of order raised by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson), the hon. minister is entitled, of course, to reply, on a question of privilege, to what was said last night, but he is not entitled to bring in new matter. He must confine himself solely to rebuttal of what was said. I have not noticed that any new matter has been introduced by the minister in rebuttal, but I must urge upon him that he must confine himself strictly to rebuttal.


I am certainly not bringing in any new matter, Mr. Speaker. I am dealing with the question whether my hon. friend objected to the restriction in the bill and whether, when he said that he referred to it as a halfway measure, he was referring to the restriction in the bill. I am proposing on that point to quote what my hon. friend said

Singapore
in the house in the same speech to which he has referred as indicating that he was not objecting to that restriction.


It is simply a matter of interpretation.


No; it was a question of privilege.


I was going on to say that at page 859 of Hansard of June 18, 1940, after the Prime Minister had announced that recruiting for overseas would be maintained, my hon. friend the leader of the opposition said:
The Prime Minister has announced that a bill will be introduced to-day to empower the government to mobilize all the resources of the nation, human and material, for the defence of Canada. That is good; everybody will applaud it. Material aid to the mother country will come from it; that result cannot help following. The trend of events in Canada and in the struggle will indicate how much farther the government should go.
I am pleased to note that recruitment for overseas service will be continued. I hope the enforcement of national service in Canada will in no degree retard our contribution for overseas service. If the war is to cease on continental Europe I can quite understand that wre shall not require to send as much manpower overseas. But there wall still be great need for material things being sent over-there -will be the need for food, clothing, and shelter for the aid and comfort of our people. There will be the need for munitions, and then more munitions, and then more munitions, fr'om Canada.
I say that that indicates clearly that my hon. friend did not object to section 3 of the bill, which was the point I was endeavouring to make.
May I conclude with this. My point was that my hon. friend did not object to that restriction, and the best evidence of that is his own remarks at pages 967 and 968 of Hansard of 1940, where you will find exactly what I said he said, namely, that the only suggestion he made was that compulsory service be extended to Labrador. I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, to have taken the time of the house for so long. I thought that some hon. members might want to read and enjoy these passages as Sunday reading or in their leisure time, and so I am giving the house the references to enable them to do so. They are all that my "research department" are able to find: Hansard, 1940, pages 853 to 855; 857 to 861; 913 to 932; 939 to 967; 967 to 976.


What is the situation at Singapore to-day?


On the orders of the day:
We have been disputing-the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Ralston) and myself-over a matter of interpretation and not of very much consequence. Now would the Prime Minister be good enough to tell us what is the latest news from Singapore?


Mr. Speaker, I have to make the same reply as 1 made to my hon. friend a day or two ago. Such word as the government has received with respect to Singapore differs in no essential particular from what has appeared in the press.


The situation is very serious.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to ask the government if one of its members, before the close of the present debate, will clarify various statements already given regarding the trouble in the Pacific and the far east, so that the country can understand what we are doing and are ready to do for our empire and allies in those areas where the danger is.


I really am prepared to answer some aspects of the question of my hon. friend, but I thought it desirable before making a reply to communicate further with London, as perhaps he would be better pleased to have the reply from that source. I hope to have it soon.


Our belated air bases on the Pacific are of very little real value without adequate sea power back of them.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. JEAN-FRANQOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata): Mr. Speaker, is it the intention of the government to make the report of the last interprovincial conference available to all members of parliament; and if so, will it be an unrevised copy?
Old Age Pensions
I have two other questions to ask as a private Liberal member of this hon. house: (1) Did any member of the government inform the provincial representatives attending this conference that there were Canadian soldiers, sailors or airmen at Singapore as well as at. Hong Kong? (2) If so,
(a)	how many of each branch of the army;
(b)	who are their commanding officers;
(c)	does the government get in touch with those men now?
My hon. friend's questions are too long to answer on the orders of the day, but they will be noted as a question.


For fear there may be a misapprehension in the mind of the hon. member for Temiseouata, may I add a short statement. He asked whether or not at a conference with provincial representatives some member of the government had advised that Canadian troops were at Singapore. I do not know anything about what took place at the conference. But I want to say for the information of the hon. member and of the house that there are no Canadian troops at Singapore. There may be, of course, and there are, Canadian individuals in the air force and the navy and, probably, in the British forces, but there are no Canadian forces.


On the orders of the day:
In view of the great need of aircraft, as exemplified by the statement which came over the radio yesterday that the defenders of Singapore were using obsolete aeroplanes, what action does the government propose to take to see to it that the five hundred employees of Ottawa Car and Aircraft Limited who were laid off are again put back to the work of producing aircraft?


I may say that Ottawa Car and Aircraft Limited were never prime contractors for aircraft. They make parts, and largely for other contractors. They are not prime contractors of the government except in a very small way. There has been some reorganization there, and I sincerely hope that the work can be restored shortly.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to ask the acting Minister of Labour (Mr. McLarty) a question based on the report which appeared in the press a few days ago announcing that old age pensions have been advanced by the British Columbia government from $20 to $25 a month. Is it the intention of this government to see to it, if the matter is within their power, that old age pensions are advanced in all the provinces to assist in meeting the increased cost of living?


I believe the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNicol) has directed his question to the wrong department. The Department of Labour has nothing to do with the administration or the payment of old age pensions. My hon. friend will remember that both are functions of the Department of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I can answer the question. The action taken by the British Columbia government is for the account of the province of British Columbia alone. The dominion government makes no contribution to the additional $5 a month. The position of this government was made clear in a statement which I made to this house in November. If the hon. member will look at it he will see to what extent this government is prepared to go with regard to old age pensions.


Has
the Canadian government by order in council amended the old age pension regulations so that the increased pension being paid by the government of British Columbia will not involve a corresponding reduction on the part of the federal government?


Steps have been taken towards that end, but I do not know what stage they have reached. I believe we have communicated with all the provinces with regard to such an amendment of the regulations, and I do not know that replies have been received from all the provinces. I will find out what the present position is, and let my hon. friend know.

The Address-Mr. Crete


Can the minister say what is the immediate situation in British Columbia? Will there be an increase, or will no increase be effected until action has been taken by the federal government?


I cannot say what is the
situation in this respect at the moment.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Munitions and Supply. The statement is attributed to him that this year Canada will produce a tonnage of merchant shipping equal to that produced^ in the United Kingdom. If this is so, it is a magnificent effort. Can the minister give the details to this house, or if not, will he furnish particulars to hon. members in whose ridings shipyards are located?


The statement I made was that the programme of production in Canada of merchant ships during 1942 is practically as large as the programme for Great Britain. These two statements, perhaps, are parallel; at least both are statements of intention, and I think the accomplishment will follow the intention. I am not particularly interested in giving statements to hon. members representing particular ridings, but I should be very glad to supply full details of our merchant shipping construction programme to all hon. members at a convenient time.


On the orders of the day:
On Friday last I asked what steps, if any, are being taken for the defence of the airports in the Yukon. The Minister of National Defence said he would consult with the Minister of National Defence for Air. I wonder if he can give an answer now.


My hon. friend knows, as I spoke to him personally, that the matter is at present under discussion between the Minister of National Defence for Air and myself and the chiefs of staff.


The house resumed from Tuesday, February 10, consideration of the motion of Mr. Alphonse Fournier for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Hanson (Yorlc-Sunbury), and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Coldwell.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, I regret my inability to associate myself with the members of the Conservative opposition in the cruel loss they have just sustained.
Throughout the present debate I have followed with an attention and a patience worthy of a better cause the speeches of the Tory group which constitutes the official opposition in this house. These hon. gentlemen can scarcely be taxed with originality. They all dwell in the same house-the Hotel Empire- utter the same words and use the same gestures, the only slight difference being in the tone of voice. Their very limited vocabulary partakes rather of finance than of the academy. They have only got to the letter C of the dictionary, and even then by skipping A and B. The word "conscription" is their only question and their only answer. Outside of this word, which they appear to be able to articulate correctly, there is total paralysis of the tongue and of the brain. They are somewhat like those monks who when meeting each other say "you wild diie" or like whippoorwills uttering the same continuous cry throughout the night.
When these gentlemen want conscription nothing must stand in the way, not even a plebiscite. They are deaf to all arguments. Whenever someone utters the word "conscription," these portly gentlemen jump up from their sleep. They show anxiety or joyfulness, according as conscription is hidden by a cloud or becomes more visible. One would think they had already begun to reckon their war profits.
Two questions may quite properly be asked: Firstly, who is demanding the enactment of this supremely detestable measure? Secondly, against whom is their attempt aimed? It might also be asked what benefit would thereby accrue to our war effort and what serious harm might not thereby be caused to this effort, as well as to national unity.
Let us get to the bottom of things and realize that behind the veil of words there is concealed no more no less than the matter of conscription for overseas service. Now, who
The Address-Mr. Crete

is demanding this sort of conscription and who is seeking to impose it upon the country, if not a small group of Canadian financiers and of super-imperialists from Toronto? Even though concealed behind the folds of the flag, their purpose is still quite clear. What they want is to get into power. For what purpose? The record will show. As in 1917 when they did get into power they will build up huge fortunes by shameful speculation in war contracts and in commodities essential to the existence of the Canadian people. These financiers of to-day, like their fellows of 1917 whose memory is still execrated, control powerful means of propaganda-newspapers, magazines and radio stations. The Wall Streets of Toronto and Montreal are their instruments. For these people who see in war only a means to get rich, all methods are good. They seek to set aside the people's representatives who refuse to submit. Already in many quarters intimidation has been used.
In the light of the still vivid teachings of the last war, ended less than a quarter of a century ago, what must we think of the present campaign in favour of conscription for military service overseas?
To-day as in 1917 conscription for overseas service seems to be a campaign directed against the province of Quebec, that is, against those who have committed no other crime than to love Canada before and above all else. What good would such a brand of conscription do to Canada beyond swelling, as I said just now, the fortunes of a few Tory speculators and stripping our lines of defence to add a few thousand men to a potential of 25 million soldiers from the United States, Russia, China and all the British and allied countries?
If the speculators who want to seize power were to succeed in their antinational design, it may be considered as a certainty that they would start tampering with our tax system not only to protect their own interests but also to fasten upon the lower brackets of rate payers and the common people a heavier share of the economic load of our splendid War effort.
What would be the drawbacks of such coercive legislation?
Speaking on behalf of the Saint-Maurice district, which I represent here, and of the whole province of Quebec, I may emphasize that the voluntary system, both as regards the air force and our motorized and other units, has given on many occasions in that area more recruits than some districts near Toronto. The response of my compatriots to conscription for service in Canada has been surpassed in no other area of Canada.

Moreover, reference to statistics will show that our districts have greatly oversubscribed the quota that had been allotted to them in the last loan. Members and mayors, and in short all leaders in our province have identified themselves with the voluntary enlistment movement; and with the campaign for the Victory Loan, the Red Cross, and the Queen's Fund for the London bombing victims. Salvage committees are being established in every centre of our province. Of their own free will, and enthusiastically, the workmen in our factories devote part of their weekly salary to the purchase of war savings certificates. A considerable number of people-and I am one of them-.have pledged their bank credit to the limit for months to come in order to borrow-at a loss as great as three per cent-money to place in the victory loan. We have put away over fifty per cent of our motor cars in order to save gasoline, which might be needed for our war effort. I do not know of one person among our people who does not already feel the impact of these troublous times and who does not make heavy sacrifices with a view to helping our soldiers.
We can say with a clear conscience and without boasting that no group of people in this country has a right to give us lessons in patriotism. The pilgrims of imperialism in Canada should understand that our deep and unshakeable love for the land of our fathers represents the highest form of patriotism. Those same champions of imperialism should realize that the province of Quebec has hitherto patiently borne the continued attacks launched against it in this house and among certain Toronto groups where, from generation to generation, fanaticism has been carefully nurtured. We feel that such repeated injuries to our pride are a poor way of acknowledging the spirit of loyalty displayed by French Canadians in the past as well as in the present crisis. It would seem, Mr. Speaker, that the Quebec people have an untiring patience since they still tolerate among them a bumptious upstart, a profiteer in the last war, who has taken it upon himself since the beginning of this war, to issue orders to our people in his Montreal Gazette, and to presume to regiment them.
Let it be understood once for all that the patience of the province of Quebec is not eternal. If unity and the preservation of the Canadian confederation are only possible provided we always make concessions and put up with every kind of insult and provocation, I fear very much that a measure like conscrip-

The Address-Mr. Maybank
tion for overseas service will mean the definite severance of the ties that have hitherto kept our country united.
It has been said time and again that the Quebec French Canadians would accept all sacrifices that are necessary for the defence of British institutions. That is right, and such is my own view. But on condition-and I wish to emphasize this point-that Canada be a British institution, for the defence of Canada.
"The French Canadians will give even unto their last sons." True, but let us be quite clear about this. Speaking on behalf of my compatriots, I may state that the love of their country is too deep-rooted in their hearts to allow them to endanger their own defence by sending their fellow-citizens abroad to take part in the defence of African or Asiatic possession or to else support the vanguard of General Chiang-Kai-Shek's armies.
I may add that a handful of saboteurs of Canadian unity could possibly succeed in enforcing conscription for overseas service, that a few- domineering soldiers from Toronto could, as they did in 1917 and 1918, wander through Quebec, terrorizing our brave and peaceful mothers, setting up puppet courts to sell exemptions to the highest bidders; but I solemnly declare that Canada and the whole empire does not contain enough Tories to reduce to slavery and thraldom a people as enamoured as they are of the small country which they were the first to settle and where they intend to sleep their last sleep. If, coming into our province, you use coercion and compulsion, if you disorganize our agriculture and industries of such a great importance to the w'ar effort; if you force our young men in their prime, our sons, to serve and die on foreign lands, you will, in that same gesture, paralyze our splendid war effort. Then, national unity will have become but an empty memory, a thing of the past which, in all probability, can never be revived.
If you should wish the abolition of the present status of Canada, if you should wish the dislocation of confederation, conscription would be an appropriate measure to accomplish this fatal and hateful task.
However, Mr. Speaker, I could not conclude my remarks without expressing the confidence I place in the common sense of the majority of members of this house, in the fairness of my fellow'-citizens of British origin, for I am convinced that a measure requiring such a degree of compulsion could never command the support of the majority of our population.
I conclude by stating that I remain irre-ducibly opposed to any kind of conscription
for overseas service and that I shall not request my constituents to release me from past commitments in this connection.


Naturally, Mr. Speaker, I find it somewhat difficult to follow a speaker such as the last, because I am under the same disability as perhaps the great majority of us of not understanding the French language. Therefore I have lost the benefit of his remarks. Many hon. members have the advantage of us there, something that I think nearly all English-speaking members regret.
This afternoon I shall be as brief as possible, and as direct as possible. I think this debate has run long enough now that brevity is an even greater virtue than ordinarily. It is my desire not to transgress at all in respect of making lengthy remarks. Moreover I consider that this is a time when no person should endeavour to hide, by words, what he is thinking, but should rather try to use words as they should be used, to express exactly and deliberately his views.
I fancy that if I were to give a caption to such remarks as I shall make, the caption would be "In Praise of Restraint." I have, of course, no right to criticize any person, and I do not criticize any person. I merely wish to say that as a Canadian and a member of this house, where I have many pleasant associations, I do deprecate some of the language that has been used in the course of this debate. Such words as "dastardly," "cowardly," "infamous," hurled across the chamber seem to me out of place in any debate in Canada, faced as we are with the most serious crisis that has ever been upon us and the most serious I hope that we shall ever face. It is interesting to note just how far that sort of language can sometimes lead us. I have not read the morning newspaper to-day, but I have been told by another member of the house that there is in the newspaper to-day a reference to a question asked of President Roosevelt, relating apparently to a statement made by the premier of Ontario to the effect that the United States navy was hiding from the Japanese "tissue paper" navy. That just illustrates the heat which has been generated in the last few weeks and how far sometimes people will go under the spur of partisanship. I suppose there could not be anything more reprehensible than a remark of the sort attributed to the premier of Ontario. While I do not feel that I have any right really to criticize any other person, and I do not wish my remarks to be taken in that way, I do wish to say that I deprecate most strongly any extreme language used in debate, at the present time particularly.
The Address-Mr. Maybank

Again I think it is a mistake on the part of hon. members supporting the government to sneer at those who would advocate "total war without restriction," as it is called, as being quite willing to break pledges easily, and that sort of thing. As a matter of fact the point about which most of the controversy, in fact practically all the controversy, runs to-day is a point which has been raised by the Canadian Legion. That legion, with some 1,470 branches, has put out what is called a "Call for Total War." And arising out of one phrase in it a controversy has developed. It seems to me wrong to denominate organizations that have supported that call, or the Canadian Legion itself, as mere pressure groups, or individuals influenced by it simply as people who are weakly influenced by pressure groups. I know that in Manitoba a great many organizations supported the legion call, a great many service bodies and other organizations.


And the Manitoba legislature.


I was coming to that. The organization that comes most readily to my mind is the Rotarians of Winnipeg. Their membership is so varied that to dub them a pressure group is particularly inept. Incidentally the person who sponsored in that organization support of the legion's call was himself a Liberal of long standing. The legislature of Manitoba, headed at the present time by a non-partisan government, can hardly be called just a pressure group. This body supported the legion; and the lead was given to the legislature in large part by an outstanding Liberal, Mr. Rhodes Smith, of the city of Winnipeg. He was supported by Mr. McDiarmid, provincial minister of mines and natural resources and a former Liberal member of this house for Winnipeg South; by Mr. Schultz, provincial minister of education, a Liberal of long standing and by Mr. Garson, provincial treasurer, also a Liberal; and I do not think there was a dissenting voice in that assembly. Then the union of municipalities of the province supported it, together with the organization of school trustees covering the province.
I mention these facts only because I believe that to attempt to fob off such organizations by calling them pressure groups is as foolish as it is wrong. Of course I am well aware that when the Canadian Legion had, without very much trouble, worked up considerable support for its proposals, then for reasons political, financial or otherwise selfish, others came running forward in an endeavour to ride the crest of the wave. Just as vultures will smell out a fight and fly to the spot to get a meal, so, unfortunately, when contro-

versies arise in a country, there are some who will endeavour to attach themselves to one side or the other, having no interest in the particular matter about which the dispute arises, but only hoping for some material benefit to themselves.
This is a sad fact of life, but -we shall be mistaken, if we allow ourselves to believe that such people are in the majority or anywhere near it.
Of similar cloth is the extravagant condemnation of this government, of its war work, which is expressed or implied by many speakers. Sober reflection should show' people that they are mistaken in that sort of condemnation. I am one of those who believe that it will be necessary to get away from the voluntary principle in carrying on the war; but in honesty you cannot say that up to now-and I emphasize those words, "up to now"-the voluntary system of getting men into the armed forces has been a failure. I do not see how any reasonable person can make that assertion about the situation up to now, with something in the neighbourhood of four hundred thousand persons in the armed forces. And again, it is only one who is purblind or ill-intentioned who can minimize the solid achievements of Canada in the war. Churchill, standing here, called them magnificent. Some think that was a mere rhetorical flourish, but it seems to me that upon a cold examination of what has been done it is more reasonable to conclude that it wTas not a rhetorical flourish but something that he deeply believed and sincerely meant. Only a short time ago, on November 8 of last year to be exact, The Economist of London, England, appraised Canada's wrar effort, and the opening paragraph of the statement was as follows:
To the student of war economics, Canada presents a puzzle. By all the statistical tests, the -war effort of the dominion is very large. Perhaps it could hardly be expected that a country more than three thousand miles away from the aggressor could bring its mobilization for war to quite the pitch of intensity that a beleaguered island can achieve, and the comparison with Great Britain is, for that reason, hardly a realistic one. But, by any test, Canada has done more than any other overseas member of the democratic alliance.
I wdsh to repeat that:
But, by any test, Canada has done more than any other overseas member of the democratic alliance.
I continue the quotation:
Her output of munitions of war is wide in range and large in volume. Proportionately, she has something like twice as many men under arms as the United States, and her Minister of Finance has stated that the expenditures of the dominion government, including the

The Address-Mr. Maybank
assistance given to the United Kingdom, but excluding all provincial and municipal expenditures, will this year amount to nearly 50 per cent of the national income.
The whole article is a cold appraisal of the situation, such as one would expect to find in an economic journal, and it is all in tune with the opening paragraph. 1 might add that the explanation given of the first sentence, in which the writer remarks that the position of Canada is in the nature of a puzzle, is this: he observes from the statistical record a tremendous amount of work being done: in going through Canada he observes that it has not affected Canadian life to anything like the extent one might have expected: and he comes to the conclusion that we may be understating the total of our national income. That is the reason why I draw particular attention to the opening words.
The only purpose of my remarks this far, Mr. Speaker, is the discouragement of intemperate and inaccurate criticism of policies and works; nothing less and nothing more than that. In other words, surely we can disagree without being disagreeable. I think every person knows that I do not fully favour the present course; yet, as circumstances have developed, I feel it is the only course now open to us. I do not like the plebiscite procedure. I do not like it because of the delay of action that it entails. I do not like it because of its cost. A large sum of money is involved, variously estimated at from half a million to two million dollars. Certainly the expenditure of a sum of money of those dimensions, when we are straining every effort to pay for tanks, Spitfires and shells, is not likely to commend itself to the people, and it does not commend itself to me. It has raised all manner of criticism in the country, with a consequent lowering of the spirit of the country; and the sooner we can get over that the better. I consider, however, that as matters have developed, it is the only course open to us. One has to be practical; one has to make allowance for the views of other people. There is one other difficulty with relation to the plebiscite. It is the somewhat less than clear attitude of the government. That is something I believe will be taken care of by official statements that will subsequently be made in urging an affirmative vote on the ballot.
While there is much about the policy that I do not like, certainly I shall vote for the main resolution before the house at the present time. I could not, under any circumstances, vote for the Conservative amendment. It really has nothing whatever to commend it.
It is the usual political amendment. Its prototype can be found, I think, in the opening days of every session of parliament from confederation down to the present time.
I feel that it has been proposed, not for the simple purpose of advocating or condemning a policy, but rather, it has been proposed, because of its quotability on future political platforms. In addition to asking that the government should proceed some other way than by plebiscite, it says that the government has not done anything for agriculture or has not done what it should do, and has not worked out a post-war programme. I could not vote for that amendment, both for the reasons given and because it is an amendment of general no confidence, a condition of mind which is very remote indeed from my condition of mind.
This reminds me to say just a word about the position of the Conservative house leader. In my opinion it does not lie in his mouth to criticize action or lack of action on the part of the government. He must take some responsibility for the situation that exists to-day. It is only in recent times that he or any member of his party became vocal in favour of a change in recruiting methods. During his tour of the country his speeches were models of how to avoid making any pronouncement on anything. In my opinion the best description of his speeches would be that they were woefully wary.


I said I
was listening, not making pronouncements.


Then we are both agreed that the hon. gentleman was not making pronouncements.
As to the second amendment moved by the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation, I should like to point out that one of the difficulties about this plebiscite policy is that the public seem to be somewhat confused. Everywhere you hear complaints, the burden of which is that the position is not clear. This second amendment proposes that the government should, in addition to asking a release from its pledges, also invite the people to direct parliament to conscript wealth. The effect of this amendment is not to clarify, but to becloud. It is a confounding of confusion. By introducing additional matter into the submission to the people, the tendency is to cut down the chances of an affirmative vote. The government seeks an affirmative vote. I want to see an affirmative vote. I have much sympathy with some parts of the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation amendment, some of the preamble I might call it, but since the
The Address-Mr. Maybank

amendment lessens the likelihood of removing restraint upon action, it seems to me that it should be voted down.
In all the circumstances, my view is that the most important thing before us at the present time is to get the plebiscite under way and make sure by all honest means that the ballots show a large favourable vote. I wish to appeal to all members of the house to cast aside all differences of opinion as to which was the right course to follow up to the present time and to exert their united efforts toward wiping out any vestige of restraint upon governmental action.
Unfortunately there is a class in the community to whom words of appeal are useless. There are some who, to gain their own private ends, will go to any length to hamper the war effort of this country. These are they who would hope by defeating this plebiscite to induce a situation which might conceivably be so confused that they might perchance be called in as doctors to remedy the situation. Of course with moral derelicts of this kind appeals are useless, and no self-respecting person *would waste his time or breath in appealing to them. It might, however, not be out of place to issue a warning to them that if this sort of thing is attempted in Canada at the present time, they will not be able to direct their efforts from behind closed doors.
I appeal particularly to members of the Conservative party who have expressed the liveliest dissatisfaction with the government's course. If members of that party think, or if any hon. member thinks the government is hiding behind a subterfuge or using past pledges as an alibi, all he has to do is to effect the knockout of the "subterfuge" in the voting booth. The "alibi" can be destroyed.
I should like to point out to them also that there is a danger of carrying expressions of dissatisfaction too far. They may be creating such a dissatisfaction in the minds of the electorate that the vote in the ridings which they represent will be less in the affirmative than it is desired that it should be. I say to them that they must be careful not to represent to their people that an affirmative vote is a vote of confidence in the government and, as a consequence of this sort of representation, urge the people to vote in the negative.
Let us remember that if this vote does not carry, there will be chaotic conditions in this dominion which have not hitherto existed. Thanks to a generally wise policy, the government has kept this country marching along pretty well united, and a great many telling blows have been delivered against the foe by

Canada. As I say, if this vote does not carry we may expect to have a more or less chaotic condition in this country. It behooves all of us, by such advice and counsel as we can give, to see that restraint upon action is removed1; in short, that an affirmative answer is recorded upon the ballots in this plebiscite.
It may be tempting to try to seize political advantage, but I do not think the Conservative party will do that at the present time. At any rate, I urge them not to do it. In the main, since 1939, the members of this house have acted reasonably well together in an atmosphere of mutual trust and forbearance. There have been clashes from time to time, but we have got along fairly well together because W'e have all known that while we might differ sharply as to methods, we all aimed at the same target, defeat of a barbarous foe. We should forget our differences as to what was the right course up to now and make sure that all restraint upon action is removed.
At the commencement of my remarks I said that I hoped to be brief. In closing, I should like to say that apparently there was some mix-up betwen the whips as to who would follow whom upon the Speaker's list to-day. The hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Black) understood that he would follow the hon. member who took his seat just before I rose. There was an exchange of notes back and forth, and I went to see the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Black) telling him that I had understood that I was to be the second speaker. Although the hon. member counted upon speaking then, he promptly and very generously gave way to me. He is a man senior to me in this house and, in a former parliament, graced the chair in which you now sit, Mr. Speaker. I should not care to close my remarks without expressing my thanks to him and to the whips of both parties for their cooperation in working out, another of