Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has been unable to come to the house to-day. In his absence I believe hon. members would wish me to read the text of the message which the Prime Minister sent this morning to the Air Officer in Chief, Royal Canadian Air Force overseas: Air Officer in Chief,
R.C.A.F. Overseas,
London.
The growing strength of the Royal Canadian Air Force overseas and the reports of its increasing share in actual combat with the enemy have filled Canada with pride. The hearts of the Canadian people have been particularly stirred by the news of the important and considerable part which Canadian airmen had in the raid on Cologne with its far-reaching effects.
On behalf of the government, I would ask you kindly to convey to the officers and airmen of the Royal Canadian Air Force under your command, and, through the appropriate channels, to the Canadian officers and airmen serving with the Royal Air Force, an expression of the pride of all Canada in their great and growing achievements. Please extend as well our best of wishes for every success in future aerial combat. The Canadian people will ever gratefully remember what the gallant young airmen of Canada are doing to defend the security of 
their homeland and to preserve freedom by engaging and occupying the enemy in the skies over Europe, and in other parts of the world.
W. L. Mackenzie King,
Prime Minister.


I desire to lay on the table copy of the treasury board ruling regarding the National Film Board Act, of November 15, 1940, which is tabled at the request of the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson). This will mean that when the motion standing in the name of the hon. member for Hastings South (Mr. Stokes) is reached, it will be dropped.


The document now tabled covers the motion?


Yes. I wish to do it in this way, rather than to create a precedent by having the house pass resolutions or motions for the production of treasury board rulings, which are privileged documents.


I desire to lay on the table the opinion of the Department of Justice referred to in sessional paper 211 A, so that when the motion now standing in the name of the hon. member for Saskatoon City (Mr. Bence) is reached it may be dealt with in the same way as the motion in the name of the hon. member for Hastings South. The opinion of the Department of Justice is tabled without prejudice to the usual rule with regard to opinions of the Department of Justice.


I should like to make this observation, that we accept the information contained in these documents now tabled, but without prejudice to our right to apply for them in the regular way. I do not feel bound by the statement of policy made by the two ministers.


Bill No. 82, for the relief of Annie Miriam Scott.-Mr. Bercovitch.
Bill No. 83, for the relief of Marguerite Elsie Ramsay Murdoch.-Mr. Claxton.
Bill No. 84, for the relief of Elizabeth Molnar Schneider.-Mr. Mcllraith.
Bill No. 85, for the relief of Max Kabaek.- Mr. Bercovitch.

Questions
Bill No. 86, for the relief of George McDonald Joseph Carew.-Mr. Bercovitch.
Bill No. 87, for the relief of Wandless Joseph Henry Verdon.-Mr. Abbott.
Bill No. 88, for the relief of Mary Eileen Scott Warrington.-Mr. Mcllraith.
Bill No. 89, for the relief of Joseph Bergman. -Mr. Whitman.
Bill No. 90, for the relief of Marie Martha Hermine Browne Peters.-Mr. Bercovitch.
Bill No. 91, for the relief of Ethel Gerson Kalmanovitch.-Mr. Abbott.
Bill No. 92, for the relief of Freda Sweet Simon.-Mr. Gray.
Bill No. 93, for the relief of Phyllis Mary Alice Verrinder Horrell.-Mr. Mcllraith.
Bill No. 94, for the relief of James McKinna Wood.-Mr. Bercovitch.
Motion for first readings en bloc agreed to on division.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has the government discontinued the milk subsidy to the Canadian dairy farmers?
2.	If so, for what reason?


1.	Yes.
2.	Beginning December 22nd, 1941, and ending April 30th, 1942, a milk subsidy was paid to certain dairy farmers for the purpose of maintaining production of essential supplies during the winter. The subsidy was discontinued on May 1st, because effective on that date the board established a new scale of maximum milk prices and made provision for other adjustments in milk distribution practices, so that adequate prices may be paid to producers to enable them to continue production.


1.	What amounts have been paid to the John Inglis Company since October 31, 1940, on, (a) capital expenditure contract, (b) production contract?
2.	What is the total amount which has been paid to Major Hahn of the John Inglis Company, since October 31, 1940 as (a) salary, (b) other allowances?


1.	(a) 817,035,061.51 from November 1, 1940 to April 30, 1942; (b) $18,695,000 from November 1, 1940 to April 30, 1942.
2.	(a) None. The terms of the contract dated October 31, 1940, state that the salaries of the president, vice-president, general manager, secretary and treasurer and any amounts paid to any director shall not be allowed as a cost against the contract. The John Inglis Company Limited is a privately owned company to which capital assistance has been granted and which is operating on a management-fee basis. Salaries paid to the officials mentioned above, are paid by the company from that management fee.
(b) $423.46-Expenses to Washington, New York and Ottawa on government business during the period November 1, 1940 to April 30, 1942.
king's COUNTY, N.S., AIR FIELD


1.	Were lands purchased at or near Kingston and Greenwood, King's county, Nova Scotia, for an airfield?
2.	If so, (a) from whom were such lands purchased, (b) acreage of each purchase, (c) amount asked by each owner and the amount paid?


1.	Yes.
2.	Greenwood.
Vendor	Area Consideration acres	
M. C. Spinney	80-23	$4,412 65L. Woodbury 	39-76	2,681 80J. C. Griffin 	125-42	6,750 00H. E. Armstrong ..	100-62	6,765 00Est. H. Keddy ...	39-8	3,030 00Est. E. J. McKenna	26-8	1,340 00A. S. Marshall ...	39-47	1,973 50Est. F. M. Munro..	30-5	1.720 00Est. F. Woodbury..	15-5	2,830 00W. Baker 	45-64	3,672 50G, G. Power 	32-02	3,635 00H. Keddy 	5-0	350 00S. H. Griffin 	55-85	4,061 00Mrs. L. Neiley 	36-3	2,000 00
We have no information as to the amount asked by each owner.


1.	What were the profits of each of the chartered banks for the year 1941 in Canada?
2.	What percentage of paid-up capital are such profits in each case?





(Cents omitted)
I	II	III	IY	V	VI	VIIName of bank	Net profits after published provision for dominion taxes shown in column II but before appropriations for bank premises, pension funds, etc., shown in column III	Published provision for dominion taxes	Appropriations for bank premises, pension funds or other published allocations	Per cent of net profits (column ij to capital paid up	Per cent of net profits (column I) after allowance for appropriations, etc., (column III) to capital paid up	Per cent of net profits (column I) to total shareholders' money, viz., capital paid up, reserve and undivided profits	Per cent of net profits (column I) after allowance for appropriations, etc. (column III) to total shareholders' money, viz., capital paid up, reserve and undivided profitsMontreal (Oct. 31)	. $ 3,437,026	$2,242,905	$ 500,000	9-55	8-16	4-52	3-86Nova Scotia (Dec. 31)	1,935,602	1,061,949	455,000	16-13	12-34	5-20	3-98Toronto (Nov. 30)	1,521,556	902,944	400,000	25-36	18-69	8-47	6-24Provincial (Nov. 30)	291,434	149,209	50,000	7-29	6-04	5-59	4-63Commerce (Oct. 31)	3,013,152	1,665,987	603,994	10-04	8-03	5-93	4-74Royal (Nov. 30)	3,535,928	1,892,224	725,000	10-10	8-03	6-08	4-83Dominion (Oct. 31)	939,322	449,004	235,000	13-42	10-06	6-32	4-74Canadienne Nationale (Nov. 30)..	746,351	376,628	185,000	10-66	8-02	6-09	4-58Imperial (Oct. 31)	978,102	504,532	255,911	13-97	10-32	6-24	4-61Barclays (Sept. 30)	4,296	....	....	[DOT]29	....	[DOT]19	....$16,402,769	$9,245,382	$3,409,905	11-27	8-93	5-65	4-47
* Net profits shown in this case are after provision for provincial as well as dominion taxes and also after deduction of $125,000 statutory annual payment to the Province of Quebec-provincial statute 14, Geo. Y, Ch. 3.
Date following each bank's name denotes end of its fiscal year.
2910	COMMONS
Questions

Questions
If the purpose of question No. 1 is to ascertain the profits of each of the chartered banks earned in Canada the answer is that the banks are not required by the Bank Act or otherwise to publish or report separately the results of their Canadian business as distinguished from their external or over-all operations. The net profits of' each of the chartered banks for the fiscal years ended in 1941 are shown in the attached statement.
While the figures submitted are compiled from the regular annual profit and loss statements of the banks, it should be pointed out that all banks do not publish such statements in precisely the same form, not being required to do so by the general terms of section 53 (8) of the Bank Act. Moreover, to arrive at true net profits on a uniform basis the figures shown in column I should properly be reduced by the respective amounts shown in column III, since appropriations to write down the cost of premises, as well as contributions to pension funds, etc., are definitely provided out of earnings, and consequently decrease the amount finally available to shareholders.
Although the percentages of profits to paid up capital only are asked for, additional calculations have been made as indicated by the statement, particular attention being drawn to the percentage realtionship of net profits (column VII) to the total of shareholders' money invested, namely, capital paid up, reserve and undivided profits. It is the percentages shown in this column which reflect for all practical purposes the real relationship of final net profits to total shareholders' investment. The percentage of profits to capital paid up alone is necessarily a nominal or arbitrary one only (although sometimes incorrectly used as a measure of earnings) as other shareholders' funds also go to constitute the entire capital owned and at risk by shareholders.
female workers in war factories
Mr. LaCROIX (Quebec-Montmorency):
1.	Will the government eliminate the practice of two shifts a day for female workers in war factories of Quebec, and substitute therefor three shifts of eight hours each as is generally the case in Ontario?
2.	If so, when is it proposed to make this change?
I believe I may answer this
question verbally. It is the policy of the government to institute three eight-hour shifts wherever production can be improved by so doing. There are cases however where it is not possible to do so, on account of lack of management or lack of personnel, or the time required to adjust machinery.


1.	Did Adjutor Savard do any work in connection with the plebiscite?
2.	If so, what work?
3.	How much money did he receive for this work as (a) salary, (b) living allowance, (c) travelling expenses?


1.	No.
2 and 3, answered by No. 1.


1.	Has Lemuel F. Sewell been appointed director of salvage for the province of New Brunswick?
2.	If so, on what date?
3.	What salary and/or allowances does he receive?
4.	What are the duties of this position?
5.	What are his qualifications for this work?
6.	By whom was he appointed to this position?
7.	By whom was he recommended?
8.	Was this position publicly advertised and were others of equal or superior qualifications given an opportunity to apply?


1.	Yes; Lemuel F. Sewell is organizer, national salvage campaign, for the province of New Brunswick.
2.	April 30, 1942.
3.	Salary, $2,100 per annum; out-of-pocket travelling expenses incurred while on departmental business.
4.	To promote the organization and direction of voluntary salvage committees in the area under his supervision. To promote salvage of materials and direct the flow of salvage to the market. Generally to encourage salvage of materials needed in war industry. .
5.	Knowledge of the immediate area in which he works and ability to carry out the policies laid down by the national salvage office.
6.	By order in council.
7.	Minister of National War Services.
8.	(a) No; (b) See answer to 8 (a).


1.	What has been (a) the total expenditure made, (b) the total administrative cost, in connection with the Dominion Housing Act and the National Housing Act, from inception to date?
2.	What is the total number of houses which have been erected or are now in process of erection, pursuant to these acts?
3.	What is the total amount of the loans made under the said acts?
Questions

4.	What is the total loss incurred by the dominion treasury by reason of default of borrowers under these acts?


1. (a) To May 28,	1942-$18,831,320 (Includes loans disbursed to date, administrative and other expenses.) (b) to May 28, 1942-$373,719. (Includes expenditures under the Dominion Housing Act and parts I, II, and III of the National Housing Act, less an estimated $30,000 allocated to home improvement loans expenses.)
2.	23,156.
3.	$76,884,292.
4.	$721.87.


1.	What was the total administrative cost of the Home Improvement Loans Guarantee Act?
2.	What was the total value of the improvements made pursuant to the above named act?
3.	What was the total loss incurred by the dominion treasury by reason of default under
this act?


1.	Estimated at $30,000.
2.	$49,959,055.31.
3.	Total loss claims paid	$285,159.33
Less amounts recovered by
government	 11,947.46
Net loss claims paid	$273,211.87


1.	Has the national executive committee for army week been appointed yet?
2.	If so, who are the members of such committee?
3.	When are further plans for [DOT] army week likely to be made known to the public?


1.	Yes; a small group whose duties are to coordinate public effort in this regard and to disseminate information to local committees.
2.	Joseph W. G. Clark, Director of Public Relations, Army and Air Force, Chairman; Major-General H. F. Letson, Adjutant-General; Lt-Col. James Mess, Captain R. H. Dayton, Captain W. A. Robinson, Captain William Mills, R. S. White, Adjutant-General's Branch; Captain R. A. Diespecker, Public Relations, Army; W. B. Herbert, Department of Public Information; R. S. Jones, General Foods Limited, Toronto; W. C. Stannard, J. Walter Thomson Co. Ltd., Montreal; Claude Melancon, Department of Public Information; Albert Cloutier, Department of Public

Information; Peter Aylen, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation; Ross McLean, National Film Board.
3.	In the near future by a broadside newspaper "Army Week", published by the Association of Canadian Advertisers at no expense to .the public, and by statements made by the national executive committee and local army week committees all across Canada.


1.	Is the government yet in a position to make a further statement regarding the treatment of military prisoners and civilians by the Japanese army at Hong Kong, after the capitulation?
2.	Has Japan been notified that the Japanese government and the military commander in charge there will be held directly responsible and to account for the inhuman and brutal treatment of Canadians?
3.	Who is now Canada's protecting power in place of Argentine, and what has been done to protect the interests of Canadian prisoners of war?
4.	Has the government or any private organization been able to deliver any food, medical supplies, clothing or other aid to our soldiers there ?


1.	The government is not in a position to make a further statement regarding the treatment of military prisoners and civilians by the Japanese army at Hong Kong, beyond stating that it has been learned from reliable but unofficial sources that there has been some improvement in rations and living conditions.
2.	Any action along the lines suggested would not be taken independently by the Canadian government. The Canadian government is in close contact with the other governments concerned as to the appropriate action to be taken in this connection, and the time at which it should be taken.
3.	Switzerland is the protecting power for Canadian interests in Japan and Japanese occupied territories. All possible action is being taken to protect Canadian prisoners of war in enemy hands.
4.	Some relief has been afforded to prisoners of war and civilian internees from supplies which were within the Hong Kong area, but it has not yet been possible to send in any assistance.


1.	Does the national salvage campaign cover the industrial salvage field?
2.	Have there been any special workers appointed by the department to stimulate industrial salvage?

Questions
3.	If so, who are they?
4.	What are their qualifications?
5.	What are their salaries?
6.	Who recommended them?
7.	What area or areas does each appointee represent?
8.	Have these men any special instructions or suggestions for industrial salvage?
9.	Does the Minister think the field is being adequately covered?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes; one.
3.	F. C. B. Henstridge.
4.	Many years' experience in industry and ability to carry out the policies as laid down by the national salvage office.
5.	S3,300 per annum.
6.	The Minister of National War Services.
7.	No specific area, but generally all areas of concentration of industrial activity.
8.	Yes. On January 8, 1942, a conference was convened at Ottawa of the various industrial associations in Canada for the purpose of discussing development of industrial salvage. It was agreed thereat that each association would create a salvage organization within iffielf, and through such organization arrange for active salvage operations in the various individual industries affiliated with the respective industrial organizations. The industrial salvage organizer has been instructed to keep in contact with these industrial associations to see that the work undertaken by them is done and he is also charged with the general responsibility of promoting salvage in individual industries.
9.	The matter is under survey by the new director.
women's VOLUNTARY SERVICES-DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR


1.	When was Mrs. W. E. West appointed director of the women's voluntary services?
2.	What position did she hold before her appointment ?
3.	Who recommended her?
4.	What salary is she receiving now?
5.	When was Mrs. West's assistant, Miss Frieda Held, appointed?
6.	What' position did she hold before her appointment?
7.	Who recommended her?
8.	What salary is she receiving now?
9.	Has the minister been informed as to the activities of these two appointees?


1.	March 1, 1942.
2.	Education:	School of Social Service
Administration, University of Chicago, Ph.B.;
London School of Economics. 1924-26: Teacher and Social Welfare Worker, Winnipeg. 1926-30: Superintendent, Social Service Work, Windsor. 1931-33: Director of Emergency Relief, St. Catharines. 1934: Chief Supervisor, Hamilton Public Welfare Department. 193437: Asistant Deputy Minister, Public Welfare Department, Province of Ontario. 1937-40: Superintendent, Ontario Training School for Girls, Galt. 1940 to date of appointment: Housewife.
3.	The Minister of National War Services.
4.	$4,800 per annum.
5.	March 1, 1942.
6.	Education: School of Social Work, University of Toronto. 1920-35: On the staff of the Neighbourhood Workers' Association of Toronto. 1935-40: Supervisor of Field Services under Hon. David Croll, Minister of Public Welfare, Province of Ontario. Subsequently, assistant to the Deputy Minister of Public Welfare. February, 1940: Appointed Director of Welfare Council of Toronto, which position resigned in April 1940 on account of ill health. Since August, 1940, to date of appointment: Temporarily Supervisor of the War Guest Department of the Children's Aid Society of Toronto.
7.	The Minister of National War Services.
8.	$3,000 per annum.
9.	Yes.


1.	Are the following fruit juices included in the service rations, (a) grapefruit juice, (b) tomato juice?
2.	Has the wartime prices and trade board, or any instrument thereof been instructed to purchase, (a) grapefruit juice, (b) tomato juice, for that purpose?
3.	If so, in what quantities and at what prices ?


1.	(a) Yes.
(b) No.
2.	(a) No. The Department of Munitions and Supply have received requisitions from the Department of National Defence to purchase grapefruit juice.
(b) No.
3.	Contracts for grapefruit juice are being let for the month of June at competitive prices, but governed by the wartime prices and trade board ceilings. Estimated quantity required-approximately 30,000 cases per month.

Questions


1.	What amount has been paid to date as subsidy for canned citrus fruits?
2.	What amount has been paid to date as subsidy for citrus fruit juices?


1.	Nil.
2.	$107,897.25 to May 29, 1942. The entire sum was paid on grapefruit juice which has now been declared ineligible for subsidy as of May 11, 1942.


1.	Has the government any interests in the International Flare & Signal Company, and MacDonald Chemicals Limited, of Warden, Quebec ?
2.	Is the government familiar with the scale of wages and salaries paid by these war industries?
3.	Will a scale of wages and salaries be paid there equal to that paid in other war industries in the province of Quebec?


1.	The International Flare and Signal Company, Waterloo, Quebec, is a privately-owned company to which war contracts have been awarded.
The MacDonald Chemicals Limited, Waterloo, Quebec, is a government-owned plant operated by the MacDonald Chemicals Limited, Waterloo, Quebec, on a management fee basis.
2.	The government has knowledge of the schedules of wages being paid to workers in plants where war orders are being executed. These schedules are often established by agreement between employers and employees. Where no such agreements exist, the following labour condition with respect to wages is attached to each government contract:-
"All workmen, labourers or other persons who perform labour in or upon the work to be performed by the contractor shall be paid such wages as are generally accepted as current from time to time during the continuance of the contract for competent workmen in the district in which the work is being performed for the character or class of work in which they are respectively engaged, and if there be no current rate in such district, then a fair and reasonable rate."
Where workers receive salaries, the amounts in each case are fixed by mutual agreement between employer and employee.
3.	Answered by 2.


1.	Has the government, through the medium of any of its branches, granted or does it propose to grant, aid to municipal bodies on the Atlantic coast to protect their municipalities from enemy attacks ?
2.	If so, what is the nature of such assistance, and upon what conditions has it been granted?
3.	What municipalities to date, have profited by the arrangement and what further aid has been promised?


1.	No; aid is extended to provinces for distribution to municipalities.
2.	Equipment and instructional material, to be used in air raid precautions.
3.	Answered by No. 1.
gasoline RATIONING-MARITIME PROVINCES


1.	If the gasoline coupons were cut from five gallons to four in Ontario and Quebec, would this release tank cars which might then be available to bring the coupon in the maritime provinces up to four gallons?
2.	Could our railways handle extra tank cars if they were given to them for shipment to the maritime provinces?
3.	Is the government giving consideration to any further plan that would bring the supply of gasoline in the maritime provinces up to par with the provinces of Ontario and Quebec?


I have already answered these questions in the house. The answer to No. 1 is no. The answer to No. 2 is yes, if extra tank cars are available-which they are not. As to question No. 3, for the past several months the government has given continuous consideration to increasing supplies of petroleum for the maritime provinces.


Is any crude oil reaching the refineries of the maritime provinces?


Yes.


1.	Are the officers of the women's sections of the fighting forces subject to income tax?
2.	If so, will the government consider allowing exemption from income tax to such officers?


To the extent the women's
sections of the fighting forces are recognized as being part of the Canadian active service forces by the Department of National Defence the provisions of the Income War Tax Act for exempting the service pay and allow-

Questions as Orders for Returns
ances of officers and men of the Canadian active service forces will apply to the women's sections.
It is understood that the Canadian Women's Army Corps and R.C.A.F. women's division are already recognized as part of the Canadian active service forces.
Accordingly sections 4 (t) and 91 (4) of the Income War Tax Act will operate to exempt the service pay and allowances of these taxpayers from income and national defence taxes as therein provided. The exempting sections read as follows:
sec. 4 (t) "The following incomes shall not be liable to taxation hereunder:
(t) The service pay and allowances of-
(i)	warrant officers, non-commissioned officers and men of the Canadian naval, military and air forces while in the Canadian active service forces, and
(ii)	commissioned officers of the said forces while on active service beyond Canada, or on active service in Canada, whose duties are of such a character as are required normally to be performed afloat or in aircraft."


1.	With respect to how many articles has the wartime prices and trade board permitted the retail price ceiling to be broken?
2.	Give a list of such articles, the basic retail selling price and the amount by which the board has permitted such basic retail selling prices to be increased?


Return tabled.


1.	Has the government given or offered concessions to any companies to encourage prospecting for oil in the province of Quebec?
2.	If so, (a) what is the nature and value of these concessions; (b) who are the interested companies ?
3.	Has the government taken any steps to promote oil prospecting in Quebec?
4.	If so, what has been done?


Mr. O'BRIEN:
1. How many tank cars, that is, railway cars suitable for the transportation of petroleum products, are, (a)- owned by the Canadian National Railways; (b) owned by the other Canadian railway companies; (c) owned by Canadian oil companies; (d) owned by Canadian chemical companies; (e) owned by other Canadian companies or persons; (f) leased by any of the aforementioned companies or persons; (g) owned or leased by United States companies but used in Canada?
44561-184J
2.	What is the total gallonage of all such tank cars which are presently in use for the transportation of petroleum products?
3.	What products other than petroleum products are transported in tank cars?
4.	What is the total gallonage of all tank cars presently in use for the transportation of products other than petroleum products?
5.	What is the total gallonage of all tank cars which are not presently in use for the transportation of petroleum products but which could be diverted to such use?
6.	For the periods April 22 to May 22, 1941, and 1942, or the nearest monthly period for which statistics are available, how many tank cars and with what total gallonage were engaged in transporting petroleum products for use in, (a) Prince Edward Island, (b) Nova Scotia, (c) New Brunswick, (d) Quebec, (e) Ontario, (f) Manitoba, (g) Saskatchewan, (h) Alberta, (i) British Columbia?
7.	During these periods, how many tank cars, and with what total gallonage, were engaged within each such province transporting petroleum products from base points within the province to other points within the province?
1.	How many minesweepers or other naval boats have been built at Meteghan river or at other points in Digby county, Nova Scotia?
2.	Were these boats let by lump sum contract and to whom, and by whom were such boats built?
3.	What were the contract prices for each such boat?
4.	How many of these boats have been launched, stating dates of launching?
5.	Have deliveries been made to and accepted by buyers?
6.	If not, what were reasons for refusal or failure to accept deliveries?
7.	What sums have been paid on account of each such boat?
8.	What further sums are payable on each such boat?


Mr. O'BRIEN:
1.	What are the boundaries of each of the income tax districts?
2.	What was the total amount of, (a) personal income tax, (b) corporation income tax collected in each of the income tax districts for the fiscal years ending March 31, 1939, 1940, 1941 and 1942?
3.	What was the total amount of national defence tax collected in each of the income tax districts for the fiscal years ending March 31, 1941 and 1942?
Mr. O'BRIEN:
1.	What is the total revenue, tabulated by provinces, which has been received from the federal gasoline tax since its imposition?
2.	What is the total revenue, tabulated by provinces or income tax districts, which has been received under the Dominion Succession Duties Act since its coming into force?
Questions as Orders jor Returns
3.	What is the total revenue, tabulated byprovinces, which has been received from the tax on entertainment since its imposition?
4.	What was the total revenue, tabulated by provinces, which has been received from the excise tax on railway, steamship, motor-bus and aeroplane fares since its imposition?
1.	What was the total acreage purchased for the erection of the trade school at Hamilton?
2.	From whom was the land purchased?
3.	What was the purchase price of the land?
4.	Was any agent employed in connection with the purchase of this land?
5.	If so, what was the name of such agent?
6.	What was the total amount of commission paid to him?
7.	What is the name of the lawyer who acted for the government in the completion of this purchase?
8.	What is the total amount of legal fees paid in connection therewith?
9.	Did this property require to be filled?
10.	If so, how many cubic yards of filling were required?
11.	To whom w'as the contract for filling this property awarded?
12.	Were tenders called, and if so, was the lowest tender accepted?
13.	What was the total amount paid to the contractor for filling this property?
14.	What is the grand total of the cost of this site?
15.	To whom was the contract for the erection of the buildings awarded?
16.	Were tenders called, and, if so, what were the names of the tenderers and the amount of each tender?
17.	Was contract awarded to lowest tenderer?
18.	What is the total cost of the buildings erected to date?


1.	Do government employees in the reserve army, who go to summer camp for two weeks training, have to forfeit their civil pay during that period?
2.	Do government employees, who attend these summer camps, forfeit part or all of their annual holidays?
3.	What pay do government employees, who are privates in the reserve army, receive while attending camp with their reserve unit?
4.	Is the pay sufficient for married men to support their wives and children?
5.	Is any provision made to enable temporary government employees, known as prevailing rates men, who receive no holidays, to attend camp with reserve army units?


1.	How many provincial field men or organizers are there in connection with the national salvage campaign?
2.	Who appointed them?

3.	Upon whose recommendation?
4.	What are their present salaries?
5.	What do they do?
6.	What did they do immediately prior to their present appointment?
7.	What are their qualifications for salvage
work ?
8.	Are the present appointees the only incumbents of these offices, or were there other appointees?
9.	If so, wrhy were their services dispensed with?


1.	Has British Department of Food requested the shipment of fresh cod fillets or other fresh fish from Atlantic coast fishers for the current year?
2.	If so, what quantity of each variety of fish?
3.	Are there enough fishermen or labourers available to make this supply?
4.	If not, what action is the government taking in order to release fishermen from military service during the fishing season?
5.	Will the government grant leave for the duration of the fishing season to the fishermen of Gaspe and the Magdalen islands, who are now on military service?
6.	If not, what other steps will the government take to permit fishing syndicates and other firms engaged in commercial fishing to fill their orders for fillets of fresh cod and other fish received from the British Ministry of Food?


1.	Will the present Housing Act be continued?
2.	What representations have been made in favour of this policy?
3.	What amount has been spent to date, (a) under the Housing Act; (b) by Wartime Housing Limited?


1.	What, in tons, was the production of spirituous liquors in Canada last year?
2.	How many tons of commercial ethyl alcohol could have been recovered from this?
3.	By present methods, how many tons of Buna-S synthetic rubber could thereby be produced?
4.	Should the government adopt the policy of converting the distilling industry from liquor to alcohol, approximately how many bushels of wheat could be utilized by this one industry in the production of Buna-S rubber?


For a copy of all rulings made by treasury board since November 1. 1940, on the question whether the National Film Board Act gives authority for employment of staff without prior

Motions jor Papers
approval of the establishment by treasury board and also on the question whether the National Film Board Act should be interpreted as applying to persons employed casually for the duration of individual projects and not to any person continuously employed.


Motion dropped.


For a copy of the opinion of the Department of Justice, referred to in sessional paper 211A, with respect to the application of order in council P.C. 4759, to persons employed under the provisions of the National Film Act.


Motion dropped.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, reports, memoranda or other documents in the possession of the Minister of Munitions and Supply, the Minister of Finance, the director-general of aircraft production, the comptroller of the treasury, or of any official of said departments in any way referring to the morale-building campaign by E. G. Hirst, or with regard to any alteration in the terms of his appointment or the method of remuneration or reimbursement, and in particular granting to or refusing the aircraft companies concerned the right to charge any contribution made by them for the use of the said Hirst to overhead.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, reports, memoranda, contracts and other documents in possession of any department of the government with reference to the purchase of the property for the trade school at Hamilton and also with reference to the erection of the buildings on these premises.


For a copy of all contracts by and between the Department of Munitions and Supply and the Victoria Machinery Depot Company Limited, covering construction of cargo vessels by the said company.


Return tabled.


For a copy of the agreement between the government and the city of Toronto and the Canadian national exhibition with reference to the lease of exhibition park and buildings thereon by the government for the duration of the war.


For a copy of all letters, telegrams, reports, memoranda and other documents in the possession of any department of the government with reference to the transfer of the registration card of Alan C. Wright, 61 Albany street, Toronto, to Vancouver, on or about April 27, 1942, and the order made on the said Alan C. Wright to report for military service under the National Resources Mobilization Act, 1940, and the return of the registration card of the said Alan C. Wright to Toronto and the cancellation of his service call.


The passing of this
motion should be made subject to all proper reservations with respect to privileged and confidential communciations.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct the attention oi the Minister of Finance to the fact that on April 30, in reply to a question from the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church) the minister stated he expected within a week to be in a position to make a statement with regard to the housing situation. In view of the representations made by the conference of the Canadian association of mayors of municipalities last week, will the minister expedite the promise he made, and at the same time deal with other aspects of the policy to be adopted in respect of the housing problem?


I really expected a question of this kind, because there has been a long delay since I promised to make a statement, if possible, within a week. A subcommittee of the war expenditures committee is taking some evidence in the matter, but my statement does not necessarily have to wait for the report of that subcommittee. I have been working on the matter whenever I had a minute to spare, and I certainly will comply with the request of the leader of the opposition to expedite the matter as much as possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe). Has he received a report following the investigation he authorized with respect to magnetic iron deposits at Glencoe, Inverness County?


The report has not reached me
291S
Military Service

and I doubt if my officers have had the time to make the necessary investigation. I shall be glad to make inquiries about it.


On the orders of the day:
Speaking in the house on Thursday, May 28, as reported on page 2872 of Hansard, the Minister of National War Services indicated that he would not be surprised if the age limit for men to be called up should be moved forward to thirty-five years within a very short time. The announcement that the age limit for compulsory service would be raised from twenty-four to thirty years was made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) on- March 24, as reported on page 1566 of Hansard. At that time the Prime Minister stated:
It has also been decided to select the men to be called up for service by drawing lots over the whole field of those who are subject to the proclamation. As soon as the necessary administrative arrangements have been worked out for this plan of selection by lot, a detailed announcement will be made by the Minister of National War Services.
I now ask the minister, first, have the available single men between twenty-four and thirty years been practically exhausted? Second, has the minister abandoned the plan of selecting men by drawing lots, or is it intended to advance the age limit and to select the men within the given ages by lot? Third, if it is still intended to use the lottery method, when will the minister make the detailed statement announced by the Prime Minister?


Before the minister answers that question, I have a question to ask along the same line. Would the minister be kind enough to tell the house if the callable age will be advanced to eighty-five years for married men in order to include the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson)?


Mr. Speaker, with regard to the first question put by the leader of the opposition, the age groups from twenty-four to thirty years are not yet exhausted-


Practically exhausted.


-in their entirety, but the limit of exhaustion is quite close at hand in at least one division, and will be close at hand in perhaps two other divisions in about a month. With regard to the second question, I would say that the proposed plan of selecting

men by lot from all the age groups that are subject to the proclamation has not been abandoned.


It has not been announced.


The administrative details, which are fairly intricate, have not been worked out.


May I ask one additional question? In what military districts have the groups between the ages first mentioned been exhausted?


In division C, the Kingston division.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. MacKinnon) two questions based upon the announcement which he made in this house on Friday last to the effect that a sale of 120,000,000 bushels of wheat to the British Ministry of Food had been consummated. The minister stated that this sale is on the basis of futures, October and December. He stated also that he had requested the British Ministry of Food to authorize him to make available the selling price. First, how could a sale have been made on the basis of October and December futures when they have not been opened yet on the Winnipeg exchange? Second, will the minister read to the house the cables which have passed between his department or the Canadian wheat board and the British Ministry of Food with respect to the request that he be authorized to announce the price, even if the price is not mentioned?


I could not quite follow the second part of the question asked by the hon. member for Qu'Appelle. I shall take note of it and answer it again.


What about the first one?


I shall answer them together.


I might say-


Now we are going to get the real low-down.


I am not surprised that the leader of the opposition (Mr. Hanson) slumps down in his seat.

Wheat Purchases


I am not afraid of the minister, any time, anywhere.


I resent the imputation in the remarks of the leader of the opposition, and if he does what I expect him to do, he will withdraw them.


I have nothing to withdraw.


When the leader of the opposition makes the comment, "Now we are going to get the real low-down," all I can say to him is that he does not increase his stature in this house by making a remark of that kind.


Now I assume we will get the truth.


That remark is just as objectionable, but I am not going to get into an altercation with the leader of the opposition. The hon. member for Qu'Appelle asked how it was possible for the wheat board to make a sale for future delivery in the months of October and December when those months have not yet been quoted on the exchange. If my hon. friend will reflect, he will realize that that has nothing whatever to do with it. There is nothing to prevent the wheat board from making a sale of wheat for delivery in October, November, December, next May, or a year from now. That is all that is involved in the transaction.


Did they use futures, and was the trade cleared through Winnipeg?


The hon. gentleman has never got it straight in his mind.


I should like to ask the Minister of Mines and Resources if any brokers were used in this transaction of futures?


I am quite sure that there were no brokers. This transaction was made direct by the wheat board with the cereals import committee.


It was never cleared through the clearing house? There is no record there.


Order.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the government or the appropriate minister whether any order has been issued freezing civil servants in their present positions until the end of the war? If such an order has not
been passed, does the government contemplate taking this action?


That question should be placed upon the order paper.


The answer is no.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the government if it would not be possible to hasten the publication of the orders in council relating to the war? The last volume I have is No. 5, which brings us only to December 31. Surely in five months' time we ought to have additional volumes.
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Pensions and National Health): Volume No. 6 is now in course of preparation and will be available within the next few days. It is intended to have these issued more frequently in the future than they have been in the past.


On the orders of the day:
In connection with the two billion dollar war appropriation resolution, will the Minister of Agriculture come before the committee?


If the house desires it, yes.


British Columbia certainly desires it, but I do not know whether that would be considered part of the house;


So does Manitoba.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence for Naval Services (Mr. Macdonald) for some information with regard to the telephone directory of the naval and army departments.
On May 27, at page 2S06 of Hansard, the minister for naval services was kind enough to give the information requested in regard ^
Canadian Forces

about one-third of those having their names in the telephone book, and he stated how many of them had resided in Canada for the past five years, how many had not, and hoiw many were bilingual. Referring to my original question at page 2292 of Hansard I would) ask the minister when I shall be given the information with respect to all the other officers listed in the telephone directory.
Hon. ANGUS L. MACDONALD (Minister of National Defence for Naval Services): Mr. Speaker, I think my hon. friend will have to direct that question to the ministers of the other two war departments, because I could not undertake to answer a question relating exclusively to the army or the air force. I would not have the information.


I thank the minister, but would he be kind enough to tell me when his colleague the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Ralston) will be here?


The Minister of National Defence is on an inspection tour in western Canada and expects to be back in the city to-morrow afternoon or evening. I am sure that he will be in the house on Wednesday.


What time? Then we can go to the station.


The house resumed from Friday, May 29, consideration in committee of a resolution to
provide sums not exceeding $2,000,000,000 for the year ending March 31, 1943, for granting to his majesty aid for national defence and security-Mr. Ilsley-Mr. Bradette in the chair.
Mr. Chairman, I would
first ask the Minister of National War Services to be kind enough to table a list of the personnel of the information bureau, with their occupations.


If the hon. gentleman will
permit me, it is proposed to-day to take up finance. The request was made that I place on Hansard a break-down of the amounts required for the various departments of government other than the defence departments and the Department of Munitions and Supply. On March 17 I placed on Hansard a statement of the amounts required for those departments, $146,000,000, in round figures. I shall now with the consent of the house hand a break-down of that amount to Hansard for insertion in the record.


Is it
very long?


Fairly long.


Then I
shall not ask the minister to read it.


The hon. member for
Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) requested that finance be taken up at an early day, and it was thought this would perhaps be an appropriate day. I will hand the statement to Hansard:
WAR APPROPRIATION, 1942-43 Amounts Submitted by Departments
Agriculture-
Agricultural Supplies Board-
Board Administration	
Flax Fibre Administrator	
Fertilizer and Pesticides Administrator	
Seeds Administrator	
Flour and Feeds Administrator	
Programmes to encourage the Production of Essential
W ar Supplies	
Purchase, Storage and Distribution of Agricultural
Supplies	
Assistance in the Disposal of Agricultural Products rendered surplus by the War	
Bacon Board-Administration	
Dairy Products Board	
Special Products Board	
Freight Assistance on Western Feed Grain	
Fertilizer Assistance	
Auditor General's Office

Auditing and Checking War Accounts	
34,502 22,780 20.397 9,498 55,000	
230,000	
1,405,583	
3,700,000	$ 5,477,760 71.300 1,514,950 978.271 2,000,000 1,000,000

Civil Service Commission-
Supply of Personnel for War Services 
301,625

War Appropriation-Finance
External Affairs-
Administration and Passport Office	 $	265,000
Representation Abroad	 100,000
Consular Services	 5,500
Evacuation of Staff from Abroad	 5,000
Evacuation of Offices Abroad	  22,500
Canada-United States Permanent Joint Board on
Defence	    5,000
Canadian Section of the Joint Economic Committees. .	53,000
Finance-[DOT]
Comptroller of the Treasury, Dependents' Allowance
Office and Outside Establishments	 $ 4,979,617
Royal Canadian Mint	 116,289
Premium for the Purchase of Dominion of Canada
Registered Stock	 725,000
Wartime Prices and Trade Board-
Administration	 $ 3,380,000
Subsidies under the Price Ceiling Order	 50,000,000


	53,380,000
Fisheries-	

Wartime Fisheries Advisory Committee
456,000
59,200,906
3,000
Justice

Expenses in connection with Prize Court	
Expenses in connection with Administration of the
Defence of Canada Regulations	
Salaries of staff appointed under War Measures Aot..
Labour-*
To provide for unpaid accounts 1941-42-
Assistance to Necessitous Dependents of persons detained under the Defence of Canada Regulations.. Payments in connection with the training of individuals for skilled or semi-skilled occupations
connected with war work	
Payments in connection with the training of men for R.C.A.F. ground crews and for other aircraft
trades	
Occupational History for each member of Canada's
Armed Forces	
Vocational Training for members discharged from Canada's Armed Forces	
Assistance to necessitous dependents of persons detained under Defence of Canada Regulations	
Assistance to the Province of Ontario in recruiting, transporting and placing labourers upon farms in
the Province	
Administration Expenses connected with War Emergency Programme	
Interdepartmental Committee on Labour Coordination..
National Labour Supply Council	
National War Labour Board	
Occupational History for each Member of Canada's
Armed Forces	
Payments in connection with training of individuals for skilled or semi-skilled occupations connected with
war work	
Programme to train young men for aircraft manufacturing and as ground mechanics for the R.C.A.F., including pre-enlistment education for aircrew personnel
Specialized Training for Aircraft Manufacturing	
Vocational Training for discharged members of Canada's
Armed Forces	
Wartime Bureau of Technical Personnel	
Mines and Resources-
Mines and Geology Branch-
Explosives Division-Administration of the Regulations governing the possession, use and sale of explosives, established under the War Measures Act $ Bureau of Mines-Metallic Minerals Division-Services to War Departments	
Services re War Requirements of Minerals	
Strategic Minerals-Exploration and Development Work	
$