Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Pensions and National Health) presented the report of the special committee appointed to prepare and report lists of members to compose the standing committees of the house, as follows:

Standing Committees
Messieurs:
Abbott
Anderson
Claxton
Diefenbaker
Douglas (Weyburn)
Dupuis
Evans
Fair
Gershaw
Gibson
Gladstone
Gray
Gregory
Hill
Kirk
Lalonde
Mackenzie
(Vancouver Centre) MacNicol McCuaig
McDonald (Pontiac)
Mutch
O'Brien
Pinard
Pouliot
Power
Roy
Slaght
Telford
Weir-29.
(Quorum 10)
Messieurs:
Bonnier
Boucher
Castleden
Chambers
Cleaver
Cloutier
Cote
d'Anjou
Donnelly
Douglas (Queens)
Dubois
Durocher
Factor
Fauteux
Gershaw
Gibson
Gingues
Gladstone
Graham
Harris (Grey-Bruce) Hazen Healy Hlynka Hoblitzell Howden Jutras Knowles
Laeombe
Lafontaine
Lockhart
Macdonald (Halifax) Macdonald
(Brantford City) MacKenzie
(Lambton-Kent) MaeLean (Cape Breton North-Victoria) McGregor Mcllraith Marier Matthews Mayhew Parent Poirier
Ross (St. Paul's)
Roy
Senn
Shaw
Stokes
Telford
Tomlinson
Veniot
Wood-50.
(Quorum 15) BANKING AND COMMERCE
Messieurs:
Hill
Authier
Black (Cumberland)
Blackmore Blair
Breithaupt Claxton Cleaver Coldwell Donnelly Dubuc Eudes Fontaine Fraser
(Northumberland)
Fraser
(Peterborough West) McGeer Graham	McGibbon
Gray	MVTlraith
Hanson	McNevin
(York-Sunbury)	("Victoria, Ont.)
Harris (Danforth)	Marier
Ilazen	Martin
Jackman
[DOT]laques
Jean
Kinley
Lnflamme
Lafontaine
I .eelere
Macdonald (Halifax) Macdonald
(Brantford City) Maclnnis
MacKenzie (Neepawa) "Macmillan McCann -
May bank	Ross (Calgary East)
Mayhew	Ryan
Moore	Slaght
Perley	Tucker
Picard	Ward-50.
Ross (St. Paul's)	
(Quorum 15)	
PUBLIC	ACCOUNTS
Messieurs:	
Abbott	Graydon
Anderson	Henderson
Authier	Homuth
Black (Yukon)	Isnor
Black (Chateauguay-	Johnston (Bow River)
Huntingdon)	Leader
Booth	McCubbin
Boucher	McDonald (Pontiac)
Bourget	McGeer
Brooks	Mclvor
Casselman (Mrs.)	McNiven
Church	Marshall
Clark	Mullins
Cote	Mulock
Cruickshank	Noseworthy
Denis	Purdy
Desmond	Rheaume
Ferland	Rickard
Fontaine	Roebuck
Fournier (Maison-	Ross (Hamilton East)
neuve-Rosemont)	Slaght
Fraser (Northumber-	Tripp
land, Ont.)	Thauvette
Fulford	Veniot
Gladstone	Winkler
Golding	Wright-50.
Grant
Messieurs:
Authier
Bence
Bertrand (Terrebonne)
Black (Cumberland)
Bourget
Breithaupt
Chevrier
Corman
Cote
Crerar
Douglas (Queens) Dupuis Emmerson Eudes Factor Farquhar Fournier (Maison-neuve-Rosemont) . Fulford Golding Gregory
Hanson (Skeena)
Harris (Danforth)
Hatfield
Healv
Howden
Howe
Isnor
Jackman
Jean
Johnston (Bow River) Kirk
Knowles
LaCroix (Quebec-Mont-morency)
Lafl amine Little Lizotte Lockhart
MacKinnon (Kootenay East)
McCulloch
Mclvor
McKinnon (Kenora-Rainy River) McNiven (Regina City) Mavbank Mills Mullins Nicholson Nielsen (Mrs.)
Nixon
O'Brien
O'Neill
Poirier
Pouliot
Roebuck
Ross (Calgary East) Ross (Souris)
Shaw
Sissons
Turner
White
Whitman-60.
(Quorum 20)
Standing Committees
Messieurs:
Authier	Leader
Aylesworth	Leclerc
Bertrand (Prescott)	Leger
Black (Chateauguay-	Lizotte
Huntingdon)	MacDiarmid
Blair	MacKenzie
Bourget	(Lambton-Kent)
Cardiff	McCuaig
Clark	MeCubbin
Cloutier	McNevin
Cruickshank	(Victoria, Ont.)
Dechene	Matthews
Desmond	Mullins
Diefenbaker	Nielsen (Mrs.)
Donnelly	Perley
Douglas (Weyburn)	Poirier
Douglas (Queens)	Quelch
Dubois	Rennie
Evans	Rheaume
Fair	Rickard
Ferron	Ross (Souris)
Fontaine	Ross (Middlesex East)
Furniss	Ross (Moose Jaw)
Gardiner	Rowe
Golding	Senn
Gregory	Soper
Hatfield	Tustin
Henderson	Ward
Kirk	Weir
Laflamme	Whitman
Lafontaine Lalonde	Wright-60.
(Quorum 20)	
INDUSTRIAL AND INTERNATIONAL	
RELATIONS	
Messieurs:	
Abbott	MacNicol
Blackmore	McCann
Bruce	McGarry
Church	McNiven (Regina City)
Cloutier	Massey
Cote	Mills
Dubuc	Mutch
Fournier (Maison-	Neill
neuve-Rosemont)	Nixon
Gingues	Noseworthy
Goulet	Pettier
Hanson (Skeena)	Roebuck
Homuth	Ross (Calgary East)
Jean	Ross (Hamilton East)
Lafontaine	Sanderson
Leger	Stirling
MacKenzie (Neepawa)	Taylor Turgeon-35.
Macmillan	
(Quorum 10)	
Neill	Telford
Poirier	Tomlinson
Pottier	Tripp
Reid	Tustin
Roy	Veniot
Ryan Stirling	W arren-35. (Quorum 10)
MINES,	FORESTS AND WATERS Messieurs:
Adamson	Leduc
Authier	Little
Bence	MacNicol
Black (Yukon)	McCann
Blanchette	McCulloch
Bourget	McDonald (Pontiac)
Bradette	McGibbon
C-rerar	McKinnon (Kenorad'Anjou	Rainy River)
Edwards	Nielsen (Mrs.)
Esling	Parent
Evans	Sanderson
Furniss	Sinclair
Grant	Tripp
Hansell	Turner
Hurtubise	Ward
Johnston (Bow	River) Warren
Lafontaine	White-35. (Quorum 10) DEBATES Messieurs:
Blanchette	Pouliot
Claxton	Ross (Middlesex East)
Esling	Ross (Moose Jaw)
Hlynka	Rowe
Jutras	Shaw
Pinard	Sinclair-12. (Quorum 7)
STANDING ORDERS Messieurs:	
Bertrand (Prescott) MacLean (Cape Breton	
Brunelle	North-Victoria)
Cardiff	Marier
Denis	Marshall
Douglas (Weyburn) McLarty	
Dupuis	McLean (Simcoe East)
Edwards	O'Neill
Eudes	Rennie
Golding	Ross (Moose Jaw),
Graydon J agues	Stokes-20. (Quorum 8) PRINTING Messieurs:
Messieurs:
Bradette Brooks Brunelle
Crete
Dechene
Farquhar
Ferron
Gillis
Green
Hanson (Skeena)
Hazen
Hill

Kinley
Kuhl
Lafontaine
Lapointe
(Matapedi a-Matane) Leduc Macdonald
(Kingston City) Maclnnis
MacKenzie (Neepawa) Macmillan
McLean (Simcoe East)
Bertrand
(Terrebonne) Bonnier Bourget Casselman
(Grenville-Dundas) Chambers Chevrier Corm an Crete D'Anjou Denis Dubois Dupuis Durocher
Edwards
Emmerson
Esling
Evans
Fauteux
Ferland
Fraser (Peterborough West)
Furniss
Gillis
Goulet
Grant
Green
Healy
Hlynka

Ration Books
Hoblitzell	Nicholson
Hurtubise	Purdy
Kuhl	Rheaume
Leader	Ross (St. Paul's)
MacDiarmid	Sinclair
MacKinnon	Sissons
(Kootenay East)	Soper
MacLean (Cape Breton	Tripp
North-Victoria)	Tucker
McGregor	Tustin
McNevin	Weir
(Victoria, Ont.)	White
Mills	Whitman
Moore	Winkler
Muloclc	Wood-54.
LIBRARY OF	PARLIAMENT
Messieurs:	
Adamson	Hurtubise
Aylesworth	Jaques
Black (Chateauguay-	Jean
Huntingdon)	Lizotte
Bruce	Macdonald (Halifax)
Cardiff	MacKenzie (Neepawa)
Casselman	MacKenzie
(Grenville-Dundas)	(Lambton-Kent)
Castleden	Macmillan
Coldwell	Marier
Emmerson	Martin
Eudes	Mayhew
Factor	Moore
Farquhar	Poirier
Fontaine	rouliot
Fournier (Maison-	Purdy
neu ve-Rosemont)	Raymond
Gershaw	Reid
Goulet	Rickard
Graham	Ross (St. Paul's)
Green	Thauvette
Hansell	Warren
Henderson	Winkler
Howden	Wood-44.
Mr. MACKENZIE	1 (Vancouver Centre) moved that the report be concurred in.
Will the minister tell the	
house just what the report involves?	
Mr. MACKENZIE	(Vancouver Centre): It
is the routine report	of what we call the
striking committee, which decides in consulta-	
tion with all parties and groups in the house	
what members shall committees.	compose the standing


Motion agreed to.	
POWERS OF	COMMITTEES
That the standing committees of this house shall severally be empowered to examine and inquire into all such matters and things as may be referred to them by the house, and to report from time to time their observations and opinions thereon, with power to send for persons, papers and records.


Motion agreed to.
That Messrs. Black (Yukon), Dupuis, Edwards,, Farquhar, Furniss, Goulet, Howden. Jaques. Laflamme, Lafontaine, Macdonald (Brantford City), Maclnnis, McGregor, Mclvor, Mayhew, Pinard, Purdy, Rheaume, Thauvette, Tucker, Tustin, be appointed to assist His Honour the Speaker in the direction of the restaurant, as far as the interests of the Commons are concerned, and to act as members of a joint committee of both houses on the restaurant; and that a message be sent to the Senate to acquaint their honours therewith.


Motion agreed to.
-Mr. Speaker I wish to ask leave to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, the immediate appointment of a representative of the French-Canadian element on the national war labour board, it being urgent that such appointment be made before the said board begins to function, and necessary because of the importance of the large group of French-Canadian workers.


In my opinion there is
not that degree of urgency which would justify a motion for the adjournment of the house.


The hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church) on February 3 on the orders of the day asked a question about the distribution of ration books. I thought it would be much more convenient if I could table the answer, which I now do. It is as follows:
Under war conditions there has been tremendous movement of population. No agency who has tried to do so has ever been very successful in obtaining notification of changes of address. It is estimated that the post office, which one would expect to be in a very strong position, receives only about one-third of the address changes. There are numerous indications which point to the fact that the ration administration is not being notified of a great percentage of the address changes. When book No. 1 was distributed by mail the ration administration had a mailing list which was only three months old and which they had kept up to date by
Ration Books

making all changes of which they were * advised. Nevertheless in the city of Toronto alone, 62,000 of these books were returned to them. It was a most laborious process to get these into the proper hands and inevitably the book holders were greatly inconvenienced. In the six months which have elapsed since that date, additional address changes have accumulated. About half the population of the dominion has no street address. They collect their mail from rural routes or from general delivery.
The ration administration has available now an organization comprising local ration boards which form the basis for distribution. Volunteer workers have been enthusiastic in their offers to help and the ration administration expect the job to proceed with little inconvenience.
In spite of precautions taken, some persons have received two books. Worked out on a percentage basis, the number of these is small; however, they should be eliminated if possible. While some persons accept two books mailed to them at different addresses, it would be much less likely that they would deliberately present themselves twice to make applications.
Expense is also a factor of some importance. In order to distribute the ration books through the post office, millions of pieces of mail would have to be handled and the ration administration would be involved in considerable expense in readdressing books returned to them owing to change of address.
It is perhaps worth mentioning that the distribution of book No. 2 differs from that of book No. 1 by the fact that the former includes butter coupons which have an expiry date. When book No. 1 was distributed anyone who received his book a few weeks late at least had the satisfaction of knowing that he could still use all the coupons. With book No. 2 it would bo different to the extent that anyone receiving a book a few weeks late will have lost the opportunity of using some of the butter coupons.


My hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Graydon) asked a week or two ago if we might not follow this session the practice followed in previous sessions of having questions answered once a week until the debate on the address is over. The government agreed to that. Last week questions were answered on Monday and we are prepared with the consent of the house to proceed with questions to-day.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
INTERNATIONAL LABOUR	CONFERENCE-DRAFT
Referring to the statement made by the then Minister of Labour, as recorded in Hansard on May 31, 1939, to the effect that the provision of certain draft conventions, numbers 53 to 57 inclusive, affecting seamen, adopted at the international labour conventions in 1936, were being given examination and that parliament would be advised in due course-has this been done and, if so, what were the decisions arrived at or what action is proposed?


As stated by the late Hon. Mr. Rogers, Minister of Labour, in the house on May 31, 1939, consideration was given to the possible ratification of conventions Nos. 53-57, inclusive, all of which relate to seamen, but with the outbreak of war and the demands made on Canadian shipping, no further action was taken concerning these conventions which could have imposed additional burdens on the shipowners and, in the case at least of numbers 53, 54 and 57, would have required additional man-power. The government, however, is continuing to study the question of implementing some or all of these conventions.


1.	Has the government taken any steps to prevent irregularities discovered in certain war industries since the beginning of the war?
2.	Has the government employed the services of chartered accountants to inquire into the operations of such companies?
3.	If so, (a) when, (b) in connection with what companies, (c) with what results?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
3.	It is not in the public interest to give the information.


What is the reason for Wartime Housing Limited not making provision to use part of the staff house at Peterborough for women?


In October, 1941, following a survey of munition plants in Peterborough, it was recommended by the Department that two staff houses be erected in Peterborough

one for men and one for women. This was approved by P.C. 8874, dated November 18,

Questions
1941. It was felt that caution should be exercised in proceeding with two staff houses at one time. It was thought probable that the erection of one staff house might release enough accommodation in Peterborough to make the construction of a second one unnecessary. As the industries in Peterborough considered their first necessity to be housing accommodation for men, a men's staff house was first proceeded with.
Should it be that the condition arises whereby only one staff house be necessary to house both the men and women unable to be housed other than in staff houses, then the Peterborough staff house can, by minor and simple modification, be made to house both men and women workers. The Department of Munitions and Supply as a matter of principle is averse to housing men and women in the same building if it can be avoided. The department, at the present time, has no reason to believe that the present staff house will not be entirely required for men, and it has no advice that accommodation for women is presently needed.


1.	Has the government made any plans to extend the sugar beet industry in order to alleviate the sugar shortage in Canada?
2.	If so, what steps have been taken?


The government, through the sugar administrator of the wartime prices and trade board, has made every effort to obtain maximum production of beet sugar. In order to stimulate production, the net price of sugar to the grower was increased one-half cent per pound offset by a similar reduction in the excise tax effective February 16, 1942. As a further encouragement to production in 1943, the excise tax will be reduced by another one-half cent per pound effective September 1, 1943, the full benefit to be received by sugar beet growers.


1.	Were any sums paid by the government to the Canadian Pacific Railway, to the Canadian National Railway, to any individual or groups of individuals in connection with the sending of university students and others to western Canada to assist in the 1942 harvest?
2.	If so, what amounts were paid, to whom -were they paid and upon what dates were payments made?


1.	Yes.
2.
Date of
payment	Name of Payee	AmountNov. 9 University of Bishop's College	
$	21 62Dec. 1 University of Bishop's College	
11 S2$	33 44Dec. 8 Canadian Pacific Railway Co	
$ 1,113 89Dec. 8	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
1,S66	45Dec. 8	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
26	85Dec. 8	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
fill	55Dec. 9	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
12,439	78Dec. 9	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
7,766	87Dec. 9	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
1,575	79Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
80	39Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
1,576	36Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
96	49Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
406	64Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
222	01Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
53	59Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
626	46Dec. 10 Canadian Pacific Railway Co	'	761 59Dec. 10	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
35	59Dec. 18	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
31,991	16Dec. 18	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
4,840	58
Questions

Date of
payment	Name of Payee	AmountDec. 18	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
3,345	75Dec. 18	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
4,087	33Dee. 18	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
4,078	71Dec. 18	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
6,983	72Dec. 19	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
8,403	22Dec. 19	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
4,403	75Dec. 29	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
153	41Dec. 29	Canadian Pacific	Raliway	Co	
2,509	30Dec. 29	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
107	49Jan. 19	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
13,453	10Jan. 19	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
2,393	43Jan. 19	Canadian Pacific	Railway	Co	
26,742	27Total	
$142,759 52
Less refunds of $10.00 collected from each harvester returning to
Eastern Canada	 $ 28,260 00
Net Total	 $114,499 52
Dec. 17 Jacques St-George, La Trappe, Que	 $	88 30
Dec. 17 Fernand Corminboeuf, La Trappe, Que	 94 72
Dec. 9	Canadian	National	Railway	
106	49Dec. 10	Canadian	National	Railway	
738	19Jan. 25	Canadian	National	Railway	
130,807	10Feb. 5	Canadian	National	Railway	
4,583	54Feb. 5	Canadian	National	Railway	
6,654	15Total	
$142,889 47
Less refunds of $10.00 collected from each harvester returning to
Eastern Canada	 $ 28,172 50
Net Total	 $114,716 97
Dec. 29 Temiscaming & Northern Ont. Railway	 $ 5,559 80
Dec. 28	The Thousand Island Railway Co	
302	90Dec. 29	Provincial Transport Co	
103	50Dec. 28	Sydney Johnson, Sundridge, Ontario	
44	54Jan. 19	High School of Westmount, P.Q	
78	30Total Net Expenditure as of February 5, 1943	
$235,521 99


Will the government grant a subsidy for the manufacture of alcohol from wheat?


This is a matter of government policy.


1.	Since June, 1940, what registrations of man-power have been held?
2.	What was the purpose of each such registration ?
3.	Are any further registrations of man-power contemplated?

Questions


1 and 2. (a) National Registration, August 19-21, 1940, of all persons in Canada over sixteen. Registration is continuous, kept up to date through returns made by some thirteen thousand postmasters who act as deputy registrars.
(b)	Registration of insured workers July 1941 through returns to unemployment insurance commission constituted partial registration of man-power.
(c)	Unemployment insurance registration April 1942 was extended to include noninsurable employees.
(d)	Registration of unemployed male persons June 1942, excepting those below sixteen or over seventy, or students, of those confined in an institution, or subject to provisions of the essential war (scientific and technical) personnel regulations 1942. Registration is continuous.
(e)	Registration of female persons-September 21, 1942-born 1918 to 1922, both years inclusive, not including members of religious orders or those in institutions, or in insurable employment.
(f)	Continuing registration by wartime technical personnel bureau, commenced June, 1941.
(g)	Continuing registration by wartime technical personnel bureau, commencing December 1, 1942, of university science students.
(h)	As at January 30. 1943, employers, excluding farmers and horticulturists, employers of domestic servants and government departments have been requested to furnish information as to numbers of workers employed by age and sex together with information regarding future requirements.
(i)	December 15-March 1, 1943, registration of single men in age classes designated for military call-up who have not received notice to report for medical examination.
To supply information to be used as basis for mobilization of manpower and to provide identification.
Utilized to assess extent of unemployment insurance coverage and to provide statistics for general and administrative uses.
Information obtained was compiled by Dominion Bureau of Statistics, constituting an>
inventory of occupations and industries utilized by Department of Labour and wartime prices and trade board.
To enable employment and selective service offices to have full particulars of all unemployed persons so that they may be . referred to employment.
To obtain information as to the number of women in the age group and their relative availability for selective service.
To ascertain numbers of professional and trained scientists and engineers and activities in which they are engaged to meet the requirements of essential industries.
To obtain information as to whether or not any such would be volunteering to serve as technical officers with the armed forces.
To provide essential information in regard to employed workers, classified by industry, age and sex and future labour requirements.
To obtain information regarding those, who through change of address or for other reasons, had not received notification from the Divisional Registrar to report for medical examination.
3.	There is continuous registration at some two hundred employment and selective service offices across Canada and there may be special registrations from time to time in respect to particular classes or groups of workers according to national selective service requirements.
72537-26i
Questions


What was the cost to January 1, 1943, of the military camp at Saint Jerome, (a) in salaries, (b) construction materials, (c) furnishings?


1.	Who was appointed timber controller following the resignation of Mr. Nicholson?
2.	Had he any previous experience with either the production, manufacture or sale of lumber?


1.	Alan H. Williamson.
2.	No. This position calls for broad administrative experience which is possessed by Mr. Williamson by virtue of his pre-wrar business activities and his wartime experience as controller of supplies from August 19, 1941, to November 3, 1942.
It was not considered that an intimate technical knowledge on lumber was required in the position of timber controller inasmuch as the controller has on his staff in Ottawa, together with his offices in Edmonton, Winnipeg, Vancouver and St. John, experienced and well-qualified technical assistants.
Furthermore, the controller calls on the advice of 1,he members of his committees in the various timber producing areas in Canada and these committees are set up in these areas due to their intimate knowledge of local conditions. In addition to having advice available from these advisory committees in the producing areas of Canada, the controller has an eastern Canadian advisory committee, with representatives of the industry from Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.


Mr. KNOWLES':
1.	How many persons discharged from the armed services have received benefits of the following kinds, (a) out-of-work benefits, (b) benefits to discharged persons temporarily incapacitated, (c) maintenance benefits to discharged persons receiving vocational training, (d) benefits to discharged persons engaged in farming, (e) educational benefits to discharged persons ?
2.	Of those receiving out-of-work benefits, how many have been unemployed more than, (a) two weeks, (b) one month, (c) three months, (d) six months?
Department of Pensions and National Health
1.	(a) 2,147; (b) 1,511; (c) 1,154; (d) 85; (e) 22.
2.	Out-of-work benefits have been paid to individuals as follows:
(a) For more than two weeks, 1,260; (b) For more than one month, 747; (c) For more than three months, 106; (d) For more than six months, 3.
(Figures cover benefits issued under order in council of October 1, 1941-P.C. 7633-as amended.)


1.	How many survey parties in connection with the Department of Agriculture have been working in the Qu'Appelle river valley and its tributaries between Lumsden and the Manitoba boundary during the year 1942?
2.	What has been the cost of these surveys?


1.	Two.
2.	$21,139.47-April 1, 1942, to January 31, 1943.


1.	How many dams have been constructed and how many are in course of construction, in the Qu'Appelle river valley or on Qu'Appelle lakes, between Lumsden and the Manitoba border?
2.	What is the cost of each to date?
3.	What is the estimated completed cost of each?
4.	Who are the contractors of each?
5.	Is any such work being done during the present winter?


1.	Two constructed, one under construction.
2.	Round Lake, Crooked Lake, $39,530 as one contract; Echo Lake, $21,520.80.
3.	Round Lake, Crooked Lake, $30,530-one contract; Echo Lake, $26,900.
4.	Round Lake, Crooked Lake, Philip South, Regina, Saskatchewan; Echo Lake, Mamezasz & Pollock, Prince Albert, Saskatchewan.
5.	Yes.


What was the total amount paid from Public Works vote 261, telephone service at Ottawa, covering telephone services for the Post Office Department for year ended March 31, 1942?




Questions





1.	Does the recent increase to men in the armed forces of 20 cents per day apply to the men in the veterans guard?
2.	Have regulations been issued governing the application of the increase in pay?


1.	What are the names of the administration officers of national selective service regulations at Kingston?
2.	How long has each been employed in his present position?
3.	How much money has each received for, (a) salary; (b) expenses?
L Yes.	Mr. MITCHELL:
2. Yes.	1, 2 and 3.
				Expenses from date of app't
		Date of		
		app't to		to present
present	Gross	position, toName	Class	position	salary	Jan.31/43Black. W. P.	Manager	
1/10/42	... $ 7S0 00	$35 65Langdon. E.	E. & C.O. Gr. 3	
1/10/42	. : . 700 00	1 69Winney, J.	E. & C.O. Gr. 3	
9/11/42	... 460 35	50 55Farrell. W. W.	E.&C.O. Gr.3	
7/ 7/42	... 1.172 43	53 65Dennison, J.	E. & C.O. Gr. 2	
1/11/42	... 355 26	Keenan, K.	E. & C.O. Gr. 2	
1/12/42	... 286 84


What is the rate of commission paid to insurance agents handling war risk insurance?


A policy fee is paid to insurance agents estimated to cover merely their out-of-pocket expenses. To have the benefit of a simple method of calculation, the policy fee will be paid at the rate of 5 per cent of the premium on the policy, with a minimum of 75 cents and a maximum of $500 in respect of any one policy in any one policy year. The same basis of policy fee will apply on renewals.
w. c. RONSON


1.	What position in the dominion service does Mr. W. C. Ronson hold?
2.	How long has he held his present position?
3.	When was he first appointed to the government service and to what branch?
4.	Was the position obtained by examination through the civil service commission?
5.	What salary does he receive at the present time?
6.	Has his salary been increased during the past three years?
7.	If so, what was the amount of the increase?


1.	Assistant Deputy Minister of Finance.
2.	Since February 1, 1937.
3.	June 27,	1910, to the administrative
branch, Department of Finance.
4.	Yes.
5.	$6,300.
6.	No.
7.	Answered by No. 6.


1.	Upon whose personal authority did Prof. Watson Kirkeonnell write the pamphlet entitled "Canadians All", issued by the director of public information, June, 1941?
2.	How many copies were printed?
3.	How were these distributed?
4.	What was the total cost to the government?
5.	What remuneration did Prof. Kirkeonnell receive?
6.	Is pamphlet still being distributed?
7.	If so, will the government take any steps towards discontinuing the issuance and distribution of this pamphlet, owing to incorrect and false statements contained therein which are prejudicial to the cause of the united nations and to Canadian unity?
Mr. LaFLECHE:
1.	Upon the authority of the Director of Public Information.
2.	296,000.
3.	Through Public Information Distribution Unit.
4.	$16,465.26
5.	$250.
6.	No.
7.	Answered by the answer to 6.


Will assistance by the government be given toward freight on feed corn from Fort William to eastern Ontario and Quebec?


No provision has been made for freight assistance on feed corn from Fort William to eastern Ontario and Quebec.
Questions


1.	What is the total amount paid by Wartime Housing Limited to the following architects, Hutton & Souter, Prack & Prack, Geo. T. Evans, McDonnell & Lenz, Herbert Murton, Geo. Billson, F. W. Warren, W. B. Riddell, W. P. Witton, S. B. Coons & Son?
2.	What is the total amount paid to all architects in Canada by Wartime Housing Limited?


1.	The amount of fees paid to architects by Wartime Housing Limited up to January 31, 1943 is: Hutton & Souter, $10,015.08; Prack and Prack, $6,641.68; McDonnell and Lenz, SI,410.11; S. B. Coon & Son, $8,752.60; Geo. T. Evans, $1,640.00. Herbert Murton, Geo. Billson, F. W. Warren, W. B. Riddell and W. P. Witton have not been and are not now in the service of Wartime Housing Limited.
2.	The total fees paid to all architects in Canada from the commencement of the operations of Wartime Housing Limited up to and including January 31, 1943, is $202,485.26. The amounts shown in the answer to question 1 are included in this total.


1.	Did the Wartime Food Corporation purchase cattle for which export permits were requested during 1942?
2.	If so, in what numbers?
3.	What was the total amount of money expended in such purchases?
4.	What was the total amount realized from the sale of the cattle purchased?
5.	What was the total profit or loss in these transactions?


1. Yes.
2 . 49,727.
3.	$5,390,950.33.
4.	$4,559,529.19.
5.	A loss of $831,421.14.


1.	What was the population of Canada as gathered by the census of 1941?
2.	What was the number of farms in Canada at that time?
3.	What was the number of farmers, including wives and children and hired help?


1.	11,506,655.
2.	734,760 (preliminary figure).
3.	Farm population, 3,118,976 (preliminary figure); under 14 years of age, 960,064 (preliminary figure); over 14 years of age, 2,158,912 (preliminary figure).


According to the 1941 census, what number of establishments were employed in the collection, processing and direct merchandising of farm products, as follows, (a) packing houses, (b) butter and cheese factories, (c) those who were engaged in whole milk distribution, (d) milling companies, (e) canning companies?


According to the census of manufactures the following plants operated during 1941:
(a)	Packing houses, 146.
(b)	Butter and cheese factories, 2,427.
(e) Whole milk distributors-information not available.
(d)	Flour mills, 286; feed mills, 835.
(e)	Canning establishments, 378.


1.	What groups of commodities are used in determining the cost-of-living index?
2.	What percentage of the cost-of-living index is made up by each such group of commodities?


1 and 2:
Group	Weight
p.c.
Food	 31
Rentals	 19
Fuel and light	 6
Clothing	 12
Home furnishings	and services.... 9
Miscellaneous items	 23


1.	How much was paid to each firm or bond dealers of Toronto, Montreal, Winnipeg, Ottawa and Quebec for services rendered during the third victory loan?
2.	Who established the rates of commissions, and what were they?


No commissions are paid to investment dealers on the sale of victory bonds. However, the Minister of Finance, on the recommendation of a committee consisting of the chairman of the national war finance committee, the securities adviser of the Bank of Canada, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, pays a reasonable remuneration to such dealers for the services rendered by them in connection with each victory loan campaign. The basis of this remuneration is not disclosed to dealers but takes into account the number and character of the personnel made available to the national war finance committee and the previous record of the firm in the distribution of dominion government securities. It is considered undesirable to disclose the amount paid to individual firms as to do so would divulge to competitors the business affairs of private firms and might adversely affect the morale of the victory loan organization.
The total amount of remuneration paid to investment dealers in Canada for services rendered in connection with the third victory loan was $3,067,415, or -309 per cent of the amount of money raised.


Will a secret session of parliament be called to discuss the war expenditures committee report and evidence in connection therewith?


When the committee on war expenditures is set up an opportunity will be afforded for a discussion of the reports of the previous committee. If it is found that it is not possible to obtain the information that is required in the public discussion that will be the time to consider whether it is desirable to have a secret session.


The meetings of this
committee were held in secret, and I do not think the evidence which came out could very well be discussed in the house when the committee is set up.


I do not wish to enter into a discussion with my hon. friend at the moment. In our parliament
we are following in this matter the practice followed at Westminster. The meetings of the expenditures committee in Great Britain are held in secret, as they are here. The question of a secret session with respect to matters reported upon will not arise until it is seen that it is obviously necessary to have a secret session.


' WHEAT-DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS-[DOT]
1.	Did the government receive a memorandum in 1940 from Mr. C. L. Burton, of Toronto, regarding plans for the disposal of Canada's surplus wheat?
2.	If so, have any steps been taken to implement these plans?


Return tabled.


1.	What was the total strength of Canada's armed forces overseas on December 1, 1942?
2.	How many men had been discharged from all branches of the active service forces overseas up to December 1, 1942?
3.	What percentage of these men were discharged because they were suffering from syphilis?
4.	How many men were serving (a) in the active army in Canada on December 1, 1942; (b) in the reserve army in Canada on the same date? Of the latter, how many have gone active and are available for service anywhere?
5.	How many of the armed forces serving in Canada only were discharged up to December 1, 1942?
6.	What percentage of these men were discharged because of syphilis?
7.	Are recruits, before being admitted into the armed services, subjected to the Wasserman or other test for syphilis? If not, why is such test not made?
8.	How many have enlisted in the services and are finishing their courses in science, hiedicine and dentistry?


This would be an order for return. But I should like to ask that we be not pressed to give the total strength of the air force overseas. By arrangement with the United Kingdom government we do not give the numbers of air crew which have been sent overseas. They consider it just as important to conceal from the enemy the numbers of air crew over there as the numbers of combat aircraft which they have. With that exception I am only too glad to have this pass as an order for return.

Questions as Orders jor Returns


1.	Were turnips from Farnham, Quebec, supplied to any national defence camps in Ontario during 1942?
2.	If so, what was the cost of these turnips by the bushel or by the ton?
3.	Why were the turnips not bought in Ontario?


1.	Has the government purchased any carrier pigeons for use as message carriers?
2.	What action, if any, has the government taken to encourage the raising of carrier pigeons?


Return tabled.


1.	How many persons have applied for enlistment in, (a) the navy, (b) the army, (c) the air force, since September 1, 1939?
2.	Of these, how many have been rejected for medical reasons?
3.	Of the persons rejected for medical reasons, how many have been found in each of the medical categories below the standard required for enlistment?
4.	What is the total number of persons who have been called for service and training pursuant to the National Resources Mobilization Act?
5.	Of these, how many have been rejected for medical reasons?
C. Of the persons rejected for medical reasons, how many have been found in each of the medical categories below the standard required for military service?


This would be an order for return, but with respect to question 3 it is very difficult to give the answer because when a man is rejected we do not go into all the disabilities from which he suffers which would give cause for rejection. A man might be rejected for half a dozen different things, so that it may not be possible to give all the information asked.


Up to what category do
they accept them? That might answer the question.
IMr. Power.]


That could be given, but
whether a man suffers from ulcers or a broken leg or multiple disabilities would not appear in any return given.


It was a question of the
medical category, not the disability.


He probably would not be
categorized if he was of a class which would make him incapable of serving.


Order for return, subject
to the reservation made by the minister.


1.	What is the total personnel at present of the British Columbia security commission, stating their names, position and salary?
2.	Where are these located, (a) the number in Vancouver, (b) elsewhere?
3.	What reduction in personnel and staff has occurred since the final evacuation of the Japanese from the coastal area?
4.	What need is there at the present time for all the personnel employed?


1.	Does the federal government own any tree nurseries?
2.	If so, where are they situated?
3.	Do they supply trees to the farmers for use as wind-breaks, etc.?
4.	How many trees were planted by the dominion government in reforesting during the years 1939, 1940, 1941 and 1942?


Order for return.


Why should this question pass as an order for return?


A number of different departments are involved.
WAR CONTRACTS, 1942 Mr. BLACKMORE:
1.	During 1942 how much money was spent on Canada's war effort, (a) how many contracts were let for war supplies; (b) how many contracts for war supplies were let in each of the nine provinces; (c) how much was spent on war-contracts in each of the nine provinces; (d) what master firms got the contracts; (e) to what firms did they sublet contracts; (f) upon what principle were these contracts of war supplies let and sublet?
2.	What steps is the government taking to inform the Canadian taxpayers as to where their taxes are being spent?

Questions as Orders for Returns


1.	(a) How much creamery butter was made during each of the years 1937-1942, (i) in Canada, (ii) in each province; (b) how much dairy butter was made during each of the years 1937-1942 inclusive, (i) in Canada, (ii) in each province?
2.	(a) How many farmers supply cream to the creameries all year round, (i) 'in Canada, (ii) in each province; (b) how- many farmers supply cream to the creameries only part of the year, (i) in Canada, (ii) in each province; (c) how many farmers make dairy butter all year round, (i) in Canada, (ii) in each. province?
3.	(a) How much whole milk was produced during each of the years 1937-1942 inclusive, (i) in Canada, (ii) in each province; (b) how much whole milk was delivered to cheese factories during each of the years 1937-1942, (i) in Canada, (ii) in each province; (c) how much whole milk, produced in Canada, was sold for table use during each of the years 1937-1942, (i) in Canada and/or the United States, (ii) in each province; (d) how much whole milk, produced in Canada, was sold for any and all other purposes than stated in (b) and (c) above during each of the years 1937-1942 inclusive, (i) in Canada and/or the United States, (ii) in each province?


Return tabled.


For the protection of the health of the women in our armed forces, how many women doctors are there in (a) the army, (b) the air force, (e) the navy?


1.	Have any dwelling houses been purchased by the government in the city of Ottawa since 1940?
2.	If so, (a) upon what terms, (b) what price was paid for each, (c) from whom ivere they purchased, (d) on what street and at what number is each located, (e) for what purpose is each being used?


1.	Has the government purchased any buildings, in the city of Ottawa, from any societies or companies since 1940?
2.	If so, (a) from whom, .(b) upon what terms, (c) at what price, (d) at what locations, (e) what is each being used for?


What are the names, salaries, travelling expenses, and living allowances of (a) fieldmen, (b) supervisors, employed under the wheat acreage reduction. Prairie Farms Assistance Act and prairie farms income from February 16, 1942, to January 31, 1943?


1.	Has the government acquired parcels of land in British Columbia at Matsqui, Delta, and Sea Island?
2.	If so, (a) what are the descriptions, (b) the acreage, (c) assessed values of each of these properties?
3.	What price was paid for each parcel and from whom were they purchased?
4.	With respect to Matsqui property, what was the value of same in April, 1942?


_ 1. How much, if any, of the billion dollar gift to Great Britain was used to pay for beer shipped to Egypt or the middle east?
2.	How many eases of beer have been shipped overseas during each of the years 1941 and 1942?
3.	How much, if any, of the billion dollar gift to Great Britain was spent to purchase supplies which were shipped to Russia?


1.	Since September, 1939, has the Department of National Defence acquired property at or near Windsor, Nova Scotia?
2.	If so, for what purposes?
3.	From whom was such property acquired, stating the acreage, the estimated value and the amount paid or offered each owner?
4.	On what dates and to whom w^ere original contracts for buildings and improvements on such property awarded, stating names of contractors, the description of work or material contracted for and the total amount of each contract?
5.	Were any supplementary contracts or extensions of contracts authorized, stating name of contractor, the description of work, and the total expenditure or estimated expenditure under the supplementary contract or extension of contract?
6.	Were any "cost plus", "days of work", or other special contracts entered into, stating the name of the contractor, the description of work and the total cost of the contract in each case?
7.	What have been (1) the total expenditures to January 31, 1943, and (2) the total estimated cost completed of, (a) land, (b) drainage and sewerage, (c) water works, (d) grading and filling, (e) roadways, (f) buildings, (g) gravelling, (h) other construction work, (i) equipment?
8.	What have been, (a) the total expenditures upon the project to January 31, 1943. and (b) what will be the total estimated expenditure upon the project when it is completed, exclusive of operating costs?

Questions as Orders for Returns


1.	Did the government purchase any land from Mr. Harvey of the Glen Lawrence orchard, at Kingston?
2.	If so, how much was paid for it?
3.	How many acres were purchased?


Order for return.


Why an order for
return?


It may apply to the army,
the navy or the air force.


1.	What amount was paid for rentals for office space required by the various departments of the government during 1942, showing the amounts paid in each province?
2.	What amounts were paid by way of rentals for office space during 1942 in the cities of Halifax, Quebec city, Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Fort William, Regina, Moose Jaw, Calgary, Edmonton and Vancouver?
3.	What was the total office space rented and
amounts paid by or on behalf of the wartime prices and trade board in the above named cities, for the year 1942?	,
4.	What was the total amount paid for rentals of office space in the city of Vancouver for each of the years 1939, 1940, 1941 and 1942?
5.	What rentals -were paid by the wartime prices and trade board in the city of Vancouver in each of the abovementioned years?


1.	How many special constable guards have been employed to assist the Royal Canadian Mounted Police since the beginning of the present war throughout Canada?
2.	What remuneration is being paid these men?
3.	What remuneration is being paid constables of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police?
4.	How many of these special constables are in uniform?
5.	How many of them not in uniform are receiving clothing allowance?
6.	How many of these special constables are ex-service men of (a) the first great war, (b) the present war?
7.	Are these special constable guards granted street car tickets when they are posted more than a mile from their headquarters?
8.	Are such special constable guards granted any benefits under the unemployment insurance scheme upon discharge?


For a return showing the number of persons in war production industries or on war contracts who w'ere laid off between November 1, 1942, and January 15, 1943. or other latest date for which such information is obtainable, and showing the names of plants, corporations or companies from which lay-offs have taken place, together with the number of workers affected in each case. Also a statement showing what [DOT]provisions, if any, have been made to reemploy or utilize the services of persons affected by the above lay-offs?


It would be impossible for
the government to give this information, because it is not available. The turnover in war plants is rather high, and it is difficult to draw the line between main and subcontractors. Men are coming and going all the time and I do not think anyone could be held responsible for determining what was a lay-off and what was not. Therefore I do not think this information can be given.


Would the minister be
prepared to give the information if I limited it to war plants employing fifty people or more?


We have no information.
Most employers are private employers and unless the lay-off were reported to the national war labour board, as it must be today, we could not furnish that information for the back periods.


How about national
selective service?


They would have received
figures on lay-offs only since the turn of the year, perhaps, but not before.
Motion dropped.


For a copy of all contracts, agreements, correspondence and other documents in the possession of the government, dated from the 1st of September, 1939, to the present, relating to understandings concerning the erection of any new power plants made necessary by war production in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and British Columbia, together with any orders in council, contracts, agreements or understandings regarding depreciation or rebates to be allowed by the government from amounts otherwise payable under excess profits tax or other tax legislation. Also a copy of any agreements regarding financial aid by the

Motions jor Papers
government in the erection of such plants, and any contracts, agreements or understandings governing conditions or terms of sale of such power to companies or corporations in Canada or for export to the United States.


For a copy of all orders in council and regulations passed since the outbreak of the present war respecting the enlistment of enemy aliens in Canadian active service or home defence units.


For a copy of all documents in the possession of the government, exchanged between any person or persons and the wartime prices and trade board or the Department of Munitions and Supply, in connection with the loss of tires at the time of the fire of the Einarson Garage, Wynyard, Saskatchewan?


For a copy of all correspondence passing between any department of the government of Canada and, (a) the government, or any department thereof, of the United States of America, (b) the government, or any departments thereof, of Great Britain, during 1941 and up to the present time, regarding the adoption of an international currency and/or a return to the gold standard. Also a copy of all documents and papers making commitments therewith.


The house will observe that this motion calls for correspondence between the government of Canada and the government of Great Britain and also between the government of Canada and the government of the United States. I would not be in position to table correspondence, if there is any such, without the consent of the other governments mentioned. In the event of there being correspondence I will undertake to ascertain from the governments of Great Britain and the United States whether or not they are agreeable to having such correspondence tabled. The last clause in the motion is, "also a copy of all documents and papers making commitments therewith." I think I have sufficient knowledge of the situation to say that there have been no commitments made with regard to the subject matters referred to in the order. That is all I can say with respect to the motion. I think it had better be dropped.


Would an hon. member be permitted to read this correspondence without its being tabled, or would permission have to be granted?


I would have to ascertain whether the British and the United States governments were agreeable before I could answer my hon. friend.


Dropped.


Stand.


I think the motion had better be dropped. I shall ascertain from the British government if there is any such correspondence and if, so far as the British government is concerned, it may be tabled or read. If it is available, I shall advise my hon. friend as soon as I have a reply.
Motion dropped.
qu'appelxe river valley survey parties


For a copy of the reports of the survey parties working under the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture in the Qu'Appelle river valley, during the years 1941-1942.


Before this is passed I should like to get some information from the hon. member for Qu'Appelle (Mr. Perley). Does he desire the final reports of the different surveys made? It will be understood that these survey parties simply ran levels on all the streams flowing into the Qu'Appelle valley, and the interim reports to the department would simply show what those levels are at the different points. If it is a return of that kind that is required it will involve a great deal of work, but it can be brought down. If my hon. friend simply requires the report of the findings of the survery party as to what might be done on these different streams, it would involve much less work.


I think that might serve the purpose. Is the work continuing, or has a final report been made?


A final report on what might be done as the result of the investigation?


Are any survey parties working there