REQUEST FOR REFERENCE OF AUDITOR GENERAl/S REPORT TO COMMITTEE
On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister if at an early day he will be willing to move that the auditor general's report be referred to the public accounts committee. This committee has not met since the war
Office Economies Control

began, and while perhaps the whole house must to some extent share responsibility for this situation, I believe the Prime Minister and all hon. members will agree that in view of the huge increases in governmental expenditures the country will expect the fullest possible scrutiny of these outlays, in the public interest. In my opinion the reference of the auditor general's report to the public accounts committee should be an annual automatic procedure in the same fashion that the annual report and accounts of the Canadian National Railways are referred each year to the railway committee.	[DOT]


My impression had been that every year the auditor general's report has been referred to the public accounts committee. No motion in that regard has been made thus far, but I shall undertake to see that the report tabled this year is referred to the committee.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct the attention of the Prime Minister to a press report appearing in last evening's Ottawa Journal, in which Colonel John Thompson, director of government office economy control, is reported to have said that he found it increasingly impossible to cope with all the crazy waste and extravagance, and that evasion, subterfuge and outright trickery are being used to nullify his work. When the public accounts committee is convened I would ask that Colonel Thompson be summoned as a witness.


The words quoted by my hon. friend make it appear as though he were seeking to give information rather than obtain it. However I shall leave it to my colleague the Minister of National War Services to reply to his question.
Hon. L. R. LaFLECHE (Minister of National War Services): I may tell my hon. friend that I did not hear of the subject matter of the newspaper article in question until late yesterday afternoon, when I immediately instituted inquiries. When I did so I had in mind that it would not be fair to take for granted everything stated in the article. The director of economies has already informed me that he does not give statements to the press. I also had in mind [Mr. Graydon.l
that members of the public service of Canada generally would feel that they had been condemned publicly without being given the opportunity to state their side of the case to the responsible officials, or to the ministers of the several departments of government in question.
I also had in mind that the best, if not indeed the only method of effecting economies is to explain new and cheaper methods of administration and to try for cooperation which, in my opinion, is always forthcoming when a reasonable and timely appeal is made to our loyal and patriotic service, known as the civil service body.
It also came to my mind that the government itself, in desiring to practise economy, had been responsible for setting up the directorate in question. I also remembered having offered to give my support to the director to the end of helping him to make a success of what is indeed a very difficult task, due to the very great variety of questions and problems which must be, and are, brought to his attention. It was also borne in upon me that should there be any evasion, subterfuge or trickery the Minister of National War Services should be the first person to hear of it. I also realized that the heavy work of the war-time departments cannot be done without the necessary tools. Modern administrative practice demands certain information, office appliances, equipment, plans, and means of communicating rapidly sometimes, and sometimes to large numbers of persons concerned.
I think the proper objective is to help in such way that the work can be done well, smoothly and at a minimum of cost. I believe I may add that it is well known to the director of economies that if he needs additional staff he has but to ask for it, when I will immediately take up the need with the civil service commission.
On the orders of the day:


I should like to ask a question of the Minister of National War Services in connection with the statement made by Colonel Thompson, the government economies director. I read this for the purpose of asking the minister whether the rather astounding allegation made is in accordance with the facts.


The minister has dealt with that already.


It has not been
dealt with and that is the reason I am bring-

Alaska Highway
ing it up. It is the question of setting up the [DOT]committee of public accounts that was dealt with.


No, no.


This reads:
Thousands of dollars had been spent on office *supplies, furniture and equipment, he charged, without the requisitions ever having been submitted to him for approval.
I think the house and the country should know from the minister whether those allegations are in accordance with the facts and, secondly, whether or not a complaint, either verbal or in writing, was ever made to the minister by Colonel Thompson against unapproved or unauthorized expenditures being made.
Hon. L. R. LaFLECHE (Minister of National War Services): Mr. Speaker, perhaps the hon. gentleman was not in the house when I made my statement.


Oh, yes.
Mr. LaFLECHE: May I say that I have already given an answer to the first question.


No.
Mr. LaFLECHE: I think I did.


No, you just travelled all over the lot.
Mr. LaFLECHE: In regard to the second question, the answer is, no.


In other words, be covered the ground.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the acting Minister of National Defence for Naval Services. I have already placed in his hand a press dispatch covering a debate which took place yesterday in the legislative assembly of Quebec, in which the premier and others took a prominent part. Is the minister prepared to make a statement in connection with the points then raised?


Mr. Speaker, I looked up the statement, which my hon. friend was good enough to send me. Apparently the matter arose out of something which was said by my colleague the Minister of National Defence for Naval Services (Mr. Macdonald) in Quebec, and the statement made by the Hon. Mr. Gagnon was
dealing with the statement of the minister. I have therefore thought it would be more appropriate for my colleague to deal with it, since he will be here on Monday. In the meantime, however, so that there mdy be no misapprehension, I wish to say I am advised that the statement the Hon. Mr. Gagnon made is definitely not in accordance with the facts.


Does that apply to the premier as well?


I am speaking of Mr. Gagnon.


Does that apply to the premier of the province as well?


I did not refer to him.


He made the same statement.


He made another
statement.


I am dealing with Mr. Gagnon's statement.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Pensions and National Health (Mr. Mackenzie). Is he correctly reported in today's press, in which it is stated that the sum of money allotted by order in council to improve conditions in Halifax is $30,000? Is this relatively small sum the substantial amount to which he referred last night?
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Pensions and National Health): The sum which will be granted for the purposes specified will be $30,000 a year during each year of the war, and continued one year thereafter. But for the first year the sum will be $45,000, and for the second year $15,000 to assist in the construction of a hospital for tuberculosis.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King). A press dispatch from Washington published to-day states that Secretary of the Interior Ickes has written a letter to the chairman

International Currency

of the house of representatives committee on roads, recommending the enactment of a bill authorizing the construction of a 125,000,000 highway to Alaska. Apparently this is to be a second Alaska highway, to start at Prince George, and to join the present Alcan highway at White Horse, in the Yukon territory. Would the Prime Minister make a statement to the house concerning this matter?


Mr. Speaker, the hon.
member gave me notice of his question, and in reply may I say I am informed that the bill to which the report alludes was introduced in the last session of congress, and was reintroduced in the present session, in January. In each case the bill was introduced by interested members, and there is no indication that it has been looked upon as an administration measure. In each case it was referred to the appropriate congressional committees.
The Canadian government has received no intimation that the United States government is anxious that the proposed road should be constructed at this time. I cannot of course say what the policy of the United States is with regard to such matters, but I assume it is the same as the policy of the Canadian government. That policy is to build such roads as are required for the successful prosecution of the war, but not to divert a single man or a single machine to the construction of highways that are not required for this purpose.
There has been no indication either through the defence board or through diplomatic channels that the United States government considers the construction of a road from Prince George to White Horse necessary for the prosecution of the war.


-QUESTION AS TO CANADIAN PARTICIPATION
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) arising out of a Canadian Press dispatch dated March 3, as follows:'
Important conferences on post-war currency and other financial problems "of common interest" are proceeding in London, a treasury announcement said to-day. The statement said one conference has "just been held". It was attended by finance ministers of allied countries with headquarters in London and representatives of the United States, Russia, China, the Dominions and the Fighting French.

I would ask this question: Was Canada represented and, secondly, if so who was the representative ?


A day or two ago the hon. member for Acadia (Mr. Quelch) asked me a question with regard to a similar report, and I replied as follows:
The information I am in a position to give is that there has been no exchange of correspondence. Informal discussions on post-war economic and financial questions have taken place from time to time between Canadian officials and experts from the United Kingdom and the United States, and these discussions will doubtless continue. No commitments have been made by the Canadian government, and no commitments are likely to be made in the near future.
I notice that in the communication my hon. friend quoted the word used1 is "conference". I am inclined to think that some of these terms are used without attaching to them the significance which may be attached in, the minds of others. There have been discussions, but so far as I know there has been nothing in the nature of what one would call a formal conference.
The high commissioner in London, I believe, has discussed informally some of these matters with representatives of other countries. One or two officials have gone from Canada to the United Kingdom and have, I believe, on occasions discussed informally financial questions. But there has been no formal conference, nor am I aware of our having received any official communication which would indicate that anything in the nature of a conference in these matters had been or was being held.
My hon. friend will understand and the house will no doubt appreciate the fact that there are frequent informal discussions on all matters pertaining to the war, and to post-war conditions, among officials of different governments of the united nations. But they are exploratory and informal, and not to be construed as in any way binding the governments concerned.


The house resumed from Thursday, March 4, consideration of the motion of Mr. Mackenzie King for the appointment of a select committee to examine and report on a national plan of social insurance.
Mr. Speaker, I am sure the people of Canada

Social Security
will welcome the long overdue decision of the government to set up a special committee of the house to study the problem of social security. In my opinion this committee should be called the parliamentary social security research committee because its primary task will be research. The government should be congratulated upon having recognized the need for taking this step in the right direction. I only hope that this mountain of plans does not give birth to a mouse. I shall therefore leave any further commendation and congratulations until the results start coming in.
If I understand it correctly, the purpose of the committee is to explore all fields with a view to formulating a plan to free our people from want. This freedom from want appears to me to be the most ambiguous of the four freedoms enunciated by the President of the United States, particularly in view of the fact that this problem of want exists in the midst of plenty. To my mind that is something which is really phenomenal. Is it not strange, when science has progressed so far in every field of endeavour that the people of the world can hardly keep up with its inventions and benefits, to find that the science of government is lagging behind everything else? The people themselves must wake up to the fact that they must do their part if they want democracy to function properly. The people of this country must realize that unless they force-I use the word "force" advisedly- the governments, provincial and federal, to bring about the results which the people want, then they themselves will have to take the blame.
I see no earthly reason why the people of Canada should have to exist-they are exists ing, not living, because they are living a life the people of this rich land should not have to live-for a number of years under the poverty line. There is no physical reason for that situation in a country such as Canada. The motto of this group is that what is physically possible must be made financially possible, and I think that is a valuable motto to follow. We notice that the government has been concerned greatly over the various ceilings that have been in force during war time. That is rightly so because many of those ceilings are essential. But when we are discussing the setting up of a committee to study post-war reconstruction, we must see to it that one of the recommendations to be brought in by that committee shall be the providing of a floor which will protect our citizens who are climbing up the ladder of life so that they will not fall into the basement of poverty, degradation and other evils which no human being should have to face. Let us build a hole-proof floor, accommodated
with springs, which will help to raise our people to the level they should be on in order that they may live as human beings. Let us build a floor upon which the poorest and the humblest may stand in dignity, leaving to them the sky as the limit for their advancement and initiative.
In my opinion there are five main requisites or requirements which we must guarantee to our people in peace time if we want this nation to advance among the nations of the world. In any social security measure which the committee recommends after it has studied the whole field, provision should first be made that no person in Canada shall go hungry. Food is something we have too much of in Canada.


Not at present.


Even at the present time we have more food than we need, and more than any other nation in the world. The first requirement, I say, is that no person in Canada shall go hungry, and the problem we must solve is to distribute the food we have.
The next requirement is clothing. There is no reason in the world why our people should go around shabby and shivering in the cold weather when we have all kinds of clothing rotting in the stores right across Canada. There is no reason in the world why our people should not have the clothing that is proper for any man who wants to preserve his dignity.
The next requirement is shelter, and here-I want to quote from an item which appeared', in the Ottawa Journal of May 5, 1942. L should like hon. members to note that what'. I am going to read happened in Ottawa, the; capital city of Canada. This is what the Journal says:
x^ieven more nomeless children found shelter with the Children's Aid Society late Monday as bailiffs, executing delayed eviction orders dispossessed additional low-income erouo families.	15 K
For one family, the situation was desperate. Bailiffs arrived at one dilapidated tenement to enforce an eviction order, and were reported to have found that the father of a family of five had barricaded the door. Behind it he stood armed with an axe, ready to use it, he warned them. They retired with their eviction, order which a welfare agency reported had been issued so that the dwelling could be demolished.
Within were five children and his wife, who was being confined for childbirth. The woman was removed to hospital and neighbours took in the five youngsters.
Welfare agency officials said heads of the dispossessed families were either soldiers on active service, veterans or men with extremely, low-paid jobs.
Social Security

Those conditions are typical of conditions which have existed and still exist in certain parts of Canada. There is no physical reason and no justification whatever for our people having had to live under the housing conditions which they were forced to endure for at least the last two decades. We had, during peace time at least, all the raw materials to provide the housing our people needed. We had all the bricks, all the lumber, and all the labour that was required, and yet our people were forced to live in one-roomed huts in a country like Canada. That certainly was no compliment to any government that held office during that period.
I come to the fourth requirement which is necessary for any adequate social security measure, namely, medical care. We all know that for at least ten years in Canada many doctors were on relief, while at the same time our people were dying because they had no money to provide themselves with the remedies for all sorts of ailments which arose because they had to live below the level of subsistence. There is no physical reason whatsoever why our people should not have all the medical care they need.
The fifth and last requirement is education. 1 have not heard any lion. member include .education in the field of social security, but I [DOT]would certainly include it. There is no reason -why every citizen of Canada should not be given all the education that we can possibly give him. All education should, in my opinion, be absolutely free. If a young man or a young woman wants to go on through a university, that opportunity should be provided. We must educate our people so that they may enjoy the life to which they are entitled and develop themselves along the lines for which their aptitudes fit them. We must, therefore, see to it that all the people of Canada are provided with an adequate education. In passing, let me say that about a year ago I noticed pictures in the newspapers glorifying the idea that at last Canada was providing an education even for its adult people, and of course it was free. When I saw those pictures in the newspapers I felt ashamed that we should endeavour to pull the wool over the eyes of our people by attempting to prove that we were so progressive because we gave adults an education to which they were really entitled in their teens. That was the time they should have received their education, and that was the time we failed. Now we attempt to cover that up. Certainly we should not advertise it. As a matter of fact, we were priding ourselves on giving adults of forty and fifty years of age an education that they should have had
,
long ago. I trust that education will receive the serious consideration of the committee.
I come now to the problem of the aged people. I intend to discuss this matter when the old age pensions estimates are brought down. Even though I wish to devote only a few minutes to the discussion of this problem at the present time, I feel that I cannot do too much to bring it to the attention of the committee which is to be set up.
This is the story of any one hundred young Canadians who, at the age of twenty-five, are strong, healthy and hopeful. Forty years later thirty-six of them are dead; one-only one-is well-to-do; four live comfortably; five are gainfully employed, and fifty-four are entirely dependent upon relatives and friends. In other words, the statistical information which I have been able to obtain shows that over half of every hundred men we have in this country will eventually land in the undignified position of having to beg. That illustrates clearly the fate of many of our men. Let me read at this stage from an editorial which appeared in the Edmonton Bulletin of March 12, 1942. The Bulletin, one of our Alberta dailies, is one of the most progressive if not the most progressive newspaper in our province, and at all times it has been a champion of the cause of the aged people. Here are a few sentences from this particular editorial:
Canada has neglected the one object which requires more generous treatment than any other.
Canadians lag behind every member of the British commonwealth of nations and behind the United States in providing social security and social justice for our own aged, distressed and worthy pioneers.
It goes on:
At this session of parliament

You will recall, Mr. Speaker, that this was written early in the last session.
-we must add to our present unemployment insurance those further measures of health insurance and an adequate retirement allowance which will give at least thirty dollars a month to our aged people at the age of sixty, without the present cruel and unjust regulations.
The concluding paragraph states:
There is no question of money involved because the old methods of orthodox finance have disappeared in the necessities of war, and properly so.
I believe that we should provide a pension for every man who has reached the age of sixty and whose income is not sufficient to maintain him at a proper standard of living. In addition it is my conviction that our women, the mothers of Canada, should be granted a pension at the age of fifty-five.

Social Security
The reason why I favour the mothers is that any woman who has gone through fifty-five years of her life and has brought up a family deserves a compensation from the country; she deserves to share in the heritage which we all should have, a part of which we all should enjoy. Unless our mothers are taken care of, there will be a repetition of the condition which was depicted in this house last night, when it was pointed out that in the four years 1932-35, 33,000 mothers died in childbirth and 70,000 children died under one year of age. During the last war Canada lost 60,000 men in four years, but during the four-year period 1932-35 103,000 infants and mothers perished. That is a fact we should consider and take to heart.
Let me read an extract from a letter which appeared in the Edmonton Bulletin of January 12, 1942. It is written by an elderly man expressing his sentiments on this subject:
I am sixty-two and not able to get a job owing to my general health and age. I am within eight years of the age now, but by the time I am seventy years old I won't need the pension. I often wonder where my next meal will come from and to go and ask for relief is like signing a death sentence to get anything.
He goes on:
How many are there that live to be seventy that ever enjoy his or her old age pension? ... So if we get the age pension at sixty we may enjoy a little of it.
I came here in 1900 and before Edmonton was very much of a town I helped build up the country and now it is hard to get a living out of it.
That man is only sixty-two, but he feels that by the time he would be entitled to the old age pension he will not be here. Of course that is the prospect of most of the older people. Imagine, they have to wait until they are seventy before they get what is coming to them! Our old age pension regulations are not a gesture of kindness; they are a gesture of inhumanity. Why could we not include the people who are physically incapacitated?
Right in this city of Ottawa, when I got off the train on one occasion, I saw an old man playing a violin near the Chateau Laurier hotel when the temperature was about ten degrees below zero. Surely that poor old man could not have produced a melody had he been paid a thousand dollars for it, because he was too old, and his hands were cold. He had an old cap that someone had thrown away and that he had probably picked up out of a garbage can. The poor man had to play the violin so that someone would throw him a penny. I appeal to every hon. member this afternoon to see to it that we take these people off the streets and
give them a pension. Let them be medically examined, and if they are found to be totally incapacitated they should be given a pension whether they are thirty, forty or fifty years of age. In almost every Canadian city we find men who are minus both legs sitting on a cement pavement with the temperature at forty degrees below zero and trying to beg for their living. I suggest that these men who are given certificates to be allowed to beg should be taken off the streets and given proper care and food and clothing, and at least some of them might be able to do a little for this country. I want to emphasize that particular problem. I feel ashamed when I see these men minus their legs sitting on a cement sidewalk in front of a building when the temperature is forty degrees below zero. That sort of thing should not exist in Canada. This man should not be playing the violin in order to beg, when the temperature is below zero. Let us not be a nation of beggars, let us try to solve some of these problems. It reminds me of an incident when [DOT]one poor man who had lost both legs was sitting in front of a big department store in Edmonton holding out two hats. A chap going by said, "What's the idea, holding out two hats instead of one?" Well, the poor fellow was miserable, he thought he might collect more by stretching out both hands. He said, "Well, business is so good- I am branching out!"
Let us tackle these problems properly and solve them. There is no excuse for not looking after our aged people, the pioneers of this country. I know scores of people in western Canada who went there and cleared the land of stones, cultivated it and made it almost a garden, and what have they to-day? The mortgage companies came in and foreclosed and those people were thrown out. If they apply for old age pensions, some clerks who do not even understand what life is all about will order these old pioneers away, these men who should be treated with courtesy, to whom we should extend a helping hand and say, This is your share of our heritage, something which you deserve. But they are cut off the old age pension if it is found that they have a dollar or have someone to whom they can go and perhaps sleep in the basement.
While I am on this subject let me make a plea to the committee to be set up, also to the government and particularly to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King). There is one thing that has been overlooked for many years.- I believe there are not many hon. members who see it in the light that I see it. We have in western Canada many of these pioneers who settled in blocks. This is not-
Social Security

the situation in the cities, but these pioneers who come from Ukrainian or Polish or perhaps German stock have settled together in certain blocks. They had no opportunity to learn the English language. When they apply for citizenship or naturalization certificates they are refused because they have no knowledge of English. It is not their fault. We must realize that they had no opportunity to learn They have lived in this country for ten or fifteen or twenty years and their sons and daughters are Canadian bom.	Surely the
mother of a son who is perhaps serving this country in the army should be compensated and able to apply for a pension. To-day I have in my office scores of letters from such mothers. They are appealing to me to do something for them. One old mother about seventy-five years of age had one son. This son is married and his assigned pay had to go to his wife and children, so that he could not help his mother. The mother had to go on relief, and the municipality gives her $5 a month. What can one do with $5 a month? She cannot apply for an old age pension because she is not a citizen of Canada even though she has lived here for forty-two years. This is something that should be solved.
I am told I have only five minutes left, so I hasten on to mention some of the matters that have been in my mind for quite a while. I hope in all seriousness that tire purpose of setting up this committee is not in order to draft a charter for an election. I should like to see it a charter for social security, but so many of these measures that are framed appear to be devoid of everything but perhaps a catch for another election. I say to the government, that it has all the freedom. it wants, let us see that this problem is tackled in a proper manner, forgetting about elections. If they have to come they will come; if not, so much the better for the country during war time. This measure must not be a charter for a new election; if it is, the people of Canada will resent it.
In conclusion, I would suggest a method by which we may approach this problem of social security. I spoke of food; why not take the same provision which is now made for our men in the armed forces and say that this shall be used to supply our old people and those who are in need of food. Immediately after the war substitute one for the other. We talk about clothing; why not say that the item which now appears in our budget for uniforms and clothing for our people in the armed services will be used in peace time to provide clothes for those of our people who have not the proper kind of clothing? We are manufacturing aeroplanes, guns and all sorts of {Mr. Hlynka.)
materials for war purposes. Why not say that we are going to continue to use the appropriations we have devoted to these purposes in order to meet the needs of our people in regard to education, health and so on. All that is necessary after the war is to select a few of these things and substitute the new demands that will come upon us.
In my opinion neither this nor any other government should look for any commendation or congratulation for having attempted to deal with this problem. I think this action is long overdue; and, if I may say so, if this government did not wish to take this step of its own volition, it would be forced to do so by public opinion, for this question of social security is now very much in the air. Let us then face this problem squarely and deal with it on a humanitarian basis so that we may hold up our heads in dignity, instead of doing as some hon. members would have us do, promise too much and then of course be unable to carry out our promises.


Mr. Speaker, it is a long time since I last addressed the house, and on this occasion I do not intend to make a speech. I shall try rather to make only a few random remarks.
First of all I should like to pay humble tribute to all those who have made and are making their contribution to Canada's great and splendid war effort-the armed forces, the merchant marine, their wives, mothers and sweethearts, the fishermen, the war workers in industry, and, last but not least, the farmers of Canada, to whose natural hazards have been added the handicaps of shortages of labour and materials. Theirs was a voluntary effort. With
Social Security

the rest of the empire Canada did not wait for the invader's boot, because it did not need' the spur of invasion.
The other day an hon. member sitting opposite said in the course of his remarks that he could understand what the Conservatives and the Progressive Conservatives were talking about; he could understand what the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation were talking about; he could understand what hon. members to my left were talking about, but he utterly failed to understand what members of this group mean, and what they discuss. I am not going to say that that hon. member was speaking for all members of his party; I happen to know he does not. I believe however that there is a large element of truth in what he said, and to me the reason is fairly obvious, because all other parties believe more or less in the same thing, and, I may say, their objectives are more or less the same. For instance I believe most members of other groups in the house, except this one, would agree that they believe in the creation of employment for all. They would agree on a planned production. I believe they agree on centralization. I have heard several hon. members sitting opposite speak favourably of internationalism, an international bank and an international police force. I think most hon. members, with the exception of those in this group, are in favour of more and more taxation, and most of them seem to believe in the removal of tariffs.
I think that situation is more or less crystallized in Alberta; for in that province you see two parties to-day, namely the Social Credit party and the so-called Independents. The Independents are made up of Liberals, Conservatives-that	is, Progressive and
otherwise-and Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.


No.


They sit in opposition.


You are in opposition but you are not in the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation.


They are in agreement in their criticism.


Oh, no, they are not.


The leader of the independents was a former Cooperative Commonwealth Federation member of this house.


He is no longer the leader.




Social Security
to the enemy, we had turned around and paid it to ourselves? Is there any limit to the prosperity we might have had? There would be no unemployment except of those who were incapacitated.
Since I have mentioned pensions I should like to make a plea in that regard. Whether or not we wait for twenty-five years to implement the Beveridge report or something similar, I would make a plea that we should not wait, I was going to say for twenty-five minutes, but certainly we should not wait for one day to augment the pensions that we are paying to the aged and the infirm and the war widows. They do not even have the cost of living bonus. They are living, many of them, on from ten to fifteen dollars a month. Then we talk about the new order we are going to have. I say, in-conclusion, that if we cannot look after the aged and the infirm at the present time I do not think there is much hope for a new and better world after the war.


Mr. Speaker, I had no intention of participating in this debate but in order to keep the record clear, I think that in view of the attitude I took earlier in relation to unemployment insurance I should make a few observations.
Members may recall that on March 24, 1941, I brought in a bill, No. 21, an act to amend the Unemployment Insurance Act. I explained on that occasion that the purpose of the bill was to provide that the unemployment insurance commission created by the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1940, should cooperate with other authorities in the dominion and the provinces for the purpose of collecting information concerning any plans for providing medical care or compensation in cases of ill health. I should) like to read just one paragraph from part V of my bill, under the heading "National Health":
The duties and powers of the commission under this part of this act shall be exercised, so far as may be found practicable and expedient, in cooperation with any department or departments of the government of Canada, with the Dominion Council of Health, with any province or any number of provinces collectively, or with any municipality or any number of municipalities collectively, or with associations or corporations.
It shall be the duty of the commission (a) to assemble reports, publications, information and data concerning any scheme or plan, whether a state, community or other scheme or plan for any group or class of persons, and whether in operation or proposed, in Canada or elsewhere, of providing, on a collective or on a cooperative basis by means of insurance or otherwise, for
(i) medical, dental and surgical care, including medicines, drugs, appliances, or hospitalization, or 
(ii) compensation for loss of earnings
arising out of ill health, accident or disease;
I shall not trouble to read the rest of the proposed amendment but, because there has been some misconception on the part of certain members of the house, it is only right to state at this time that I understand the department of national health has undertaken what I proposed, namely, the gathering of information upon which they purpose drafting a bill. I must agree with that, and am pleased to agree that they have taken, in my judgment, the best possible course to ensure that the bill, when it does emerge from the committee, will not only represent the judgment of the members of the committee and the members of this house, but will receive the support and cooperation of the members of the medical profession;
I might recall to hon. members that when a similar bill was introduced in the legislature of British Columbia some few years ago, it was not done after cooperation and agreement with the members of the medical profession; and as a consequence, although it became the law of that province, it has never become operative. It will be clear to all, I think, that to make any scheme of health insurance operative the most important people to be considered, who will have the responsibility of carrying out such scheme are members of the medical profession; in fact it cannot function at all unless they assist in making it function. The method which has been adopted of gathering information during the last year or so from all interests concerned, particularly the medical and dental professions, will put us in a position to know what their judgment is in regard to the various phases of the bill which it is proposed	should	emerge	as aconsequence of	the sittings	of this	select
committee.
Before that committee, I take it, all interests may be represented and will be heard and consideration will be given to any presentations which	they	make.	I hope	that,after that has taken place, at a very early day a measure will emerge and be placed on the statute	book.	It is	long overdue.
I hope it will be possible for the government to bring forward legislation and have it passed before this session concludes.
I might just add, to make the record complete, that being only a private member my bill did not get very far. We have no private members' days, so that it disappeared when we went home for the recess. It was suggested to me that I might make progress if I had it brought forward in another place. As a consequence I had' it submitted as Bill

Social Security
E-3 in the other place, where it had its first reading on May 27, 1941. It did a little better over there than here, because it got through its second reading, but was then defeated. I then submitted it again, on November 6, 1941, and it disappeared with the closing of the session. On February 2, 1942, I reintroduced it and it had its first reading. It will be clear from all this that I favour some such legislation as is proposed at the present time.
It has been mentioned here that this bill requires an amendment of the British North America Act. I wish to refer for a moment to something which has interested me for a number of years. We have in Canada ten departments of health, all doing or trying to do the same job. My belief is that there should be only one department of health and that that should be the department of health of the national government; and in each of the provinces we could very well have branches of the federal department of health which would carry out the decisions of the national body. This in my opinion would save a great deal of duplication of services which are costly, and in a small country such as ours we should always consider the question of cost. Great Britain gets on very well with one department of health, and that country has a population four times as great as ours. You may say that Canada is larger geographically than Great Britain. That is true, but the problems of health are exactly the same. Communicable diseases do not confine themselves to provincial boundaries. Take, for example, influenza; if it starts in British Columbia it will soon be heard of in Ontario and spread speedily to the Atlantic coast. So that what measures of health are necessary in one province are necessary in other provinces. Some local conditions may vary in the different provinces, but these can be dealt with and adjusted effectively, in my judgment, by a federal department of health operating through a branch in the province. So that if it becomes necessary to have an amendment of the British North America Act, I suggest to the government that it take into consideration obtaining authority to develop a national department of health for the whole of Canada instead of the system which prevails at the present moment.
I mentioned a moment ago that this is a question of social security which is long overdue, and I am glad to be able to tell the house that I believe a majority of the medical profession throughout Canada will support a measure of health insurance.
I should like to make a distinction, for the assistance of the members, between health 72537-64}
insurance and what is spoken of as state medicine. The fact that the profession approves the principle of health insurance does not mean that it approves state medicine. By "state medicine" is meant a system of medicine which is entirely under the state: the state would bear the full cost, and all doctors, nurses and others giving their care would be on salary provided by the state. The hospitals would become state owned. This is entirely different from what we mean by state health insurance, which means a cooperative plan of contributory insurance operating with state assistance and under state supervision, which provides for its members certain benefits in case of illness. We believe that such a plan should provide the highest standard of health service for all the people.
I do not think that at this time it is desirable or necessary to discuss any phases of the bill which may emerge, because we shall have plenty of .opportunity of doing that in the committee. I therefore look forward to the meetings of this committee in the anticipation that the work which has been carried on over a period of months will bear fruit and that ultimately there will be put in the statute books a health insurance bill acceptable and advantageous to all our people.
I want to make just a reference to the question of venereal disease. I believe it is a fact that venereal disease is about twice as prevalent amongst our Canadian forces as amongst the white forces in the United States. If this be true it is desirable that something very radical be undertaken at an early day to improve a deplorable situation.
Mr. MANLEY J. EDWARDS (Calgary West):	I have listened with the utmost
attention to the remarks of the hon. member who has just taken his seat (Mr. Bruce). What he said appealed to me most strongly, because I know that he is a man of outstanding ability and attainment in his profession. He has approached the subject from the point of view of the medical practitioner. Being a member of the legal profession I naturally look at the resolution from the point of view of its legal aspects and connotations. Quite frankly, sir, I have many doubts and misgivings as to the tangible results in the immediate future, of the proceedings and deliberations of this committee, because of the constitutional difficulties involved in implementing any charter or resolution such as. is contemplated by this resolution.
Let me say at the outset that I am wholly-in accord with the spirit, the thought and the ideal which bring this resolution before us at this time. Knowing the humanitarian ideals
Social Security

of charity and Christian brotherhood which he entertains in his heart I for one hope that the vision which the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has entertained in this regard might, like the Unemployment Insurance Act which he envisaged twenty years ago, be realized by him at this session or in this parliament, or at least in his lifetime. I am disturbed in this regard, because it took twenty years of effort on the part of not only the present Prime Minister but the leader of the Conservative party, not forgetting my predecessor from West Calgary, Mr. Bennett, to overcome the constitutional difficulties and barriers raised by the provinces to the establishment of a national unemployment insurance act. In this respect I am reminded that the last province to give its consent to a national unemployment insurance act was Alberta. Hon. members during this brief debate may have followed the remarks of the hon. members who come from Alberta and represent the Social Credit party. If the Social Credit members truly reflect the considered opinion and wishes of the government of Alberta, then the fine objectives which are set before us in this resolution and which I think are universally held by the other groups in this house will go unfulfilled because of the constitutional difficulty involved in the British North America Act. One need only read the provisions of the British North America Act, our charter of confederation, to see that the respective fields of provincial and federal legislation are limited. It is not sufficient merely to read the words of the act to appreciate fully the difficulty involved; one must have recourse to the judgments of the various courts which have been called upon to interpret and apply the terms of that act to particular constitutional problems which have arisen in the short life of this country. I hope it will not take twenty years more before this country has at least a national health insurance act, but let no one assume that the Beveridge plan can be readily transferred or transposed to and made applicable in this country.
In common with many others in this house I am concerned lest the people's mind be diverted from the immediate and paramount problem which confronts us all, namely, that of winning this war.
I do not think we should be unduly concerned about our safety or security here at home when the best of our manhood and womanhood are throwing security to the winds. Security is the last thought that enters their minds in their struggle with the enemy and their fight to defend the one

thing that we in Canada value most highly- individual freedom and liberty. In common with many others I have doubts and misgivings lest the so-called planners and economists may in fact destroy individuality, the one thing that we as Canadian citizens prize most highly. The thing that distinguishes us is our individuality. The good Lord made no two of us alike. There never was one like you before; there is not now and never will be another you. I think the most significant fact about life and living itself is not that we are here to make a living but that "we are", and we are here to develop and make manifest that thing which I call me and which you call you, to make of them the best of which they are capable. Life has no significance for me aside from the fact of individuality, and I am much afraid that this resolution may fail of its objective by reason of that very characteristic of Canada and Canadians individually, provincially and sectionally.
Nevertheless I believe this is something upon which we may be able to find common ground in the interest and for the sake of those individuals who are less fortunate than we are, who through no fault of their own find themselves unable to keep pace with their fellow men, so that they may be provided with the essentials of that decent standard of living which should characterize our people from coast to coast. But let us not think and let us not give the impression that this is the beginning of easy days, that life in Canada will be easy or that it will not be necessary in any field of endeavour, be it physical, mental or spiritual, to do other than work hard to make the most of this fair land of ours and to make the most of our individual and collective selves. In other words, let us not do what the people of Germany did, willingly or otherwise, namely, surrender our individuality for the sake of security. It is quite true that in a time of depression the people of Germany were not as vocal and were not allowed to magnify their differences. Why? Because they had sold their right to liberty and individuality for the so-called safety and security ordered by the state. Mr. Hitler capitalized on that, and as a result there came into existence what I hope we shall never see in this country, the age of bureaucracy and dictatorship.
The men and women who built this country, whom we delight to honour in this house and throughout the length and breadth of our land, .the individuals who have made the finest contributions to our commonwealth, have been those who were leas