House of Commons Rebates
Monday, March 8, 1943
Mr. Speaker, on Thursday the 4th instant I read to the house copies of telegrams which I had dispatched earlier in the day to the Right Hon. Winston S. Churchill, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and to Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States of America. To these messages I have received the following replies:
From Mr. Churchill, a message dated London, March 6, 1943, as follows:
I am deeply touched by your very generous message and I send to you and to all members of the parliament of Canada my heartfelt thanks. I recall with gratitude the warmth of the reception which you all gave me when I visited Canada in December, 1941. In the darkest days Canada, under your leadership, remained confident and true. Now the days are brighter, and when victory is won, you will be able to look back with just pride upon a record surpassed by none.
I might add that this message was read over the radio last night and has appeared in the press of to-day. I have ascertained that it was given out in London on Saturday night, and that the Associated Press received the message from there. It was not given out from my office. Had I had control of the situation I should have held the message and given it to parliament in the first instance.
From Mr. Roosevelt I received this morning a message dated Washington, March 8, 1943, as follows:
The greetings of old friends have always been especially welcome to me, and so please accept my warmest thanks for your message on my tenth anniversary as president. My good neighbours, the Canadians, are kind indeed to have remembered me on this occasion; and I hope you will convey to them, especially to your colleagues in parliament and the government, my cordial appreciation.
The emphasis in your message on the success of our arms and the growing power of our offensive, strikes a prophetic note. Our people, like yours, and those of all the united nations, 72537-65
are determined that there shall be no faltering in our march towards victory whatever the obstacles. In this year, above all, we shall support to the limit our troops of land, sea and air in the grim fighting which lies ahead. All Americans are proud to know of the great sacrifices which their Canadian comrades have made so that Canadian men and materials could contribute so vitally to the struggle.
With cordial good wishes to you, as always, Franklin D. Roosevelt.


Mr. Speaker, I indicated on Friday that I would refer the report of the auditor general to the public accounts committee to-day. I now move, seconded by the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Crerar):
That the public accounts and the report of the auditor general for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1942, be referred to the standing committee on public accounts.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to say only a few words with regard to this motion. First I would draw attention to the fact that the motion will deal only with the report of the auditor general as it affects public accounts up to March 31, 1942. Since this motion will be the terms of reference to the committee, it will, as I understand the situation, limit the investigation of that committee to accounts up to that time.
I have a motion on the order paper which, I note, has been relegated to the graveyard of motions by private members and therefore is not likely to be discussed by the house. I would ask the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) that his motion be made to extend the terms of reference so that the committee may be allowed to investigate not only accounts up to the end of the fiscal year, 1942, but also accounts up to the present time, and particularly with reference to the work being done by the office of economy control set up by the government.
The house is already familiar with the statement made or alleged to have been made

Public Accounts

the other day to the press by the director of economy control, Colonel Thompson. Those statements are pretty serious. When a paper with the position of the Ottawa Journal proceeds to quote the director's statements, putting them in quotation marks, it seems to me the house and the public accounts committee should take serious cognizance of the fact. The press statement says:
Colonel John Thompson, the government's uncompromising economy director, to-day had just about reached the end of his tether.
He had found it increasingly impossible, he told the Journal, "To cope with all the crazy waste and extravagance which some eight months ago he was assigned to control if not eliminate".
Then in quotation marks:
"Evasion, subterfuge and outright trickery" are being used to nullify the work of the office of government economy control.
Thousands of dollars have been spent on office supplies, furniture and equipment, he charged, without the requisitions ever having been submitted to him for examination and approval or rejection.
Piled on his desk this morning were many of these requisitions which had reached him only after the orders had been placed and filled, and the bills for them accrued.
With these requisitions were the "accounts payable" for supplies which had been purchased without his authorization.
One of those accounts was for $2,500, covering but one printing job.
Colonel Thompson has kept a file of such records of "subterfuge, evasion and trickery", to prove, if necessary, how the office of government economy control has been short-circuited.
Each time the colonel has received these "accounts due" for office supplies, which have been purchased without his approval, he has marked them, in red ink, "payment refused".
Some of the accounts have been accrued with private business houses and with printing shops other than the government's publishing establishment.
"1 don't know who will pay them, or how", declared the colonel, "but certain it is that I will not approve payment."
I want to draw the attention of the house to the fact that those statements have been made by an official. I know nothing about his qualifications, but I assume the government must have been satisfied with them when they appointed him to this office. He has made what amounts to a very serious charge with reference to waste and extravagance in the conduct of government business.
It seems to me that this is not a matter merely for the executive or for the government; it is a matter for the entire House of Commons, something which ought to be gone into thoroughly by a standing committee. It is true that there is a war expenditures committee, but that committee recognized that there were certain limitations to their work. I should like to quote from page 92 of

the minutes of proceedings No. 3 of that committee, which contains the following in regard to the acquisition of the air field at Gimli:
It is not the duty of this subcommittee to supplant the responsibility either of the public accounts committee or the civil courts. This subcommittee does not express any opinion as to the need for further inquiry. In the light of the request made by the solicitor for the Winnipeg Tribune the subcommittee believes that such an inquiry, if deemed necessary, could be more satisfactorily made as above indicated.
I quote that for the purpose of pointing out that the war expenditures committee recognized that matters of this sort, dealing with money already spent or with the manner of the spending of such money, is a matter for discussion by the standing committee on public accounts. This is a matter to which the house ought to give serious consideration. It has often been stated that many of our functions have been usurped, but there are two great functions which this house still has. One is the duty of voting supply, and the other is the duty of scrutinizing all accounts paid or payable.
If we allow a situation of this kind to go unchallenged and without investigation, then we private members of the house are derelict in our duty. I want to make this appeal to the government and to the house. The Minister of Finance (Mr. Ilsley) has told us that during the next year the people of Canada are going to be asked to lend to the government the sum of $2,750,000,000. That is a tremendous figure. It will be lent to the government only as a result of considerable sacrifice on the part of the people of Canada. The members of this house will be asked, to urge upon the people of Canada that they make this contribution, and they will gladly do so. But if the people of Canada ever come to feel that this money is not being spent to the best possible advantage; if we ever allow the people to feel that there is waste, extravagance, or, as this report says, subterfuge and outright trickery, then we shall weaken in every fibre our war effort. This house can strengthen the morale of the Canadian people by asking the public accounts committee to examine the public accounts not only up to March 31,
1942,	but all accounts up to the present time, and to have Colonel Thompson appear as a witness to discuss these questions which have been raised in the public press. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for York South (Mr. Noseworthy):
That the motion be amended by adding the following words:
"and that the committee be empowered to examine accounts up to the end of February,
1943,	and to investigate the work being done by the office of the government economy control."

Public Accounts


addressed to me by Colonel John Thompson, director of government office economies control, which I should like to read:
Apropos of an item I saw in the press, either last night or the night before, I wish to say that at no time has there been any interference by the government, or yourself, or any member of parliament, with this office in the performance of the duties allotted to it by order in council.
The word "no" in the memorandum is underlined, and the letter is signed by John Thompson, whose full title is Colonel John Thompson, director of government office economies control.


Is that all that there is in the memorandum, may I ask?
Mr. LaFLECHE: Yes, and may I repeat what I said a moment ago, that I have brought to the house all that I have from Colonel Thompson as yet.


If I may ask the minister a question, is that the only memorandum that has come to him from Colonel Thompson?
Mr. LaFLECHE:	Yes, that is the only
memorandum that I can find touching upon the question under discussion in this house.


Had the minister seen
the item in the Ottawa Journal and brought it to the attention of Colonel Thompson prior to his sending that memorandum?
Mr. LaFLECHE:	On Friday last I made
it very clear that as soon as I saw that article I instituted inquiries, and of course I wrote to the director.


Has the minister seen the list of specific charges in Saturday's Toronto Telegram and to-day's Ottawa Journal?
Mr. LaFLECHE: May I say that with the best of will or the worst I cannot take it for granted that these charges have been made by Colonel Thompson. I know him as an honourable gentleman, and I would remind the house of what I said in that connection last Friday, that particularly in the case of such a very old servant of the country as Colonel Thompson is-for years he was head of the pension, commission

I would expect that had he any complaints to make he would make them to his minister direct. In their absence I am not in a position to add one word to what I have already said. I have already given to the house all the information that I have.


May I ask the minister
one other question? Has Colonel Thompson denied to the minister the charges that were made in the Ottawa Journal?
Mr. LaFLECHE:	I can only repeat-


Order. I would point out that there is a motion and an amendment before the chair. We are not in committee and questioning cannot be permitted.


Personally I think the only manner in which this matter can be cleared up is to have the committee sit and have Colonel Thompson appear before it to substantiate or deny that he ever gave such an interview. The statements that appeared in the press quoted Colonel Thompson, and my experience with the newspaper reporters, particularly those in the gallery of this house, is that when they quote someone they endeavour to quote accurately. I have not known them to do otherwise deliberately. I suggest that the men in our gallery at Ottawa are reliable when they give statements within quotation marks. Moreover, I cannot quite understand the situation, because Colonel Thompson said in his quoted statement that he had made repeated representations to the minister, and the minister has just said, as I understand it, that he has no representations of this sort on file from Colonel Thompson.
I think that the amendment should carry and that the matter should be dealt with under the procedure laid down by parliament. The committee has the power to call witnesses and question them under oath and to go to the bottom of the whole matter in a proper manner. I believe we would be derelict in our duty if we did not follow that procedure, because the charges which are said to have been made are of a serious nature, and ought to be gone into very carefully indeed by a committee of this house. The proper committee is the public accounts committee.


May I say first of all that my hon. friend the leader of the opposition (Mr. Graydon) asked me last week if I would see that the auditor general's report was referred to the public accounts committee and I said that I would. I have gone him one better by moving that the public accounts be referred as well. I made a mistake in replying to my hon. friend when I said that I thought the auditor general's report had in previous years been referred automatically to the public accounts committee. I agree with the leader of the opposition that it would be desirable that the auditor general's report and the public
JMr. LaFleche.l

Public Accounts
accounts should be referred to the public accounts committee as soon as tabled and the public accounts committee set up. I think that should be done every year. It has not always been done; it has sometimes been done; when it has not been done, it is because the opposition no less than the government were content to have matters as they were.
In regard to the amendment which has just been proposed, may I say first of all that I think it is out of order. I think it is out of order for the reason that it is a substantive motion in itself and therefore cannot be moved as an amendment. His Honour the Speaker has already given a decision to that effect in this session.
But I do not wish to allow the matter to rest there. I am in complete accord with the leader of the opposition and with all hon. members of the house in their desire to see that every possible restraint is placed upon possible unnecessary expenditures and, certainly as far as it is humanly possible so to do, to prevent wasteful expenditure of any kind. The more we can apply safeguards in that direction, the better it is going to be for all concerned. At the same time I do think it is necessary that in these matters we should adopt a procedure which at least carries with it a sense of the responsibility of a great assembly such as this House of Commons with respect to matters that are to be made a subject of public inquiry. Newspaper articles have been read. They contain certain allegations and representations. Some of these allegations have already been discussed on the floor of this house as if they were charges. They have been spoken of as charges and the word goes out from the press gallery that the government has been charged with this and that, that there has been a charge that such and such has taken place, that there has been a charge also ' of such and such waste. When the matter is truly stated, it is seen to be only a report in a newspaper. Whether it is within quotation marks or not does not matter. If this House of Commons is going to begin to assume as evidence of bona fides everything that appears in the public press in the nature of representations or allegations against some officer of or matters connected with the government, and take that source as the one from which investigations are to be made, it must be apparent that we shall be making a farce of our whole procedure.
I have just as much respect for the gentlemen in the press gallery as my hon. friend has; but he has no guarantee that the particular report which he says is in quotations was from any journalist in the gallery. It may have been from some reporter who is
not in the gallery. I cannot say. At any rate, I hope my remarks will not be taken as reflecting at all on any journalist, one way or the other. What I say is this. The press has its responsibility, and the House of Commons and its members have their responsibility; and if there is to be an investigation of any matter I submit that at least before an inquiry starts before a committee of this parliament, some member of the House of Commons should himself take responsibility for asking that the matter in question be investigated. I think we should have something more to go upon before a public inquiry starts than simply an item in a newspaper.
It is free to any member of this house to ask that the public accounts committee be convened at any time it is desirable to have it so convened, and when the public accounts committee meets it is open to the members of that committee, which contains representatives from all sides of the house, to make what requests they wish with respect to the parties who are to appear. So far as I am concerned, and I am certain my colleagues would join me in this, if when the public accounts committee is called together hon. members wish Colonel Thompson to appear before it, we will not have the slightest objection to having Colonel Thompson so appear. If it is going to serve a helpful purpose to have the statements that have thus far appeared in the press made the subject of inquiry and Colonel Thompson called as a witness, the government will be only too ready to meet the wishes of the committee if that particular request is made. But I wish to make this perfectly clear, that in so doing it should not be assumed that we are establishing a precedent, so that any time anyone wishes to begin an investigation before the public accounts committee, a representation in tire press may be taken as sufficient ground for the instituting of a public inquiry.
There is one other point. It is in reference * to the public accounts. I understand that the auditor general goes through the public accounts and audits the public accounts before they are made public by tabling in the house. I cannot say how soon the accounts of the current year can be made available to parliament and tabled; that is a matter upon which I would have to get further information. I mention this because I believe the motion I have made goes as far as any similar motion has gone in any previous year, -as far as at this particular moment I feel it is possible to go.
Public Accounts


May I draw the attention of the house to one or two things. First, the memorandum read by the Minister of National War Services (Mr. LaFleche) does not deal with the question under discussion at all.


Order.


Is the hon. gentleman speaking to the point of order?


No. A point of order, I understand, has not yet been raised.


The hon. gentleman has already spoken.


I was speaking on the amendment. I did not know that a matter of procedure had been raised.


The hon. gentleman moved an amendment and spoke to it. He cannot speak twice unless he is speaking to a point of order. If any hon. gentleman wishes to speak to the point of order I should like to hear him now.


Question.


Mr. Speaker, before you give your ruling on the point of order, may I suggest that the amendment is properly an amendment to a motion, that all it does is to suggest that certain words be added to the motion extending the terms of reference. If the procedure is such that hon. members are precluded from amending a motion of this description, drawn in general terms so that general terms can be extended to include something specific; it seems to me that the house is being denied a right which it ought properly to have. The hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. Douglas) endeavoured to place his suggestion before the house by giving the required notice under the standing order providing for forty-eight hours' notice, not knowing .that this motion was to be introduced by the government, and he finds that the motion which he filed, in the usual way is being relegated to such a position on the order paper that in all probability it cannot be reached this session. If the ruling of the Chair should be that one cannot move an amendment extending the reference to cover a matter which cannot successfully be made the subject of a substantive motion because of the position in which it is placed, under private members' resolutions, on the order paper, I submit that that ruling would deny to this house a right which hon. members should be able to exercise.


Speaking further to the point of order taken by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), it seems to me that the attitude of the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell) is particularly appropriate when one couples with it the statement I understood the Prime Minister to have made, that to refer a matter of this kind to the public accounts committee, some hon. member should take the responsibility of laying a charge. If that is so; if a member of the House of Commons must lay a charge and accept the responsibility of doing so before a matter can be referred to the public accounts committee, a substantive motion of this kind, enlarging the scope of the terms of reference to the public accounts committee, would apparently be out of order. But on the other hand how could a matter be referred to the public accounts committee unless an individual charge were made? The motion itself seems to imply the reverse of the statement that an individual member must make a charge before the matter is referred to the public accounts committee. One cannot but be forced to that conclusion.


The motion is:
That the public accounts and the report of the auditor general for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1942, be referred to the standing committee on public accounts.
To that an amendment is moved by the hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. Douglas), seconded by the hon. member for York South (Mr. Noseworthy):
That the motion be amended by adding the following words:
"and that the committee be empowered to examine accounts up to the end of February, 1943, and to investigate the work being done by the office of the government economy control."
I have listened carefully and given due consideration to the statements made by the hon. member for Weyburn and the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell) with regard to an amendment to a motion such as we have before us. The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar spoke of the extension of the motion and the adding thereto of a period during which these accounts could be examined. The hon. member did not refer to the latter part of the amendment, which states:
". . . and to investigate the work being done by the office of the government economy control."
I am of course concerned with the procedure of the house. In my judgment it would be a dangerous precedent that any motion such as that which is now before the house should be added to and a reference made to an investigation to be made. iSuch

Public Accounts
a motion for an investigation must necessarily be a substantive motion and, being a substantive motion, cannot be moved as an amendment to an original motion.
I would also point out to the house that under the reference which is made to the public accounts committee and all standing committees, persons and records may be brought before that committee; there is nothing to prevent members of the standing committee, when these matters are under discussion, from asking for the attendance of any witness, because they have that power now under the standing order; and the committee then will be the judge as to whether or not the investigation shall be completed, and if necessary they in turn can come back to the house for further instructions.
In the meantime we are faced with a motion, and, as I am of opinion, a substantive motion moved as an amendment, which is not in accordance with the rules of the house. Therefore I must rule the amendment out of order.


(Portage la
Prairie): Perhaps it will be in order for me to say a word or two, Mr. Speaker, before you put the motion. I believe I am a member of the public accounts committee, and therefore will have the opportunity to discharge my duties in that capacity. I was struck by what the Prime Minister said a few moments ago, that the members of this house owe a duty to parliament, and I presume that includes those who elected us to parliament. I believe that the amendment moved by the hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. Douglas), instead of being declared out of order, should have been accepted by the Prime Minister. I have not even read the newspaper article referred to by the hon. member for Weyburn. But I have gathered that suspicion will be aroused in the minds of the taxpayers, and we should do everything within our power to see that their minds are not poisoned. If the information is false, we should see that everything is brought out into broad daylight.
I was going to give an example of what happened years ago. The auditor general's report was being discussed in the house. I had gone through that report pretty thoroughly, and I noted that the auditor general brought to our attention the fact that there had been overpayment in a department of government. I am not saying it was altogether when the Liberals were in office; it was going on when either party was in office. But the watchdog of the treasury drew the attention of the members representing the people of Canada to the fact that overpayment had been made and had never been repaid. I ran
across this also, which goes to show that something can be done even in parliament. A certain civil servant was moved from Ottawa to new duties in Calgary. He was a surveyor, receiving, if I remember correctly, a salary of over 14,000 a year. When he was moved to Calgary he was given a living allowance, I believe about six dollars a day. After about a year he was brought back to Ottawa, and I think for two or three years after he returned to Ottawa he was still getting his salary plus living allowance.
When I noted that the auditor general drew the attention of members of parliament to the fact that these overpayments were being made, as a representative of the people I thought it my duty to bring the matter before parliament, which I did. It was in the department of the Minister of the Interior of that time. When I mentioned it he said he was not aware that that situation existed, and being very sympathetic I asked the minister if he had not the information at the time to bring it down later. He promised to do so, and later did; he said that the situation as depicted by the member for Portage la Prairie was true. I met him on the street some time later and I am not giving away any confidences-^-he said, "Harry, I did not know anything about that."
There is an example. Such conditions as these things existed then and perhaps they exist now. We have charges to-day, or a quotation from a civil servant, as reported in the press, and the Prime Minister should be the first to say, we must explore this to the limit. I want to make my position clear. If a vote is taken on this amendment I shall have to vote against the government. My conscience dictates nothing else.


The hon. member for
Portage la Prairie (Mr. Leader) in the course of his remarks stated that the Prime Minister should accept the amendment. I should like to point out to the house that only during the last two weeks an amendment was accepted by the house which, as. I indicated, if it had been placed before the Chair I should have ruled it out of order. Following that, within a week, another similar amendment was made and I had then to rule it out of order. I would say to the house that if the Prime Minister had moved the adoption of this amendment as part of the motion I should have felt it my duty to point out to him that it was entirely contrary to the rules of the house, and I should have to declare it out of order.
Public Accounts


No more important duty rests upon this house than careful scrutiny of all expenditures. Where there is any suggestion of overexpenditure, as is alleged to have been stated by Colonel Thompson, the place to determine that is in this house or in the committee, and not in newspaper articles. We now find ourselves in this position. One newspaper says that Colonel Thompson made a certain statement; other newspapers say he did not make it. The Minister of National War Services (Mr. LaFleche) in a statement on Friday which was very difficult to follow, seemed to take no stand whatsoever on the question. The position now is that although allegations have been made in a responsible newspaper, the members of this parliament are not to have the opportunity to examine the accounts. It is all very well to say, as the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has said, that the public accounts committee will be convened and that Colonel Thompson may be called before it if the committee so decides. You will have a committee of fifty members- and as in all committees the government will have an overwhelming majority. Why the government should seem to be desirous of not having Colonel Thompson brought before this committee I do not know. I suggest that the attitude will not be changed when the public accounts committee is convened.
We have the war expenditures committee which meets behind closed doors. When the committee was set up the Prime Minister said that the committee would meet in the open except when otherwise decided. Yet from the very beginning as soon as we got into the committee there was no question about it at all. The decision announced in the house by the Prime Minister was not carried out.


Will my friend permit an interruption? I know he does not want to misrepresent-


I will permit an interruption when I am through with my argument. As soon as the subcommittees were set up the motion was made and in every case it was decided, except in the case of one subcommittee, that they should meet behind closed doors. What is the result? Everyone knows that a certain degree of secrecy must be observed, the paramount desire being the safety of the state. But the safety of the state does not demand that instances of overexpenditure should not be brought to the attention of parliament when heard in the war expenditures committee. Yet the lips of

every member of the wTar expenditures committee are sealed as to the information they secure in that committee; they may not bring it before parliament.


Before leaving that would my hon. friend allow me? I know he does not wish to leave an incorrect impression.


What is the question?


Is it not a fact that it was left with the individual subcommittees to determine how each of their sessions should be held, whether in camera or in public. Also is it not a fact that as to the subcommittee on which my hon. friend sat for one entire session of the house no motion was ever made that it should sit in public? I am chairman of that subcommittee and I make that statement.


All I know is that the Prime Minister gave the promise that the committees would meet in the open except when in the interests of the safety of the state the committee might otherwise decide; and in every case when a vote took place the vote was always that they should meet in secret.
Mr. MAYBANIv: Would the hon. member permit one more question?


Yes.


I would ask the hon. member whether he himself ever proposed a motion that they meet publicly, and had it voted down. It does not seem to agree with what was said across the house.


I raised the matter in this house-


In committee.


Yes, and raised it in the committee.


Oh, oh.


Just a minute; I raised it in the committee, and other members of the opposition raised it in the committee, and in every case they were voted down. Now-


I do not like to have to interrupt again, but I was chairman of the committee on which the hon. member sat, and he did not nor did any other hon. member move such a motion.


The hon. member should not interrupt.


I do not mind answering questions, but I do object to speeches being made. The fact that such conditions do

Public Accounts
prevail in the war expenditures committee, where many matters were brought up, such as war-time housing, elementary flying training schools, air observer schools, information which would not have been of assistance to the enemy, has aroused the suspicion-


I rise to a point of order. I suggest to you, Mr. Speaker, that the hon. gentleman is entirely out of order in discussing the war expenditures committee, and in dealing with war-time housing or any of these other matters on the motion now before the Chair.


I do not agree that the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefen-baker) is out of order. He is speaking with regard to public accounts, and in illustration he mentioned these other points. He is in order.


I wish to add this, that the very fact that the subcommittees of the war expenditures committees have met in secret has aroused a feeling that we in this parliament are not discharging our responsibilities, and that we are not properly scrutinizing public expenditures. And when an allegation of improvident expenditures is made in the press, by a man holding one of the most responsible positions in the service of his country-


He did not.


Well, he is alleged to have made certain statements-


That is different.


-and now the opportunity comes to have him brought before a committee, he should be given the opportunity to give his evidence. I ask the Prime Minister if he will give parliament and the country the assurance that if any hon. member on the public accounts committee will call Colonel Thompson, his evidence will be accepted in the committee.


Speaking, sir, to the present motion, and following Your Honour's recent ruling in regard to the remarks of the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker), and answering the suggestion he has been good enough to make, that government supporters on the public accounts committee will gang up on him and prevent evidence from coming out, I should like to make one or two remarks. The hon. member for Lake Centre made the statement, in regard to the work of the war expenditures committee, that all the sittings of the committee had been in camera, although the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie 72537-68
King) had declared to the house these would be open, except where for military reasons or otherwise they should not be open. I should like to make a few comments in regard to the hon. member's statement, just to keep the record clear.
The committee was given the fullest possible powers by the house with regard to its sittings. It had the power to hold sittings in open or in camera. The main committee, in turn, passed on that same power to the subcommittee, and it was left to the discretion of each individual subcommittee as to what, if any, of their meetings should be held in camera, and as to what, if any, should be held in public.
The hon. member for Lake Centre was a member of subcommittee No. 1, for one session of the house. I was chairman of that subcommittee, and I say as chairman that the hon. member did not at any time move that a sitting of that committee should be in public, nor was any such motion ever voted on, or voted down, as he inferentially suggested a moment ago.


Mr. Speaker, I should not like to allow that last statement to be accepted as covering the activities of all the committees. I would correct it to this extent, that when we met in general committee, comprising all those making up subcommittees 1, 2 and 3, I had the honour on each occasion to move that all meetings be held in open session. On every occasion we were voted down by those who support the present administration. Then, in turn, as subcommittees convened, the same question arose and in the case of subcommittee No. 2, on which it was my privilege to serve, they did open up the session and we had open discussions. This arose from a little generosity on the part of some of the members supporting the government, and from the fortunate absence of another. The vote carried by a majority of one, which kept the sessions open. On a later occasion, to the embarrassment of the chairman, the sessions were again opened, and the chairman immediately adjourned subcommittee No. 2 on that particular day to consider the position. His ideas were voted down. But he was kind enough to reconvene the committee in open session afterwards. It is patent therefore on the very surface of it that government majorities on committees almost always-at least as far back as I can remember-vote the way the treasury benches want them to vote in handling any matter which is the subject of inquiry before any committee. That condition obtains in the work of the war expenditures committee.

Public Accounts


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Halton (Mr. Cleaver) has risen in the house to make it perfectly clear, so far as sittings of the war expenditures subcommittees are concerned, that each is left to its own discretion as to how it shall operate. In the past year I had the honour of being on subcommittee No. 1. True enough, the main committee did delegate to the subcommittee the power to decide whether it should or should not sit in secret. True it is also that in subcommittee No. 1, on which the hon. member for Halton was chairman, a motion was made at the very first sitting dealing with war-time expenditures in which it was asked that the sittings be in secret. And true it is that the motion was defeated.


It was withdrawn.


The hon. member for Halton may speak again after I have finished. Subcommittee No. 1 sat in secret throughout the whole of the session, dealing with many things which in my humble opinion did not warrant the slightest secrecy. Therefore I say to the hon. member that when dealing with the question of secrecy, in order that what occurred may be perfectly clear, and perfectly understood by hon. members, let us face the fact that it has been impossible for members who. wanted public sittings in either the main committee or the subcommittees to be successful in their applications.


Mr. Speaker, the motion now under consideration is that the public accounts for the year ended March 31 last be referred to the public accounts committee. The hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) was perhaps a little less than fair in the remarks he addressed to the house a short time ago. I do not think it is proper to have an impression go out to the country that the government desires to withhold the consideration of public accounts before the public accounts committee, I agree with the leader of the opposition (Mr. Graydon) that there is probably no more important duty for parliament than the consideration of public accounts. The whole origin of parliamentary government arises out of the question of the expenditure of public moneys and the manner in which those moneys should be raised. No duty resting upon parliament is more important than that of scrutinizing and investigating closely how moneys placed at the disposal of the government are spent.
Let me make it clear that there is not and never has been any reluctance on the part

of the government to have the public accounts fully investigated and scrutinized by the public accounts committee.


The public accounts committee has not sat since the war started.


But if this motion passes, the accounts will come before the public accounts committee. In past years there seems to have been an impression that the government failed in its duty because public accounts were not scrutinized by the public accounts committee. Well, the public accounts are the record of the manner in which various government departments have spent moneys voted by parliament to the government for the purpose of carrying on the business of the country. As to the propriety of the expenditure of a single dollar in past years, it was open to any member of parliament, and it was particularly the responsibility and duty of the opposition, to have such an inquiry made.


That is what we have been trying to do to-day, and the minister sees how successful we are.


Oh, no. If my hon. friend will be patient I shall come to that in a moment. So much for that. Perhaps I should not discuss the motion of the hon. member for Weyburn since you, sir, have ruled it out of order, but I would point out that it had to do with public accounts that have not yet been considered by the auditor general and consequently are not in a position to be referred to the public accounts committee. The other point which he made, and which was made a great deal of by the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker)-the hon. member has considerable skill in presenting a case of that kind and leaving impressions that are probably not wholly warranted-was in respect of the duties discharged by Mr. Thompson as director of government office economies control. The Prime Minister stated in his remarks that it was open to any member of the public accounts committee to ask that Mr. Thompson or anyone else come before the committee. The Prime Minister also stated that if the public accounts committee wants to investigate these allegations, if they may be termed such, of Mr. Thompson which have appeared in the newspapers, it can be done.


May I ask the minister how it can be done when the terms of reference are limited to discussing public accounts up to March 31, 1942?

Public Accounts


As Mr. Speaker pointed out, if the committee wants to investigate that and their powers are not broad enough, they can come back to this house and get the necessary powers. When the committee is set up, as it will be under this motion, and it meets to consider the public accounts if it wishes its powers expanded in order to consider these newspaper allegations, so-called, of Mr. Thompson, it can come back to the house if necessary and have the matter considered then.


May I ask the minister a question?


Just a moment. These allegations or so-called allegations of Mr. Thompson have been the subject of a good deal of discussion here this afternoon. You can scarcely pick up a newspaper to-day, particularly newspapers opposed to the government, without finding somewhere some criticism of the expenditures of the government.


But that is not by a government official.


Order.


As the Minister of National War Services (Mr. LaFleche) has pointed out, what proof has the hon. member for Weyburn that Colonel Thompson ever made those statements?


That is what we want to find out.


If we are going to investigate everything of that kind, every rumour that appears in the pewspapers, this house will be busy doing nothing else. I rose mainly to make clear to the house that the government has no objection nor does it take exception to an investigation of the public accounts by the public accounts committee. I feared that the remarks made by the hon. member for Lake Centre-I do not think he wished to convey that impression-might be taken in the country as an indication that the government had something to conceal in the public accounts and was reluctant to have them considered by this committee set up specially for the purpose.


Mr. Speaker, I have tried two or three times to get the floor. I just want to say a word in regard to the remarks that have been made by certain members of the war expenditures committee. I do not intend to discuss anything that took place in the meetings of the war expenditures committee that were held in camera; I am going to discuss only what happened in the open committee. Each subcommittee was given the right to determine 72537-66J
whether it would sit in camera. Personally I was against holding open sessions of the main committee, and I would vote against that procedure in a committee such as the war expenditures committee. I want to be practical in this house. I am not going to spend my time in a committee for the purpose of helping certain members of the committee to get publicity in the newspapers, to have their speeches go out to the public. That is what would be done. If I am ever put on a committee of that kind again I certainly will not stay on it unless it sits in camera, because I am not going to waste my time in that way.
The hon. member for Danforth (Mr. Harris) has said that the members of the committee on the government side voted as the treasury benches wanted them to vote. I want to say that every member on the government side of the house has just as much responsibility and feels his responsibility just as much as any member of the opposition in regard to any matter brought before a committee of this House of Commons. No member of the government, the whip, no minister, no member of the cabinet intimated to any member of the committee on the government side what he should do in regard to matters that were to come before the committee. It is not very judicious, it is not very nice for the hon. member for Danforth to make a statement of that kind when he knows as well as I that no one ever said anything to the members on the government side about what they were to do in that committee, any more than anyone would say anything to him about it.


He knows they were voted down.


You know you were voted down? Each man took his own responsibility in the voting; it was not at the instigation of any member of the government or of the treasury benches in this house.
I do not know a thing about the matter that is before the house at the moment, except from what the minister referred to a moment ago. The hon. member for Weyburn makes quite a little noise in this chamber every once in a while, and sometimes he makes quite a little noise in the country. He generally asks or tries to ask for something which he knows cannot be done.


Not in this case.


Not in this case? He is asking that the public accounts to the end of February of this year be brought down, That is an utter impossibility, as my hon. friend knows.


Nonsense.
Public Accounts


Something that
happened six days ago. Surely he does not mean that seriously?


He certainly does.


It would be
utterly foolish to pass a motion in this house that we should bring down the public accounts of this country up to February 28, just a week ago.


This
committee is being set up and specific duties are being assigned to it. Certain matters are being referred to the committee and I think they should be cleared up. The hon. member for Halton (Mr. Cleaver) made reference to some of the decisions arrived at in one of the subcommittees of the war expenditures committee. I was a member of that committee and I want to say that he extended to me every courtesy, but I must take exception to what he has said in this house.
I took the stand in the committee that information with regard to the expenditure of public moneys should be disclosed to the public and that I, as a member, was not entitled to information not available to the public unless it was information which, if disclosed, might give comfort to the enemy or be detrimental to our war interests. That is the stand I took. Several important subjects were referred to subcommittee No. 1 of the war expenditures committee. Among these matters was war-time housing, involving at that time, I believe, an expenditure of $67,000,000. There was also the aeroplane industry, which involved the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars and in connection with which there had to be considerable secrecy. There was also wartime shipping, which involved many millions of dollars.
The first subject which was set up for investigation was war-time housing. I could not conceive that there was anything having to do with war-time housing that could give comfort to the enemy or that would be contrary to our military efforts. I made a motion, I think at the first session, that all evidence and information given before the committee having to do with war-time housing should be made available to the public. That was supported by the hon. member for Carleton (Mr. Boucher) and the hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Johnston), but it was voted down at the instance of the chairman, the hon. member for Halton (Mr. Cleaver), and the other members of the committee.
My colleagues and I then had to decide whether we should continue to act when our wishes were not complied with or whether

we should retire from the committee. An important responsibility had been assigned-to us and we felt that it was our duty to discharge that even under those limitations. We therefore decided to stay. I went on record then, and I go on record now, as not believing that the expenditures having to do with war-time housing should have been withheld from the public. I did not believe there was any necessity to sit in camera, but I complied with the request of the majority of the committee that the evidence be taken in camera, in secret. A copy of the evidence was not made available to me, although it is true it was in the hands of the chairman of the committee and I could go to his office and look it over. But I was handicapped and curtailed to that extent. Therefore I have to take objection to the statement made by the hon. member for Halton that we were not voted down but that we were allowed to make our investigations and give the information to the public. In making the motion that the evidence be m