My attention has been called to an item in to-day's paper as follows:
The incident occurred when Mr. Coldwell, main speaker of the meeting, said that Norman Jaques, Social Credit member for Wetaskiwin in the House of Commons, declared in the house recently that the finance of Canada was controlled by Jews.
I am not apologizing for or retracting anything that I have said in this house or on the public platform outside this house, but I will challenge the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell) to show where I have ever made such a statement. What I have said is that international finance is under Jewish control. Now I will go further and say it is evident that the C.C.F. intend to make that control national and are using the

strong arm of their gestapo to enforce their control.


C.C.F. storm troopers called in.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Bradette in the chair.
The committee is on resolution 27.
27.	That dividends paid by a wholly-owned subsidiary non-resident company to a Canadian parent company be exempt from tax when received by such parent company.


Will the parliamentary
assistant indicate what amount of taxes will be forgone by the adoption of this resolution?


We have no information which would show the amount of taxes forgone, as the hon. gentleman puts it. As the committee will appreciate, the purpose of the proposed amendment is to avoid triple taxation. The situation now with respect to a wholly-owned subsidiary in Canada is that the dividends to the parent company are exempt because they have already been taxed in the hands of the subsidiary. In other words, company to company dividends are exempt from tax to avoid double taxation. As the law stands at present, if a foreign subsidiary is taxed in the foreign country, say the United States or some other, at rates comparable to those in force in Canada, those profits in effect will be subject to triple taxation because they will be taxed in the foreign country, they will be taxed again in the hands of the parent company in Canada, and they will be taxed once more and distributed to the shareholders. If the tax rates in the foreign country are lower than the Canadian tax rates then there would be some benefit in a complete tax exemption on dividends received from a foreign subsidiary company, and that of course is not the intention of this resolution. In order to guard against the possibility of that situation I am going to ask one of the ministers to move an amended resolution which will in effect provide for a tax credit covering the amount of tax paid in the foreign country by such wholly-owned subsidiary of a Canadian corporation. On that basis there will be no tax advantage to the parent. The Canadian parent company would be in the same tax situation as though it were an individual carrying on business in the two count-tries and subject to tax in the foreign country.

Income War Tax


In the
case of a wholly-owned subsidiary of a Canadian company operating under a Canadian charter in a foreign country, what would be the .position (a) under the law as it stands at present and (b) under the proposed change? What is meant by "non-resident"? Would that be a non-resident company?


I must apologize; there was so much noise I could not get my hon. friend's point clearly. A wholly owned subsidiary resident abroad is not now subject to payment of Canadian income tax at all; but if it brings the dividends into Canada they are taxable income in the hands of the parent company.


I understand that, but what is meant by "resident abroad"? The case I gave is that of a company which is a subsidiary company but is operating under a Canadian charter; that is to say the capital structure is set up under the Canadian Companies Act, but it operates in the United States. Is that a non-resident company within the meaning of this resolution?


The question of residence
is a question of fact. The case my hon. friend cited may be a company which comes under section 4(k) of the Income War Tax Act. Brazilian Traction is an example of that kind of company. It is incorporated in Canada but its business and assets are situated entirely outside Canada, and it operates outside of Canada.


Exactly,
but that is not a subsidiary.


No, it is not a subsidiary.


I do not
mind giving the name of the company. Fraser Companies Limited is a Canadian corporation with subsidiaries. A wholly owned subsidiary, Fraser Paper Limited, is incorporated under a New Brunswick charter, but all of its assets are situated across the Saint John river in the state of Maine, where its whole undertaking is carried on. What will be the position of that company with respect to the provisions of resolution 27? It depends on the meaning * you give to the words "resident" or "nonresident." Is it a non-resident company?


I think the position of that company would be this. It is a Canadian company carrying on business abroad. As such it is entitled to take credit for any taxes which it is obliged to pay to the foreign jurisdiction, and therefore it is not a company which needs
the protection of this proposed resolution because it will have already received credit for the foreign taxes in its own Canadian tax returns. This resolution contemplates a wholly owned subsidiary of a Canadian company which is incorporated and operates abroad and is therefore not a Canadian taxpayer and is not in a position to take credit as a Canadian taxpayer is for taxes which have been paid in a foreign jurisdiction, although in fact all the equity of the company is owned by a Canadian taxpayer.


I think
that explains the situation, but I want clarification of what is meant by "non-resident company." A company has not a residence but it has a legal domicile. The legal domicile of the example I gave is in Canada, but the operations are in the United States. Perhaps it would be better if it were made clear in the legislation what a resident company means and what a non-resident company means.


Consideration can be given
to that in drafting the legislation. As my hon. friend knows, there is a long line of cases which lay down what the residence of a company is for taxation purposes.


Are not
the words "legal domicile" used?


No, a company has residence for taxation purposes.


In the statute?


Yes.


Moved by Mr. Gibson
that resolution 27 of the resolutions to amend the Income War Tax Act be deleted and the following substituted therefor:
27. That the provision permitting a taxpayer to deduct from tax the amount paid to any foreign country for income tax in respect of income of the taxpayer from sources therein be amended to permit a Canadian parent company to deduct from tax the amount paid to a foreign country by a wholly-owned subsidiary company with respect to that portion of the profits of the subsidiary company which are deemed to be paid by way of dividends to the Canadian parent company in any taxation year, dividends being presumed to be paid by the subsidiary company from profits most recently earned.


We ought to understand this resolution before it carries. The Brazilian Traction company has been specifically referred to. It is composed of a number of subsidiary companies. There is the Sao Paulo Tramway, Light and Power Company, the Rio de Janeiro Tramways Company, the Brazilian Telephone Company, the Brazilian Hydro-
Income War Tax

Electric Company, and others. All these are subsidiary companies incorporated in Brazil and form the Brazilian Traction Company which is the holding company. The Brazilian Traction Company derives its whole revenue from these other subsidiary companies. Their dividends are the sole source of revenue of the Brazilian Traction Company and their taxes are at the rate of forty per cent, or whatever the corporation rate is. As the Brazilian Traction Company pays that money out to its individual shareholders it is again taxed. Is this resolution intended to overcome the double rate of income tax on subsidiary companies?


This resolution has nothing to do with a situation such as that of the Brazilian Traction Company. I do not wish to go into a long dissertation on income tax, but it happens that Brazilian Traction is a company which is exempt from the payment of Canadian income tax under section 4(k) of the Income War Tax Act, which is a section entirely different from the one we are considering; therefore this provision does not affect the situation of the Brazilian Traction Company. I underestand that the Brazilian Traction Company as a company is not a Canadian income tax payer because it is exempt under section 4(k) of the Income War Tax Act.


Because its returns are all from foreign companies?


Its business and assets are outside Canada.


I do not wish to hold up this resolution because the preliminary statement of the parliamentary assistant indicates that it is intended to correct what I consider to be a wrong, namely, the possibility of triple taxation. I confess that on reading the original resolution and comparing it with the redrafted resolution I am not able to grasp immediately the significance of the section. I should like a little time to study it. However, if that should not be permitted will the parliamentary assistant tell us the effect again because I could not follow him when he gave it the first time. He will observe that this is a completely new resolution.
Mr. iVBBOTT: It is new in form only. The original resolution provided that all income received from a wholly-owned non-resident subsidiary by a Canadian taxpaying company would be exempt from income tax in the hands of the company.


I agree with that.
[Mr. Adamson.1


That is sound, provided that the taxes imposed on the foreign subsidiary in the foreign country are as high as or higher than the Canadian rates of tax; but if the subsidiary happened to operate in a country where there were no income or excess profits tax, or if the tax rates were substantially lower than the Canadian rates, then there would be an advantage over the Canadian subsidiary company. Therefore it is felt that this section should give the same protection that is given to an individual who earns income abroad and is subject to tax there; namely, that he may deduct from his Canadian tax liability the amount of tax he has had to pay abroad, provided that tax is not at a higher rate than the Canadian tax. That is what the amended resolution will now provide. When the bill is before the house hon. members will have an opportunity to see whether it is clear on that point, but I hope I have indicated the purpose of the amendment. I think it is fair, and fully protects the position of the Canadian tax structure.


That is to say, they are to be treated on a basis of equality. What is the reason for the addition of the last clause, "dividends being presumed to be paid by the subsidiary company from profits most recently earned"? That was not covered in the hon. gentleman's explanation. Dividends may be paid out of the most recently earned profits, or they may be paid out of surplus or in any other legal way.


That is in order to determine what effective rate of tax those dividends actually paid in the foreign country.


In the
United States.


Or any other country.


That will be made clear in the bill, I presume?


Yes, it will.


I feel that the amendment which has been proposed in an improvement on the original resolution, so it may be that my protest the other evening was not in vain. However, it does strike me that further thought might be given to the matter, and I still feel that it would be of value to us to have figures such as I suggested earlier. The question that arises in my mind as I look over the amended resolution is this. Are these deductions, since they are in lump sum amounts, going to achieve the purpose when the parliamentary assistant tries to make a comparison between income tax rates in Can-

Income War I'ax
ada and income tax rates in another country? It seems to me it might be possible for this lump sum deduction in lieu of taxes paid in another country to put a company out of line as far as the actual rates are concerned. The minister said the intention of this amendment was to make sure that no company would obtain any undue advantage through a lesser tax rate in another country. It strikes me that this phase of the matter might be looked into more thoroughly. Another point I would like to suggest is this. The parliamentary assistant defends this proposal to provide some relief in taxation to companies of this class on the ground that they are now subject to triple taxation and therefore deserve some relief. Just to call it triple taxation does not settle the case; I still feel we should have the figures. As a matter of fact earlier in the budget debate, when the Minister of Finance felt that he had caught the critic of the official opposition proposing the elimination of double taxation, he launched into quite an attack upon that position, and rightly so, saying that now, in time of war, was not the time to make any such change.


That is another principle, of course.


The principle the minister was proposing was that in time of war unnecessary relief of that kind should1 not be provided. These companies have been getting along all right. I quoted a particular example the other night, namely the aluminum interests. They are getting along quite well, piling up profits in their Canadian balance sheet despite existing taxation, so that I do not feel that the parliamentary assistant has a case here, unless he will give us the figures to show what it amounts to.


My hon. friend will appreciate that the first point he raised is a technical matter which should and will be considered when the bill is drafted. Personally I am satisfied that the language of this resolution is adequate to protect the Canadian tax position, and1 that the only deduction which a Canadian parent company can make from its own tax liability will be a proportionate amount of the tax paid to the foreign jurisdiction with respect to dividends brought into Canada.


I just direct attention to the fact that the word "proportionate" does not appear in the resolution.


I know; but my hon. friend appreciates that this is really in the nature of a notice, and is drafted in general terms. The legislation will spell out, in perhaps more precise legal language, what is intended. My
hon. friend may examine the legislation closely and' see if it meets his point. As to the matter of triple taxation, there is no doubt that is what it is; and while of course there is the argument that our existing tax structure under which corporate profits are taxed once in the hands of the company and again in the hands of the shareholders is justifiable and certainly cannot be disturbed in war time, personally 'I do not believe that argument can be extended to triple taxation, that is that the same profits should be taxed three times, once by a foreign jurisdiction, again under the Canadian corporation income tax and again in the hands of the shareholders. That position is recognized with respect to individuals. If an individual or a partnership carries on business in Canada and in the United States, and is taxed in that country on his operations there, he is entitled to deduct from his Canadian tax liability the amount of tax he has had to pay in the United States, provided the rates are not higher than those in effect here. That principle will be extended by this proposed legislation to the wholly owned1 subsidiary company, but to that company only, and I suggest to the committee that it is an entirely equitable and justifiable proposal.


I think the hon. member has stated the position very clearly, that it is now the intention to treat wholly owned subsidiaries as individuals are . treated.


With respect to foreign
taxation.


With respect to foreign taxation. It is also abundantly clear from this discussion that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre not only approves of triple taxation but would like to see it extended. He approves of triple taxation. I wonder how we are going to provide that employment in the post-war period about which these gentlemen are talking with such loud mouths if we are to have triple taxation of industry in this country. Let us expose this hollow sham once and for all. You cannot have your cake and eat it too. You cannot have the state take one, two, three or perhaps more levies from industry and expect that there will be private employment and private enterprise in this country. That is the sort of thing which is driving this nation and other nations into the operation of industry by the state. If we want a corporate state in Canada operating industry, just follow the line of reasoning of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre and his colleagues. That is where we will arrive, and that is what I want the people of this country to under-
Income War Tax

stand as fully and as quickly as possible. If unfortunately the socialists in this country should dominate the political situation there will not be any private industry left in Canada ; and what applies to private industry applies to the nationalization of the chief resource of the country, that is, the farms. If it is good for industry it is good for the farmer, for the small storekeeper and every other class, and we will be regimented by gentlemen like the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. Not for me-


Eor democracy.


And not for democracy, if it is to function properly in Canada. I would like hon. members to realize just what these gentlemen actually mean when they apply it to a concrete case like this. Here is a position where one can understand right down to the ground what they mean.	[DOT]


Just a word on this point, although I think it is hardly necessary, because the hon. member for York-Sunbury really knows our position.


Well, it shifts every day, according to what electoral district you are in.


Oh, no; it does not.


Oh, yes; it does.


Our position has been the same as long as our party has been in existence, and we stand by it. Our position is that so long as you have a capitalist order of society it is necessary for the state to take from industry the wealth that the people create, but which gets into industry's hands in the first instance. It should be taken in the form of taxes, so that it can get to the people. But under a cooperative socialist form of society we believe in the people themselves, through their government, taking the initiative and setting up industry and business in such a way as to produce sufficient wealth for the wellbeing of the people.


I have one question to ask the parliamentary assistant. I think probably this question of triple taxation is getting out of proportion. So far as I know, each of those subsidiaries is a subsidiary of a large company which has control in its field. It does not matter whether they are taxed once, twice or three times. They are in a position to fix the prices of their own products, and in the final analysis it is the consuming public that pays, whether it pays in the form of higher prices or higher taxes. 
So far as that goes I think it is just a question of how they get the profits.


That is just my hon. friend's view; but it is hardly a basis upon which a logical tax structure could be arranged.


My point is that we are quibbling over something that does not make any radical difference. Is there apy reciprocal arrangement or agreement with the United States whereby the subsidiaries of the United States companies operating in Canada pay taxes to the Canadian government first and the residue to the government of the United States?


I am advised that there is. I believe there is a reciprocal agreement.


This resolution does not restrict it to the United States.


That is right; this does not restrict it to the United States.


Amendment agreed to.
Resolution as amended agreed to.
28.	That persons authorized by law to accept deposits he required to file information returns showing interest credited to depositors in 1944 and subsequent years.
What is the intention behind this resolution?


Does this include credit unions required to file a return, and information showing interest credited to depositors?


I have not seen the legislation yet, of course. It will be noted that the resolution refers to "persons authorized by law to accept deposits," and that they shall be required to file information returns showing interest credited to depositors. Obviously that covers banks; and if credit unions are persons authorized to receive deposits and pay interest on deposits, I suppose that would be taxable income-or I assume it would be. I do not know for sure whether it would be or not. In any case I understand this is to be an enabling provision, so that the minister may require institutions to do what is suggested.


As the resolution now reads, the minister is requiring everybody who is authorized by law to accept deposits to file these returns. I suggest that it be made much more to the point, so that persons accepting deposits will be required by law, when asked by the department, to file their returns. With all the banking institutions in the country, and the credit unions, there is an enormous number of accounts. Many of these would be small and would have the effect of cluttering up the department with returns. While I can

Income War Tax
see that the department would need to have a cheek, what I am trying to guard against is the filing of returns with respect to all these little savings accounts which would have no bearing at all on what the department has in mind.


That would be covered by the regulations in the income tax branch so that the records would not be cluttered up with small accounts. A limit would be placed upon what returns would be made.


There are many people who have accounts consisting of several hundred dollars. They would not come within the income tax bracket. We have here the possibility of an enormous number of returns being filed every year by institutions and persons authorized to accept deposits. If the depart- * ment asked that returns be filed in certain cases where required, the rest of the people would govern themselves accordingly and probably account for the interest they receive.


As I said a moment ago to the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, this is a resolution; it is not final legislation. It is intended to authorize enabling legislation giving the minister power to require the filing of returns. Regulations will be required, as the Minister of National Revenue has indicated, setting out what the returns will be.


The hon. member's remark would seem to indicate that the department has not now the authority to require banks to make returns of deposits, and the amount of interest paid on deposits. Is that correct? I would be surprised to hear that.


The department, of course, contends that it has the power.


Under what authority?


In virtue of the act. The law as it stands at present gives the Minister of National Revenue power to require information from anybody. Although I have not the section before me, I believe I have paraphrased it correctly.


It is a general power.


Yes. The department have taken the stand that they can exercise that with' respect to banks, in the case of individuals. But they have never exercised the power to require a general return of all of a class of depositors. It was felt it was desirable to have a special provision in the law which would enable the filing of those returns.


In other words, you are going to put on the banks the burden of making a general return, rather than on certain individuals.


Yes, if necessary.


It would save the department some labour by putting this responsibility on the banks.


No, it would not save the department labour. But the department would have no means of knowing whether a given individual might have a savings account on which he was getting one and a half per cent.
Mr. -HANSON- (York-Sunbury):	In his
income tax return the individual has to show what, if anything, he receives by way of interest on deposits.


And those returns have to be checked. The same applies to dividends. We have an information return with respect to dividends.


Do not corporations have to file with the department details of dividend payments?


Right.


Do you check one against the other and, if you feel there is anything wrong, go right into the books of the corporation? I suppose that that never occurs because every reputable corporation would make the correct returns. I am surprised to find that it is necessary to pass a law to grant this power, because I would have thought that the powers of inquisition-I do not use that word in any improper sense- already possessed by the department would be sufficiently wide. But if it is said they are not, then I have no objection to this. I merely rose to ask for information.


I understand there was some question of doubt.


Have the banks objected to giving this information?


They have not objected, and I think they would prefer to have legislation of this kind. As my hon. friend knows, the relations between banker and customer have always been considered confidential. They never give information except on a court order.


They want protection.


I think they would want to have the protection of a section of this kind.


Resolution agreed to.
Income War Tax
29.	That with the approval of the governor in council upon the recommendation of the Minister of Mines and Resources there be allowed a tax credit of fifty per centum of expenditures incurred by a corporation, asoeiation or syndicate or exploration partnership whose principal business is the production, refining or marketing of petroleum or the exploration or drilling for oil, on a well spudded in between June 26, 1944, and March 31, 1945, which proves to be unproductive, provided that such well is a deep-test well the drilling of which is deemed desirable in the interest of extending the petroleum resources of Canada and which could not reasonably have been expected to be undertaken without such tax credit.
Under this resolution a tax credit of fifty per cent is to be allowed on exploration work and drilling for oil. The section of the country from which I come contains a considerable natural gas industry. The Minister of National Revenue will know something about this because many homes in Hamilton are heated with gas. A good deal of exploration work is being done by this industry. Has consideration been given to extending this privilege to exploration work for natural gas as well as for oil?


Perhaps I can give a word of explanation as to the purpose of this section. As the minister said in his budget speech, the purpose of the resolution is as follows:
It is, I think, in the national interest that some -additional encouragement be offered to the Canadian oil industry to undertake the drilling of several deep-test wells in certain areas with a view to proving up significant, geological structures.
At present, as the committee is aware, tax credits are allowed in respect of unproductive wildcat wells. These tax credits are'equivalent to the -writing off of this expenditure as an expense in profit and loss account, The present provision is somewhat more generous in the benefits to be allowed. It should be emphasized that this special tax credit is allowed only in respect of projects approved by the governor in council upon the recommendation of the Minister of Mines and Resources, and will apply only in cases where it could not reasonably have been expected that the project would be undertaken without special assistance. In other words it is to encourage operators to drill in non-proven areas where our government geologists would like to see deep-test wells drilled in order to determine whether or not the area is oil bearing. For that reason, on projects approved by the Minister of Mines and Resources and authorized by order in council the special tax credit will be given. As the committee will appreciate, the effect of this will be that the oil explorer gambles fifty cents of his own 
money and the government says, "If you will do that, we will give you a tax credit of fifty cents on the dollar."


I would like to know why you do not give one hundred per cent on the cost of drilling oil wells that do not materialize. In the Dawson Creek area, in the Pouce Coupe area, in British Columbia, in the Peace River area in Alberta, in southwestern Saskatchewan, in northeastern Alberta south of the Saskatchewan -river, legitimate oil people have been drilling for oil. These wells cost up to $150,000 -and more. I observed these men working and I know the difficulties under which they labour. If oil were found it would be a wonderful thing for the country; why should we not allow all the cost of a well that does not produce anything?
The people I have in mind are not wildcatters; they are legitimate oil -producers. For instance, Imperial Oil of Turner Valley are operating. I do not know whether they would be entitled to consideration, but I did see a number of wells that had been drilled in the Turner valley and which have not produced anything. Why should not the producers of such wells be given some consideration in the way of taxation?
No country needs oil production more than Canada. We are producing now about 12,000,000 barrels a year and are using from 80,000,000 to 100,000,000 barrels a year, speaking from memory. Canada would be in jeopardy if her oil supplies from outside were cut off. While no doubt this fifty per cent allowance will be acceptable to the legitimate oil companies, I do not see why they should not be allowed one hundred per cent.


As my hon. friend is no doubt aware, the tax structure does allow substantial tax credits to companies drilling wildcat wells or for off-property drilling. Section 8, subsection 6, reads as follows:
A corporation whose principal business is the production and/or refining and/or marketing of petroleum and/or petroleum products shall be entitled in respect of the year of expenditure to deduct from the sum total of the income tax payable by it under this act and the tax payable under -the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940, (and if such sum -total of tax is not sufficient to provide therefor, to deduct any balance from the -tax of subsequent years) forty per centum of
(a)	all drilling costs incurred by it directly or indirectly on oil wells -spudded in during the period from the first day of January, 1943. to -the -thirty-first day of March, 1945, and abandoned within six months after completion of such drilling; and
(b)	all exploration costs, including -all general geological and geophysical expenses incurred by it:

Income TFar Tax
provided, however, that in the case of a corporation substantially all of whose income is subject to depletion under the provisions oi this act, the deduction to be allowed hereunder shall he twenty-six and two-thirds per centum of such costs instead of forty per centum.
As I indicated a moment ago, this is a special type of drilling, and the tax credit is granted because it is believed _ that these people would not engage in this type of drilling if they were not given special encouragement. But if we were to give them their entire costs it seems to me it would be pretty much a case of heads I win and tails you lose as far as the oil company was concerned. They would get a tax credit for the entire cost of drilling the well, and if anything should develop they would get the benefit. It is felt that while this is not excessive, it is a reasonable inducement to offer for a special type of drilling on projects which are approved by the Minister of Mines and Resources and authorized by order in council.


During my last visit to Turner valley I spent some time watching the drilling of a deep well. I have forgotten just how deep it was, but I know they were using a large-sized pipe, and it runs through my head that the operator told me the well would cost perhaps half a million dollars. Right there the question of tax allowance came up.
The Imperial Oil is a reputable company; there are other companies in Canada just as good, but none better. The parliamentary assistant spoke a moment ago about an allowance of fifty per cent being made, which would be sufficient perhaps to prevent unnecessary drilling. The Imperial Oil company, a corporation of that magnitude, with their experience, with the geologists and the equipment they have to enable them to ascertain whether oil is below, would not likely drill anywhere unless all the indications pointed to the presence of oil. They have put, I suppose, half a million dollars in the well which I saw-my recollection is that the well would cost about that-and if nothing comes out of it the Imperial Oil cannot make anything out of it, yet if the well should produce oil the whole of Canada would profit from it. I suggest the utmost consideration as far as taxation is concerned should be extended in a case of that kind.
I called to see another area out west of Nordegg. in northern Alberta, away west of Rocky Mountain House, on the north Saskatchewan river. There were a number of men with equipment drilling for oil. If they do not find oil there, of course the cost will be an investment cost to the Imperial Oil.
But there again it seems to me that in any honest-to-goodness effort to discover oil, consideration by way of tax relief should be given to any reputable company which makes a real effort in this direction. The Imperial Oil is a well-known company which has done a very great deal for this country.


This resolution proposes to give a tax credit to corporations, and I notice that the next one proposes that it shall be given in respect of strategic minerals. I wonder whether the minister has considered the possibility of regarding oil as a strategic mineral, in view of the great need for it which exists at the present time, and thus making it possible for tire individual investor under certain conditions to get a tax credit for the amount he contributes towards the drilling of an oil well.


This resolution, as my hon. friend will have seen, applies not only to corporations but to associations, syndicates or exploration partnerships.


But not to individuals?


But not to individuals. I do not know whether there are individuals engaging in these deep test wells, but the expenditure would be so considerable that it is unlikely, I should think, that any one man would do that. This benefit is available to partnerships for instance.


That is the money which is made by the partnership? Suppose a number of men group together and each contributes so many thousands of dollars to the drilling of a well, can each individual taxpayer get a tax credit in that case?


Well, under our taxation system, as the hon. member knows, we do not tax the syndicate or partnership as such. We tax the individual partners. So that the tax credit would be applied, I take it, by the individual partners in proportion to their interests in the syndicate or partnership.


Resolution agreed to.
30. That the tax credit allowed to a taxpayer of forty per centum of contributions made by him in the year 1943 to associations, syndicates or mining partnerships organized for the purpose of prospecting in Canada for base metals or strategic minerals be extended to include a tax credit in respect of contributions in the year 1944.
I think that the purpose of this clause is to extend to 1944 the assistance which was given in 1943; is not that so?


That is correct.

Income War Tax


But I do not think that that assistance was open to the prospector or to the individual who so frequently uses his money to grubstake a 'prospector. In the southern part of British Columbia those great rugged mountain areas have been worked over in the past by, shall I term- him, the old-fashioned prospector. But now, what with tuition by mining classes given by the provinces, another class of prospector has arisen who is capable of making use of modern experience and modern instruments, and there is a very great need for the whole of that area to be explored again by geological exploration. It is quite true that at the present time labour is scarce and that individuals are not so able to use their money for the purpose of grubstaking as they were; but the time will shortly arrive when there will be great opportunities of going back to the old method, so common in British Columbia, of individuals putting their money up to back a prospector.
Reference has already been made in this house to the words of advice given us by a member of the geological survey of Canada, drawing attention to the fact that not more than five per cent of the great north country is now properly geologically explored; drawing attention also to the fact that, of the great producing mines of to-day, hardly more than one of them have been discovered in this generation. So that our object should be to do everything we possibly can to further exploration, and for that purpose we need the prospector.
In the working over of the mountains in the southern part of my constituency mines have been discovered, most interesting prospects have been discovered. Copper is mined, platinum has been taken from the creeks, gold and silver are mined, and over a huge area there are valuable showings of lead and zinc. I want to keep going the old method, the old habit, of having the money of individuals used to back the prospector to work over that whole area again, in the hope that mines so far not discovered may yet be discovered. Will the parliamentary assistant tell us whether there is any possibility of extending this facility to the individual who risks his money in that way, not by investing it in a company whose business is prospecting, but investing it in a way which will enable the individual prospector to go out and do the work?


I am afraid there is very
little prospect of this being extended to the individual prospector. As my hon. friend will realize, in a sense this is a rather loose section; it is a straight tax credit to a contribution or

an investment which is made to a prospecting syndicate, association or partnership. That was pretty carefully considered last year when the section was originally brought in, and after consideration it was felt that, in view of the very loose nature of the section, of necessity it should not be extended to cover payments made the individual prospector. This resolution merely extends for another year the incentive legislation put in last year. I can bring my hon. friend's remarks to the attention of the minister, but frankly I feel there is little or no possibility of his being prepared to extend that concession.


But why was the section made so loose?


The looseness is not so much in the section as it is in the description of the groups to which a contribution may be made. My own view on this matter is this. I have always had rather serious doubts of the desirability of this legislation-as I say, this is only my personal view-because it gave a very great incentive to stock promoters to [DOT] organize these prospecting syndicates and sell shares on the basis of getting the tax deduction. But weighing one thing against another, the desirability of encouraging prospecting and so on, it was felt that this concession should be made. To extend it beyond registered or incorporated prospecting companies or syndicates to individuals was going further than the government felt it should. Perhaps that decision was wrong, but I do not think it is likely to be changed.


I crave the indulgence of the committee for a few moments while I discuss the subject before the chair in my capacity as an ordinary member. I have been greatly honoured by my appointment to the chair, and have fully enjoyed the cooperation that I have received from everyone. But as I represent a very populous and widespread constituency with diversified interests, and more particularly with gold mining as one of the predominant industries, I should like to say a few words on the item under discussion. I am entirely in agreement with the present resolution the purpose of which is to help base and other metals, but I am at a loss to understand why gold is not included.
I do not wish to precipitate a controversy over this subject, because my position rather precludes anything of the sort; but at times gold mining has been maligned, notwithstanding the fact that it has played a very important part in the economic life of the nation for at least the last thirty years. I am in a position to know what I am speaking about in this regard because I represent great pro-

Income War Tax
ducers in the Porcupine section and1 I am a neighbour to the Kirkland Lake section in Ontario on the one hand and the Noranda-Rouyn-Val d'Or district on the Quebec side, on the other. I have first-hand knowledge and personal experience of what has been accomplished by the gold mining industry throughout that district and of the contribution it has made to the national and particularly the economic life of the country.
It was certainly marvellous, during the depression, to see what was being done by those sections of the country to give full employment to Canadians. Not only did the miners themselves enjoy the benefit of the employment provided, but agriculture also benefited and the forest activities consequent upon gold mining were promoted.
We knew from the experience of 1914-1918 that gold mining would be a war victim, so that in the fall of 1939 and early in 1940 we anticipated what would follow. But when the government made an appeal to the industry for increased production in order to maintain the Canadian dollar and our balance of export trade with the United States, both the management and the miners themselves responded magnificently. Since those days, however, very grave things have happened and both the *management and the men have been willing to cooperate with the government to the fullest possible extent. They do not want hand-outs. They are anxious to play fair with the people and to pay their full share of taxation. They are not going to ask for favours from this government or from any provincial administration. All they want is fair consideration of their problems. Two years ago the town of Timmins, the whole of the Porcupine district including Schumacher, South Porcupine, the Kirkland Lake section and the Noranda district, sent a delegation here who presented a very able brief to the government, eloquently delivered by Mr. T. R. Langdon, urging the importance of maintaining at least a skeleton force to exploit the gold mining industry. They pointed out that if this were not done a great many people would suffer from the resulting lack of development, more particularly the municipal bodies. They pointed out further the excellent work carried on through the agency of these gold mining operations. They received a fine response from the Minister of Finance who was much impressed by the representations made, and many of the grievances complained of were remedied.
The mineral resources of Canada, generally speaking, belong to the provinces. It is true that outside the northwestern terirtory the mines in this country belong to the various provinces, but it must be remembered that 100-317i
ninety-one per cent of the taxation which they
pay goes to the federal treasury, and that fact alone must make the federal treasury realize that under such conditions certain anomalies-
I will not call them injustices-exist in connection with gold mining in some of the provinces. We must keep the record straight. The central government has responsibilities in this matter. If we plot the gross value of Canada's mineral production for, let us say, ten years back, and then project the curve let us say five years into the future, the trend will startle us, and I think it will be readily admitted that a drastic or radical charge could not be regarded as premature, as has been stated in the House of Commons. I am not discussing the question of the gold standard or of monetary systems, but I suggest that if we try to visualize the conditions that are to prevail in the future, we shall see that the gold standard will have to be maintained after the war, and for this reason Canada is in a fortunate position in that it is one of the large gold producing countries in the world. If gold mining has meant a great deal to Canada in the past, it will mean a great deal to the future of this dominion, and I am sure it will play an important part in the post-war period.
I have no quarrel with anything that is done to promote the development of base metals, but surely it should be found possible to include gold mining in any programme that is implemented by the federal government. New oil and gold mining companies were given a three-year tax exemption. On the surface this is a real concession, but when in practice it is discovered that during that three-year period it is necessary to write off depreciation and pre-development costs at a fixed rate per annum, the picture changes. In practice, experience has taught that the concession has no real or worth-while value. I leave that thought with hon. members to think over. I do not expect that drastic changes will be made at once, but I hope that these representations which I am now making will be taken into consideration.
It is true that last year the cost of outside exploration for base or strategic minerals was allowed as a deductible item, but such expenditures were limited to something like $5,000. This is a feeble and hesitating step in the right direction, but why limit it to base and strategic metals? Why not include gold? I am not theorizing on that score, because I have first-hand knowledge of the situation, and I have seen what it has meant to this country to have had gold mining operations in Canada. I know what it has meant to my own section of the country and to the rest
Income War Tax

of Canada. Those engaged in gold mining are willing now, as they have been in the past, to make a one hundred per cent contribution to the development of Canada and to its war effort, provincially and federally. But some people seem to think that mining operations can be enlarged or curtailed at will on short notice. There seems to be no understanding of the fact that it takes four or five years, frequently longer, to bring a gold prospect into profitable production, and that in order to obtain that one profitable development it is necessary to weed out a large number of losing ventures for which no provision is made in the mine tax structure. If we are to play any real part in providing post war employment, we may be somewhat late now in anything we do in connection with gold mining.
Many people regard gold mining as a sort of luscious bonanza. Some people seem to think it is like some fruit that grows in abundance and has only to be picked. Well, it may surprise the committee to learn that out of 4,500 ventures, only two per cent come to full development and that only one per cent of gold mining ventures have been paying dividends. It can readily be seen, when you take these facts into consideration, that gold mining presents us with a serious problem. It would be easy to single out one or two or three mines in my own constituency which are paying dividends, but I know of hundreds of mortalities among the new projects-ventures which never come to fruition at all. It is interesting to note the concern that is felt for the oil industry as well as for the base metals, which have their raison d'etre.
We must also realize that it is almost impossible to differentiate between gold mining and the mining industry generally under present conditions. Let us for one brief moment look at the mining industry generally, not gold mining only, which means so much to our national economy. We will take as an example the boot and shoe industry. No doubt there are different factors connected with that industry compared with mining generally, but the raw material is always easy to obtain in Canada, United States or Great Britain. We may send government agencies outside of Canada to sell the products of the boot and shoe industry. This industry has a large national market. You cannot apply the same principles to gold mining or mining generally, because it employs practically only two factors. The first is the size and grade of the ore deposits, and the other the cost of production. That applies more forcibly to gold mining than to any other mining in Canada, because in 
most cases they are mining a very low grade of ore indeed. This applies particularly to the old mines. No doubt a lot of new mines will come into operation after the war as they did when the United States increased the price of gold to $35 an ounce, if proper attention to its problems are given. The new price did much more than that; it gave a much longer life to some of the old producers that had been producing for a number of years.
As I say, the second factor is the cost of production. That must necessarily enter into gold mining as it does in any other kind of mining industry in this country. For industry generally there has been set up a standard profit based upon a fixed standard period. Anything over that standard profit is subject to a so-called hundred per cent excess profits tax, but for industry other than gold mining any profits equal to-and I wish the committee to pay particular attention to this-or less than the computed standard profits are not subject to the hundred per cent excess profits tax.
To encourage gold production in the early stages of the war, the gold mines, you will remember, were urged to increase gold production by every possible means. Hon. memb