Bill No. 157, for the relief of Everett Roy Clow.-Mr. Douglas.
Bill No. 15S, for the relief of Elmore MacLean MacKay.-Mr. Douglas.
GENERAL DE GAULLE On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the house will 100-282
be interested to learn that General de Gaulle has accepted the invitation of the government to visit Ottawa- It is expected that he will be here in about a week's time, for a brief stay immediately following his visit to the United States. In view of the great interest which will be aroused here by the presence of this distinguished French leader, arrangements will be made, with his consent, for General de Gaulle to appear publicly on parliament hill before the proceedings of parliament open on the day he happens to be here. Details of the arrangements will be announced as soon as possible.


May I thank the Prime Minister for informing the house as to the arrangements made for General de Gaulle's visit. As the Prime Minister will recall, I made inquiry on an earlier occasion and my right hon. friend was good enough to say that he would give the information as soon as possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, as this is Independence day in the United States, will the Prime Minister inform the house whether the government has made any move toward sending our felicitations and best wishes to the United States government.


Yes. As my hon. friend is aware, I received from the President a most cordial communication on Dominion day, and I have sent to him to-day on behalf of the Canadian people a communication which, I hope, may prove to be equally felicitous.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the acting Minister of Trade and Commerce, with respect to the hold-up or delay in the issue of cheques for participation certificates in respect of the sale of wheat. Would he explain what the situation is, and when it is expected this job may be completed?


I have not the information which would enable me at this time to answer the hon. member's question. I do know that

Housing Programme

a very considerable amount of work has been involved in getting these payments out. I shall make inquiries, and I may be able to give the hon. member a report to-morrow.


Read the report of'the committee on agriculture, where the question was asked and answered.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. LIGUORI LACOMBE (Laval-Two
Mountains) (Translation): I wish to ask the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. St. Laurent) a question. Has he received the medical report following the examination of Mr. Camillien Houde, together with the document he is supposed to have signed?
Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Minister of Justice) (Text): Mr. Speaker, the hon. member has inquired if I have received a report from the physicians concerning the physical condition of Mr. Camillien Houde, and if I have received a certain document he is supposed to have signed. I know of no document he is supposed to have signed, and I have not yet received any report from the medical men who, I understand, have made a physical examination of Mr. Houde. I inquired this morning, and no report had yet reached the Department of Justice.
May I suggest that this question might have been placed on the order paper. Any further questions along this line will certainly have to be so dealt with.


On the orders of the day:
On Friday of last week the hon. member for York West (Mr. Adamson) asked if a conference had taken place between Wartime Housing Limited and the Soldiers' Dependents' Society of Toronto, with regard to the building of one hundred units for soldiers' dependents. The answer is yes, and a contract has been entered into between Wartime Housing Limited and the city of Toronto for the construction of a certain number of these houses. Construction will proceed shortly.
The hon. member for Cumberland (Mr. Black) asked if any steps were being taken by the department to facilitate the sale of

wartime houses to war workers who are now occupying them. Thus far it has been the practice of the department to refuse to sell wartime houses under any circumstances, the reason being that these houses are considered necessary for essential war purposes. If there is to be a change in this practice it will be a matter of government policy which will be announced in due course.


Is the parliamentary
assistant yet in position to answer the question I propounded to him, I think either on Thursday or Friday, with respect to eviction or removal from wartime housing accommoda' tion of dependents of war workers who had enlisted.


I received the clipping from my hon. friend this morning only and I am not yet in position to make a reply. I will do so as soon as I can.


The position of the
soldiers' dependents is frequently desperate, and these houses are urgently needed.


The house resumed from Monday, July 3, consideration of the motion of Hon. J. L. Usley (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go , into committee of ways and means, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Rowe.
Mr. KARL K. HOMUTH (Waterloo South): Mr. Speaker, there is an old adage that chickens will come home to roost. Considered in relation to the problems with which this government is faced, perhaps no truer statement was ever made. Some of these old ghostly, moulting and non-productive chickens are coming home to the Liberal government hencoop. Their condition is such that they threaten to destroy the whole flock. It is with some of those chickens that I wish to deal to-day, because they have cost and are costing the Dominion of Canada millions of dollars.
As I sit in the house I often wonder what passes through the mind of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie Rung) as he sits gazing around the house and counting the number of parties therein. I look back a few years when the Prime Minister stood in his place in this house, pointed to the third party which then existed and asked, "Who is responsible for that?" He said, "The Conservative party is responsible. Why are they responsible?" The reply was, "Because they have brought so

The Budget-Mr. Homuth
much discontent into the country, they have caused so much disunity that the malcontents have formed a party of their own."
I look over the house to-day and count the number of parties. It is a goodly number. First, we have the Progressive Conservative party. I name that party first because when the election is over it will be first. Second, we have the Cooperative Commonwealth Federation party. Then we have the Social Credit party. Then we have the unity party; then the Bloc Populaire party; then the Two Mountains party. Then we have the Liberal party divided into three parts. On the one hand we have the party of the hon. member for Wentworth (Mr. Corman), the party to which he referred in his speech in Hamilton as the "dead guinea pig party." Then we have the party of the hon. member for Hamilton East (Mr. Ross), which was referred to at the same meeting as the "nothing party." I would say that that is the largest group in the Liberal party. Then of course we have the official Liberal party, which is gradually dwindling.
This gives a true picture of the discontent, the disunity and the dissatisfaction that have grown up in this country during the last few years as a result of the administration given by the present government. It has been a government of bureaucrats, of orders in council, a government which in spite of its promises has neglected to take labour, farmer and other appreciable groups in this country into its confidence in order to discuss their problems with them.
I intend to-day to deal particularly with the income tax and manpower policies. There are many inequalities in the income tax act. If there is one act on the statute book that should be ironclad, that should not be subject in any way to the likes or dislikes of some administrator, that should not be subject to appeal by some member on behalf of a taxpayer, it is the income tax act. When the hon. member for Dufferin-Simcoe (Mr. Rowe) was speaking in the house the other day he referred to the tax on farmers, and the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Gibson) said that they were allowed to spread this over five years.
There is nothing in the statute which permits the government to do that, but apparently they can do it if the officials wish to do it. In other words, there is a law which permits the government to exercise its friendship or dislike in order to give to its friends a five-year spread, and to those it dislikes only one year. There are farmers who have had to pay it. Perhaps if they appeal to the department they may get that spread, but it should
not be necessary for a man to have to go to his member to have an appeal made on his behalf to the income tax department.
That is only where the
entire stock is being sold, a dispersal sale. It is not a case of distributing annual income over a period of years.


Quite right, but in some
cases it has been taxed and in other cases it has not. If there is one law, I say, that should be ironclad and not subject to the interpretation of departmental officials it is the income tax act.
There is another provision in the income tax act which I think is grossly unfair. I refer to the taxation of the various ministerial pension and relief funds. I believe appeals have been made to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Ilsley) with regard to this, but nothing has been done. They have been advised that when the money is paid out in the form of annuities it will not be taxed. It cannot be taxed because these old ministers who have put in years and years in the service of their churches will not receive sufficient as annuities to be taxed. These are some of the inequalities that exist under this act.
One matter which is perhaps causing the most concern is the income tax on industrial workers. We have had a peculiar set-up since the war began. There has been tremendous extravagance since the war began; millions of dollars have been wasted in the construction of army camps and other necessary buildings.


Necessary?


Oh, oh.


Millions of dollars were spent in the construction of plants to make munitions of war. Much money was wasted because men had to stand idle while plans and specifications were changed. The people of this country realize that that was necessary and they did not find fault. They knew we were at war and they were willing to make any necessary sacrifice. But as we went along we built up in many of these centres an average of wages that was far beyond the wages paid in other parts of the country. The average of wages around some of these military camps had reached such a level that if a man knew one end of a hammer from another he could get a job tacking tar paper on buildings at seventy to seventy-five cents an hour, witu double time on Sundays and time-and-a-half for overtime. Men left the farms to go into the towns and cities to earn these wages, and the result was that the whole industrial and agricultural economy in those districts was
44S0
The Budget-Mr. Homuth

disrupted. Then came the freezing of wages. Where men in one section were getting very high rates of pay, that was the rate at which wages were frozen in that section; where men in other sections were getting low wages, that was the rate at which wages were frozen there.
New plants were completed, but one thing more was needed-employees. We had a tremendous shortage of tool makers, machinists, skilled workers in all the different iron trades. The men in these trades were willing to work long, hard hours; they were willing to work overtime; they were willing to do anything in the war effort, because they felt it was part of their job. Then some bright mind in the Department of Finance or within the ranks of the government conceived of the income tax as now applied to industrial workers. First there was the national defence tax. That was done away with and a straight income tax was imposed instead. Who are the bright minds in the department who know anything about industry? Who are the men in the cabinet who know anything about industry? You have a couple of men there who used to be farmers, you have some lawyers and you have some business brokers, but you have only one man in the cabinet who knew anything about industry and that was the Minister of Labour (Mr. Mitchell) himself. He did know industry; he did know labour; he did know the conditions under which labour works. When he was first appointed to the cabinet I felt, and I believe the feeling was general across this country, that at last the government of the day was extending itself to the point of taking into the cabinet someone who was was nonpartisan, who was not of the Liberal party, because of the knowledge that he had of the department over which he was presiding. I remember meeting him on.e morning in Toronto on his way to his by-election campaign in Welland. I congratulated him upon his appointment. I suggested to him that he had the confidence of the people of this country and of labour particularly. I think perhaps I have known the Minister of Labour longer than any other man in this house, but in [DOT]congratulating him I said this: "I believe you can do a job in that department if you are permitted to do it, but I am afraid that your job will be predicated not upon the needs of labour or of industry or of production in this country, but rather upon political expediency." I think, Mr. Speaker, that that is what has happened, because I cannot conceive of the Minister of Labour sitting in a cabinet and agreeing to the enactment of an income tax act the effect of which could only be to cause absenteeism in industry.

We have a tremendous labour shortage in this country. We go to men and appeal to them to work overtime. But the Canadian people have learned how to work out the income tax. The Canadian people cannot be fooled. The Canadian worker sits down and figures out that if he works on Saturday afternoon over and above his regular time he gets very little extra pay for it because of the income tax; if he works overtime he gets very little pay for it.
Then the appeal went out to women to work in industry, married women who could get away from their homes. Come into industry- we need you. That was the appeal, and the women came. Some will say that they came for the money. I know many of them who came into industry and who had sons overseas. They came in-why? Because they felt they could do a job, because they felt it was their duty to come into industry and produce the things that were so necessary in the carrying on of this War. They came in, and what happened? As soon as they started to earn money the whole tax structure in that home changed. Immediately these women were penalized for going out and doing a necessary war job. Is it any wonder that we say now, and I have always contended this, that any extra pay for overtime should not be taxed, that we should sit down and work out a system of taxation that will bear less heavily on the industrial worker so that we may get longer hours of work and greater production, and at the same time bring more money into the treasury?
On June 19 a meeting was called in the city of Toronto by one of the officers of the wartime prices and trade board. The heads of industry of western Ontario were invited to attend. I went there. Evidently a very large gathering was not expected because the first thing they knew there were between four and five hundred men at the meeting, and they had to hurry out and grab more chairs until the ballroom of the Royal York was filled to capacity. Who were the four or five hundred men who attended that meeting? They were men who were operating industry in western Ontario. They were men who knew all about industrial headaches. They were men who knew all about the troubles of industry in getting production, in keeping the lines working, in keeping the machines busy. These men came to that meeting because they felt that they would have an opportunity to discuss their problems. They were men who knew the headaches of absenteeism and could do nothing about it.

The Budget-Mr. tlomuth
We went into the meeting and were handed the agenda. The agenda provided for a speech from one gentleman from . selective service. It provided also for a speech from a gentleman from the Department of Labour, and then it provided for the showing of a motion picture. At the bottom of the agenda it said: "No discussion will be permitted, but if you have anything to discuss there are a large number of men here from the Department at Ottawa and you can sit down privately and discuss those matters with them." Five hundred men had given up their time and money-


I would like to know
the name of the man who said that.


Go and look at the agenda. It says right on the agenda: "No discussion will be permitted."


Whose agenda was it?


The agenda was drawn up by the wartime prices and trade board, who called the meeting.


My hon. friend said
selective service.


Pardon me; I did not.


Yes, you did.


I said that a man was there from the selective service to make a speech. My little friend from Vancouver Centre will please keep quiet-I mean little mentally.


It would be better if you did too.


I said that a speaker from selective service spoke at the meeting.


You got mixed up in your thoughts.


You got mixed up in your agenda. Who wrote the agenda?


A Mr. Mackenzie and, I think, a Mr. Hooker.


My hon. friend is trying to be too clever.


I do not have to take any lessons from the Minister of Labour as to truthfulness; let me tell him that. I have known him too long.


You might be mistaken.


This meeting was called, as I say-


By whom?


These men came there in the hope that they could discuss these problems, that as a result of the knowledge thus gained they could send recommendations back to the government, and that the government would then benefit by the advice of perhaps the most representative group of men who could be gathered together at any time in any part of this country. Instead of that, no discussion was permitted, until in the afternoon groups gathered again. There was no general discussion; little groups gathered here and there, but these men could do nothing, they could not take recommendations back to this government. Why? The speeches they made were fine and were well delivered, but they dealt with things which we in industry have known for years and which most industries have put into practice. The advice they gave would have been excellent four or five years ago, but now is not the time to tell the industrialists of western Ontario how to do these things. These men simply came to tell us, without discussion, what to do. They had no cure for such industrial ills as absenteeism. Everything that was done had to be predicated on government policy. When these various laws which deal with industrial workers were being drawn up, how often were the heads of labour and of industry invited to take part in the discussions? I venture to say that if the government had selected any six men from the employers' group and any six representatives of labour that day they could have sat down and worked out income tax provisions covering industrial workers which would have brought the government more money, would have given us greater production because it would have led to more work, and would have borne less heavily on the people who pay the taxes. Instead of that course being taken, recourse is had to so-called experts, college graduates, economists and so on, men who have no idea whatever of the headaches which industry experiences in trying to maintain production. Now-


The hon. member snould read his speech.


One thing I will say about the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) is that he, like myself, has never read a speech in this chamber. Perhaps it would be better if we did.
Another of the headaches of industrial workers is in the making out of income tax forms. I do not know of any official requirement which has caused them more concern.
The Budget-Mr. Homuth

Year after year they are told that a simplified form will be provided, but when the form comes out it is more of a mystic maze than ever. I believe that an easier and better way of collecting income tax could be devised for our industrial workers. Many who since the war began have been forced to make out income tax forms never before had to deal with government, and when the order was issued that on such a day the return must be in, they were worried and bothered. The same trouble occurred in the United States, so that recently they simplified the collection of income tax from those who pay on an income of $5,000 or less per year. In the Monetary Times of July, 1944, is an article on the tax simplification measure which has been passed by the United States Congress. I quote a clause on page 73 which I think is interesting and to which the government could well give attention with a view of trying to work out some such system here:
It is in the handling of taxes on wages and salaries the greatest simplification has taken .place. An individual earning up to $5,000 a year, with $100 from other sources allowed, will have his total tax withheld at the source of income. He will be permitted to claim a flat deduction of 10 per cent to cover donations to churches, charities, et cetera. At the end of the year he will receive from his employer a statement showing his total earnings and the .amount of tax deducted. The individual will 3>ut down on this paper his marital status and 'dependents and whether he had earnings from other sources. Total income and tax deductions will be set out. The statement will be sent to the treasury department and the officials there will do the calculating. If he owes the government additional taxes he will be billed in thirty days. If too much has been deducted be will get a refund.
Now that compulsory savings has been done away with it may be much easier to simplify the income tax return, because taxpayers will not have to cite their various insurance policies and so on. If there is one object at which the Department of National Revenue should aim, it is the simplification of these returns. At the present time they are a headache to the people who have to fill them out, and also to every branch of industry, because office staffs are kept busy making out returns for their employees.
Let us deal for a moment with the question of compulsory savings. In his budget speech the other day the Minister of Finance said that the decision not to continue compulsory savings would be a great boon to industrial workers and others, and he pointed out that there would be more money in the pay envelope. It looked to me like a subtle attempt to bribe the industrial workers of this country with their own money. If he wished to do

something effective he should have reduced the income tax rate, and then the compulsory savings could easily have been kept going. But the workmen in the factories are not going to be misled into supposing that they are getting something from this government; all that has been conceded to them is money which they would have eventually received any way. What they are interested in, and the one thing they are interested in, is the rate of income tax. In supporting the amendment of the hon. member for Dufferin-Simcoe (Mr. Rowe), I express the opinion that every hon. member who represents an industrial riding believes as we do, that there should be an exemption at the very least up to these amounts, and that in that way we would be. able to encourage our industrial workers to work more hours and get much greater production.
Here we have a cry going up from the Department of Munitions and Supply for thousands more men to go into the shell factories and the shell filling plants because it is found suddenly that there is a greater need for shells than was anticipated. Well, where were they going to get these men? At the same time, the selective service was calling men from the farms and factories, and so these men were removed from one industry to another with the result that the whole industrial picture of the country was disorganized, until to-day industries that are working on necessary military production have in many instances reduced production by fifteen, twenty, and twenty-five per cent. If there is one thing that has caused disorganization it is the manner in which the whole man-power policy has been handled.
I realize apparently men are needed for the army-not from anything in particular that the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Ralston) has told us in the house as to requirements for the army, but certainly his officers who go from one end of the country to the other, and the advertisements that have appeared in the newspapers of the country, which must cost a very considerable sum of money, have made it known only too well how badly men are needed for reinforcements for overseas. Yet at the same time we keep calling men from the farms and from necessary industrial jobs and sending them into this home defence amiy. I do not think the people of Canada will ever forgive this government for the way in which they have handled the whole man-power situation.


We are not calling men from the farms.

The Budget-Mr. Homutli


You are calling men from the farms.


We are not.


Go and talk to some of your selective service boards across the country as to whether you are calling men from the farms. In spite of the promise made on more than one occasion that men in the army could get relief for seeding and harvest, you cannot get it.


That is a different thing altogether. My hon. friend said that we were calling men from the farms, and I say we are not.


I have evidence of it.


The hon. member cannot see the forest for the trees. If he were out in the Styx once in a while instead of living here in Ottawa he would get some idea of what is going on in the country.


The Styx of Waterloo South?


There are a few sticks there and they are pretty good sticks too. I say that these men are being called into this army out of industry and from the farms. The whole man-power policy has been wrong from the very start. First we had a month of training, and then four months, and then training for the duration, but only within Canada, and that was extended beyond the Canadian shores. Now we have these men being called from the farms. What has been the idea? Efforts have been made, even under the four-months training plan, to shame and humiliate men to go active. The Minister of National Defence has at times suggested that he. had no knowledge of that, that that was not so. Ask the Minister of Agriculture if it is true. Ask him what men told him at a meeting in Waterloo county a couple of years ago as to what was going on in military camps, trying to humiliate men to go active. Ask the hon. member for Waterloo North (Mr. Breithaupt), who knows the story. Ask the hon. member for Lambton West (Mr. Gray). He knows about it. Ask other hon. members of the house. Was there anything more disgusting in connection with our whole man-power situation than when the order came through the department saying that young men of 18i years were to be called, and the next day, in every newspaper across the country, there appeared large advertisements saying, "You are going to be called at 18^ years; why don't you join now
and choose what service you want to go into?" Imagine saying this to young men under the age of 18i years. That has been the story of the whole man-power situation. It is a serious situation. If these men are not needed for overseas there is only one place for them, and that is back on the farms and in industry. If they are needed for overseas service, they should be told so. They ought to know what is ahead of them. Let us be honest with them and let us say to them just what their position in the country is.
I have only a few moments left, but I did want to deal for a few minutes with the question of family allowances. I will say this, Mr. Speaker, that if there is one thing that labour wants to watch it is the hand-out it is being given supposedly by this government that is in power. Labour wants to watch them as closely as it possibly can. It wants to watch the hand-outs it is getting from thi3 group that forms the government of the country. Why? Because, when you start to subsidize industrial wages-


Order.


Go ahead.


When you start to subsidize industrial wages out of the treasury of the country by passing certain paternal legislation which is going to give money to people, then I say that labour is in a very dangerous position, because on that day you lower the whole trend of labour in the country. That day you put labour in the position where its wages will be based on-what? On requirements? On output? On the job they are doing? No; it will be based on money that is coming into their homes. One of the most important things for labour is to watch this tendency, and that is why organized labour throughout the country has protested against this paternalism. It has protested against it because labour knows what it is going to mean. I say to labour, be very careful of these gentlemen who bring gifts to you; because, in my experience in this house in the last four years, since the election of 1940, regardless of all promises-


Order.


I have seen-


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, yesterday of your own motion, as reported at page 4443 of Hansard, you stopped me from discussing the question of family allowances.


I did not say family allowances.
The Budget-Mr. Homuth


Yes, you did. You are discussing that.


He is discussing the tariff.


I suggest that he is discussing family allowances as much as I was, and the same rule should apply to him.


I did not understand that the hon. gentleman intended to speak of family allowances.


I was not speaking of family allowances, and I have never been as much out of order as the hon. gentleman.


What are you talking about, then?	.


I do say that labour must be careful, because in spite of the promises that no matter what board was set up, where labour was interested labour would be consulted, labour would have a say, labour would have something to do with initiating such legislation, or orders in council-in spite of the promises, that has not been the case. What is the situation with regard to all the boards on which labour was to be represented? It is this. Government policy had been laid down and these men could agree with it or not; it was government policy anyway. That is the whole picture all the way through; otherwise we would not have had these difficulties with labour in the first place.


Ah!


My hon. friend says "Ah!" Well, after the next election he will not be able to say it in this house.


I regret to inform the hon. member that his time has expired.


I have been watching the clock closely, Mr. Speaker, and I believe I have one minute left. I did want to say something about the hon, gentlemen to my left. I have not time to do that now, which I am sure will please hon. members. However, there is some satisfaction in knowing that now they feel they have a Moses who is going to lead them to the promised land. I checked up on what Moses really did, and found that it took him forty years and then he never got to the promised land, so that we are fairly safe. After the next election, when we come into power, we will bring the Canadian people to ' the promised land without any particular Moses.


In listening to the sort of appeal we heard from the last speaker (Mr. Homuth) I hope the people will not conjure up the kind of promised

land we had in this dominion after the election of 1930. It would seem to me, Mr. Speaker, that there are many reasons for believing that the people of Canada have not forgotten the attempt of a Conservative government to cure a national depression with an appropriation of $20,000,000. As I read the election returns it seems to me the people have not forgotten the kind of plutocracy that was established when the privately-owned plutocratic monopoly of the Bank of Canada was established by a Tory administration. If that is the kind of promised land Progressive Toryism has to offer, I think it is the kind of promised land the people of Canada will be glad to wander in the wilderness for at least forty years to avoid.
I do not want to get into the bickerings of party politics to-day, Mr. Speaker. I want to deal with what has been to me, during my experience in parliament, the most important and far-reaching of all its institutions, namely, the budget. I think every hon. member will agree that the growth and distribution of wealth, not the persistence of poverty, must provide the true way to a more useful life, a greater regard for order, and that love of independence which alone can assure a greater and more enduring freedom. You know, sir, that we of the British race have always prized freedom above everything else. Our whole constitution was born of the revolution inspired by a hatred of autocracy and a love of freedom; and in the armies of liberty that have marched down the ages of our civilization we have built an empire, the greatest force in our modern world, upon the foundations of freedom. To-day our great leaders meet and propound the issues as we see them in this conflict, as centering around four great freedoms. But I want to come to that great freedom which is involved in the budget.
As a young man I started out in life with a fear of debt. I made up my mind there would never be a mortgage on my home. While that home was very modest, I achieved my aim; but I completely overlooked three things. I forgot that there was a crowd up in my city hall; I forgot that there was another group of fellows in the provincial legislature, and that there was still another galaxy down in my national parliament, all conspiring together to make a mockery of my ideal of having a home without a mortgage. My city fathers succeeded to the extent of putting a billion dollars on it; my provincial legislators put on another two billion and my national parliament already has added another thirteen billion.


How much did you put on when you were mayor of Vancouver?

The Budget-Mr. McGeer


I reduced the debt; I borrowed the only money ever borrowed by the city of Vancouver at three per cent; I built the best and cheapest city hall in the British empire, and still found time to come down here and try to put you right as leader of the Tory party.
I should like to draw the attention of the Liberal members of this house to a passage which I studied many long years ago. I thought then and still believe it is a splendid conception of the economics of industry and humanity. It was written by a man who had been minister of labour in Canada and who is now, next to Winston Churchill, one of the most distinguished prime ministers in the British empire-the Right Hon. W. L. Mackenzie King. Listen to what he says about debt:
Workmen's compensation, sickness and invalidity insurance, widows' pensions, maternity and infant benefits, recognize wherein personal relationships in industry have changed, and where as a consequence of new conditions permanent handicaps arise. The social legislation of which these measures are an expression rejects, as unworthy, the thought that men and women voluntarily incur accident, sickness, disease, enfeebled health or dependence in distress, any more than they willingly seek enslavement of any kind. It recognizes the difficulty of differentiating between industrial accident and occupational disease, and between disease occasioned by occupation or its environments and illness otherwise contracted; also the impossibility of dissociating from economic conditions the social waste caused by excessive and preventable illness. It seems that debt binds health as it binds freedom.
These are letters that should be written high in the mind of every Liberal in Canada- "it seems that debt binds health as it binds freedom." Mark that statement, with the debt load being developed in the Dominion of Canada under the leadership of the Prime Minister who wrote those words. It was not surprising that a man acknowledging and declaring as a principle that debt binds health and freedom should in parliament, at a later date, when the question of the supremacy and enthronement of plutocracy by toryism was the issue of the day, should declare:
As I said the other evening, once a nation parts with the control of its currency and credit, it matters not who makes the nation's laws. Usury, once in control, will wreck any nation. Until the control of the issue of currency and credit is restored to government

And not merely restored, Mr. Speaker.
-and recognized as its most conspicuous and sacred responsibility, all talk of the sovereignty of parliament and of democracy is idle and futile. Those are strong words, they constitute a strong argument, and they are words which this house ought to take full account of before it is too late.
Now I come to our situation to-day.


To the apostasy.


I come, not to the idle twittering and chattering of the hon. member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Hanson) who laughs
at a nation in a great crisis-


Oh, no; I am laughing at the apostasy of your own leader.


You are laughing and sneering as a nation passes through its most dire situation.	*


Not at all.


And faces its most difficult problems.


Not at all.


If you feel that it is time for laughing and sneering, then it is your privilege; but, Mr. Speaker, I ask you to direct the hon. member to keep quiet while I have the floor, because I have no facility for speaking in choruses, much less in choruses with him. It may be a matter of laughter; it may be a matter of jeers and sneers, but it was not so-


And abuse.


It was not so in 1939. Now, Mr. Speaker, I am fairly tolerant on the floor of the house; but I must ask that that remark be withdrawn.


I did not hear it.


He referred to abuse. I never offered him any abuse.


No? You don't do anything else but abuse people who do not agree with you.


I would ask hon. members who wish to interrupt the hon. member who has the floor, to address the Chair and to ask permission.


I apologize, Mr. Speaker.


No.


Well, I am not so sure
that we can dismiss one who was taken out of retirement and placed in charge of the nation's finances by the Liberal government of 1936 and kept there until the appalling strain of the policy he was following forced his health to collapse. I do not believe we can dismiss the conclusions of one so understandingly skilled in all the practices of orthodox finance, without first giving them some grave consideration.
The point I want to bring to your consideration is this. We lifted our debt from four hundred million in 1914 to two thousand million in 1920, to three thousand million in 1930 and in 1940 to roughly four thousand million dollars. Under a load of less than $4 billion the economy of Canada collapsed because this nation was unable to meet its uncontrollable obligations and to finance the needs of the growing and expanding nation. Because of that the whole nation collapsed with millions of jobs to be done in every part of the Dominion of Canada, and hundreds of thousands of people wholly unemployed or only partly employed, and the whole standard of living collapsing and deteriorating in the midst of abundance. Now, what happened in the last four years? I quote from the report of the Bank of Canada, which states that the net debt outstanding as at August 31, 1939, when war was declared, was $4,693,000,000; as at December 31, 1943, it was $11,302,000,000.
That is not the end. We come now to this budget and you must add to that $11,302,000,000, another $3,200,000,000 for the coming year, making a total debt on the presently known factors at the end of the present fiscal year of $14,502,000,000. If the former minister of finance, who expressed a devout wish for a balanced budget and the reduction of taxes, was unable to sustain the economy of Canada from 1936 to 1939, tell me how under orthodox finance the minister of finance who must carry the burden in the post-war years is going to carry, how much?-$14,500,000,000? It will be much greater, Mr. Speaker, than that. The course of this war will be the same as the last war. It will come to an end, as all wars do, and there will be a period of demobilization following this war which will be much more expensive than that which followed the last. There will be a vast programme of rehabilitation much more expensive than the last one. If this war follows the same course as the last war; if demobilization finances follow likewise, we can look forward under the present system to binding the health and freedom of our people with a load of interestbearing debt that will total something over

The Budget-Mr. McGeer
$20 billion. I do not think there are many who can take much comfort from that. A nation is just like an individual. The day comes when the load of debt becomes an intolerable strain and then something breaks. The governor of the Bank of Canada warned this government and this parliament of that danger when he said:
I do not wish to suggest that public debt could *be increased at the present rate for an indefinite period without placing an intolerable strain on our economy.
When is the time when that intolerable strain is going to be placed on our economy? I suggest to the government that the time of that intolerable strain is already here. The people of this country are in revolt against a system of finance being maintained in the nation which leaves no outlook for the creation and distribution of wealth. Where the hobbling, hindering features of unpayable debt and unpayable charges for interest go on as the inevitable fate, not only of this generation or the third and fourth generation but of all generations yet unborn.
If men resign themselves to the fate of debt; if men will assume that there is no other way of financing a democratic government or the progress of civilization than by accumulating a pyramid of debt, then the day when disaster will overtake us is inevitable. No freedom-loving people are going to submit to a system that piles up an increasing load of debt, that binds their health and their freedom.
I say that you are not living under a democracy to-day, but you are seeing a plutocracy, blind, indifferent and subservient to the rules of its own creation, a -plutocracy committing suicide by its own unwise and demoded methods. I am going to suggest to this government that the day has come when a complete revision of our monetary system as far as public finance is concerned is overdue.
I believe we should1 have in Canada a great conference betwen the federal government, the provincial governments and the municipal governments where a national programme could be defined upon which the people of Canada could and would unite. I believe that the first fundamental of the work of that conference should be an appreciation of the need of a redistribution of the responsibilities and powers of our respective departments of government. Our parliament has neglected its responsibility to the junior branches of government ever since it came into being in 1867. It is always assumed that it could' shoulder on to the provincial and municipal governments the direct needs of the people, the care of their health, the care of their education, the building of their local roads, the maintenance of their local institutions; and it left them to carry on that tremendous responsibility, not with wide powers of taxation, but only with the powers of direct taxation. The federal authority reserves to itself the power to do the general things and to use all the powers of taxation, to glean its revenues in the easy way from the sources of indirect taxation. What is the result to-day? The standard of living in our cities in Canada, the standard of living conditions throughout our provinces, even the maintenance of our present order, our educational system and our whole system of government, are far below what they should and could be in a Canadian civilization. I may be wrong about the possibility of improving that standard of living, but other men greater than I have assumed that that is one of the responsibilities that fall to our lot.
As this war comes to a close, may I quote a great man from South Africa, Field Marshal Jan Christian Smuts, who, speaking to the British House of Lords and the British House of Commons, said this:
I feel that in this vast suffering through which our race is passing we are being carried to a deeper sense of social realities. We are passing beyond the ordinary politics and political shibboleths.
It is no longer a case of -socialism or communism or any of the other isms of the market place, but of achieving common justice and fair play for all. People are searching their own souls for the causes which have brought us bo this pass.
May it be our privilege to see that this suffering, this travail and search of man's spirit shall not be in vain.
Without feeding on illusions, without nursing the impossible, there is yet much in the common life of the -people which can be remedied, much unnecessary inequality and privilege to be levelled away, much common sense opportunity to be erected as the common birthright and public -atmosphere for -all to enjoy as of right.
Health, housing, education, decent social amenities, provision against avoidable insecurities-all these simple goods and much more can be provided for all, and thus a common higher level of life be achieved for all.
A-s between the nations, a new spirit of human solidarity can be cultivated, and economic conditions can be -built up which will strike the root causes of war, and thus lay deeper foundations for world peace. With honesty and sincerity on our part it is possible to make basic reforms -both for national and international life which will give mankind a new chance of survival and of progress.
Let this programme, by no means too ambitious, -be our task, and let us now already, ev*n in the midst of war, begin to prepare for it. And may Heaven's blessing rest on our work in war and in peace.
Do you think for one moment, Mr. Speaker, that going ahead under this policy of pluto-
The Budget-Mr. McGcer

cratic power, pyramiding billions upon billions of interest-bearing debt, the dream offered in 1942 by the Prime Minister of South Africa to the British House of Lords and the British House of Commons can ever be achieved? Oh, I know it is hard to break away from securities that have long been relied upon. But no man in his senses, no man in his sane moments has ever assumed that for his well-being and the well-being of his own household the accumulation of a mountain of debt was a good thing. If it cannot be a good thing fof an individual, how can it be a good thing for a collection of individuals?-for that is what a' nation is.
We have established great reforms. We have cut the interest rate. We have provided the facilities for issuing an inexhaustible supply of medium of exchange in the form of bankers' debts, in the form of public debts. Let me put this to you, Mr. Speaker. The government has the power to issue money, and to-day Canada has adopted and is operating and is winning this war with a system of managed internal paper currency not secured by gold and having nothing for security behind it but the integrity of the government, the common sense of the people, and the going-concern activity of the nation. There is no other security. Yet what does the government do? It gives away to a private monopoly that power to issue money. It creates that private monopoly, bonuses it with Bank of Canada cash, and then goes bankrupt borrowing bookkeeping entries built up on Bank of Canada cash reserves. Yet although that is an undeniable fact, I heard the hon. Minister of Labour (Mr. Mitchell) the other day say: You cannot get something for nothing.


I still believe it.


You are not a banker. If you were, you would know better.


I still believe it.


I do not hope to convince you or anybody else tied to the present system. But I want to tell you that even though I have no hope of convincing the government, I know the day will come when I shall be glad that I had the privilege of standing alone and warning against the inevitable disasters that will come if this nonsense is not stopped. You say that if we issue money we are going to destroy the value of money. What do you think of the value of an investment in Canada's national debts as they were in 1939 now that you have flooded into the same investment pool another ten thousand million dollars or thereabouts? Do you think that this Dominion of Canada can 
carry a burden of fourteen thousand million dollars with the same ease with which it could carry four? Mind you, your banking monopoly stands not upon the security of gold but upon the security of the appallingly inflated debts which the Dominion of Canada has issued. I do not speak in criticism. I argued in 1934 for the establishment of a national bank and the issue of currency and credit in terms of public need, not private gain. I hoped that we would issue our own currency through the Bank of Canada to free the government from the binding force of unpayable debt. We have the opportunity to build the Dominion of Canada into a great,, vigorous, and powerful nation. We have the power to continue to be the linchpin between the United States and the British empire. We have a part to play in creating a new and a better standard of living, a new and better hope of the future by making Canada a nation, powerful, growing and expanding, the greatest overseas dominion in the British empire. We can do that, sir, when we move to 