Mr. Speaker, on March 6 I had the privilege of submitting to the house the names of almost five hundred members of the Canadian Army who had been awarded honours for deeds of gallantry in this war. With the unanimous permission of the house, these names were given a permanent record on Hansard. Among the names were two recipients of the Victoria Cross, Lieutenant-Colonel Cecil Merritt and Major Paul Triquet.
A few hours ago there was announced concurrently in the United Kingdom and in Canada that another officer of the Canadian Army has been awarded this highest honour for gallantry which can be conferred on a member of the armed forces by His Majesty the King. The recipient is Major John Keefer Mahony of New Westminster, British Columbia. His regiment is the Westminster Regiment (Motor). The award to Major Mahony is for great gallantry while leading his company in establishing and holding an important bridgehead across the river Melfa in Italy.
The citation appears in a special issue of the Canada Gazette published to-day, and I am sure the house would want it recorded in Hansard. The citation reads:
The King has been graciously pleased to approve the award of the Victoria Cross to: Major John Keefer Mahony,
The Westminster Regiment (Motor).
On the 24th May, 1944, a company of the Westminster Regiment (Motor) under the command of Major Mahony was ordered to establish the initial bridgehead across the river Melfa. The enemy still had strong forces of tanks, self-propelled guns and infantry holding defensive positions on the east side of the river. Despite this, Major Mahony personally led his company down to and across the river, being with the leading section.
Although the crossing was made in full view of and under heavy fire from enemy machine gun posts on the right rear and left front, he personally directed each section into its proper position on the west bank with the greatest coolness and confidence. The crossing was made and a small bridgehead was established on ground where it was only possible to dig shallow weapon pits. From 15.30 hours the company maintained itself in the face of enemy fire and attack until 20.30 hours when the remaining companies and supporting weapons were able to cross the river and reinforce them. The bridgehead was enclosed on three sides by an 88 mm. self-propelled gun four hundred and fifty yards to the right, a battery of four 2 cm.

Major Mahoney-Award oj Victoria Cross
anti-aircraft guns one hundred yards to the left, a spandau one hundred yards to the left of it, to the left of the spandau a second 88 mm. self-propelled gun and approximately a company of infantry with mortars and machine guns on the left of the 88 mm. From all these weapons Major Mahony'e company -was constantly under fire until it eventually succeeded in knocking out the self-propelled equipment and the infantry on the left flank.
Shortly after the bridgehead had been established the enemy counter-attacked with infantry supported iby "tanks and self-propelled guns. The counter-attack was beaten off by the company with its piats, 2-inch mortars and number 36 grenades, due to the skill with which Major Mahony had organized his defences.
With absolute fearlessness and disregard for his own safety, Major Mahony personally directed the fire of his piats throughout this action encouraging and exhorting his men. By this time the company strength had been reduced by sixty men, and all buit one of the platoon officers had been wounded. Scarcely an hour later enemy tanks formed up about five hundred yards in front of the bridgehead and in company with about a company of infantry launched a second counter-attack. Major Mahony, determined to hold the position at all costs, went from section to section with words of encouragement personally directing fire of mortars and other weapons. At one stage a section was pinned down in the open by accurate and intense machine gun fire. Major Mahony crawled forward to their position and by throwing number 77 smoke grenades, succeeded in extricating the section from its position with the loss of only one man. This counter-attack was finally beaten off with the destruction of three enemy self-propelled guns and one panther tank.
Early in the action Major Mahony was wounded in the head and twice in the leg, but he refused medical aid and continued to direct the defence of the bridgehead despite the fact that movement of any kind caused him extreme pain. It was only when the remaining companies of the regiment had crossed the river to support him that he allowed his wounds to be dressed and even then refused to be evacuated, staying instead with his company.
The forming and holding of a bridgehead across the river was vital to the whole Canadian corps action, and failure would have meant delay, a repetition of the attack, probably involving heavy losses in men, material and time and would 'have given the enemy a breathing space which might have broken the impetus of the corps' advance. Major Mahony, knowing this, never allowed the thought of failure or withdrawal to enter his mind and infused his spirit and determination into all his men. At the first sign of hesitation or faltering Major Mahony was there to encourage by his own example those who were feeling the strain of battle. The enemy perceived that this officer was the soul of the defence and consequently fired at him constantly with all weapons, from rifle to 88 mm. guns. Major Mahony completely ignored the enemy fire and with great courage and absolute disregard for personal danger commanded his company with such great confidence, energy and skill, that the enemy's efforts to destroy the bridgehead were all defeated.
The great courage shown by Major Mahony in this action will forever be an inspiration to his regiment and to the Canadian army.
I know, Mr. Speaker, that the house and the country will join very heartily in sincere congratulations to Major Mahony and to his family and to his regiment upon this worthy recognition of his superb soldierliness.


Mr. Speaker, on an occasion such as this a word of comment might properly be added to the congratulations which have been so eloquently paid to Major Mahony of the Westminster regiment. I am sure it is a matter of satisfaction and gratification to the province of British Columbia that two out of three of the Victoria Crosses which have been awarded to Canadians in this war have been awarded to men from the great coastal province. I would like to add the congratulations of His Majesty's Loyal Opposition to those which have been extended by the minister to Major Mahony and to his family and regiment.


Mr. Speaker, with the permission of the house may I rise on this occasion to pay homage to one of Canada's great fighting men, Major John Keefer Mahony? The story of his gallent service has just been made public. Major Mahony has brought honour not only to New Westminster and British Columbia, but to all of Canada as well.
Since war started three gallant Canadian soldiers have been awarded the Victoria Cross: Lieutenant Colonel Merritt, of Vancouver; Major Paul Triquet, of Quebec, and now Major Mahony of New Westminster. It is not mere chance, Mr. Speaker, that two of Canada's Victoria Crosses have been won by men from British Columbia, and to us in New Westminster Major Mahony's achievement comes as a proud inspiration.
May I remind the house that it was a New Westminster company which was led by Major Mahony in the attack and victory obtained at the bridgehead; and so New Westminster shares a deep satisfaction in the deeds of Major Mahony and his valiant men. To gain a vital objective is a great thing; to hold on to that objective is still greater.
The achievement of Major Mahony and the men of the Westminster regiment should make those of us who remain in Canad&^more determined than ever to back up and support to the utmost of our strength and ability those who are fighting our battles overseas.
Briefly, I should like also to join with the people of New Westminster in congratulating
Questions

Major Mahony's family, and likewise the families of the men who fought with him and made his achievement possible. In acclaiming and recording the heroic deeds of the Westminster regiment we should not forget to sympathize with the relatives of those who fell in the battle, and likewise to wish the wounded a speedy recovery.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
On what date was the W. R. Carpenter (Canada) Limited flax processing plant at Vancouver, B.C., completed?


The final payment was
made to the contractor February 8, 1943. The work was completed a few weeks prior to that date.


Mr. DIEFENBAKER
What have been the maximum and minimum percentages or rates of profit fixed by the Minister of Munitions and Supply in each of the years 1940 to 1944 inclusive, in contracts for, (a) the production of munitions or other war supplies; (b) the supply of services, wherein provision is made granting the minister the discretion of fixing same?
A categorical answer to
this question would involve examination of several hundred thousand contracts and expenditure of time and staff which is not considered to be warranted at this time.
In the case of cost-plus contracts, which are those in which the minister fixes the percentages or rates of profit, the great proportion are at 5 per cent, with rates running as low as one-half of one per cent and as high, occasionally, as ten per cent, depending on a wide variety of differing circumstances. In general, this policy has remained unchanged since the inception of the department.
Services are bought almost invariably at a price fixed by competitive tender or negotiation.^^
Sefe also statements of Mr. Chevrier, M.P., Hansard for June 15, 1943, pages 3644, 3645, and 3646; and for March 23, 1944, pages 1757, 1758, 1759 and 1760.
IMr. Graydon.1


1.	How many bushels of flax have been sold to the United States by the Canadian wheat board during the months of January to June, 1944, inclusive?
2.	What was the average price per bushel in each month?
3.	During said period have any bonuses on flax been paid to the processors of flax? If so, how much per bushel?


1.	January, 250,000 bushels; February, nil; March, nil; April, 2,998,000 bushels; May 88,168-44 bushels; June, nil.
2.	January, $3 per bushel; April, $3.30 per bushel; May, $3.30 per bushel. All basis No. 1 C.W. in store Fort William/Port Arthur, Canadian funds.
3.	By order in council P.C. 7325 of September 27, 1943, the Canadian wheat board is required to buy flaxseed at $2.50 per bushel for No. 1 C.W., basis in store Fort William/Port Arthur and to sell for domestic processing (to domestic crushers, feed, breakfast or cereal-food manufacturers and manufacturers of pharmaceutical products) on the basis of $1.64 per bushel for No. 1 C.W., in store Fort William/ Port Arthur. The board- is further required to fill domestic demands before selling for export.
CUSTODIAN OF ENEMY PROPERTY- MCPHEj: INVESTIGATION


1.	On what date was the advisory committee, headed by Judge G. W. MeP-hee, appointed to recommend the mode and manner of the release, by tbe official custodian, of the properties taken over by the official custodian?
2.	Who were the members of such committee?
3.	When did they commence their work?
4.	On what date were their recommendations placed before the official custodian?
5.	What was the total cost incurred, as a result of the setting up of the said committee?
6.	How much was paid, by way of salary and expenses, to each of the members thereof?
7.	What has been done to implement the recommendations of the committee?


1.	October 20, 1943.
2.	His Honour Judge McPhee, Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, chairman; George A. Campbell, Esq., Edmonton; W. Gordon Thomson, Esq., Windsor.
3.	October 25, 1943.
4.	The committee made interim reports and recommendations from time to time and submitted a more comprehensive report on February 16, 1944. Supplementary reports were submitted by the chairman on specific matters at later dates.

Questions as Orders jor Returns
5.	$15,435.24.
6.	Judge McPhee, travelling and living expenses, $3,913.35; George A. Campbell, Esq., fee $2,200; expenses $1,403.86; W. Gordon Thomson, Esq., fee $1,260; expenses $842.80.
7.	(a) As reports were received properties which had been under the control of the custodian were released in accordance with the recommendations of the committee. This included 143 parcels of real estate.
(b)	Claims for alleged damages to property were investigated and, in accordance with the recommendation of the committee, were allowed in an amount of $10,828.70, which amount has been paid.
(c)	Payments were made to municipalities for taxes in cases where the revenues had not been sufficient to cover taxes for the period the properties were under control. These payments, amounting to $16,834.40, have been made.


1.	Has the dominion government paid any subsidies, loans or grants, for cold storage purposes in the city of Kingston, Ontario, since August 4, 1943?
2.	If so, to whom were they paid, and on what dates?


1.	Yes.
2.	Kingston cold storage; October 4, 1943; $280.11.


1.	Has the government knowledge as to the number of Canadian merchant seamen who are presently prisoners of war in Germany? If so, how many?
2.	Have any of the Canadian merchant seamen who were taken prisoners of war been repatriated? If so, what number?
3.	What steps, if any, are being taken to repatriate Canadian merchant seamen presently held prisoners of war?


1.	(a) Personnel of ships of Canadian registry held captive in Germany, 94; (b) Canadian merchant seamen taken captive from ships of other than Canadian registry, 34.
2.	(a) Personnel of ships of Canadian registry repatriated from German prison camps, 26; (b) Canadian seamen taken captive from ships of other than Canadian registry and repatriated, 13.
3.	Everything possible is being done under the Geneva convention to repatriate Canadian merchant seamen detained by the enemy.


How much has been paid by the government and the national war finance committee to each daily newspaper in the province of Quebec in connection with the sixth victory loan campaign?
PURCHASE OF VESSEL "THE ARISTOCRAT*'


1.	Did -the government purchase a vessel named The Aristocrat ?
2.	If so, when and from whom?
3.	What was the total purchase price of the vessel ?


1.	Is there a subsidy being paid on wool?
2.	If so, does it cover all grades of wool?
3.	Is the subsidy paid in all provinces?
4.	If not, why is it not paid in all provinces?


1.	What are the farm products that can only be sold under a price ceiling?
2.	What are the farm products that are supported by a floor or minimum price?
3.	What are the farm products that Teceive a subsidy?


1.	Did the government since the outbreak o{ war take over a civilian laundry plant in the city of Halifax? If so, what is the name of such plant and on what date was it acquired?
2.	What provision, if any, has been made to provide laundry services -for civilians deprived of laundry service ,by the action of the government in taking over this laundry?
3.	Is the government aware that there is an acute shortage of laundry facilities for civilians in the city of Halifax?
4.	Has the Department of National Defence contracts at present with any privately -owned civilian laundry operated in the city of Halifax? If so, with what laundries and what are expiration dates of present contracts?


Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING (Prime Minister) movedl that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to amend the Salaries Act to provide that the salaries of the Minister of Veterans Affairs and of the Minister of Reconstruction shall be ten thousand dollars, respectively.
Morning Sittings
He, said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
That on and after Monday, July 17, 1944, until the end of the session, the house shall meet at 11 o'clock in the morning of each sitting day and that in addition to the usual intermission at 6 o'clock p.m., there shall also be an intermission every day from 1 to 3 o'clock, p.m.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Will the Prime Minister take the necessary steps to make full inquiries through the protecting power into a report carried in to-day's edition, of the Globe and Mail written by Ralph Allen and' datelined "With the Canadians in France, July 11". A copy of this report I have already given the Prime Minister, but in order that the house may be aware of the subject matter of the report I shall read the first paragraph of it:
Two Canadians and "several" American prisoners of war who refused to work for the German war machine were killed by their guards at Stalag IIB near Hammeretein last February, .a repatriated French prisoner who was in the camp at the time of the killings said there to-day. The allied soldiers, all new arrivals from Italy, were shot in their beds when they refused to report for labour details, the French soldier asserted. A number of others, he said, were executed at various times by the staff of the same camp for trying to escape.
Anyone seeking to build a larger case around recent disclosures of the massacre of allied airmen in Germany could find plenty of evidence in Caen.
I should just like to make this remark, if I may, to the Prime Minister and to the government before the Prime Minister answers my question. AVhen one couples such a reported incident with the cold-blooded murder of Canadian and British airmen about which the Prime Minister spoke a couple of weeks ago, it makes one's blood boil and call loudly for the kind of punishment that these murderous vandals so richly deserve.
TMr. Mackenzie King.]


Mr. Speaker, my answer to my hon. friend's question is that the report was noticed by the government when it appeared and inquiries were immediately instituted.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Bradette in the chair.
2. That dependents as referred to in the said act be extended to include parents-in-law, grand-parents-in-law, brothers-in-law, si«ters-in-law, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as parents, grandparents, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters respectively.
The minister was going to make a statement on this.


I do not know about a statement, Mr. Chairman. I think some question was raised last night as to the inclusion of sons-in-law.


Yes. The minister said he would like to consider the inclusion of all these in-laws. I was merely indicating the position of sons-in-lajw. Perhaps we could go on with another item pending the decision of the minister.


He has considered it, but I have no objection to going on with the next resolution.


What is the minister's conclusion? We are widening out the scope of the aid given to taxpayers to include not only the direct progenitors and descendants of the taxpayer but also their collaterals and collaterals-in-law. How much demand has there been for this?


During the last two or three years in particular a good many representations have been received that an allowance should be made, as my hon. friend indicated last night, particularly in the case of the mother-in-law. The position under the law is that in respect of blood relations, that is to say, son, daughter, mother, father and grandparents, if they are wholly dependent upon the taxpayer, the taxpayer may claim the tax deduction set out in rule 3 of the first chedule of the act. If the son of the taxpayer were wholly dependent upon his father for support the taxpayer could claim a deduction from his tax with respect to that son, but if, on the other hand, the taxpayer were required to maintain his daughter-in-law, as is frequently the case, he could not claim a deduction.

Similarly if a man were called upon to support his own mother, who was completely dependent on him, he could claim a tax deduction, but on the other hand if he were required, as often happens, to support his wife's mother he could not claim a tax deduction. I am advised that in certain jurisdictions-I know it is the case in my own province of Quebec- there is a legal obligation on a man to support his in-laws under certain circumstances. The primary obligation rests on the blood relation, but if the blood relation is unable to give his support, or if there is no blood relation, there is a legal obligation on the in-law to support his wife's mother. It was felt after a good deal of consideration that, whatever the legal position might be, it was certainly equitable that a man who could claim a tax credit for supporting his son should be entitled to claim a similar credit for supporting his daughter-inlaw. So that the effect of the proposed amendment is to extend the tax credit not only to the blood relations but to the in-laws, though not to the collaterals, of course, as my hon. friend suggested.


I have never had any objection to extending this concession to the parents-in-law or to the grandparents-in-law, because presumably they may be in really dependent circumstances in a given case and they must be taken care of, although in the common law provinces there is no legal obligation I believe at all. But the extension of this alleviation to the collaterals is of course another matter. I wonder if there has been much demand for this. I understand that there was a very substantial demand to extend it to the parents-in-law and grandparents-in-law, but how much demand was there for extending it to sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law? Has any estimate been made of the number involved and of the cost to the treasury?


I do not know that there has been any great demand on behalf of the other classes to which my hon. friend referred. On the other hand it was felt that in extending this to the mother-in-law, for instance, it was logical to extend it to the other in-laws. Let me give an illustration. Take the case of a man who is married and goes overseas and is killed. I suggest that in a great many cases the father of that boy would feel morally responsible at any rate to support his daughter-in-law.


I think the nation ought to support her.
Income War Tax


She would get some pension. Perhaps a better example would be that of a young man who marries and dies before he has had the opportunity to make full provision for his family. His father for a period supports his daughter-in-law. If the son had been disabled during his lifetime the father could have claimed the tax credit, but because the son had died he is not able to do so under the law as it stands. Mind you, this concession is subject to the same restrictions which pertain with respect to the other dependents, that they must be wholly dependent and so on. This is not widening in any unlimited fashion the claim which can be made for dependents.


Of course what the parliamentary assistant has said is an indictment of the inadequacy of the present range of pensions. That is exactly what it spells to me.


I was only citing that as an example. I could have given a better illustration.


The interpretation to be put on the illustration is this, that in the case of the soldier who gave his life for his country, leaving behind a daughter-in-law for his father to support, an inadequate pension is provided.


My hon. friend is quite correct. I am afraid that my example was unfortunate.


My understanding of the position was that the demand was in respect of the parents-in-law and did not extend beyond them downwards. It might include the grandparents-in-law but not the others. I understood from a remark made by the minister yesterday that brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, were put in to carry out the parallel in the present law, for the sake of uniformity. I would like to know if there has been any real demand or any real necessity for this. If there has been, if this is justifiable on the ground of necessity, I shall not oppose it. I am favourable to granting assistance in respect to the parents-in-law, because I have known of many cases where assistance would be absolutely necessary and a deduction should be allowed. But is not this based on the theory that the department thinks there ought to be a parallel?


There has been some
demand, I am told, in the case particularly of men who are maintaining a daughter-inlaw. That is perhaps the case which arises most frequently. But it was felt that as we are
Income War Tax

making this change in the law, it was both sound in principle and logical to extend it to all classes of in-laws. So far as I know, there has been no demand upon the government for it, but it was felt that in extending this to some classes of in-laws, which has never been done before, if we did not include them all we should inevitably create a demand from the others which it would be hard to resist on principle. They will say, "Well, you extend it to the father-in-law and the mother-in-law. I am obliged," a man will say, "to support a daughter-in-law; she has no other means of support. If she were my own daughter I could claim the tax credit, but because she is my daughter-in-law I cannot". It seems to me that that is what we should be faced with. But if the committee would prefer, we can let the section stand. The committee may prefer to have the views of the minister on it.


I am going to ask that the section stand. I am in accord with the principle of the parents' and grandparents' allowance, but I think these other collaterals stand on a different basis. I suggest to the parliamentary assistant that the government has made this proposal and it has to make a case in support of it. The only case I can observe is a desire to parallel the present law in respect to these in-laws.


Perhaps we might let it stand; or if we want to pass the resolution it can certainly be given further consideration when we come to the bill.


That is all right.


Resolution agreed to.
3.	That the provision under which a tax credit is allowed in respect of a child of the taxpayer .be extended to include an allowance in respect of any person under eighteen years of age and dependent upon the taxpayer for support, including an illegitimate child.
I am glad that the government has granted the request which has been made by hon. members to make the definition of "child" wider than it was. For a number of years there has been hardship to persons who have children in their homes who have not been legally adopted. Also, of course, there is the case of the illegitimate child; some mothers with an illegitimate child have been penalized all through life. After all, the child cannot choose the circumstances under which it shall be born. This is a worth-while reform, and we approve it.


I am in accord with what the hon. member has said 
with respect to children under eighteen years of age dependent upon the taxpayer for support. That is quite right. With respect to the illegitimate children, I assume this will be granted or should only be granted to the mother who is a taxpayer, and that it would not go any farther than that.


Certainly that is the case it was intended to meet.


I hope the legislation will be so guarded that the father of such a child would never be given any tax concession.


I had not given that any consideration.


It is quite possible he might claim it, and I think he is the last man in the world who should get it.


You might have trouble in finding him.


I don't know. The courts pin him down, you know.


I wish to follow up what the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar has said. Numerous representations have been received on this matter, and I am pleased that this proposal has been adopted. I have had many letters from welfare societies saying that it will be a real godsend.
Mr. HANSON (York-Sunbury)1: I suggest to the minister that when the legislation is framed it be made absolutely clear that this provision for the illegitimate child shall go only to the mother. Under this resolution it would be quite legitimate for one to argue that it covers both parents. I am sure the committee does not want to put a premium on a man who is the father of an illegitimate child. The mother cannot help herself, and I want to help her.


I will certainly give consideration to my hon. friend's observation. The provision is that a credit should be given to anybody who is supporting the child. In ninety-nine cases out of one hundred it would be the mother. I am not prepared to say at the moment that if the father was supporting the illegitimate child he should not benefit from this provision. However, that matter can be considered.
The hon: member for Peterborough West has indicated that there have been a great many representations from all sides of the house and from social service organizations throughout Canada that an amendment of this

Income War Tax
kind should be introduced. I want to point out, in view of the rather general terms of the resolution, that the legislation will provide in effect that the dependents must be in the custody of and wholly dependent on the taxpayer.


I assume that this would cover British war guests. ,


Oh, yes.


For several years we have pleaded that this exemption should apply to them, and I am glad to see that that has been done.


That assumption is correct- where, of course, they are wholly dependent on the taxpayer.


Yes.


The parliamentary assistant said this would cover the case only of a child who is in the custody of the taxpayer. Does he mean actual custody or constructive custody?


I do not mean physical custody, no.


Actual or constructive custody?


Custody, I am advised, is the language used in the corresponding section of the British act. I do not know that that will be the exact language used when we come to draft the legislation. That is the substance of the requirements.


Then if the child were being supported by the mother in another family, she would get it?


That is the intention.


Would the tax credit be allowed in a case where the child has been placed in the custody of strangers, people who are not relatives at all, but is being supported by them?


My understanding is that where a person supporting the child is, for instance, paying board for the care of the child, the person who is doing the paying would be entitled to get the tax credit. That is my understanding of the intention which will govern the drafting of this law.


That is why this was asked for.


Resolution agreed to.
4.	That the deduction in respect of unusual medical expenses be extended to include such expenses incurred outside of Canada.
On this item,, I desire to make a representation to the administration in connection with the amount of deduction for medical expenses which is permitted at the present time. My understanding is that where the medical expenses are in excess of five per cent of the taxable income, so much as is in that excess may de deducted provided the total amount does not exceed $600, plus an additional sum of $100 for each dependent, provided also that the amount which is allowed for dependents does not exceed $400. In many cases people to-day are incurring heavy medical expenses over and above the $600 limit which is provided1 by this legislation If the principle is a correct one, that over and above the five per cent some relief should be given-and I assume that that relief was allowed in the first place because of the present high rate of income tax-the ceiling on these unusual medical expenses should be lifted, because in some cases of which I have personal knowledge men have incurred considerably more expenses than the $600, and find themselves in straitened circumstances.
Take for example the case of a man whose wife has become an invalid, or whose dependent is dying, and the time which elapses between invalidity and death is considerable, say months. During the course of that time doctors' and hospital bills are heavy; frequently trips have to be taken to other centres, particularly if the afflicted person happens to be living in an out-of-the-way place. Under such circumstances the expenses in many cases exceed the limit allowed by the law.	i
This matter, I understand, has been taken Up with the department; representations have been made to it, and the replies which have been received are that it is a matter which will have to be dealt with by parliament, that the department itself has no jurisdiction to create any extension.
In addition, we find men in receipt of what may be termed a reasonable income, but with no capital ahead of them, going very heavily into debt to provide for these unusual medical expenses, and then, because of the continuation in after years of the heavy rate of -taxation on their incomes, they are never able to get out of that debt.
In addition to considering seriously the raising of the ceiling, the administration should include the services of doctors, nurses and dentists and should also provide for drugs and medical necessities which are prescribed by the doctor. We might run into a great deal of difficulty because people might take advantage of this exemption if we allowed for every kind of expenditure, but certainly if it were confined to the type certified by the doctor
Income War Tax

attending the case, I suggest that we could reasonably add such, expenses to the amount permitted at the present time. Actually what happens now is this. The doctor's fee and the hospital bill are allowed but no incidentals in the form of medicine and X-rays and matters of that sort are permitted. If a person lives in an outlying district in Saskatchewan, say, and has to go to Winnipeg or Saskatoon for treatment, he or she is not allowed anything to take care of travelling expenses or the extra money spent in going to that centre to receive badly required services. I suggest to the parliamentary assistant that the whole matter be reviewed in the light of the experience which has been gained since the exemption was included in the Income Tax Act.


I endorse what the hon. member for Saskatoon City has said. There is no necessity for repeating it except to suggest that this particular question requires a general overhauling. The only thing that is classified as medical expenses under the present regulations is what is purchased directly from the medical authorities. All the expenses outlined by the hon. member for Saskatoon City are incidental to persons getting to a centre where medical assistance can be provided. There are many other considerations also that must be taken into account. Suppose a man has an artificial leg. In the interests of his health the doctor orders him to have that leg changed, and he is obliged to spend $250 or $300 replacing it. That is a medical expenditure, but to-day it is not allowed for taxation purposes. Let me give another illustration which I have brought to the attention of the department on several occasions. A woman has an ear condition and her doctor advises her to purchase appliances costing $200. That is an order from her medical doctor, but there is no allowance for taxation purposes for a purchase of that kind. If we are going to do anything about this I think we must go the whole way or not bother with it at all.
The arrangement as applied to the lower income groups is far from satisfactory. Take a man with a $1,500 income. He is allowed to deduct if the medical expenses are in excess of five per cent of the total income. Five per cent is $75, so that he is allowed only in excess of $75, and then it is only for something that is purchased directly from the medical fraternity. I am far from satisfied with that provision, and I could elaborate on the disabilities that arise from it. It should be overhauled and made all-inclusive, or eliminated altogether. I do not think it serves much purpose in its present form. I am not

so much concerned about the man who can undertake a $1,500 expenditure to go to the United States, because a person with such an income is able to take care of his expenses and the hardship is not so great. But if this is designed to assist those in the lower income groups, then I repeat, it requires overhauling.


Considering the item
of unusual medical expenses, I would refer particularly to amputation cases. The section makes allowance only for unusual medical expenses if the payment is made to any qualified practitioner, and so on, and to one fulltime attendant upon the taxpayer in certain circumstances. As regards amputation cases, there is no provision for the purchase of an artificial limb or limbs required. It seems to put an unnecessary burden on this particular section of our population, a burden that should not be imposed on them. I have personal knowledge of one particular case. A married man without any dependent children has a salary of $1,500. He has two artificial legs and is required this year to have new limbs or he must cease working. He simply cannot carry on without them. The estimated cost of the equipment is $500, but there is not that amount of money available from his salary after he pays ordinary living expenses. If he does not buy these artificial limbs he cannot work. This and similar cases represent a genuine hardship, and I would ask the parliamentary assistant to consider widening the resolution with regard to this group of persons.


I wish to say a word in
support of the remarks of the hon. member for Saskatoon City and the hon. member for Cape Breton South regarding this term, "medical expenses." I think the wrong impression may be given, that the doctor gets all this money. As a matter of fact his bill is very often the small end of the stick. If a person is seriously ill he may require special nurses, and under the present regulations one nurse is not enough because they work an eight-hour day and therefore it is necessary to have three nurses. Three nurses at $7 a day each means $21. There are a number of other incidentals such as those mentioned by my hon. friends. I suggest therefore that this should be more specific, and should cover a wider territory than is indicated by the term "medical expenses."


My hon. friend is aware
that nurses are covered.


Under this?


Oh, yes. Hospital expenses include nurses.

Income War Tax


Does it include special
nursing in the hospital?


Yes.


I know it includes hospitalization.


It includes all special nurses in the hospital, provided they are registered. In fact it even goes further than registration.


Nurses in the home?


Yes.


What is
the limit under the present law?


Five per cent or $400 in the case of a single person and $600 in the case of a married person, plus $100 for each dependent.


It is not
proposed to change the limit?


The member for Saskatoon City has suggested that the limit should be raised. I would point out, with reference to the remarks made by the member for Cape Breton South, that this was introduced to cover unusual medical expenses. It was never intended that the income tax act should serve as a health insurance or a sickness insurance measure. Because the rates of taxation were put up very steeply in 1941 it was felt that in the case of unusual, exceptional medical expenses some measure of relief should be given to the taxpayer. Under ordinary circumstances a good many men who run into unforeseen and heavy medical taxes have either to dip into their capital, if they have any, or try to borrow money if they have none. It was not felt that the income tax act could be used as a vehicle to provide for universal health or sickness insurance. This was an alleviating measure to give some relief in exceptional circumstances; therefore I cannot agree with the hon. member for Cape Breton South that it should be wholly revised in order to take care of every possible case. Perhaps it does not go far enough, but I am not prepared to say that. Perhaps there should be some raising of the ceiling as suggested by the hon. member for Saskatoon, although my view is it is undesirable under existing circumstances. But with that reservation I do not think this section can be used to provide for all kinds of medical or hospital expenses.


Of course the opening of the door inevitably paves the way for all kinds of demands.


Right.


The decisions have to be pretty arbitrary, and in fact they are arbitrary. When the parliamentary assistant says this is for unusual medical expenses, I say to him that hospitalization is the order of the day-


When I said "unusual" I meant they have to be in excess of five per cent of the taxpayer's income, five per cent being considered normal medical expenses.


I am not at all opposed to the principle of an allowance of this kind, because persons who are ill have very heavy expenses. When they become ill their earning power ceases and they have to have some consideration. The question is how far it should go. Personally I am willing to see the limit raised and relief given; but that was not the purpose for which I rose to speak. I want to talk about the concession contained in resolution 4, as follows:
That the allowance in respect of unusual medical expenses be extended to include such expenses incurred outside of Canada.
I never could understand why, if it was a sound principle to grant to a taxpayer an allowance for unusual or usual medical expenses, there was a geographical limitation to its application. Take the case of people who live along the border near Boston or New York. In exceptional surgical cases in my part of the country it has been the usual practice to send patients not only to Montreal but to certain clinics in Boston and in the city of New York. Up to the present time there has been no allowance made to a Canadian taxpayer. Apparently the department has had a change of heart, and I am going to ask that they make it retroactive. It ought to have been done from the beginning. If the principle is good now, it was good last year, and those who have to pay unusual expenses should be given some consideration in the circumstances I have mentioned.
I am going to give a concrete case. I suppose concrete cases are those that come to our minds and impress themselves upon our memory. A lady from Charlottetown visited her brother who was a physician in New York. She was suddenly taken ill and had to undergo an intricate and expensive operation which cost her husband a good deal of money. While she was convalescent her husband, after a good deal of difficulty, was able to get enough money from the foreign exchange control board to go across the line to see her. I am not complaining about that, because he should have been able to get the exchange very easily in
Income War Tax

the circumstances if he had gone about it in the right way. The banker, I think, could have given him the money very quickly, but there was some delay. When he got there-it was in the winter time-the brother, who was a physician, decided that the lady should not return north, with the result that arrangements were made to take her south to spend the winter. When they came back in the spring, after having this expense for her surgical operation in the city of New York, the husband as a taxpayer put in a claim for the hospitalization of his wife, and was refused. There is an illustration of people who are just caught in a circumstance. If she had taken ill at home, her husband automatically would have had the allowance; but she was taken ill on a visit to New York, and he gets no allowance. The thing is not reasonable to me. I do not think the fact of where the surgical or medical attendance was given should be the determining factor as to whether there should or should not be an allowance. There is no answer to that. I know there will be an attempted answer, but there is no logical or reasonable answer as to why it should have been denied. It must have been because it was just a concession dragged out of the department at the time. It ought to be made retroactive and go back to the time when the principle was first acknowledged and established in the tax structure. I am going to ask that this be made retroactive. The government is making other things retroactive in these resolutions. They are making the question of charitable donations retroactive, and I consider that is definite breach of faith and reprehensible, just as reprehensible as-[DOT]


There is nothing retroactive about that. It was announced before it was made effective.


I do not care if it was announced. It was an ignoring by a departmental official or a minister of the crown of the law of parliament.


No.


I do not care when it was announced or by whom it was announced. It was the law on the statute book when the Minister of Finance made the announcement. It was announced without telling parliament that he was not going to carry out the will of parliament. It was a defiance of the law of parliament itself.


Let me correct my hon. friend on that. The minister announced that he proposed to recommend to parliament-
IMr. R. B. Hanson.1


Oh, well.


-an amendment to the act that after such-and-such a date a certain thing would be done. That has been done.


And make it retroactive.


It is not made retroactive. It was made effective only after the date the minister announced it.
Mr. HANSON (York-Sunbury)*: We shall meet that when we come to section 32. I had not intended to speak about that at the moment; I was diverted into doing so. I am suggesting that if this is a good principle to-day, it was a good principle when adopted last year, the date on which the principle itself was first brought into legislation. I do not think it would amount to very much, but it would take away the rankling sense of injustice that a limited number of taxpayers feel when they think they are discriminated against because they happen to be taken sick over an imaginary line on this continent. I am asking that this be done.


First of all I should like to express support of what the government has proposed in this resolution by way of extending this principle to include expenses incurred outside Canada, which, of course, refers particularly to the United States. The hon. member for York-Sunbury has referred to people in his part of the country who on occasions find it necessary to go to the New England states. It is also true that in certain parts of the west people find it necessary to go to Rochester, Minnesota, to attend the Mayo clinic. I know that this matter wTas f'lt quite keenly by people in and around the. head of the lakes. Representations came from trade union organizations in Fort William to the government on the matter, and they are appreciative of the action that has been taken in this resolution. I feel, too, with the hon member for York-Sunbury, although I do not wish to say anything provocative, as perhaps he did-	*


Oh, don't be afraid. The hon. member is not usually afraid of saying something provocative.


I do not mind, if there is anything to be gained by it. Sometimes however, I find it pays to speak in appealing language.


Honeyed words do not catch any flies around here.


I still hope that the department will give consideration to the idea

Income War Tax
of making this retroactive, at least to some extent. So far, the forms for 1943 have not been assessed, and I am not sure whether the department has completed1 the job of assessing the forms for 1942. It seems to me that at least to some extent the retroactive feature might be introduced with respect to this principle. As the hon. member for York-Sunbury has said, if it is right to do this now, then the principle was right a year or two ago.
There is another phase of this subject of allowances for unusual medical expenses upon which I should like to speak. I believe the point was raised this afternoon by the hon. member for Saskatoon City, and referred to by other hon. members. The expenses in connection with illness are by no means confined to the kind of expenses allowed under the act. Those include hospital, doctor and nursing bills. Every time a person incurs medical expenses of $100 that he can charge up under the act, he has at least $50 or $75 of additional expenses he is not permitted to charge. I realize that administrative difficulties are involved, and that it is always a problem to draw a line. I would point out, however, that the suggestion made . by the hon. member for Cape Breton South that the floor be lowered might take care of this situation. If the parliamentary assistant has not thought the matter through, he might feel that to reduce the percentage from five per cent down to three or two per cent would be getting down to a level of medical expenses which could not be described as unusual. My contention is that if the floor were placed at two per cent of the taxable income of the taxpayer, the government could rest assured that for all the .money for which exemption was being allowed there were other sums of money the taxpayer had to pay out for which no exemptions were allowed. It would help a great deal if some step along this line could be taken. By lowering the percentage rate from five per cent to two per cent the minister would not be changing the principle-if indeed it wishes to stick to that principle-of giving consideration only for unusual medical expenses. Expenses of such an amount are still unusual if one takes into consideration the incidental amounts already referred to.
There is one other type of case to which I should like to refer, and possibly the easiest way to bring the matter before the committee is to state a concrete case. This is one I have already taken up with the department, but, I regret to say, one concerning which