The house resumed from Monday, June 19, consideration in committee of bill No. 133, to amend the Aeronautics Act-Mr. Michaud1 -Mr. Bradette in the chair.
On section 1-New heading inserted.
This bill is described as an act to amend the Aeronautics Act. In fact the
[Mr. Woodl
bill contains the domestic policy of the government with respect to civil aviation, not only for the remaining years of the war but also, and primarily, for the years that follow; therefore it puts into effect a permanent air policy for Canada. Once that policy is instituted it will be difficult and costly to change. I believe that the policy will have to be changed, and to-day I propose to point out in what respects it is ill-advised. I suggest to the members of the committee, to the press of Canada and also to the people of Canada, that they scrutinize this bill very carefully before it is put on the statute book.
In the first place the policy is ill-advised in that it makes a minister a dictator of civil aviation in Canada. I say that for several reasons. The bill amends the Aeronautics Act. Under that act wide and drastic powers are given to the minister named therein. The Aeronautics Act is chapter 3 of the revised statutes of 1927. It was passed just after the last war, at a time when we were just beginning to find out things about civil aviation. I do not propose to read any portions to the committee to-day, but as it originally stood the minister referred to was the Minister of National Defence; the act was to be administered by the defence department and it refers to various things having to do with military aviation. But I think that the powers as they stood in the original act are much too drastic for present conditions. Yet all these powers are now to go to the minister who becomes the dictator of civil aviation of Canada. He is to have all these powers except one; he is not to do the actual licensing of flying lines; that power is given to the new air transport board.
Another,reason why I suggest a minister is being made a dictator is that under this measure he is being given even further powers. For example, sections 9 and 10 of the bill give the minister power to order the making of very broad investigations with regard to airways; of course the new air transport board is authorized to make those investigations for him.
A third reason why I think the bill gives powers that are too dictatorial is that at the present time the board of transport commissioners licenses all commercial flying services.
I hold in my hand the report of the board for the calendar year 1943. Hon. members will find at page 10 this statement with regard to air transportation licences:
Eight applications for new licences were granted and nine licences were surrendered for cancellation. At December 31, 1943, a total of sixty-five licences were in force, composed of nine international between Canada and the United States, six interurban in Canada and fifty bush services in northern Canada.

Aeronautics Act
All these licences have been issued by the board of transport commissioners. Under the new bill, however, licences are to be issued by the air transport board. That is provided in section 12 (1) but-and this is a very important point-the issuing of any licence is expressly made subject to the approval of the minister. In other words the new board cannot issue a licence without the approval of the minister in person.
Finally subsections 8 and 10 of the same section provide that in certain cases there may be an appeal from the new board to the minister. At present there is an appeal from the board of transport commissioners to the Supreme Court of Canada on questions of law, a proper judicial appeal, and then of course to the privy council. In addition the cabinet, described as the governor in council, have power to review any decision of the board of transport commissioners. That is all changed now; that is all done away with in the case of aviation. The appeal now is to the minister in person.
So I say that in effect this bill makes a minister of the crown the dictator of civil aviation in Canada; and while the bill mentions the Minister of Transport as the new dictator, in section 2 it goes on to say:
... or such other minister as the governor in council may from time to time designate. . . .
Well, the other night the Minister of Munitions and Supply explained to us that this new dictator is not to be the Minister of Transport but is to be the Minister of Munitions and Supply himself. He gave some reasons for that, but in effect the Minister of Transport is being by-passed and these dictatorial powers are being given to the Minister of Munitions and Supply. On June 6 I asked the minister a question in that connection; it will be found at page 3601 of Hansard, as follows:
In effect it makes the minister a dictator in respect of all the airways in Canada, does it not?
The minister gave a very significant reply:
Perhaps so; but who would you suggest should be dictator?
Then I said:
I do not think there should be a dictator, myself.
So that I say this bill is ill-advised, in the first place because it makes the Minister of Munitions and Supply or some other minister the dictator of civil aviation in Canada,
Then it is ill-advised in that with its twin, bill No. 101, which is described as an act to amend the Transport Act, it takes away all
the jurisdiction of the Board of Transport Commissioners of Canada over civil aviation. In other words it removes the protection the Canadian people now have in respect of one of the principal methods of transportation, by virtue of the powers of this independent board of transport commissioners, functioning on a judicial basis. That protection now is being taken away from the Canadian people in respect of aviation.
The board of transport commissioners is not perfect. As hon. members know, formerly it was called the board of railway commissioners, and on the whole it has done a pretty good iob for the Canadian people. It has held sittings in all parts of Canada. I know we in British Columbia found it a very good thing to have this dominion board come out and actually hear witnesses and get our side of the story, instead of sitting here in Ottawa ruling on something only half understood, three thousand miles away from the Pacific coast. In many cases the board of railway commissioners has been a protection to the people of British Columbia and, I suggest, to the people of the maritimes as well, those of us who are farthest away from the centre of things here in Ottawa. The board has built up a good name for itself; it has a good standing with the Canadian people. The way it works is well understood, and by and large I think it has given satisfaction. In 1938 it was renamed the board of transport commissioners. Hon. members will find the change made in the Transport Act, which is chapter 53 of the statutes of 1938. That act sets out the principles on which the board is to function. For example, section 5 reads:
Before any application for a licence is granted for the transport of goods and/or passengers under the provisions of this act, the board shall determine whether public convenience and necessity require such transport, and in so determining the board may take into consideration, inter alia-
Then it goes on to point out all the things the commissioners have to consider:
(a) any objection to the application which may be made by any person or persons who are already providing transport facilities, whether by rail, water or air, on the routes or between the places which the applicant intends to serve on the ground that suitable facilities are or, if the licence were issued, would be in excess of requirements, or on the ground that any of the conditions of any other transport licence held by the applicant have not been complied with;
There is no such provision in the new bill. This new air transport board is not subject to any direction such as I have read from the present Transport Act. Then paragraph (b) reads:
Aeronautics Act

(b) whether or not the issue of such licence would tend to develop the complementary rather than the competitive functions of the different forms of transport, if any, involved in such objections;
In other words the board had to try to make transport services complementary. There is no such direction contained in the present bill. This new air transport board is virtually given carte blanche to do what it pleases. Then paragraphs (c) and (d) read;
(e) the general effect on other transport services and any public interest which may be affected by the issue of such licence;
(d) the quality and permanence of the service to be offered by the applicant and his financial responsibility, including adequate provision for the protection of passengers, shippers and the general public by means of insurance.
What we have now under the Transport Act is an independent board, which cannot be shoved around by any government or any minister. Perhaps that is one of the reasons that the control of civil aviation is being taken away from that board. Just about a year ago a decision was rendered in connection with air transport between Victoria and Vancouver. Canadian Pacific Air Lines had a passenger service already operating, and the board refused to allow Trans-Canada to put in another duplicating service. That decision may or may not have been right, but in any event it was reached by the board of transport commissioners after a fair hearing of all parties concerned, and I suggest that is the sort of procedure we should have in Canada. I have here the proceedings of the standing committee on railways and shipping for Monday, March 27, 1944, in which this very hearing was mentioned by Mr. Symington, president of Trans-Canada Air Lines, who said at page 21:
The situation under the present law is that the board of transport commissioners decide on public necessity and convenience, and they said *that in their judgment the passenger service was sufficiently served by the Canadian Pacific Air Lines and that therefore they would only grant us the mail privilege in so far as that local traffic was concerned. That was the finding of the board.
Mr. Symington said elsewhere in these proceedings that in his opinion that decision had been reached after a fair hearing.
But this bill sets up a new air transport board. Once it becomes law we shall have two boards, the board of transport commissioners, dealing with other forms of transportation services, and the air transport board, dealing with air transportation. The minister himself admitted that the functions of the two boards were different. I asked him a question in that
	.
connection on June 6. Those questions and answers are reported as follows at page 3604 of Hansard:
Mr. Green: In other words, the air transport board is to be directly under the minister?
Mr. Howe: Correct.
Mr. Green: The minister said that that, as I understand it, was not the position of the *board of transport commissioners.
Mr. Howe: That is correct, yes. The board of transport commissioners is a judicial body equivalent to a court, and its duty is to administer an act. That board has no function beyond the administration of the act-a wholly judicial function. This is a board which is both judicial and advisory.
Which, I submit, is trying to place this new board on both sides of the fence at once. No provision is contained in bill 133 for the exercising of judicial discretion by the new board. No provision is contained against discrimination. There is no provision for having hearings at which other interested parties may appear. I submit, Mr. Chairman, that this new air transport board cannot be a judicial body. I repeat, therefore, that my second objection to the bill is that it removes from the Canadian people the protection they now have in the form of an independent board with jurisdiction over a vital method of transportation in Canada.
The bill is ill advised also in that the powers given to the new board are too drastic. For example, section 13 of the bill gives the board this power:
The board shall review all licences respecting commercial air services issued under part III of the Transport Act, 1938, or under part VII of the Air Regulations, 1938, prior to and in force at the time of the coming into force of this part, and may cancel or suspend any such licence as it sees fit.
That is directly opposed to the procedure followed in 1938 when the Transport Act was passed. Section 5 of that act protected a licencee who had obtained a licence, before the new act was passed.
Then, in subsection 7 of section 12 we find that this new board may issue licences differing from the licences applied for. That is another very wide power. In section 11 it is given very wide powers to make regulations. In section 14 further dictatorial powers are given. True, they are in the shape of directions to the board. The section reads as follows:
Every licence issued under part III of the Transport Act, 1938, or under part VII of the Air Regulations, 1938, prior .to and in force at the time of the coming into .force of this part shall be deemed to be a licence issued under section 12 of this act, but every such licence, if not cancelled or suspended by the board under section 13 of this act-

Aeronautics Act
Which I have just read.
-shall cease to ibe valid on or after the termination, as fixed by order in council, of the war in Europe which commenced on the 10th day of September, 1939.


There is a rather important misprint in the bill, which I believe I should call to the attention of the committee. The expression "on or after" should be "one year after".


That does not alter the sense of it.


It just postpones the hanging for one year. I say the principle of automatically cancelling all those licences is dead wrong.
This brings me to my fourth objection to the bill. I say it is ill-advised in that it provides that no licence to operate a commercial air service can be issued to any person or any company engaged in transport by means other than aircraft. That provision is contained in section 12(2), which reads:
No such licence shall be issued in respect of a commercial air service, owned, leased, controlled or operated by any person who is engaged in the transport of goods or passengers for hire or reward by means other than aircraft unless

And here is a peculiar proviso which gives the government wide powers by virtue of which it can play favourites in this business-

unless the governor in council is of opinion that it is in the public interest that such licence be issued.
That means that no license can be issued, either to a railway company or to a shipping, bus or trucking company. It cannot be issued to any person or corporation engaged in any other type of transportation. That, again, is a complete about face since 1938, when the minister-the same minister-introduced the Transport Act. Section 3(2) of the Transport Act expressly states that the board of transport commissioners are to try to make all means of transportation in Canada complementary. The section reads as follows:
It shall be the duty of the board to perform the functions vested in the board by this act and by the Railway Act with the object of coordinating and harmonizing the operations of all carriers engaged in transport by railways, ships and aircraft and the board shall give to this act and to the Railway Act such fair interpretation as will best attain the object aforesaid.
Air transport is now to be divorced completely from all other forms of transportation. In that connection one might well ask the question: How are these two boards going to get along together? One board is dealing with railways and shipping and the other deals
with air transportation. How are they going to coordinate? Here is the minister's formula for that difficulty, as it is found at page 2192 of Hansard. He was asked that question, and replied:
I presume if there is any serious interference between rail and air traffic, the two boards can compare notes and work out their problems jointly. There will be no- super-board coordinating all traffic.
That is the extent of coordination and harmonizing that there will be, once this bill becomes law.
In a statement on civil aviation, made some weeks ago, the minister said very frankly that his policy was to put all transport companies out of the air business. That means that Canadian National Railways is going to be right out of Trans-Canada Air Lines. The railway company has done a splendid job of operating Trans-Canada Air Lines; in my opinion the coast-to-coast service is excellent. Yet we are told that now the Canadian National Railways and Trans-Canada Air Lines are to be separated. Then, too, Canadian Pacific Air Lines is to be taken away from the Canadian Pacific Railway; by the act the railway company will have to divest itself of its air lines-air lines which were developed following an announcement of government policy. Here we have a sudden right-about-face in government policy. Both these lines have been built up over a period of years, and I think in both the Trans-Canada and the Canadian Pacific Air Lines we have had efficient operation. There are many communities which depend upon these air services. For example, there is the service from Vancouver to the Yukon, which is flown by Canadian Pacific Air Lines. Then there is the service up into the Mackenzie river, also flown by Canadian Pacific Air Lines. There is the service from Montreal to Quebec, down to the Saguenay and along the north shore of the St. Lawrence, also flown by Canadian Pacific Air Lines. They give good and efficient service, and the people in those communities are entitled to the certainty of continued good service.
Take the service from Vancouver to the Yukon. We do not propose to sit back and see that line wiped out and replaced with perhaps inefficient service because the government or the Minister of Munitions and Supply decides upon a new policy. That is not fair to the people served by that air line. Either the Trans-Canada will have to take it over and render efficient service, or some other provision will have to be -made. The minister referred to the Mackenzie river service the other day. He was asked whether it was the
Aeronautics Act

intention to have Trans-Canada fly that service, and at page 2191 of Hansard he gave this answer:
... at the moment there is no route down the Mackenzie river, and it is not .the intention of Trans-Canada to operate a service in that area.
These operations from Vancouver to the Yukon, along the Mackenzie river and down the St. Lawrence river are not the type of service referred to by the minister as being small operations; nor are they taxi services, as the leader of the C.C.F. called small operations the other day. They do not come under that category. Yet the minister has said that only small operations will be tolerated in Canada.


I never said that.


That is the effect of it.


The minister is reported on page 1573 of Hansard as follows:
The government believes that feeder line operations, and pioneer lines into our northland, can best be developed as small operations.


Developed.


We will take it as "developed."


The Mackenzie river service was developed privately as a small enterprise.


It has grown beyond that stage. The air service from Vancouver to the Yukon has grown far beyond that, and much better service is being given now than was given under that scheme.


I said they would be developed as small enterprises. If they grow into large enterprises, so much the better.


The effect of government policy is to discourage all expansion, because a small operator would have no certainty of his position in the future. If he grows too large, or if the minister does not like the way he is doing business, or thinks that he is getting too big or giving competition, then he will just be snuffed out or taken over. That certainly is no way to build up air lines in Canada. In effect under this government policy there is a sword hanging over the head of every small operator of an air route.


Name the small operators.


There will be many small operators as soon as the war is over, as soon as gold mining opens up.


A sword is not hanging over their heads; they are not in existence.


If they develop at all a sword will be hanging over their heads. The leader of the C.C.F. expressed his point of view on this bill very clearly the other day when it was up for discussion. At page 3963 of Hansard he is reported as having used these words:
I have no doubt that even if people do succeed in setting up privately owned airways in this country and elsewhere it will be only a short time before governments will be compelled to take them over and operate them as great public transportation systems. So that in order to avoid the difficulties which otherwise are bound to arise in the future let us establish now our own publicly owned and publicly operated airways system.
If the C.C.F. get into power all airways will be acquired by the government. They are entitled to that opinion, but we think they are wrong. By bringing in this air policy the ministry are simply playing into the hands of the C.C.F. They are travelling along exactly the same lines, and I suggest to hon. members who are supporters of the government that they read bill No. 133 carefully before they support it in this house.
Finally the bill provides that the government may subsidize air operations. Section 16 reads:
The governor in council may authorize the minister to enter into a contract with any air carrier for the grant of such assistance, financial or otherwise, as may be specified by the governor in council payable out of moneys to be appropriated by parliament for that purpose.
In other words, power is being given to the minister, subject of course to the governor in council-


And to parliament.


It does not say that; it says "governor in council".


It says "appropriated by parliament for that purpose".


All money has to be appropriated.


That is the old alibi, but actually it can be done without parliament being here at all. The governor in council merely has to approve the actions of the minister. That means that any favourite of the government may obtain a subsidy. When the Industrial Development bank bill was under debate it was suggested that it be used to help in the financing of these airways. Why cannot it be done in that way? Why cannot these air operators get their financial assistance, the same as anyone else, from the Industrial Development bank instead of the cabinet taking power to grant subsidies to these companies?

Aeronautics Act
I submit that this bill is ill advised in these five respects. I think some other steps should be taken. I have no objections to there being drastic control; it may be that there should be proper controls to prevent lines from being brought together unduly, from being built up, from being amalgamated, but certainly this bill goes much too far. It is a tragedy. Canada should encourage the building up and the expanding of air traffic. We need a bold air policy, and the policy under this bill is not a bold policy; it is a step backward.
Young Canadians are gaining a name for themselves as airmen in this war, just as they did in the last war. The commonwealth air training plan has been conducted with such success in Canada. Before the war we had a remarkable development of flying into the north country. This country should lead in the development of air routes. We should develop every single agency, Trans-Canada, Canadian Pacific and any other operation, instead of trying to throttle civil aviation in Canada with such a bill as this.


This debate has taken an extraordinary turn in producing contradictory debate. First we had it from the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) as well as from the hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Green) that the government is being made a dictator of policy.


The
minister.


All right, the minister; but the minister is a part of the government and therefore the government is involved.
May I point out that the alternative is to set up a bureaucracy, and the hon. member for Lake Centre spent ten minutes the other night denouncing bureaucracies. Someone must have the responsibility for issuing franchises for air lines, and ever since confederation the government has taken responsibility in the matter of issuing franchises for every type of transportation. It has granted railway franchises-


No. Parliament did, not the government.


The government of the day makes the recommendation.


The company proceeds to get a charter by way of a private bill, asking for the right to go on, and parliament decides. Can the minister not distinguish between the two?


I do not know that there is a great deal of difference.


I agree, but there used to be a difference.


The purpose of this bill is that the government of the day shall be responsible for the administration of Canada's air policy. I believe that that is a sound principle, and I am astonished that there is not general agreement on that point. The Aeronautics Act, which is being amended, went even farther in centralizing authority, because the minister had the sole authority under that act for the granting of licences.


But that was taken away by .the Transport Act.


Yes, in certain particulars, in 1938, and I am coming to that. I will admit at once that the minister is the authority in policy matters, and through him the government of the day takes responsibility. I make no apology for that.
I point out that the board now being established has much wider powers than were given to any administrative board which has dealt with air matters in the past. The board of transport commissioners is bound by the Transport Act and is concerned chiefly with railway problems. The effect of the administration by the transport board was this. In 1938, when the act was passed, there were a great number of independent air operations in this country. Four years later there was only one independent air operation. Every other air operation in the dominion was owned and controlled by the railway companies.
My hon. friend speaks of decisions and mentioned one particular decision of the transport commissioners. That decision was perfectly correct under the Transport Act, but was it in the best interests of Canada? At a time when Canada is extremely short of aviation equipment and -when the travelling public requires transport by air as never before, the board ruled that Trans-Canada Air Lines must operate from Vancouver to Victoria with empty seats, because there was another air operation connecting the two centres. The fact that the other operation was overcrowded and could not begin to handle the traffic, and could not obtain planes sufficient to carry the traffic, did not weigh with the board.


Was not an appeal provided for?


The decision was not appealed. But was it in the public interest?


Why was it not appealed?


It could have been.
Aeronautics Act


Who would consider it of importance?


Trans-Canada.


Trans-Canada Air Lines is a creature of the government; why should it appeal from the decision of a government board?


Trans-Canada did not make the application. I understand it was made by a municipality.


I think it was made by Trans-Canada Air Lines.
There is a departure in policy involved in this amendment, and that is that, in future, transport by air will not be bound by the rules of surface transportation. It will be allowed to develop separately from surface transportation. That I think is sound. It has been found to be sound in other countries. I know of no other country where control of aviation is in the hands of surface carriers. I know of countries where such control is expressly forbidden.


What countries?


The United States, for
instance.


Subject to qualification under their aeronautics act.


Tell me one surface carrier that has control of aviation in tihe United States. I can tell you of several that were ordered to divest themselves of air operations.


Which ones?


The Boston and Maine railroad had an air service between Montreal and Boston, and the railway company was ordered to divest itself of control of that air operation.


The railways are operating an air line to Moncton.


I might also mention the Pennsylvania Central, which was also ordered to be divested. I can mention another company, a shipping line, which was operating an air service across the Atlantic. It has recently been ordered to divest. My hon. friend should not be too sure of his facts. If he can tell me of one company in the United States-


I am speaking
about the statutes.


Their statute is similar in form to this statute, of which my hon. friend is complaining.


A shipping company is
still operating the American Export Line.


That operation has been purchased by American Air Lines, I am told.
This board has wider powers than ever were given to any previous aviation authority. The board is not bound by existing legislation. It is given the right to develop its own jurisprudence. It is given the authority of licensing, subject to an appeal to the minister in case the applicant for the licence desires to appeal, just as there is an appeal from the board of transport commissioners to council. It is intended that the board will not be simply a judicial board. It will interpret the law in matters brought before it, and also it will assist the government in actively developing aviation.


Acting in an advisory capacity?


In an advisory capacity, and I would like to make that clear, because some hon. members have said that the board should make the policy. I think that would be going too far. I doubt if it would be a wise step to take. It certainly is not the policy of the Liberal government, whether or not hon. gentlemen opposite wish to make it their policy to set up administrative boards independent of parliament.


No one has
ever suggested that.


I did not suggest that the board should make policy. I said that the board could not do two things, that it could not, on the one hand, advise the minister and, on the other hand, be a judicial body.


I suggest that it can. It can advise the minister on certain matters, and can very well exercise a judicial function also, and will do so.


Is it not supposed to rule, between two applicants, for instance?


It can advise the minister.


The board has no judicial
function at all where there is a dispute between two applicants?


The government makes the decision-


Then the board has nothing to do with it at all.


My hon. friend may be interested in knowing how the situation has developed in the past. He told of the number of applications which had been granted by the board of transport commissioners but he did not say to whom they had been granted.

Aeronautics Act


I simply read from the report. I was not trying to conceal anything.


Of the 62 applications granted, I rather think that 61 were granted to one applicant. I doubt whether that is just the way in which this government wishes aviation to develop in this country.


Who was the one
applicant?


I cannot say at the moment. My hon. friend speaks of subsidies. New air operations in this country have always been subsidized. Lines have been subsidized in the past by the post offices. High mail rates have been given to initiate a service, in the expectation that as the service prospered the postal rates could be reduced. That has usually happened.


Is that not to be done in the future?


No. The post office object to that and quite properly. The post office takes the view that there is no reason why the postal revenues of the country should be used to subsidize an air operation. The policy in the future will be that the postal rate will be fixed at a reasonable figure from the postal point of view and, if an additional subsidy is required, the funds will be voted by parliament. The board will investigate and make a recommendation, after due consideration of the facts and, if the government is satisfied that a subsidy is required to bring the line into operation, that subsidy will be voted by parliament.


Is it not true that the postal subventions were given in the first instance to Trans-Canada, and at a high rate, in order to ensure immediate operation?


Yes.


There is no doubt about that.


Certainly. That is the point.


(York-Sunbury) : That may or may not be a good policy, but I want to have the fact established.


I have said that every operation has been subsidized in its initial stages.


By that method.


Operations have been subsidized by the post office. What I am saying is that the purpose of this bill is to change the method, and I think a much more scientific as well as a fairer method, a method more in keeping with the supremacy of parliament, is being adopted.


It leaves it to the whim of the minister to play favourites if he wants to.


I have seen some reference in the United States press to the effect that the solution there seems to be the adoption of the rule that all first-class mail shall be delivered by air. Has consideration been given to that question?


There is nothing in this bill to that effect. That question is outside the scope of the bill.
I do not know that I have anything more to say at this time, but while I am on my feet I might give the information requested by the hon. member for Lake Centre with regard to applications for franchise. I believe the question was as to how many applications there had been to the board of transport commissioners between April 1, 1943, and1 March 31, 1944, for licences for transport by air. There have been sixteen applications in that period. I might give the list: Canadian Pacific Air Lines, between points in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; Canadian Pacific Air Lines in Ontario and Quebec; other points in Ontario and Quebec; other points in Ontario and Quebec, Canadian Pacific Air Lines; another for Canadian Pacific Air Lines, for points in Manitoba; another, Canadian Pacific Air Lines, for points in Ontario; Canadian Pacific Air Lines, for points in British Columbia; Canadian Pacific Air Lines, for points in Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; another for Canadian Pacific Air Lines, for points in Ontario.
There is an application for Inter-City Air Lines Registered, Montreal, for points in Quebec and' Ontario, and the second by the same applicant, for points in Ontario. There is another for Vancouver Island Air Lines Limited, for points in British Columbia, twenty-six routes; another by Greyhound Lines, between British Columbia and Alberta, nine routes; another, Grey Coach Lines Limited, Toronto, for routes in Ontario, eleven routes; another for Sky Lines Express Limited, Edmonton, for points in Quebec and Ontario; another by M. & C. Aviation Company Limited, Prince Albert, for points in Saskatchewan and Manitoba.


What points in Saskatchewan?


I have not the information.


All refused?


All held in abeyance.


At the
request of the minister?


Quite.
Aeronautics Act


Yes.


Since our view has been brought into the picture this afternoon, I wish to say what we believe. We believe that the air lines should be entirely under government control. That does not exclude the possibility of the taxi lines being operated by private individuals or by private local companies.


What does the hon. member mean by taxi lines?


A great deal of stress
is placed on the young airmen who will be coming back from the war, and the opportunities they will have. The list read by the minister indicates that this country is being entirely sewn up now, if the government permits, by the Canadian Pacific Air Lines, and the battle in parliament to-day is a battle -between those of us who believe that the most efficient service can be run by the nation and those who want the Canadian Pacific to get in on the ground floor.


I rise to a point of order,
and a question of privilege. There is an inference-


An imputation.


There certainly is.


-that I was speaking for the Canadian Pacific, and I ask that it be withdrawn and withdrawn quickly, because it is absolutely untrue. My hon. friend and his party are very free in throwing around abuse of that kind.


And they are pretty thin-skinned when anything is thrown at them.


I have nothing to withdraw. What I suggested was-


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman-


The hon. member for
Rosetown-Biggar is speaking.


But I rise to a point of order.


I am speaking to the
point -of order.


You did
not raise one.


I am speaking to the point of order.


Have I
the floor, Mr. Chairman? The hon. member

for Rosetown-Biggar raised no point of order; he went on with his argument and stated that he withdrew nothing. On the point of order, the hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Green) has stated in effect that what the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar has said is an imputation against his motives and his honour. I agree with him and I think the membership of the committee will agree with him. The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar must withdraw that imputation against the honour of a private member of this house. I ask the committee to sustain the honour of the member for Vancouver South.


I did not make any
reference to the hon. member for Vancouver South-


The inference is there.


-either directly or by inference. I repeat what I have said, that the battle in this parliament at the present time appears to me to be a battle between those of us who believe in public ownership and those who believe that the Canadian Pacific Railway Company should be enabled to get in on the ground floor. That is an expression of opinion to which I am entitled.
Mr, GREEN: On a point of order


The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar has the floor; he is speaking to a point of order.


That, I say, is an opinion to which I am entitled, an opinion which I may express. It reflects on no one. It is, as I see it, a statement of fact.


It so happens that I opened the debate this afternoon and so far I am the only one who has spoken on the subject. Now the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar says that the debate to-day is a dispute between those who believe in the interests of the nation and those who are speaking for the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. That is an imputation which no member of this house should have to face. If a member representing a great constituency is to be faced with that sort of attack the minute he rises to discuss any bill, then there is no use at all of a parliament in Canada. It shows you what we are faced with if the C.C.F. ever get into power. I submit to you, Mr. Chairman, that the hon. member should withdraw.


On a point of order-


I referred to nothing that had been said this afternoon.

Aeronautics Act


You did
refer to to-day.


This debate has been on for several weeks and I am giving my opinion of this debate which I have gleaned over these weeks.


On a point of order, my point is that the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar has thrown an aspersion, or put a false interpretation upon what I said. I said the other night that I would oppose this bill, and the hon. member in his speech has practically said that because we are opposing it I am in favour of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. That is one of the subtle speeches that is made and put across the country as propaganda. I repeat I said that I would oppose this bill and I gave my reasons for so doing. The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar has not dealt with the bill, nor has he warned the country of the danger that there would be in giving the government or any government the powers that are contained in this bill. All that he said was that if we vote against this bill we are in favour of the Canadian Pacific Railway Company. I wish to deny that because it is unfair.


On the point of order, I feel that it is a matter of interpretation. I do not think any point of order or question of privilege arises.


There is a misstatement of fact.


May I proceed?


I appeal your ruling, Mr. Chairman.


May I call the attention of the Chair and of hon. members to the undertaking that governs Wednesday sittings? If the leader of the opposition were in his seat he would agree with me in this. The undertaking was that there were to be no divisions on Wednesday afternoon.


This is not that kind of division.


Mr. Chairman, I do not ivant to delay the proceedings of the committee. If the hon. member for Vancouver South feels that I made any imputations against him personally, and if it would facilitate the business of the committee I shall withdraw that personal imputation.


I do not want any withdrawal to facilitate the business of the committee. If there is to be a withdrawal it has to be an absolute one.


Unqualified.


Is the withdrawal
accepted now?


If it is unqualified, yes.


I made an unqualified withdrawal.


Nobody heard it.


If the hon. member thinks there was any imputation-


He does.


If he does, then I withdraw.


It has to be by leave of the committee.


The Chairman has something to say about it.


If I may proceed, I wish to say that as far as safeguarding these young men are concerned I think the list read by the minister this afternoon shows conclusively that an attempt is being made to gather up these franchises while the war is on. The franchises that have already passed into the hands of the Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited have been pioneered by men who to-day no longer own those franchises or air lines. It is impossible for a young man, no matter how well trained he may be as a flyer, or for any combination of young men that I can conceive of, on returning from the war to be able to purchase the necessary equipment to operate an air line efficiently. The very fact that those air lines have already passed out of the hands of those who pioneered them is substantiation of what I say, namely, that the equipment for air lines is so costly that only a wealthy corporation or a group of individuals can possibly operate a great air service in this country. The alternative with which we are faced in Canada is, I repeat, whether a private corporation, powerful in itself, shall be permitted to obtain a monopoly of the new franchises that may be granted, or whether this great natural monopoly shall remain in the hands of the people where such monopoly properly belongs.


Will the hon. member tell us why it is a natural monopoly? It is not so in the United States?


It is a natural monopoly in Canada.


Your ipse dixit does not prove it, you know.


If the hon. member for York-Sunbury will just remain silent for a moment-
Aeronautics Act


I am
asking a civil question. If you do not want to answer it, or cannot answer it, all right.


I am answering it. It is a natural monopoly.


That is an assertion; that is not an answer.


No small concerns can enter it without a franchise. A franchise is required to operate an air line.


That is not an answer.


Any organization which uses the air for which a government franchise is given is receiving from the people a monopoly to use that particular air route or air line.


Not
necessarily.


In the past this country has given away its resources, has given away the right to operate great lines of transportation. I think this parliament ought to safeguard the Canadian people against the exploitation that may accrue from any monopolistic group in this country. We surely have had enough of the control of vital facilities by a few individuals and by powerful corporations to warn us to safeguard the rights of the people at this time, in regard to both aeroplane services, and if I may interject, the airwaves which comprise the radio and the television services of this country. I wish to support this particular bill very warmly.


I wish to offer some objections to this particular bill, having been one of those who has been interested in this subject in two wars and during the long depression. Those who are opposing the government on this particular measure serve no big interests. I believe I speak for my colleagues as well as myself in this committee when I say that we serve no big interests. So far as this bill is concerned our minds are free. I have always been a public ownership man. I cannot support the first clause of this bill. My remarks will be brief; I offer my opposition now and I shall not offer any objection to the other clauses.
The time has gone by when anyone can offer any criticism about what the opposition has been doing in connection with civil aviation. We serve no big interests. Some of us have suffered in the battle against big interests, and we are prepared to suffer again. I am not for the kind of public ownership that is envisaged by this particular bill, because I believe it would be a fatal policy for the people of this

country at the present time. This bill is drawing a red herring across the trail in the darkest hour of the war, when the invasion has started on the continent and when it is known, as was announced by the great Prime Minister of Great Britain the other day, that they need every plane possible, that they need all the crews and personnel possible for war purposes. How then can the minister give effect to the first clause of the bill at this time? It is beclouding the war issue; it is causing a great deal of dissatisfaction in the country.
This particular industry, if properly applied, would be the greatest source of employment we could have after the war for our young war pilots; but the war is not over yet, far from it. I object to the red herring which has been drawn across the trail to divide our railroads and other forms of transportation, because it is interfering with the war effort.
I believe that the policy proposed will be one of sounding the death knell to all progress in civil aviation in Canada.
I have opposed the principle of this particular bill, bill No. 133. I also oppose the allied bill, to amend the Transport Act, because I am opposed to transferring jurisdiction over commercial aviation from the board of transport commissioners to some other unknown body, especially when the war is at its darkest hour. In the second place, under the present statute every order made by the board of transport commissioners, whether with regard to railways, telephones, express companies or any other function, may be appealed to the governor general in council. That right is eliminated in this new proposal. True it is. under the new bill an appeal may be made from the new air board to the minister.
Section 1 of this bill provides for the establishment of an air transport board, to do what? To advise the minister. On what? On matters in connection with the development of a system of civil aviation. Then it gives the new board another function, making it a licensing and regulatory body with respect to commercial air service. I do not find any judicial or semi-judicial powers conferred upon this body. It is purely a board of regulation; it will be a board of convenience for and subservient to the minister, and nobody will be able to get a licence under section 12, for the board can grant licences only with the approval of the minister. No matter how well qualified a company may be to obtain a licence, the final determination of its rights will be made, not by the board but by the minister himself. I believe that is a fatal mistake, and simply means that by this bill we are setting up a board for purely air local purposes, all dressed up and no place to go.

Aeronautics Act
A further objection is that the board has no functions to perform. There will be nothing to regulate. We have, during the war and some time after it, no planes, no crews, no personnel. We have been almost begging the United States for planes, and have not received any. They grabbed the Pacific, and if we do not look out they will grab the Atlantic too. In connection with this question of public policy in relation to aviation, the minister forgets all about an empire air scheme. Surely, after spending a billion dollars in this country on the empire air training plan we should be able, after the war by unity in peace in the empire, to get something for the development of civil aviation within the empire, but under the new bill we are not doing anything to set up a commercial commonwealth air board in order to plan empire air routes for the future. Since the visit to England of the Minister of Munitions and Supply the United States under-secretary of state, Doctor Bearle, has also visited that country. He went there simply to discuss aviation matters with the United Kingdom, not with the dominions, but a discussion first between Great Britain and the dominions would have been better. Our young men who are flying all over the world will be very much disappointed with some of these policies. This board will be only clerical and advisory, with nothing to regulate. You cannot regulate a monopoly, and under this measure you are going to set up a monopoly in Canada for all time, at the same time ignoring any empire or international schemes. Of course Russia almost shudders at the mention of the word "international." They have their own plans and policies and, notwithstanding what the minister says, they have made at Moscow a bilateral agreement with Britain for after the war, regarding this very important matter. Britain entered into that agreement because she found us so helpless when it came to *making any agreement along the lines suggested by Mr. Curtin and Mr. Fraser, when they threw out the life-line to Canada last January in the shape of an offer to have a concerted empire scheme, which has been long overdue. By means of empire coordination, cooperation and collaboration it was hoped that there might be an empire air policy by means of which th