First report of standing committee on standing orders.-Mr. MacLean.
Mr. W. A. TUCKER (Rosthern) presented the fourth report of the special committee on veterans affairs, and moved that the report be concurred in.
He said: There has been no difficulty about getting a quorum up to now. We have had attendances of from thirty to fifty, but it is proposed to begin this afternoon to sit while the house is in session. It is thought that this might enable us to proceed promptly and continue our deliberations while the house is in session.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs) moved:
That the name of Mr. Adamson (York West) be substituted for that of Mr. Graydon on the committee on external affairs.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I desire to bring hon. members up to date on developments in the strike affecting the Ford Motor Company of Canada plant at Windsor.
Since reporting to the house on Tuesday of this week, I had a conference in my office with representatives of the Canadian Congress of Labour and the United Automobile Workers of America. At that meeting I was pleased to discern a more conciliatory attitude on. the part of the union representatives, and it resulted in the union representatives agreeing to recommend to its members a change of

Ford Motor Plant Strike
policy with respect to the provision of power house services and access to the company's offices.
The union delegation left immediately for Windsor and placed their proposals before the membership.
Early this morning I received a telegram from the union conveying the text of a telegram sent by the union to the company, which reads as follows:
At a well attended meeting of the membership of local 200 UAW-CIO held in the city market building 3 p.m. Thursday November 15th, the following action was decided upon by a substantial majority of the membership present: (1) that employees whose normal function is the operation of the power plant of the Ford Motor Company of Canada are free to resume their regular duties; (2) that the union has no objection to the accredited executive officers of the Ford Motor Company and their personal secretaries from having free ingress to and egress from the plant premises. The union believes that the aforesaid action constitutes a demonstration of good faith that should be of help in assisting to reopen negotiations for a collective agreement with your company. We are therefore requesting on behalf of our union that negotiations be reopened forthwith and to the end that a mutually satisfactory contract be consummated between your company and our organization. Trusting you for your favourable consideration and hoping for an early reply, a letter confirming this wire is being forwarded.
Upon receipt of this, I sent a telegram, to Mr. D. B. Greig, treasurer of the Ford Motor Company of Canada, which reads as follows:
Have just received from Mr. George Burt, Director of Region No. 7, U.A.W.-C.I.O., the text of the communication addressed to you by him conveying the decision of membership local 200 U.A.W.-C.I.O., to man the power house of the company and relax picketing, so that company officials would have access to their offices; also requesting a- conference with company management with a view to the negotiation of a mutually satisfactory contract. I desire to urge upon you and your associates favourable consideration of the union's request in order that way may be opened to a full resumption of company operations at the earliest possible date.
Just before noon a teletype message was received from Mr. Greig addressed to myself and to the Hon. Leslie Blackwell, Attorney General of Ontario, repeating the text of a communication addressed to the union which is as follows:
' Receipt is acknowledged at approximately 1 a.m. this morning of your telegram to Mr. W. FI. Clark, personnel manager of this company.
The company has considered your commuui-oation and is prepared to negotiate with union representatives upon the following conditions;
1.	The union, before negotiation proceedings open, to discontinue all picketing of the company's premises, and at once to cooperate with the company in putting power house back in permanent operation.
2.	The company, as quickly as possible, to prepare its plant for resumption of work.
3.	The company to return its employees to work as quickly as possible and without discrimination.
4.	The company and union, before negotiation proceedings open, to agree upon a reasonable limit of time during which negotiations shall take place; the company suggests ten days.
5.	The company and the union to submit points remaining in dispute between them concerning a new collective bargaining agreement to an arbitrator to be appointed by the Minister of Labour for Canada from among the judges of the Supreme Court of Ontario whose decisions upon the points in dispute and with respect to the wording in any particular of the agreement to be negotiated to be final and binding; save that all matter over which the regional war labour board for Ontario or the national war labour board has jurisdiction shall not be decided by or before said arbitrator.
C. Pending the conclusion of the new agreement to be negotiated as -above provided, the collective bargaining arrangements pertaining to the company's Windsor plants to be the same as those in effect on September 12, 1945.
In agreeing to negotiate with the union under the conditions set forth above, Ford Motor Company of Canada, Limited, emphasizes that its action is motivated by a desire to remove the possibility of bloodshed inherent in the prolonged strike situation; by the need for again making jobs and wages available to' Ford workers, and by the necessity for providing new cars and trucks for home and export markets.
Last Friday and again last Tuesday, the company through Hon. Humphrey Mitchell, Minister of Labour for Canada, offered to submit all issues between the parties to arbitration. The company suggested arbitration instead of direct negotiation with the union because negotiations with the union had been proceeding for seventeen months prior to the calling of the strike on September 12 last. The issues debated during" those seventeen months are the issues to-day. The long-drawn period of fruitless negotiation between company and union has proven that the views of the two parties upon some points have been irreconcilable. In these circumstances, the company has adopted the realistic view that upon some issues negotiation is unlikely to succeed. For that reason, the company has suggested arbitration. Because seventeen months of debate ended in failure to agree, the company now suggests that the two parties should accept a time limit for negotiation prior to arbitration.
With a sincere desire to provide jobs and wages once more for its employees, and to resume work on civilian production, the company has, for the second time within a week, changed the policy it has formerly felt obliged to adopt toward strike mediation proposals.
, On October 27 the company, like the union, rejected an arbitration proposal.
I would like to say, Mr. Speaker, that the arbitration proposal was my suggestion.
Last Friday the company conceded arbitration; in doing so it sacrificed the principle that an employer should not be expected suffer anyone outside of his business dictating the terms upon which he shall deal with his own employees. Now the company concedes negotiation with the union as a preliminary to

Ford Motor Plant Strike
arbitration, feeling that negotiation unassisted by arbitration cannot lead to a complete agreement.
The company still believes that immediate arbitration is the short-cut to achieving a new collective bargaining agreement; still believes that negotiation prior to the invitable arbitration will only consume precious time; still believes that, whle the new agreement is being written through negotiation and arbitration, Ford workers should not be deprived of their jobs and wages.
We sincerely trust that upon consideration of the above the union will share with the company the feeling that the entire situation is capable of speedy and satisfactory solution and that we may receive from you an early approval of the basis outlined.
It will be noted from the above that the company is not of the opinion that collective bargaining negotiations will be productive of any satisfactory result, and consequently, it repeats its previous offer to refer all matters in dispute to arbitration under a justice of the Supreme Court of Ontario appointed by myself. The only difference in the present offer of the company and that conveyed to me in Windsor last Friday is that collective bargaining negotiations over a period of ten days will be entered into after all employees return to work.
It is my opinion that the suggestions made by the men's organization are fair and reasonable and offer the basis of a settlement, and I would urge the company and the men's representatives to get together at the earliest possible moment in order that work may be resumed. In saying this, I feel sure that I am voicing the views of every member of this House of Commons.
The basis of our way of life is reason and the ability to give and take, leading to sound contractional relations. Both company and union have shown evidence of this during the past few days and for the sake of the city of Windsor and industrial peace generally, they should close the gap between them at once.
I would like to think that the company and the union are about to shake hands, but they have not reached out yet.


That the second report of the standing committee on external affairs, presented on Monday, November 12, be now concurred in.
Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs); I am compelled to move in amendment that this

report be referred back to the committee and that it have power to reconsider the recommendation expressed in the last paragraph of the report. The recommendation is in. the following form:
Your committee further recommends that it be empowered to consider matters connected with external affairs and report from time to time any suggestion or recommendation deemed advisable to the House of Commons.
This is one of the twelve standing committees which were set up on October 9 and with respect to which the powers were determined by resolution of this house on October 10 in the following form:
On motion of Mr. Mackenzie it was resolved:
That the standing committees of this house shall severally be empowered to examine and inquire into all such matters and things as may be referred to them by the house and to report from time to time their observations and opinions thereon, with power to send for persons, papers and records.
The scope of the jurisdiction of the standing committees has been, in the practice of the house, always determined by specific reference. This recommendation would ask for general power to the committee to consider any matters connected with external affairs without specific reference from this house. If that were proper for this standing committee, it would be equally proper for all the standing committees of this house to determine themselves the scope and extent of the matters which they would consider and upon which they would make reports. That would lead to very serious disturbance of the order of business now provided by the standing orders.
These reports come in on motions. They are debatable under the rules of the house, and any report coming from a committee would give occasion for a debate in priority to any of the other business provided for by the standing rules of the house. That may be a good thing to do, but we have just recently set up a special committee to assist Mr. Speaker in revising the rules of the house, and I do not think there should be any anticipation, by concurrence in a motion of this kind, of such a substantial change in what has been the practice and rules of procedure in the house.
Then there is the further consideration that I am only acting in the capacity of Secretary of State for External Affairs, and I should not like any substantial change of this kind to be accepted by the house in the absence of the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
This proposal of the committee would be very wide in its effect. It would allow the committee to investigate any aspect of any-

External Affairs
thing that could be comprised within the term "external affairs." I think that until there has been some general change, if there is to be a change, in the standing orders, the former practice should be adhered to. and there should be specific reference by the house to the standing committees of the matters which the [DOT]standing committees would inquire into.
My amendment is in the form provided for in paragraph 661 of the second edition of Beauchesne:
When the motion is proposed the report may be referred back to the committee for further consideration or with instruction to amend the same in any respect.
The terms I have suggested in my amendment are:
That the report be referred back to the said committee and that it have power to reconsider the recommendation expressed in the last paragraph of the report.


The members of -the official opposition had not realized that this report would be under consideration to-day. I submit that the statement made by the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs is a very important one. It brings up matters which should be given the most careful consideration, and having in mind the successful operation of this committee in the months and years that lie ahead, we suggest to the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs that he allow the discussion on his amendment to stand over until some time next week so that we may be able to review what he has just said and then be in a position to take a stand on the question.


I would support the
suggestion made by the hon. member for Vancouver South. This matter did receive a great deal of consideration by the committee, and the very point that is now raised was brought up. I suggest that further consideration be given it by hon. members.
Mr. ST. LAURENT:	If it is the pleasure
of the house to postpone the determination of the motion and the amendment, I have no objection.


I move the adjournment of the debate.


On a point of order, can
a motion to refer to a committee be debated at all?


Yes.


You are also dealing
with the motion for the adoption of the report.
Motion agreed to and debate adjourned.


Mr. Golding moves that the following bills, Nos. 94 to 160, inclusive, be read the first time.
Bill No. 94 for the relief of Royal Tessier.- Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 95 for the relief of Aurore Leblanc Proulx.

Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 96 for the relief of Margaret Susan Bradshaw Hodgkinson.-Mr. Emmerson.
Bill No. 97 for the relief of Lydia Donalda MacDonald Fletcher.-Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 98 for the relief of Charles Edward Varney.-Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 99 for the relief of George Louis Bush.-Mr. MacLean.
Bill No. 100 for the relief of John Hall Jones.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 101 for. the relief of Madeline Daisy Harvey Bell.-Mr. Emmerson.
Bill No. 102 for the relief of Georges Moshonas.-Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 103 for the relief of Ann Agnes Hyson Kellogg.-Mr. Merritt.
Bill No. 104 for the relief of Anna Ostronoff Smilestone.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 105 for the relief of Doris Alice Davis Stackhouse.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 106 for the relief of Olive Maud Prouse Palmer.'-Mr. Maybank.	[DOT]
Bill No. 107 for the relief of Mary Mueller Pierotte.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 108 for the relief of Anthony Malt. -Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 109 for the relief of Roderick John Elder.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 110 for the relief of Francis George Dennis.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. Ill for the relief of Zenon Alary.- Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 112 for the relief of Gladys Muriel Watson Hooper.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 113 for the relief of Pearl Woodward McGregor.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 114 for the relief of Lily Bromberg Seidlitz.-Mr. Merritt.
Bill No. 115 for the relief of Clarence David Cowan.-Air. Black (Chateauguay-Hunting-don).
Bill No. 116 for the relief of Kathleen Helena Henry Bates.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 117 for the relief of William John Mitchell.-Mr. MacLean.
Bill No. 118 for the relief of Nathan Labo-vitch, otherwise known as Nathan Labow.- Air. Emmerson.
Private Bills

Bill No. 119 for the relief of Fannie Bly Blanshay.-Mr. Cleaver.
Bill No. 120 for the relief of Annette Lea Marion Macnab.-Mr. Rose.
Bill No. 121 for the relief of Gerald Franklin.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 122 for the relief of Ivor Edna Nancy Mosher Clarke.-Mr. Cleaver.
Bill No. 123 for the relief of Mary MacRury Tait.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 124 for the relief of Ernest Stanley Powell.-Mr. Boucher.
Bill No. 125 for the relief of Anastasia Stack Kormylo.-Mr. Croll.
Bill No. 123 for the relief of James Christie Miller.-Mr. Croll.
Bill No. 127 for the relief of Francis Needan Quirk.-Mr. Merritt.
Bill No. 12S for the relief of Virginia Wallace Knoiwlton Tousa-w.-Mr. May-bank.
Bill No. 129 for the relief of Elsie Pearl Craig Maclnnis.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 130 for the relief of Celia Calp Hccht.-Mr. Merritt.
Bill No. 131 for the relief of Joseph Marcel Rouleau.-Mr. Merritt.
Bill No. 132 for the relief of William Arthur Smythe.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 133 for the relief of Nellie Sapphire Tanham Herring.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 131 for the relief of John Guerin Bowles.-Mr. Cleaver.
Bill No. 135 for the relief of Molly Margaret Evelyn McCuaig Stead.-Mr. Boucher.
Bill No. 136 for the relief of Robert Kirkpatrick Scott;-Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 137 for the relief of Emma Hull Mack.-Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 138 for th-e relief of Kathleen Annette Rolfe McLaughlan- Mr. Benidickson.
Bill No. 139 for the relief of Catherine Winfred Howard Bailey.-Mr. Casselman.
Bill No. 140 for the relief of Evelo Browning Couch Harvey.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 141 for the relief of Hazel Margaret Robertson MoLurnon.-Mr. Nixon.
Bill No. 142 for the relief of Marie Azilda Yvette Rowley.-Mr. Croll.
Bill No. 143 for the relief of Joseph Adelard Emilien Lemay.-Mr. Boucher.
Bill No. 144 for the relief of Edward Arthur Robinson.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 145 for the relief of Marie Marthe Fabiola Germaine Trempe Barlow.-Mr. May-bank.
Bill No. 146 for the relief of Thelma Ann Tongue Grant.-Mr. Maybank.

Bill No. 147 for the relief of Jean-Jacques Lahiere.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 148 for the relief of Edgar Thomas Lucas Graham.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 149 for the relief of Edith Pearl Roe Gardner.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 150 for the relief of Dqrothy Marie Christensen Korning.-Mr. Stuart (Charlotte).
Bill No. 151 for the relief of Frank Edward Quartz.

Mr. Benidickson.
Bill No. 152 for the relief of Eileen Campbell Burfind Morris.-Air. Maybank.
Bill No. 153 for the relief of Elma Eva Inch Evans.-Mr. MacLean.
Bill No. 154 for the relief of Gertrude Rheaume Marchild-on.-Mr. Brown.
Bill No. 155 for the relief of Godfrey John Kool.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 156 for the relief of Eric John Hollingsworth.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 157 for the relief of Pamela Sarah Atkins Berends.

Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 158 to incorporate Compagnie de Fiducie du Canada.-Mr. Fournier (Maison-neuve-Rosemont).
Bill No. 159 to amend an Act to incorporate The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.-Mr. McGarry.
Bill No. 160 to consolidate and amend the acts relating to Alliance Nationa-le.-Air. Marier.


I a-m not having anything to do with the divorce bills.


Air. Speaker, there are a number of divorce bills standing in the names of members other than myself, and I have no desire to take away from them the right to move first reading of those bills. On the other hand I am- quite prepared to move them all and have it tacitly understood that as chairman of the committee the duty of doing so devolves upon me; therefore-if it is agreeable I move the first reading of all the bills which stand either in my name or in the names of other hon. members. In the list appearing on the order paper there are one or two bills which are not divorce bills. I am not including these bills in my motion, because I do not think I have any right to do so.


Moved by Air. Alaybank, seconded by Mr. Alcllraith, that Bills Nos. 94 to 160 inclusive be read the first time.
Alotion agreed to and bills read the first time.

Private Bills-Divorce


Moved by Mr. Maybank that Bills Nos. 94 to 160 inclusive be now read the second time. Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?
Hon. J. L.- ILSLEY (Acting Prime Minister): Excuse me; I do not think that is quite right. The last number that Your Honour read is 160, and that includes two or three bills which are not divorce bills.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to make a formal protest against this manner of dealing with divorce. I think it is really a public scandal in this country that we should have this very large number of divorce bills before us for first and second reading. I know that in the future we are going to be faced with a grave problem, due largely to the war. In my opinion the time has come when this house, together with the provinces, should consider what can be done in order to remove these divorce bills from the 'House of Commons. It is true that they are considered by a senate committee, but we are called upon to pass judgment on, and to dissolve the marriages of tens and sometimes several hundreds of people. I believe these cases may increase as time goes on because of the condition to which I have just referred. Personally I do not feel like taking the responsibility of passing acts of parliament of this kind simply as a matter of routine, and that is precisely what we are doing. We are relying on a committee in the other place to come to a decision, and then we have to take the responsibility in this house of passing bills to dissolve marriages. I know that this has been going on for a number of years. It is an expensive and roundabout way of getting the relief which I think is sometimes warranted. I am not opposing the dissolution of marriages under certain conditions, but I do think that this way of dealing with this problem is, as I said before, a public scandal in this country. The time has come when the House of Commons and parliament generally should consider ways and means of removing these matters from the house, and1 of establishing a proper procedure, and perhaps even reviewing the grounds so that we may not be saddled with a responsibility which I personally dislike assuming.


Mr. Speaker, as the
mover of the motion to give second reading to these bills, may I be permitted to acquaint the house with certain circumstances relating to them. In the first place, all of these have been moved by me as a matter of duty which has been placed upon me as chairman of the committee. In the second place, I can associate myself with the remarks which
have been made by the hon. gentleman who has just taken his seat. Although I moved the first reading of these bills I concur entirely in the strictures he has made upon this system of granting divorces. As a matter of fact I very much dislike seeing laws passed in that way respecting individuals. I would much prefer to have each individual case examined; but I do desire the house to know the circumstances under which I move first and second reading of these bills. Being chairman of the committee I do it simply as a matter of duty.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to say
just a few words of endorsement about the remarks made by the hon. member for Rose-town-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell).
Last year, fairly strong protests were voiced in this house concerning the manner in which divorce bills were passed, and a group of hon. members did raise strenuous objections. This year, the same procedure is being followed. Therefore, I wish-on my own account of course, because I leave it to my hon. fellow-members to do so if they like-to protest against the way in which the house passes divorce bills and breaks up marriage ties in a manner that could be termed scandalous, as was said by the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar.
Of course, the sponsor of those bills is in no way to be blamed; he is doing his duty, but I think a formal protest in this house, is necessary at this time. That is all I have to say for the present.
(Text)


Mr. Speaker, I think I should say a few words about the observations of the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Cold-well). Almost every year a protest is made by a leader of one of the opposition parties or by one or more private members against the existing system of granting divorces by act of parliament. Although I have heard these protests made on literally dozens of occasions- and they are always made solemnly and in such a way as to command the assent of nearly everyone who listens to them-I have never heard a real suggestion as to how the situation can be remedied.


Before the war we
placed bills on the order paper with regard to divorce, and we are prepared to do it again.


A specific suggestion has been made by the former leader of the Progressive Conservative party, the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon), as well as by members of this group, namely, that these cases be referred to the exchequer court.
Private Bills-Divorce


Well, Mr. Speaker, I do not remember any bill having been introduced to turn the exchequer court into a divorce court, and I doubt whether the suggestion is a practicable one. The situation is just this: that a majority of the members of the House of Commons are not prepared to vote against these bills when they come before the house. They feel that they cannot go that far. On the other hand if they are not prepared to vote against the bills I do not know what procedure can be set up except that which is followed at the present time. I do not understand my hon. friend's suggestion. Is it that there should be a different procedure set up in this parliament?


No. I think this is a matter for a court to decide, not the House of Commons.	*


What does the hon. member suggest should be done in a province where there are no divorce courts?


I suggest that the
dominion and the province get together with a view to reaching an agreement.


Not in Quebec.


Then is it the suggestion that a dominion court be set up to try divorces from one particular province? I want to get down to something definite. I have heard these suggestions year after year, but so far I have heard nothing definite.


Was there not a bill introduced in this house some years ago setting up a divorce court in the province of Ontario? If it can be done for Ontario it can be done for the province of Quebec,


Is that the suggestion of the party to which the hon. gentleman refers?


The minister asked for suggestions, and that is one.


And perhaps for Prince Edward Island as well.


All I rose for was to try to get something definite about these criticisms. There is no reason why the special committee that has been set up to examine the rules should not consider this question, because we all agree this is not a matter that can be taken lightly. The present situation is not satisfactory, but my main purpose in rising was so that these general criticisms might not be made year after year without some point being added to them.
CMr. Knowles.]


May I be permitted to add some words to the remarks-


Order. .


Before you put the question, Mr. Speaker, I believe I should say a word. For five years I was chairman of the private bills committee. We went into every case that was brought before us. * Some of the hon. members read the evidence which had been adduced before the senate committee. Other hon. members had knowledge of the procedure followed in the provinces where divorce courts have been established. You can take the evidence brought before the senate committee and compare it with any evidence brought before the courts in the eight provinces where they have these courts, and there is no difference at all. All these cases are heard ex parte or by default, and the evidence is very similar in all.


Oh, no; there is no default.


I am speaking of something about which I have knowledge.


Well, you do not know.


In certain contested cases of course the evidence is heard at length. If you go before the senate committee, which is composed of experienced men, you will see that the evidence is heard in full: Both parties and their witnesses are heard; and I think the judgments of the senate will bear comparison with the judgments rendered by the courts of the country.


What provision does the senate committee make for the children of these people?


I am not discussing that aspect, of it; I am discussing procedure. To-day hon. members are complaining about the procedure in this house when divorce bills from the province of Quebec are brought in from the senate committee. The bills we are talking about come only from the province of Quebec. Everyone in this house knows that in Quebec a huge majority of the people are against the establishment of divorce courts. For hon. members from the other provinces to impose their will upon the province of Quebec in this delicate matter I think would be a very serious mistake. We can show that where you have established divorce courts in Canada the number of divorces has increased year in and year out.

Private Bills-Divorce
According to the Ottawa newspapers, for the coming term of court in this city I believe there are some sixty cases from this city alone. In all the province of Quebec, under the present system, there are about two hundred this year, and that is the largest number we have ever had.


And would the hon.
gentleman tell us the number of annulments?


We have courts for annulments.


That is not divorce at all.


I do not understand why, just to save a little time of the House of Commons, people who do not belong to our faith or come from our province would wish to impose upon us a system of procedure which is repugnant to our people. That is what you would be doing in the province of Quebec. I am speaking for myself and not for the government; I am giving my convictions in this matter. I believe this procedure, while it may seem to be hasty, certainly can be compared with the procedure in the courts.


Mr. Speaker, I rise because-


I am sorry; I was speaking of cases heard ex parte, where no defence has been adduced, and I applied the word "default." The correct, expression is "ex parte." I should like to make that correction.


I am not one of those who for a moment would think of forcing a divorce court upon the province of Quebec if that province does not want it; I should like to make that plain. In view of what the Acting Prime Minister (Mr. Ilsley) has said, however, I must add that I know of no way except the way we are proceeding here, so I can offer neither criticism nor approbation. We are just in that spot. I also know personally, because I was here for some months many years ago and attended a number of sittings of the divorce committee in the other place, as we call it, what the procedure is over there, and I agree with what the minister has said. The thing is done very carefully and the evidence is all gone into. The fact that here we appear to be a sort of rubber stamp does not mean at all that these matters have not been properly and judicially handled by experienced people in that other committee. I make these remarks so there will be no misunderstanding of my interruption of the minister's remarks.
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs): I remember this matter was considered by the special committee appointed by the house last year to consider the standing rules and orders of the house, and a recommendation was made which will be found in the journals of the House of Commons for last year at page 152. They suggested a new rule, though this recommendation was not adopted by the house; I want to make that clear:.
That the following be added at the end of this standing order:
with the exception of divorce bills passed in the senate which shall be referred to the standing committee on private bills as soon as received from that house.
Under this new rule, divorce bills will come before the house only once. They will be thoroughly considered in the committee on private bills prior to being submitted to the house. They are now mentioned three times before their second reading: first, when the. message is read from the senate; secondly, on first reading and thirdly on second reading. The object of the new rule is to avoid this unnecessary procedure.
Your committee is of the opinion that divorce by legislation should not take place to such an extent that bills seeking it sometimes fill many pages of the order paper. The matter is not one that can be settled by standing orders. The whole question should be given full consideration with a view to eliminating divorce bills from parliament, and your committee strongly recommends that this be done as soon as conveniently possible.
That was the recommendation of the committee last year.
Motion (Mr. Maybank) agreed' to, and bills Nos. 94 to 160 inclusive read the second time.


Mr. Maybank moves that bills Nos: 94 to 157 inclusive be referred to the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills, and that bills Nos. 158 and 160 be referred to the banking and commerce committee.
Mr. MAURICE LALONDE (Labelle) Mr. Speaker, I listened with a great deal of attention to- the remarks of the Acting Prime Minister (Mr. Ilsley), who asked for constructive criticism on this matter of divorce. I am sure it is difficult to arrive at a constructive solution of the problem, but I think- and no one can reproach me for doing that-* it is my duty to protest at the way these bills pass through the house. Within a few weeks the dominion-provincial conference will be meeting in Ottawa; and if the only solution to the problem is to change the British North
2t88
Private Bills-Divorce

America Act so that the divorce question may revert to the provinces, that will be the time to speak about it and to alter the constitution so that each province may deal with its own divorce problem. That is my suggestion, and I put it to the house, urging at the same time that federal representatives at the conference place the matter before the conference so that it may be carefully dealt with.


Did not the Canadian
Bar association go into this whole matter very fully at its annual meeting held last summer, and did it not recommend to the government that the whole question of causes for divorce and divorce legislation across Canada be reviewed?


I am not aware of any such representation.


May I say one word in reply to the suggestion that our proposal for a federal court to deal with these divorce cases would involve imposing our will upon the province of Quebec. That is not our thought at all. The position we take is that Qpebec has the full right to say whether or not they shall have divorce courts in that province. They have decided that they will not, and that is the way the matter stands. But it is also true-


They cannot establish divorce courts in Quebec.


I recognize that, and wo are not suggesting that it should be done; that is why I make this statement. But I point out that although there is no divorce court in Quebec, persons of that province now have the right to come to the federal parliament, to get a divorce. Our proposal is that instead of the people of Quebec who wish divorces coming to the federal parliament, they should come to a federal court situated here in Ottawa. That is why we suggest the matter might be referred to the exchequer court, or that some other federal court might be set up, located, if you like, outside of Quebec.


But that means a change in our constitution, just the same.


No.


Order. The motion to refer to a committee is not debatable.


But your honour has permitted debate. Why stop me?


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?
(Mr. Lalonde.]


Mr. Speaker, in calling *these bills for first reading you included bill No. 159, one in which several hon. members are interested, and the second reading of which we would like to have deferred.


The motion before the
house is that bills Nos. 94 to 157 inclusive be referred to the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills, and that bills Nos. 158 and 160 be referred to the committee on banking and commerce. Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to; bills Nos. 94 to 157 referred to the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills, and bills Nos. 158 and 160 referred to the committee on banking and commerce.


Mr. M. E. McGARRY (Inverness-Rich-mond) moved the first reading of bill No. 159 (from the Senate), to amend an act to incorporate The Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time. '
When shall the said bill be read a second time?


Now.
Mr. McGARRY moved the second reading of the bill. .


I should like to know what this bill is about.


It is usual in this house not to discuss bills coming from the senate, as they have been printed and distributed. Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed* to; bill read the second time and referred to the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills.


Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs) moved:
That it is expedient that the houses of parliament do approve the treaty for the extradition of criminals between Canada and United States of America signed at Washington, April 29, 1942, and the protocol annexed thereto which was signed at Ottawa, October 3, 1945, and that this house do approve the same.
He said: As I said yesterday, my suggestion is that this extradition treaty and protocol be referred to the standing committee on external affairs. It has. been suggested that

Extradition of Criminals
before it goes to that committee I should make a brief statement as to what the treaty implies.
First of all may I point out that there is a provision in the treaty that it will come into force only after ratification, and that before exchanging instruments of ratification the government felt it was -a matter of such importance that it should receive the consideration of the houses of parliament.
Extradition between Canada and the United States of America has been governed by a series of treaties all negotiated and concluded between the United Kingdom government and the government of the United States, and extending to all parts of the British empire.
The first in time was the Webster-Ashbur-ton treaty of 1842 which, although it dealt mainly with boundary questions, provided in article X for extradition in case of murder, assault with intent to commit murder, piracy, arson, robbery, forgery or the utterance of forged papers. By a supplemental convention in 1889, the scope of the extradition arrangement was widened and there were further provisions of a general character supplementing the very limited provisions of the 1S42 treaty. A further supplementary treaty was entered into between the United Kingdom and the United States in 1900, enlarging the list of offences for which extradition could be obtained.
If this series of treaties and conventions is put together it constitutes a fairly comprehensive extradition arrangement extending to a large number of crimes. The arrangements [DOT] were not regarded as adequate by the governments of the United Kingdom and the United States, and a new treaty was negotiated between them in 1931, but was not made applicable to Canada because at the time the statute of Westminster was under consideration and it was not felt that anything done by the United Kingdom authorities should apply to Canada without express action by ourselves.
In the meantime there had been important developments in the trade between the two countries, and negotiations were started for a special extradition treaty between Canada and the United States. The negotiations were protracted. The negotiations were started in 1931, and it was not until April 29, 1942, that they were terminated by the signing of a treaty to come into force upon the exchange of proper ratifications.
The treaty consists of fourteen articles, of which article III sets forth the list of offences which are to be made the subject of extradition. These fall into thirty-three groups. The
remaining articles contain the necessary provisions as to terms, procedure, proof of offences, and so forth. *
When the terms of the treaty became public, objections were taken to items 26, 31 and 32 particularly. Item 26 deals with using the mails to defraud. Item 31 deals with crimes or offences against the laws for the prevention of fraud, and item 32 deals with crimes or offences, if indictable, against the laws regulating public securities markets, or activities affecting such markets, and the registration or licensing of securities or of persons or companies doing business in securities or giving advice with respect to securities, and with investment or public utility com-, panies.
In May, 1943, a delegation of representatives of investment firms was heard by a committee of the cabinet, and it was recognized that it would be necessary to negotiate a protocol to limit the possible application of these items 26, 31 and 32. The matter was again under protracted discussion and it was finally found that the most favourable protocol -that could be obtained was that which was signed as part of the treaty on October 3, 1945.
If the minister will permit a question at this point, was any assurance given to that delegation in May, 1943, that any amendments made would first be shown to them before being embodied in a protocol?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: No, and I must say to the hon. member that no such assurance could be given. It would be contrary to the comity of nations to undertake to make public the negotiations being carried on with a friendly nation for the purpose of concluding a treaty. What assurance was given was that efforts would be made to obtain a satisfactory protocol and that of course no arrangement could-come into effect until the treaty had been ratified, and it would not be ratified until it had been publicized and there had been an opportunity for considering all such objections as might be proper to be urged against ratification. It is for the purpose of allowing such persons as may feel they have an interest in opposing the ratification of the treaty to be heard that I make the suggestion that before debating the treaty and protocol it be referred to a committee where these persons may make their representations, so that when we come to debate the merits or demerits of the arrangement it may be upon the report from the committee which will include such objections as may have been submitted.


One further question. Regardless of what recommendations
Extradition of Criminals

the committee makes, the protocol arid the treaty must stand on their own feet, and there is no assurance that there will be any alteration of the protocol as between Canada and the United States?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: There is no assurance that there will be any alteration of the protocol, but neither is there any assurance that there will be approval by this house of the resolution that is submitted. Ratification is no idle formality. One hon. member suggested yesterday that no minister of the crown should sign any document until he has been specially authorized by parliament to do so. If that were to be the policy adopted, parliament should repeal the statute dealing with the Department of External Affairs and set up a committee on external affairs to administer our external affairs. The procedure is for these matters to be entered into, in the form of treaties subject to ratification according to the constitutional processes of the parties concerned. Our constitutional process is to secure in advance the assent of the houses of parliament rather than to do something of which parliament would disapprove and express its disapproval by withdrawing its confidence from those who would have done it.


If the minister would allow one further question-because it is rather an anomalous situation-would the government consider any vote that would not approve the treaty or the protocol, as a vote of non-confidence?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: That is a matter that would have to be considered when the time should come for considering it. The government recommends to the house the ratification of this treaty. The house will deal with it as it sees fit, and on the result of the decision of the house the government will then have to determine what course it will follow.


Mr. Speaker, I understand that this matter was brought up yesterday by the Minister of Justice (Mr. St. Laurent), at which time he asked that it be referred to the committee on external affairs wdthout debate and without any statement by the minister himself. I understand that his desire was primarily to expedite the work of the house. With that objective we are in entire agreement, and as evidence of that I say now that we are prepared to forgo debate on the matter at this time. Yesterday the hon. member for Yale (Mr. Stirling) asked that it be stood over until to-day, because he had not had previous notice that the motion

was to be considered. I would point out now that we desire to help the government expedite its measures, but we think it is a bad precedent to establish to come forward with motions or bills and ask that they be sent to a committee without a statement by way of explanation from the government. We on this side will try to limit debate as much as we can, but we think that a precedent such as this would not be a good one; so when the Minister of Justice spoke to' me to-day I suggested that it would be better procedure, when these measures come forward, that some statement should be made by the government before asking the house to send them to a committee. I think I can speak for my associates when I say that we shall expedite the matter now before us on the understanding that we are not committing ourselves for or against the measure, and that we shall have the right to take part in any necessary debate upon it later on.
Motion agreed to for reference of extradition treaty and protocol to standing committee on external affairs.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. It arises from the fact that in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta there has been a short crop this year, and farmers are., anxious to ascertain if it would not be possible for the government ,to make early payment of the participation certificates of 1943 and 1944. Is the minister in a position to give us a statement in this regard?


The hon. member for Lake Centre kindly informed me that he was going to ask this question this afternoon, and I would appreciate it if hon. members from the west generally would observe the answer, because I am quite sure that the matter is dealt with to a very considerable extent in correspondence from the west.
The Canadian wheat board has been unable, as yet, to close the 1943 crop account because of the necessity of tracing a number of shipments to their destinations, which have been diverted en route, thereby affecting the ultimate determination of the sales of wheat as either crown account or 1943 crop.wheat. The audit, of course, awaits the closing of the account. It is therefore expected that it will

Penitentiary Act
be June or July of next year before payments against 1943 participation certificates can be made.
Another difficulty has been that of cleaning up the balance of 1940, 1941 and 1942 crop participation certificates. Many thousands of these certificates still remain unpaid because the certificates have been lost. The board is doing everything possible to make these payments to those who are entitled to them, even though the certificates are lost, estates are involved, or the parties cannot be located. It is hoped that this residue of 1940, 1941 and
1942	crop payments will be reduced to very small proportions by the time the board is otherwise in a position to commence payment on the 1943 certificates.
It is obvious that the 1944 participation certificates will have to be dealt with after the
1943	payments are made.


That will enable us to answer the letters we are receiving from the west.	t


Yes.


On the orders of the day.
Mr. Speaker, may I use
the privilege which was granted to some hon. members in this house in connection with the ninth victory loan campaign. I know that I am out of order, but you have.been generous enough to allow these hon. members to draw the attention of the house to the result of the campaign in their constituencies, and I request the same favour.
Your position, Mr. Speaker, does not permit you to speak of your own constituency, but I think I should do it so that your numerous friends, in and outside of this house, may learn with pleasure that'Montreal-St. Mary, where you were elected, and whose unit number is 112, came first out of all units in the island of Montreal, subscribing 178-50 per cent of its quota. Such a result certainly deserves our congratulations. But however generous they may be in your constituency, I wish to say that it could not compete with mine. Joliette is but one of the three provincial ridings of which my constituency of Joliette-L'Assomption-Montcalm is composed, and the Joliette unit, No. 173, finished first out of all units in the province of Quebec- including of course the island of Montreal- subscribing 198-16 per cent of its quota.


Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Minister of Justice) moved1 that the house go into committee on bill No. 92, to amend the Penitentiary Act, 1939.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Macdonald (B