Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs) moved:
That the name of Mr. Jaenicke be substituted for that of Mr. Knowles on the committee on external affairs.	.
Motion agreed to.
Up to the present, gift parcels for Italy could be sent only up to a weight limit
of four pounds to the islands of Sardinia and Sicily, as well as to the cities of Rome and Naples and Vatican City state. I am now glad to say that arrangements have just been completed under which the parcel post service to Italy has been extended to all areas excluding the provinces of Gorizia, Fiume, Trieste, Pola and Zara, but including the cities of Gorizia, Trieste and Pola. The weight limit has been extended from four pounds to eleven pounds, and instructions have already been issued to the postal service in this connection.
This parcel post service has been placed in operation under the same conditions as at present applying to parcel post services from Canada to other countries on the continent to which such services have been resumed.


As to weight, is there any limit, in the composition of parcels, to the proportion comprising food and the proportion covering other things?


There are
certain regulations which I am unable to indicate at-the moment. I know that there is a certain limitation on foodstuffs. As regards England, it is up to seven pounds, but I do not remember what it is .for other countries. I will get the details for the hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called I should like on behalf of the party I have the honour to represent, and in this respect I should like to think on behalf of the whole house, to extend to the Prime Minister a very cordial welcome home after his approximately seven weeks abroad. I am sure we have all read with interest the account of his movements overseas during this period. We are glad1 to see him back, improved in health and strength and ready again to associate with us in trying to serve Canada for the remainder of this session and in the days ahead.
If I may be permitted to do so, I should like to commend him for such part as he had to play in formulating the tripartite statement with respect to the control and use of atomic energy, and in the effort of the three democratic leaders to see that it is used for the promotion of the arts of peace rather than in the arts of destruction. May I say also that I trust his visit to Britain and to the United States has resulted in still further cementing the good relations between those two great countries and as well between our-
The Prime Minister

selves and them. As I have said', we are all pleased to see him back, and we shall look forward with interest to a statement from him giving his impressions of the international Scene as he has been permitted to view it during the last six or seven weeks.


May I just say that in this instance the leader *f the opposition speaks on behalf of our party as well.
Mr. SOLON E. LOW (Peace River): This party also joins with the leader of the opposition in his welcome to the Prime Minister.


Mr. Speaker, I do thank my hon. friend the leader of the opposition most warmly for his exceedingly kind welcome so felicitously expressed, and may I at the same time thank with equal warmth the leader of the C.C.F. party and the leader of the Social Credit party for joining, as they have, and on behalf of those they represent, with the leader of the opposition in his words of welcome. I thank all hon. members for the hearty manner in which they have responded to the greetings of the leader of the opposition. It is indeed a joy to me to be back in Canada. I should like to take advantage of this first moment to renew my thanks to the members of the House of Commons for having permitted me, while the house was in session, to have the advantages which the trip I have just 'taken to England and to the United States has afforded. I should also like to express warmest thanks for the greetings which have been extended to me outside the House of Commons as well as within since my return by members of different parties. I do not know which to regard as the greater compliment, the readiness to have me leave or the welcome with which I have been .received since my return.
As my hon. friend who was leading the house mentioned last night, I think it would probably best suit the convenience of all were I to give to hon. members some account of the impressions gained in the last few weeks when we are considering the estimates of the Department of External Affairs. That may be arranged for some time in the very near future. Similarly, I think it would be best to speak also at that time on the allimportant question of atomic energy. However, I should like to avail myself immediately of the opportunity to express in the presence of my fellow members to-day the thanks which I feel I owe to the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and to the British government for the opportunities which they afforded me while in Britain for

conference not only with members of the present administration but with members of the opposition and with others as well. In addition to the Prime Minister I feel particularly grateful to Lord Addison, the leader of the House of Lords and Secretary of State for the Dominions, and to Mr. Ernest Bevin, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. With these gentlemen I was privileged to have very intimate conversations on matters of general and wide interest.
I should also like to express equally warmly my appreciation of the great kindness and many courtesies extended to me by the President of the United States, Mr. Truman, by the Secretary of State, Mr. Byrnes, and other members of the administration, in the course of my visit to Washington, at the same time as that of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. I may say to my hon. friends I do believe the visit which Prime Minister Attlee and I had together at Washington was not only of great service to the three countries represented at the conferences we had with the President of the United States, but will prove to have been of real service to the world itself. Certainly I feel very strongly that the conferences in England and in Washington have helped, if such were needed at this time, to strengthen the bonds of friendship between the peoples of the British commonwealth of nations and of the United States. I am sure that nothing in this world is more needed for the preservation of peace itself than the maintenance of the relations that were so firmly established between those peoples at a time of war, and their continuation throughout the period of post-war reconstruction.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. I am sorry that I did not have a chance to give him notice of this question. In view of the appalling conditions prevailing in Europe, and the certainty of death from 'starvation facing millions of children there, what steps are being taken to give refuge to the children of the stricken countries and bring them to this country?


I do not know that the question properly falls within the scope of the ministry of National Health

Health Insurance
and Welfare. It would be a question for joint consideration by the government, and the answer will have to be given at a later day.


I should like to follow it up with this question: Would the minister consider the setting up of a joint committee of both houses of parliament to consider our moral obligation to alleviate the plight of those children and find ways and means of placing as many as possible in homes in Canada?


I would ask the hon. member to be kind enough to put the question on the order paper.


May I say just a word to the hon. member who has spoken?-because, like her, I have been deeply impressed by the conditions in Europe, particularly in Germany, where I think a large part of the population will almost certainly face starvation and very large numbers will die in the course of the coming winter owing to the fact thit in many cases they are without food, clothing and shelter. Transportation facilities are bad, and fuel is scarce. It would be impossible to exaggerate what central Europe is facing in regard to the coming winter. Whether that problem can be met in the manner in which the hon. member has suggested is something that will have to be considered very carefully.
I have spoken about the question of transportation being one of great concern. In that connection I was speaking of transportation within Europe itself. But for us an even greater problem arising out of inadequate transportation is one which concerns Canadian men and women who are at this time in Britain and in Europe, namely, the repatriation of those who have been serving overseas in the years of war, some of them for six, a great many of them for several years. It is only fair to say at once that until adequate means are found of bringing back to this continent the men who have been seeking to preserve freedom and to destroy the enemy, it would not be possible to consider asking transportation companies to give the space which would be required for them for any other purpose, however necessary and humane it may be to bring additional people, men, women or children, from Europe to Canada or the United States at this time.
I would join with my colleague in saying that the question is one which would have to be considered very carefully by the ministry before any definite answer could be given. I think it is well at once to make perfectly clear that the great problem to-day is that
of transportation and repatriation of the men who have been fighting at the front, and their wives and children.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Prime Minister? The press reports that President Truman has proposed to congress the introduction of a compulsory health insurance system. Could the Prime Minister say whether this important subject is on the agenda for early consideration when the dominion-provincial conference meets next week?


Yes, it is on the agenda. I might give my hon. friend, as he sent me notice of his question, a fuller answer, to this effect: As he knows, the dominion government included in its proposals placed before the dominion-provincial conference on reconstruction on August 6 of this year a proposal for a nation-wide system of health insurance. That proposal was among those receiving consideration from the provinces, and when the coordinating committee of the conference reconvenes next week, the subject of health insurance, like the other dominion proposals, will be before the premiers for consideration.


On the orders of the dav:
I should like to know from the Minister of Mines and Resources when we may expect the report of the commission dealing with the sources and requirements of fuel in Canada.


The report has not yet come to hand. I will make inquiries as to when I may expect to receive it.
Mr. NORMAN J. M. LOCKHART (Lincoln): This is in the nature of an advance request to the Minister of Munitions and Supply. May I suggest that a statement be given to the Canadian public at an early day indicating exactly what the fuel situation is. as this ambiguous amount of seventy-five per cent which has been suggested is causing much consternation.


I shall be glad to give a reply on the civil estimates.
Veterans Affairs


On the orders of the day:
Has
the Minister of Transport any report to make with regard to accommodation for service men who fought in the Canadian armed services .and who require accommodation to return to their homes in Great Britain?


I am happy to tell the hon.
member for Cumberland, and the senior member for Halifax (Mr. Isnor) who made similar representations in this behalf, that arrangements have been made with the British ministry of transport in London to accommodate 2b0 ex-service men on the return trip of the Queen Elizabeth, which will be about November 23.


On the orders of the day:
I would again direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs in connection with the veteran students in the various universities who. having failed in one examination, find themselves obliged to leave by the end of this month unless something is done regarding them. Is the minister now in a position to advise the house and the country respecting the change which has been made, if any, and what is to be done to enable them to continue with their studies?
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs):	As I advised my hon.
friend the other day, the advisory committee on university training has given extensive consideration to this question. It has now made a recommendation, and it is the intention to submit to parliament within the next few days a proposal with regard to the amendment of the post-discharge reestablishment order.


On the orders of the day :
Would :he Minister of Labour inform the house as to the progress of the negotiations between the union and the Ford Motor company at Windsor, Ontario?


I am glad to say that representatives of the union and company met yesterday afternoon and this morning and will meet again to-morrow morning with a view to laying a basis for settlement of the strike. Following the meeting held yesterday there was a joint statement which was issued* by Mr. D. B. Greig, treasurer of the Ford Motor Company of Canada Limited. At the conclusion of this morning's meeting the joint statement was issued by Mr. George Addes, international seeretaryM;reasurer of the United Automobile Workers of America. I think this shows an encouraging degree of cooperation.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday a question was asked
by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles), to which I promised to give an answer to-day. It was as to the separation notices which are now being sent to a number of men in the Winnipeg postal district.
While the department has no definite information, there would seem to be no doubt that the employees to whom the advices referred to by the hon. member were sent are those who are not qualified by examination for permanent appointment, or who are not entitled to the overseas preference. They would, therefore, not be retained indefinitely in any event. I feel that the hon. member will agree that it is in the best interests of these men that they be advised of the likelihood of their release to enable them' to look for employment elsewhere if they so dlesire.


Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege, I hold in my hand an item clipped from the Ottawa Journal, entitled "Appointed members of flag committee." I notice the name "R. M. Warren", with the initials afterwards "P.C."


That is a terrible mistake.


I assume that P.C. means Progressive Conservative. In view of the speech of the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) to which we listened last night, I wonder whether he would* advise me whether I am entitled to legal assistance in a matter of this nature, or an error of this 'kind.
NOVEMBER 20, 1945	22S5
Demobilization-Munitions and Supply


The house resumed from Monday, November 19, consideration in committee of a resolution to grant to His Majesty certain sums of money for the carrying out of measures deemed necessary or advisable in consequence of the war-Mr. Ilsley-Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
['I think I will read it\nto-morrow.\nItem stands.\t.\nProgress reported.']
The committee has under consideration the estimates of the Department of Munitions and Supply. We are on the item entitled "Housing Development."


Mr. Chairman, at the last sitting I undertook to answer certain questions, and I will now do so.
Questions were asked by the hon. member for Regina City (Mr. Probe) in connection with the Park Steamship company. He asked first: How many ships does Park Steamship company now own? The answer is 154.
What is the present value? I cannot answer that, because I have no recent valuation.
How many have been sold? The answer is that there have been five 3,600-ton tankers, and fourteen 4,700-ton merchant ships.
To whom, and at what prices? There have been ten 4,700-ton ships to the French government at $415,000 per vessel, less a brokerage charge on each ship of $43,000, or a net of $372,000; one 4,700-ton ship to the Swedish government on the same terms; three 4,700-ton ships to Brazilian interests at $390,000 each, less a brokerage of five per cent, leaving a net of $370,500; four 3,600-ton tankers to Branch Lines Limited at $350,000 each; one 3,600-ton tanker to Canada Oils at $350,000.
The next question is: At what fraction of cost? The basis of sales price in relation to cost is set out in a sales formula which I shall give in a minute, in reply to a question of the hon. member for Yorkton.
Then, the following question from the hon. member for York South: How many tankers in the Park fleet? The answer is five of 3,600 tons and twelve of 10,000 tons.
The cost of each type? The answer is for the 3,600-ton type, approximately $1 million each, and for the 10,000-ton type approximately $1,750,000 each.
Then, the number sold and: the selling price: Five 3,600-ton tankers at $350,000 each.
Then, a question by the hon. member for Yorkton with respect to Park Steamship company, dealing with an item of $23,380,058,
cargo vessels operated by Park Steamship Company Limited, and the actual expenditures from April 1 to August 31, 1945:
(a)	What vessels were delivered? The answer is 17.
(b)	The names and amounts of tonnage? The answer is as follows:
Name of Ship-Tonnage-Type	-Cost
Garden Park, 10,000, Canadian		$1,650,000
Simcoe Park, 10,000, Canadian		1,650,000
Albert Park, 10,000. Canadian		1,650,000
Lakeside Park 10,000, Canadian ...	1,65Q,0Q0
Evangeline Park, 4,700, Revised Gray 1,100,000 Mulgrave Park 4,700, Revised Gray 1,100,000
Rupert Park, 10,000, Canadian		1,650,000
Sutherland Park, 4,700, Dominion ..	1,150,000
Bell Park, 4,700, Dominion	 1,150,000
Highland Park, 10,000, Canadian ...	1,650,000
Argyle Park 4,700, Revised Gray ...	1,100,000
Rockland Park, 4,700, Revised Gray, 1,100,000
Lome Park, 4,700, Dominion	 1,150,000
Hamilton Park, 4,700, Revised Gray 1,100,000 Seven Oaks Park, 10,000, Canadian..	1,650,000
Gasperian Park, 10,000, Canadian ..	1,650,000
Cartier Park, 4,700, Revised Gray ..	1,100,000

The equipment for above is placed at $130,058, which brings a total price of $23,380,058, for a total of 122,300 tons.
The second question was a request for the formula for fixing the price for ship sales. The answer is that the sales formula has been worked out in conformity with the sales formula of the United States and the United Kingdom for similar classes of ships. The price is based on the estimated domestic cost as at January 1, 1941, less allowances for increased wartime building costs, obsolescence of types and depreciation at accelerated rates * occasioned by wartime service.
Ships of the "Liberty" class are being sold by the United States government at a net cost to United States purchasers of $5531,500. "Empire" vessels of the 10,500-ton "T" class are being sold by the United Kingdom government to British buyers at $551,S00. The 10,000-ton vessels of the "Canadian," "Victory", and "North Sands" types are being sold by the Canadian government to Canadian purchasers at $625,000, $600,000 and $575,000 respectively.
The hon. member for Dauphin asked this question: What fees have been paid to Park operators? The answer is that the total amounts paid to Park operators from the period April 1, 1942 to August 31, 1945 are as follows: Management and operating, $960,277; agency fees and commissions, $4,334,638.
The next was a question by the hon. member for Vancouver South, who asked the terms for the sale of ships. Therf following statement, which I shall ask to have placed on Hansard, sets out the prices of the various types of vessels and the terms of payment for Canadian operators who will operate the vessels under
22s6	COMMONS
Demobilization-Munitions and Supply
Canadian registry. Will it be satisfactory to the hon. member if this information is placed on Hansard ?


Yes.


It is as follows:
10,000-TON VESSELS
Type
(a)	"Canadian" ('Scotch Boilers-Oil
burners)	*	$625,000(b)	"Victory" (Water tube boilersoil burners)	
600,000(c)	"North Sands" (Scotch Boilerscoal burners)	
575,000Reduction $25,000 per vessel up to three Floor price-(a)	$575,000	(b)	$550,000(c)	$525,000
Depreciation 5 per cent ordinary and 3 per cent special (war) depreciation on asking price up to 2nd March, 1946; thereafter at 6 per cent.
>
4,700-ton vessels
(a)	Tween deck type	 $475,000
(b) Improved type	 450,000
, (c) Original type	 425,000
Reduction $15,000 per vessel up to three. Floor price, (a) $445,000; (b) $420,000 (c) $395,000.
Depreciation 5 per cent ordinary depreciation plus 3 per cent special (war) depreciation on asking price, up to March 2, 1946, 6 per cent thereafter.
Terms of payment:
-10 per cent on signing contract.
-15 per cent on delivery.
-Balancey-TS per cent in fifteen (15) equal annual instalments.
-Amount outstanding to bear 3J per cent interest.

Buyers to have option to pay balance at any time without prejudice or penalty.
Delivery will be made within thirty days of cessation of U.M.A. control which is presently indicated as March 2, 1946, or of the date commercial liberty is given Canadian flag vessels, whichever of the two dates comes first.
The next is a Question by the hon. member for Eglinton regarding wartime housing.


May I ask the minister to elucidate one point? I understood him to mention a commission of $43,000. If I understood him correctly, this was for the sale of a ship at a price of $430,000; is that correct? I understood the minister to give that figure of ten per cent, and if so it struck me as a generous, if not a most extravagant, commission.


I think there is an error in my statement, and I should like permission to check on it. It is mv understanding that the brokerage fee was seifen per cent, and that does not agree with the figure I have given.


Well, that sounds better than ten per cent. I

hope it is only seven, although for such a large amount even that would seem to me an extravagant commission.


We look at the net price. If a broker offers a net price which conforms to our schedule for the sale of ships, we worry less about the brokerage than we do about the net price.


How far would the minister carry that? Does he not care what the broker gets?


Oh, yes. We have had proposals put to us which involved brokerage fees that obviously were not legitimate, and in such cases we have refused to consider offers. Nevertheless, a seven per cent brokerage fee for the sale of ships is not extravagant, because the broker performs certain services that involve expenditures. Ordinary fees for ship brokerage run between five and seven per cent.


Did the same broker sell all these ships?


The broker offered for ten ships.


Did he get a commission of $430,000?


I will give the exact
particulars.


This was a deal between two governments^ Was it necessary to have a broker when the governments would have their own inspection services?


It was only after we had accepted the offer that we discovered it was an offer from a government. The brokers offered for an unknown party. That is the usual practice. When we found out we immediately took steps to advise the French government that in the future we would not deal through brokers; if they wished to offer they could deal direct and the transaction would be on that basis.


Who was the broker?


The American Ship Brokerage Corporation of New York.


What service did the American Ship Brokerage Corporation give for that amount of commission?


I am told that there are services; otherwise I presume that brokers would not get a commission. I am told that this is the usual commission. I am sure my hon. friend does not know any more about it than I do.

_____________Demobilization-Munitions and Supply


Would the minister give us the personnel of the American Ship Brokerage Corporation?


I am sure I do not know them.


Would the minister
mind obtaining those names?


I certainly would not.


You will not get the names?


No.


What particular representative of that company did the minister's department deal with?


Personally I did not deal with any member of the firm; I had no connection with it. I understand a wired offer was received by War Assets Corporation, and, the price being satisfactory, it was accepted. Payment was to be in United States funds, which was of some advantage.


The minister is not answering my question. I want to know the name of the individual who dealt with the department. I did not ask whether the minister dealt with them; I asked who dealt with the department. That is the answer I want.


I have already said that I do not know.


I ask the minister to obtain the name from his department; that is the answer I want.


If my department has the name on file I shall be glad to obtain it. It is not customary to get information of that kind; in other words, it is not customary to furnish the names of directors unless we have some way of knowing them.


We have an investigation on at the present time regarding - Eldorado, made necessary because we did not know to whom they sold their commodities. Later on we may want to know to whom we sold our ships, and we shall have to appoint an investigator with unlimited powers to find out where our ships have gone and who got them.


I understand the minister is going to give us the total commission. We regard $430,000 as a substantial sum of money. If that was the amount paid, or anything like it, I think we are entitled to know. While I agree that you often deal with an agent without knowing his principal, it does seem to me that the department was not very clever in not having any suspicion as to who the purchaser was and in committing itself to pay this large amount of money for what I should think was not very great service.


Is it the intention of the government to sell all these ships or to put some of them in the South American and Centra] American service?


We hope to do both; we hope to sell them to operators who will operate them in the South American service.


I understand the United States government have built a number of ships which they have turned over to steamship operators for special services in order that their goods may be carried to the South American and Central American markets. Is it the intention of this government to do that?


We should be pleased to turn them over to an operator who would operate them in the South American service, but I do not know whe'ther we are prepared to subsidize anyone to do that.


The committee was considering housing development when it rose last night.


No.


I think it was agreed last night that if the answers I gave called for discussion, the discussion could be held at this time.


I understood the discussion had been completed.


We are really not discussing any single item; we are discussing the appropriation as a whole. Hon. members have the right under this resolution to discuss anything at any time that might come under the total expenditures.


I would point out that it was agreed when the estimates of the Department of Munitions and Supply were first presented to the committee that there would be a general discussion. That general discussion was completed at an early hour last evening and the committee passed the following items: The last item, departmental administration; the first item, additions and extensions to plants, and the second item, cargo vessels operated by Park Steamship Company Limited. When the committee rose last night we were on housing development, but as the minister has pointed out, there was an agreement that further questions could be asked on the answers which he would give to-day.
2288	i	COMMONS
Demobilization-Munitions and Supply


With all due respect I think we agreed to allow these items that we have discussed to stand. No item has been passed.


Oh, yes, three items.


Not actually passed.


Yes.


I understood they were to stand.


If my hon. friend will look up Hansard of last evening and note the remarks of his colleague, the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mr. Maclnnis), he will see what happened.


I will.


I think we are in agreement to this extent; if there are any questions to be asked with respect to the answers the minister made to-day, they are in order.


Coming back, perhaps rather tiresomely, to this 8430,000, I want to know. if that commission was paid to the same people who received a large amount for managing these steamships. My recollection is that one name is the same, but I just want to make sure. The figure given by the minister would indicate a commission of ten per cent; the minister says he thinks that is wrong, that it should be only seven per cent. Until a correction is made, I think the figure of ten per cent holds the field. I want to be on record as saying that that seems to me to be a particularly large amount to pay to people who were already receiving management fees. On the face of it, it appears to be an extravagant amount.


It was not paid to those who had received management fees; it was paid to a brokerage firm, which I understand is the largest firm on the continent. The amount was seven per cent. I am not sure who prepared the memorandum I have, but I am sure that the amount is wrong. I made it clear that we objected to paying any commission over five per cent, and we refused to pay any commission over seven per cent. I am told that it is customary in the trade for a broker to offer for a ship with the commission reserved; in fact I think most ship sales are made in that way.


Was it the same broker in each case?


No. There were ten French ships and one Scandinavian ship offered through the same broker.
(The Chairman.]


What foreign countries had on order ships to be built in Canada at the time the ships in question were being sold?


I think the only order was one from Brazil.	.


The French order did not come through?


The French had called for tenders, but the order had mot been placed.


I should like to know more about this contract. The minister told us that he thought five per cent was high enough, that that is the usual figure. But I am still not satisfied, and I hope we are to ge.t further figures which will give the matter a much better complexion than, it bears at the present time. I have some understanding of the difficulties of selling and of the commissions which should be paid, but everything the minister says makes me feel more and more that this was loosely and carelessly done.


There was nothing loose about the net price paid to the dominion government, which after all is the essential point.


I find that very difficult to understand. I would want to get the highest price I could get for the Canadian people, and I would not be satisfied to get just * a certain price which might be in my own mind if I thought the brokers were getting 'a little more than they should get. That reasoning does not go down with me at all.


Perhaps we will let my hon, friend sell the other 315 ships.


We may have a chance later.


The minister gave a
figure of $4,350,000 for agency and commission fees. Will he give us a break-down of that figure?


I am afraid I cannot do that, because it would: be necessary to take every voyage and give the port charges on every voyage. These are out-of-pocket expenses paid to ships' agents in foreign ports and for stevedoring in foreign ports. The first figure I gave represented the total commissions paid to the operators for voyages, and the second figure represented the out-of-pocket expenses of these agencies for services abroad.


Who set the price at
which the Fairmile boats were sold, and why were these Fairmiles sold for $3,000? Upon

Demobilization-Munitions and Supply
making inquiries of War Assets I was informed that the boats were sold without any tenders or request for tenders, and that the price was $3,000. I then wrote and1 asked if the boats could be purchased for that price and was informed that the boats had been sold. Who determined the price of $3,000 for these Fairmiles and decided to sell them without calling for tenders? How was the figure of $3,000 arrived at? Why were tenders not called for?


That is really a matter for
the Minister of Reconstruction, but if the hon. member wants an answer now I will attempt- to give it to him.
This is a memorandum I have received from War Assets Corporation with regard to the sale of Fairmiles:
A total of sixty-three Fairmiles were declared surplus on the east coast and thirteen on -the west coast. Of the east coast declarations, four were turned over by the navy to .the R.C.M.P.; one was a wreck .and was sold on sight for $470. Three were made available to the .province of Quebec on indefinite loan for educational purposes and were delivered by the navy to Rimousbi.
The balance of fifty-five on the east coast were delivered by the navy to 'Sorel. One of these was made available to the Boy .Scouts on indefinite loan and one to the Sea 'Cadets.
Of the remaining fifty-three, one suffered substantial damage while at Sorel and was sold for $1,500, and the balance for $3,000.	.
Terms of sale provided that if they were resold by the buyer, the corporation would receive additional payments of $4,900 to the end of 1946; $3,850 to the end of 1947; $2,800 to the end of 1948; $1,750 to the end of 1949; $700 to the end of 1950.
Buyers of five 'boats have already fulfilled this undertaking and have paid the additional amount of $4,900 on each ship.
Delivery of these vessels by the navy to War Assets 'Corporation was begun in June. No sales were made until middle September. They were advertised for sale along with other naval ships in the principal papers across Canada from August 21 to middle September. Efforts had been made in the interval between June and September to sell these ships and among other outlets sought were the 'Canadian 'Shipyards who had built these vessels, represented by their Fairmile Association. It was the view of these experts -that
"While over a period there might be a limited market for this type of vessel to be converted into a diesel type pleasure boat . . . with -the difficulties of obtaining diesels without priority, the high cost of conversion and of diesel engines at the present time, it was not considered possible for there to be any interested purchasers this year."
The association were also unable to accept our invitation that they take these boats in on consignment. They expressed the opinion that we would be very fortunate "to secure a few buyers at $5,000 per vessel in so far as the market is concerned."
These vessels are particularly subject to injury from ice and are also subject to heavy depreciation above the water line from idleness. The nature of their wood construction, according to advice given to us would require for their preservation that they be taken out on land on a marine railway and stored in cradles covered over with watertight housing. Dealing with a boat 105 feet long in this way is an expensive undertaking. We were faced with the prospect of making capital expenditures for facilities and for labour that might easily have exceeded the gross proceeds from the sales of the vessels, unless we succeeded in. developing a substantial market which, up to .the time of the first sales .in September, we had no prospect of doing.
Apart from their hull construction, it should be understood that these boats are entirely single purpose in design: the living accommodation on them is incapable of being converted to the comforts of a normal yacht without a great expense. The two engines, whether Hall-Scott or Stirling, consume high octane gasoline at a rate to make their economical use for commercial or for ordinary pleasure purposes out of the question. I have been told that their consumption is around thirty-five gallons an hour for ordinary cruising speed and as high as eighty-five gallons an hour at full speed.
This completes the story of the eastern ships except that, while the selling in the east was going on, fifteen ships were sold to an eastern shipyard and taken delivery of by them and .put under care. They expressed their willing-nes to turn back any ships which are wanted and it was decided on Saturday that we might ask them to give back six. They have already given back one, and buyers will be required to pay $3,900 plus the cost of removal from the mooring grounds at Sorel plus the cost of winterizing. The assumption is in the present weather, such buyers could not take delivery until the spring.
On the west coast, these Fairmiles may have had a greater usefulness than was indicated for the east. We only had thirteen there and these ships were delivered to War Assets Corporation after the advertising period. Also the advertising referred to ships at Sorel and the Fairmiles *in the west were never specifically advertised.
Summarizing it will be seen that the corporation was faced with the problem of either disposing of the vessels prior to the closing of navigation and the icing up of the St. Lawrence river, or alternatively facing the cost of taking the ships out of the water and preserving them at a cost which would have been out of all proportion to the scrap value or, at that time, the estimated sales value of the boats, or leaving the boats in the water and carrying minor winterizing operations into effect, taking the chance that the boats would still be afloat at the time the ice disappeared. The price of $3,000 was therefore, and for the foregoing reasons, .affixed to these boats; and as the policy established by the corporation is a one-price policy, the price of $3,000 applied to all boats in whatever location. Indications are that quite a number of these boats now having passed into the hands of private owners will be put into Canadian shipyards during the winter months for work and in some cases conversion, thus providing employment to follow on the cessation of war contracts.
Mr. COCKE,RAM:	Were these ships sold
to the wreckers, or whatever they are called, with technical equipment and navigational equipment, for 83,000? What happened to all the navigational and technical equipment?
2290	COMMONS
Demobilization

Munitions and Supply


All equipment was taken off
by the navy before they were delivered to the Sorel yards as surplus. Even the compass was taken off. The boats were stripped of everything usable.


I have a return in which it is stated that the ships were sold with ordinary running gear except secret equipment or articles still required for the purpose of the Department of National Defence (Navy). It is stated that guns are either removed or rendered useless. Do I understand that the guns are in many instances left on?


Is not my hon. friend talking about corvettes?


This is in regard to Fairmiles and corvettes.


But these are neither Fairmiles nor corvettes.


Yes, they are.


My hon. friend is talking
about corvettes when he talks about guns. In these cases all gear was stripped1 off and they were sold as hulls with engines.


The question I asked had
reference to Fairmiles and corvettes. The question was: Are these ships sold in running condition? That had reference to corvettes and Fairmiles sold by War Assets Corporation. The next question I asked was: Is sale by auction, tender or fixed price? The answer was that a set price is fixed by War Assets Corporation and that the ships are sold with ordinary running gear except secret equipment or articles still required for the purpose of the Department of National Defence (Navy). Further it is stated that the guns are either removed or rendered useless. I asked this question: Are these ships stripped of everything except running gear? The reply was that this was answered by No. 2 and that No. 4 was answered by No. 2.


My hon. friend notices that
it says everything is taken off that is usable.


Except running gear, and
that includes compass.


No.


Oh, yes; it certainly would. I understand that in practically all cases the compass is left on.


I can assure my hon. friend
that the compasses were taken off the Fairmiles.


Then why did not the
answer so indicate?


I cannot say.


That is the trouble in the
House of Commons. We get a return tabled and it is not complete.


What department?


This is the Department of Reconstruction.	,


That is the trouble; we are talking about munitions and supply now.


I understood the minister to say that one reason why these Fairmiles were sold at the present time was that otherwise they would have to be kept at Sorel through the winter and it would be very difficult to keep them during that period. Were there no other ports on the Atlantic coast where they might have been kept through the winter with a view to obtaining a better price next year or at some other time? Was it necessary to keep them at Sorel?


They were advertised in every newspaper in Canada for over a month, and we received no offers at all. It was not encouraging therefore to keep them. How long should we have kept them? Would they become more valuable by age?


My question was whether it was necessary to keep them at Sorel. Could they not have been kept at some other port? I understood the minister to say that they had to be sold in a hurry.


The department accepts these ships wherever the navy delivers them.


The minister said they were advertised in every newspaper in Canada.


All the principal newspapers.


I do not agree with the minister on that.


I shall be glad to table copies of the advertisement.


One would gather from the minister's remarks that there was no interest on the part of the shipyards in the purchasing of these boats. Nevertheless by the middle of September they were all sold. There are very few products sold in Canada in respect to the sale of which the same interest is displayed.


They were not sold in that period.


I am taking the minister's figures. Perhaps I misunderstood him, but that is what I understood him to say.

Demobilization-Munitions and Supply
Would these ships have been so badly damaged by being kept in the water for the winter? Were Fairmiles taken out of the water every winter during the war for the purpose of preserving them, or were they kept in the water? To listen to the minister one would think they had to be taken out of the water and put on the land. I am sure they were not winterized every year.


The minister did not _say very much about Fairmiles on the Pacific coast, but I think the greater mistake was made in connection with the boats there. Apparently this advertisement stated that the Fairmiles were all at Sorel, Quebec. There was no mention in the advertisement in Vancouver that there were Fairmiles on the Pacific coast, so that the advertisement there was useless, and the sale of those on the Pacific coast was made direct from Ottawa,
I am informed. Is that correct?


No.


The press reports state that the Vancouver office-


It was confirmed at head office of War Assets Corporation in Montreal. The recommendation was telephoned through from Vancouver.


The recommendation was telephoned from the War Assets office in Vancouver?


Yes.


Were any competitive bids called.


I will agree with my hon. friend that the western part of the transaction was not as well handled as the eastern. I have no criticism of the eastern part. I do not see how anything else could have been done. As I said in my statement, the Fair-miles on the west coast were delivered there after the advertisement had been in the press. It was felt that it would be difficult' to put a price of $3,000 on Fairmiles sold in the St. Lawrence and a higher price on Fair-miles sold on the west coast. Whether that was good judgment I do not know.


Why?


If my hon. friend will keep quiet I will make my statement. These interruptions hardly elevate the debate. I say that perhaps they could have been treated as a separate problem. The Fairmile is more useful on the west coast than on the east and if we were doing it again we would have treated them as separate ships and advertised separately. I am told that a telephone message came through from the west coast asking
if Fairmiles could be sold on that coast at the same price as on the east coast, and the answer was given, yes, whether rightly or wrongly. Too many were sold in one transaction and then the bids advanced. I think my hon. friend will agree that in selling 75 Fairmiles, if 65 are sold at a uniform price there will be some resentment if the price is raised at a later stage.


Is the minister sure that a telephone call was made from War Assets Corporation in Vancouver and not from some individual who was going to acquire Fair-miles?


No. I am told that it came from the office of the western director of War Assets Corporation.


Apparently one buyer got
seven boats, although there were more people wanting boats than there were boats available for sale.


Only at the end of the sale.


And prices were running up to $15,000 and $20,000.


Yes, I know. Suppose we
had sold one at $15,000 or $20,000 after we had sold sixty-five or seventy at $3,000.


You would have made one
good deal, anyway.


Are there Fairmiles still
to be sold?


We have no more, no.


What steps have been taken to prevent something of that kind happening again? The. problems of each coast are different, as the minister knows. Have steps been taken to make certain that in the future, surplus assets on the Pacific coast will be advertised on that coast and dealt with in a different way from the assets on the Atlantic?


Yes. We learn from experr
ience, and that experience has changed our procedure. Assets arising on the Pacific coast are being advertised there first, and later back in the interior.


Have the sales of those
boats actually gone through?


Yes.


Can they not be. distributed among the others?


They were sold and paid
for.


In answer to some questions which were asked yesterday, I understood the
2292	COMMONS
Demobilization-Munitions and Supply
minister to say that certain Fairmiles were sold to educational authorities. Is that correct?


No. Some of them were
lent, on indefinite loan.


To whom were they lent?


I am sorry; I gave my
manuscript to the Hansard reporter. The hon. member will be able to read it in Hansard.


Will the minister put it on
record so that we shall know what educational authorities have had them?


It is on the record.


I did not hear it. I asked
a question yesterday, which the minister said he was unable to answer, with regard to the present value of the 154 vessels held at the present time by Park Steamship Company Limited.


The present-day value is a
matter of opinion, of course.' If my hon. friend had asked for the cost I could have given him that, but he asked for the present-day value.


The reason I asked the
question was that an evaluation of 1111,000,000 and some odd had been put on the holdings of the Park Steamship company as of March 31, 1944. It seems to me that the minister should have, some comparative figures of the present book value or the market value, or the value of the steamships held at the present time.
Mr. HOWE; I think the: figure mentioned by my hon. friend was the cost value. I can give him that later; it is not before me at the moment. When he asked for present-day value we thought he meant, what do we consider that fleet worth at the present time.


I asked the specific question
so that I could get the present figure and relate it to cost. I wank to know the book value or the evaluation of the present holdings.


I shall try to get that.


I am coming back to this question of commission, because the more I think about it the more it interests me. It is difficult to follow these tens and hundreds of millions of dollars which the department talks about so glibly, and which have been spent, but wThen one notices an item of this kind he can understand it a little better. There are two or three things I want to be clear about. First of all,

I want to be sure that this item is left open until we get more information about it. As I understood it, the minister says that the figure given here is wrong, and that we are to be given the right figure. We are to hear something more about commissions. The minister said he thought five per cent was large enough, but in this case he was prepared to go to seven. He still thinks that the ten per cent which his figures show is wrong, and he is going to make sure of that.
The other matter I wish to bring up is this. I want to be very clear as to what the minister said about the fact that in this case the vendor did not know who the purchaser was. The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar raised a pertinent question when he said that here were two governments dealing in the matter. I understood the minister to say not that he was satisfied, but that he did not know who the purchaser was. It often happens that you do not know who the purchaser is and therefore the agent is entitled to his commission. Will the minister tell us whether of his own knowledge' he can say that the purchaser in this case was not known? My second question is just as important. Does the minister not think that if the purchaser was not known, he should have been known; and having regard to the relations which existed between the governments and the whole background of the situation, was it not perfectly possible for this fact to be known? If it was known, the commission should not have been paid. If it was not known, did it reflect very little credit on the War Assets Corporation? I am asking these questions because this is one of the few occasions-and after all there are very few-on which we can really get a picture of the effic