Second report of the standing committee on banking and commerce.-Mr. Cleaver.
Mr. HUGHES CLEAVER (Halton) moved that the first report of the standing committee on banking and commerce presented to the house on November 28, be now concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. L. 0. BREITHAUPT (Waterloo North) presented the first report of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
I am pleased to inform the house that we have been able to make arrangements for the acceptance of gift parcels for dispatch to Poland. The usual eleven pound weight limit will apply for these parcels, and they may be sent under the same conditions as at present covering parcel post services from Canada to other countries on the continent to which such services have been resumed.


Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs-for the Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to grant authority to accept on behalf of Canada and to carry _ out the obligations of Canada under the articles of agreement for an international monetary fund and an international bank for reconstruction and development prepared by the united nations monetary and financial conference held at Bretton Woods in July, 1944; to authorize the payment of the subscriptions required from Canada out of unappropriated moneys in the consolidated revenue fund to an amount not exceeding seven hundred million dollars; and to authorize the borrowing under the provisions of the Consolidated Revenue and Audit Act, 1931, of sums not exceeding seven hundred million dollars.

He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs-for the Minister of Finance) moved that the bouse go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution;
That it is expedient to present a measure to provide by amendment to The Export Credits Insurance Act that the aggregate amount of loans made and outstanding at any time and the value of securities purchased or acquired and held at any one time under section twenty-two of the said Act shall be increased from one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to seven hundred and fifty million dollars ($750,000,000).
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having, been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs-for the Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to authorize the Minister of Finance, with the approval of the governor in council to enter into an agreement with the province of Alberta to pay the province increased amounts by way of compensation and subsidy over the amounts agreed to be so paid under an agreement entered into with the province, dated March 30, 1942.
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having been made acquainted with, the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I have a question that I had
wished to direct to the Minister of Finance. In

Crown Corporations
his absence probably the Minster of Veterans Affairs would take note of it, and it might be answered later in the day. A few days ago, I think on Tuesday last, it was revealed that one crown corporation was entirely free of control by the civil service commission or the treasury board in the employment and appointment of its officials. May I ask the minister if this situation applies as well to other crown corporations or agencies, and if so, what ones?
Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs):	I shall be glad to direct
the question to the attention of my colleague, and it will be answered at eight o'clock this evening.


I understand that a question was asked, either to-day or yesterday, and: an intimation was given that I might answer it later to-day. By consent of the house I shall give the answer now. The leader of the opposition (Mr. Bracken) said:
A few days ago, I think on Tuesday last, it was revealed that one crown corporation was entirely free of control by the civil service commission or the treasury board in the employment and appointment of its officials. May I ask the minister if this situation applies as well to other orown corporations or agencies, and if so, what ones?
The rule is fairly general, if not entirely so, that appointments of employees of what are called crown corporations are not made by the civil service commission nor is their remuneration fixed by the treasury board. An example would be the Canadian National Railways and another would be the Bank of Canada. However, I have here a list, which I believe is complete, of the crown corporations and agencies to which this rule applies. They are:
Allied War Supplies Corporation.
Bank of Canada.
Canadian Arsenals Limited.
Canadian Broadcasting -Corporation.
Canadian National Railways. .	.
Canadian National (West Indies) Steamships.
Canadian Wheat Board.
Canadian Wool Board Limited.	.
Canadian Prices Stabilization Corporation Limited.
Custodian of Enemy Property.
Eldorado Mining and Refining.
Export Credits Insurance Corporation.
Federal Aircraft Limited.
Federal District Commission.
Fisheries Research Board of Canada.
National Battlefields Commission.
National Harbours Board.
National Railways Munitions Limited.
Park Steamship Company Limited.
Polymer Corporation Limited.
Research Enterprises Limited.
Small Arms Limited.
Turbo Research Limited.	. .
Veterans Housing Project (Ottawa) Limited.
Veterans Housing Project (Toronto) Limited.
Wartime Food Corporation Limited.
Wartime Housing Limited.
Wartime Shipbuilding Limited.
War Supplies Limited.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. ANGUS MacINNlS (Vancouver East):
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. Are the positions of two of the commissioners on the unemployment insurance commission vacant? How long have they been vacant, and how does the commission carry on or function with only one commissioner?
I think I can answer that question, but my hon. friend did not give me notice of it. As he has indicated, there are at the moment two vacancies on the unemployment insurance commission. The matter of filling those vacancies is under advisement. Let me go a step further. As hon. members of this house know, we had the tremendous job of mobilizing man-power during the war years. To carry that out, the direction was given to the Minister of Labour, and I can assure this house that that big organization will function just as efficiently as it did during the war years. Make no mistake about that, commissioners or no commissioners.


May I ask the minister a supplementary question?


Order.


Has the treasury board at any time refused to pay the salary of Mr. Tallon, the employees' representative on -the board?


My hon. friend will have to ask the treasury board that question; I cannot answer for it.


How is the commission functioning? Is the minister doing the work of the commission now, if the commission is not in existence?


That, Mr. Speaker, is not altogether correct; I am cooperating with the commission.


There is no commission..


Yes, there is.


Does the minister not know whether the treasury board has refused to pay Mr. Tallon? Su-rely he can answer that question.

Unemployment Insurance


Order.


Order.


I should like to say this to my hon. friend: I have a big enough job of my own without running the treasury board.


This is a question on the orders of the day, and it should be answered. May I just ask this supplementary question? Will the Minister of Veterans Affairs take note of the question I asked with reference to the treasury board, and have the question answered later to-day?


I shall be glad' to take notice of my hon. friend's question, and an answer will probably be given to-morrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. GORDON B. ISNOR (Halifax): Having already brought the matter to the attention of more than one of the members of the government, including the Acting Minister of National Defence, I wish to direct an inquiry to the government in respect to the reported interview given by Major-General Hugh Young concerning future dockings of the troopship Queen Elizabeth at New York instead of at Halifax.
Order.


As the Acting Minister of National Defence is familiar with the statement of Major-General Young as published in the Ottawa Citizen, and with reference to the ridiculous contention that Halifax is not a safe place at which to dock the Queen Elizabeth in winter time-


Order.
. Mr. SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the hon. gentleman. His observations are completely out of order.


Mr. Speaker, I am just
going to-


Order.


Order. I am sorry to interrupt. An hon. member's question should be urgent, brief and to the point; and he should not quote from a newspaper. I would ask the hon. gentleman to resume his seat and put his question on the order paper.


May I ask the question in this way. Will the Acting Minister of
fMr. Coldwell.]
National Defence be good enough to make a statement in reference to the matter to which I referred?


The hon. member gave me notice of this question. I understand that the Minister of National Defence, who has been away, is returning to Ottawa to-day, and I shall ask hitn to make a statement.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to know from the Minister of Labour if he will take any action in view of the scarcity of bread caused by the strike at Brown's Bakery, which is on Eastern Avenue, Toronto, in my constituency. Perhaps he will see if he can bring the parties together.


I shall be glad to take note
of my hon. friend's question and request.


The minister might also
take some appropriate action. If he does, I will call him Humphrey the Peacemaker.


Mr. R. W. MAYHEW (Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance) moved the second reading of bill No. 178, to authorize the provision of moneys to meet certain capital expenditures made and capital indebtedness incurred by the Canadian National Railways System during the calendar year 1945, and to authorize the guarantee by His Majesty of certain securities to be issued by the Canadian National Railways Company.
Surely we shall have a statement from the minister.


I made a brief statement on this matter when it was in the resolution stage. I do not knowr whether hon. members wish me. to repeat it or net. Any information they want can be given on second reading or when we are in committee of the whole.
Motion agreed to and bill read the second time.


Mr. Mayhew moves that I do now leave the chair for the house to resolve itself into committee of the whoie on the said bill.

C.N.R.-Guarantee of Securities


What are we adopting?
We do not know' what it is about.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


No.


On division.


Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
On section 1-Sfyort title.
Will the minister tell us
what the net revenue was last year?


The cash surplus was


That is the net?


That is the net cash surplus of the Canadian National Railwa3rs.


That is for the year ended March 31 ?


That is for the calendar year 1944.	.


Part of the bill relates to betterments of the system. What percentage of those betterments are related to the lines within Canada and how much of this expenditure, amounting to $15,000,000, is to be made in the United States on American affiliations? Although repairs are very badly needed in Canada, it would seem that a great deal of work is to be done on subsidiaries in the United States, where, of course, they have betterments which we in this country have not got at all.


The expenditures on
betterments for lines in the United States out of the $15,000,000 referred to by my hon. friend are as follows: Grand Trunk Western Railroad Company, $1,529,246; Central Vermont Railway, Incorporated, $203,045. The rest of the money is for betterments in Canada. [DOT]


Section agreed to.
On section 2-Power to issue securities for capital expenditures.	.
I understood that during the war years both the C.N.R, and the C.P.R. have been allowed to place certain sums of money aside for betterments and for reestablishment of their systems. How much money is standing in the Canadian National treasury for that purpose? We are being asked here, as I understand, for an additional $15,000,000.
47696-168J


The development maintenance fund in the Canadian National Railways is $34,000,000.


And an additional $15,000,000 is required on top of that?


No; one is capital and the other is maintenance. I think there is a little confusion in the minds of some people. The net cash surpluses of the railway automatically go into the sinking fund of the railway, so that we actually are only giving them back a portion of what they have already paid to the government. What they have done is done out of depreciation. This amount does not increase the capital indebtedness of the Canadian National Railways. As a matter of fact there will still be a reduction of $1,977,000; their net debt will be less by that amount.


Have the surpluses
which have been built up over the period of the war years been used for retiring funded indebtedness or the indebtedness standing on the books of the company? .


That has been used to pay off loans which they received from the government.


I should like to ask the minister a question under this section. I am not in favour of the present system of financing this particular road and its subsidiaries and other affiliations, aided by many bills passed during this war, and even during this session. In view of the vast earnings which this system is making on land, on the sea and in the air, would it not be possible to pay out of income some of these expenditures which are charged up to capital? In the ordinary public ownership ventures, such as the cheap power furnished in Ontario, many of the improvements are charged to income, and come directly from it. If this railway is to operate at cost, and if it is to run on a commercial basis, well and good. But I can tell the house that these two principles are not being carried out at the present time. Why are many of these expenditures for improvements not paid for out of income? Why is it all charged up to capital with heavy refunding charges? I find it difficult to read the auditor's report, and I cannot get this information from the various pamphlets and booklets that are given an ordinary member of parliament. I cannot find any connection between the owership of this railway, which is a public venture, and the principles I have mentioned. If it is going to be a public ownership venture, then let it be a real public
C.N.R.-Guarantee of Securities

ownership venture, with the operational costs of the road placed on a commercial basis and the road run from the commercial aspect.
When we look at the cheap light and power in Ontario, a venture which has been a great success, we see the way they meet many betterments and some capital expenditures out of income. What is done in connection with this railway makes but a sorry comparison, loaded up as it is with all sorts of ventures which should never have been entered into. I refer to subsidiaries in the United States, and other capital outlays that never should have been made. Then there is the steamship line running to Port Dalhousie, and many other subsidiary ventures. They are all mixed up together. This system of expenditures and finance bears heavily upon the taxpayers, but they will have to pay for it. We are all wrong in such financing, and it seems to me the system of financing should be overhauled from top to bottom, and in the years to come we should have some way of meeting many of these expenditures out of income instead of charging them up to capital and having them refunded from' year to year. I would ask for an explanation from the parliamentary assistant.


I think I have already made an explanation. Probably the non. member did not hear it, or I may not have understood his question. At any rate the amount provided by parliament to meet capital expenditures shall not be diverted to cover deficits in operation, unless with express authority from parliament. We are coming to parliament now for that authority.


You did not give any
answer whatever.


I see the Minister of Transport in his seat, and I should like to direct some observations to him. When this matter was first introduced the hon. members for Cape Breton South and Cumberland spoke in connection with it. On that occasion I forgot to mention this matter, and now that so much money is being voted I should like to find out whether part of it will be used to pay for the new steamer to be used in the ferry service between Borden and Tormentine. At the present time the service between those points could scarcely be called a service at all so far as the farmers are concerned. If the money is voted will it facilitate this matter, or have the effect of the steamer being made available any sooner?


None of this money has anything to do with the new steamer now being constructed for the Prince Edward

Island car ferry. That will be voted under another estimate for the Department of Transport which I hope will be reached some time to-day or perhaps to-morrow. I shall be glad to discuss it then.


I would ask the minister to prepare a statement to be presented when we reach that matter and to indicate definitely when we may expect to have, the steamer.


Could we have a detailed statement from the parliamentary assistant of the items which make up this appropriation of $15,008,000 for additions and betterments? There has been considerable complaint from the maritime provinces, especially in respect of local railway service, about the antiquated rolling stock operated on those lines and also to some extent on the main line of the Canadian National Railways. There is a very general feeling that the maritime provinces are getting the dregs of obsolete rolling stock from other parts of Canada.
Will the Minister of Transport indicate to the committee in what form the appropriation will be made for the building of the causeway or bridge over the strait of Canso? The people in eastern Canada take it for granted that this public work will be undertaken in the coming season. It was approved by the former premier of Nova Scotia, the Honourable A. S. MacMillan. He quoted the Minister of Munitions and Supply (Mr. Howe) as having approved it. The present premier of Nova Scotia has given his approval, and has given the people of that province to understand he will proceed with the work. Similar approval was given by all the candidates in the eastern part of Nova Scotia who took part in the two recent elections. I .should like to learn from the parliamentary assistant whether a special vote will be offered in his estimates, and if not, whether one will be placed in the estimates of the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Reconstruction, or the Minister of Public Works. I repeat that we take it for granted that such appropriation will be made so as to meet the requirements of the people in that part of Canada, and also to fulfil the undertaking given to the people of Nova Scotia.


This question was discussed the other evening by the hon. member, when we were at the resolution stage. I said at that time, and I repeat now, that when the estimates for the Department of Transport are up for discussion either the Minister of Reconstruction or myself will be in a position to make a statement concerning the project I

CJV.R.-Guarantee oj Securities
at Canso. It is my understanding that the funds for the construction of that project, if approved, will be voted by the Department of Reconstruction and that the work will be done by the Department of Transport. I do not wish to say anything further about the project at this time, because it is not a matter which would properly come under any discussions flowing from .this bill. When my estimates are before the committee a statement will be made.


The parliamentary assistant said a few minutes ago that the cash surplus for last year was $23,600,000. I call the matter to his attention, because I think he has made a mistake. The figure is $23,027,000, and should be corrected.


Does the hon. member say it .should be $27,000,000?


No, $23,027,000.


That is what was read out.


I understood the parliamentary assistant to say $23,600,000.


The figure is $23,026,924.35.


That is not what Mr. Vaughan's annual report says. It gives the figure as $23,027,000. Is that correct.


Well, the difference is only a few dollars.	*


Would the
parliamentary assistant give the details of the appropriation of $15,800,000 asked for additions and betterments?


It would take a rather voluminous report to answer that question in detail, but if the hon. member will turn to page 175 of the report of the committee on railways and shipping he will get a fairly good idea. I can give him the amounts by regions, which are: .
Atlantic region	 $ 1,331,350
Central region	 6,009,624
Western region	 2,963,779
Grand Trunk Pacific	 1,529,246
Montreal terminal construction	100,000
Prince Edward car ferry
terminal	 10,000
Subsidiary companies	 281,097
Additions, betterments and. equipment	 2,600,854


What is the $10,000 being voted for in connection with the Prince Edward Island ferry terminal? As I
understand it, this is a capital expenditure, and I should like to know why we are being asked to approve a capital expenditure for a sum as small as $10,000. Could we have also the particulars of the larger items which go to make up the one million odd in connection with the Atlantic region?


This is working capital provided for the railway to the end of the calendar year. There will be an item in the transport estimates covering the operations of the car ferry and its deficit.


I cannot understand why we should be asked to provide moneys at this time as working capital for the operation of the Prince Edward Island ferry.


I cannot give the hon. gentleman any further details now, but if he wants them I shall be glad to give them to him when my estimates are before the coipmittee.


Would any of this have to do with grade separations in the city of Toronto? There is sprue work in connection with level crossings that is very badly needed, and I understand some of it has been approved.


None of this would have to do with grade separation.


Is it proposed to go on with that work? I understand some of it has been approved.


I shall be glad to reply to my hon. friend on my estimates.


Is there any amount provided for a new station at Kingston?


No.


When the local suburban train was taken off, as well as the early morning train to Toronto, there was a definite understanding that a new station would be built at Kingston. That promise has not yet been fulfilled. I want to urge as strongly as I can that something be done, now that the war is over and you are looking for means of providing employment. I have just been talking to Kingston by telephone and there is a snowstorm on now. / At the noon hour there will be four trains pulling in, two from Montreal, two from Toronto and Chicago to Montreal. Any passengers from the rear coaches will be dumped off in the rain and snow. I repeat that there is an obligation on the minister's department to build this new station as soon as possible.


None of these expenditures is for a new station anywhere. They cover capital expenditures already made and

C.N.R.-Guarantee oj Securities
those that will be made until the end of this calendar year. I know the condition at Kingston fairly well, because I have been there many times. I know it is as the hon. member has described it, and I shall be glad to bring the representations he has made to the attention of the board of directors of the Canadian National Railways.


At the end of 1944 there was a net surplus over reserves and capital expenditures of $23,000,000. The fact that we are being asked to provide the sum set forth here would seem to indicate that it is expected there will be a deficit. If not, why is it necessary to vote this money rather than have it taken out of the earnings of the railway?	'	[DOT]


I think I have answered that question twice already. The Canadian National does not operate as a business concern operates. A business concern would take this money out of .its earnings, but when Canadian National Railways has a profit it immediately goes back into consolidated revenue. Then when they want to get money to go ahead with betterments they must come . before this house.


Does the Canadian National pay any income tax to the government?


It pays more than income tax; it pays everything it receives.
Mr. MAYHEW; It pays back everything it makes.


Section 5 of the bill which deals with power to aid other companies reads:
The National company may aid and assist, in any manner, any other or others of the said companies and railways-
According to section 2 these powers would apply to any company or railway comprised in the Canadian National Railways. Could the minister give us a list of the companies and railways included in the Canadian National Railways system?


I would refer the leader of the opposition to the annual report of the Canadian National Railways, which shows ninety odd subsidiaries. These could be placed on Hansard, but they can be found in the report which I presume is on the hon. member's desk.


I would not ask that it be put on Hansard.


Section agreed to.
Sections 3 to 8 inclusive agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time and passed.
The house in committee of supply, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
247. Departmental administration, $196,195.
Throughout the country the government has certain properties on which it intends or at one time did intend to erect a public building. Lately I have heard that War Assets Corporation is selling some of these lands. Is that true?


No. At certain times when we have lands that we do not foresee any use for we have them declared surplus and transferred to War Assets, but speaking from memory I cannot recall one specific case. Before War Assets Corporation was set up, when we had surplus lands, we dealt directly with people and asked for tenders for these lands, but there have been very few cases in the last few years. I cannot at the moment recall a specific instance.


I do not think War Assets Corporation should have the selling of any of the lands of the government, because if they sell them as they have sold other things, God help the people of Canada.


My hon, friend will admit that that is a matter of opinion.


It is not only my opinion but that of a great number of people across the country. I know that people have written in to me asking about certain lands.


If my hon. friend will give me a case I will get all the information I can about it.


I will do that, because I do hope that War Assets is not selling these government lands. I do hope that any such lands that are sold will be sold by tender and not by War Assets.


Would the minister make a statement regarding his plans for the future? Has he a five-year or a four-year plan? What amount cff construction can be expected under the department in the immediate post-war years?

Supply-Public Works


The present
estimates were drawn up in December, 1944, and January, 1945. It will be recalled that at the last session of the last parliament we had the same estimates brought back before us. At that time we were right in the war, although of course preparing for the post-war period. These estimates do not. deal with any post-war projects. They are the regular estimates of the department for the maintenance and repair of the public works we have, and even then not to the full extent required. Hon. members will recall that during the war years the estimates of the department were kept down to the lowest level. In the next fiscal year we shall have to attend to the repairing of nearly every building we have in Canada, because they have been neglected to a certain extent, and my recommendation to the government is for increased amounts in the next estimates so that government property all over the country can be maintained in a good state of repair. Many requests have come from every part of Canada for new buildings, wharves, breakwaters, and all kinds of public works coming under this department. We have our architects and engineers making surveys all over the country, and we have been receiving requests from all over the country. I could not mention any specific cases now; I can only say that they are under consideration and that at the next session I hope to have an increased amount of money to spend on public works throughout the country.


Is -the staff of the
department back to pre-war levels, or is it being increased? I imagine that on paper at least a good deal of work is being done in preparation for the next few years, and it seems to me that a fairly large staff would be necessary even now to do this preliminary work.	.


The number on the staff is perhaps a little lower than it was before the war, or at about the same level, but we are trying to get the services of a good many engineers and architects on a temporary basis. We are having a little trouble in getting qualified technical men because they are not so much interested now in becoming civil servants because of the openings in private enterprise. But we are taking on engineers and architects every month, or trying to get them, to help the regular staff prepare the plans for next year.


I can understand the position of the minister in connection with these estimates. The greater part of the money to ' be voted has already been spent and all that
remains is to finish up the year's business. I would ask him to enlarge a little upon the statement he has just made. Throughout the country from coast to coast the government's public buildings have been perhaps not neglected but allowed to take second place in the plans of the ministry. It would help us to get the full picture if the minister would go on to tell us, though not in detail, of the plans he has for next year and subsequent years. These estimates really deal with something that is past; we are interested also in the future.


I believe requests are coming in from nearly every riding in the country for further repairs to buildings or for the erection of new public buildings. I cannot give details with regard to this town or that city in which it is requested that a building be put up. Most of our buildings are for post office and customs and for other departments. We have to get requests from those department, because they are the ones who must justify the putting up of buildings. The intention is to come back to pre-war conditions in public works and make the necessary expenditures so that our public works shall be in as good condition to serve the public as they were before the war.


Will the minister give the number of employees who have been taken on in his department since June 11, 1945, and the names of those employees?


That is a large order. We have in the department a little over 5,000 employees who are permanent, temporary or seasonal. In the fall we take on a good many firemen for the different buildings, and these would1 have come on since June 11. I am trying to -see what the bon. member is looking for. There has not been any large increase in public buildings since the elections; I did not have the money to pay for them. I am limited by my estimates. Personally I should like to see more employees in the department, but I have not the funds. If the 'hon. member will read these estimates through he will see that they compare with the war years. There is only a difference of some $276 thousand as compared with 1944-45. There may be some extra employees, but I cannot give them from memory.


I would ask the minister to prepare a statement showing the number of employees taken on since June 11 in his department, and giving the names of those employees. That is not a large order. In the minister's own words, he has not expanded) a
Supply-Public Works

great deal. The order is therefore not a large one for any well-run department and I would like to get that information.


We will get these names and the dates of appointments. Most of these appointments are made to replace employees retiring or dying-


That is all I want, sir.


-and the civil service makes the appointments, except for temporary works or in the case of prevailing-rate employees. I will have the information prepared.


Thank you.


Does the department intend to provide better buildings for civil service staff after the war is over? I have in mind some of the old wrecks of buildings that are being used by different departments. Is it the intention to use some of the temporary buildings, which seem to be much better than some of those at present occupied? Or is it the intention to sell the old buildings? One of the buildings I have in mind particularly, is the old horse-stable on Green island which houses the bureau of statistics. These people are dealing mainly with figures all the time, and it is important that they should have proper accommodation. Judging from the outside of the building, I do not think there is any ventilation system. It should have been done away with years ago. The same may be said of many other buildings that are being used by government departments. A few days ago I heard that provision is being made to clear down that old horse-stable and put up another building to house the staff there.


On Green island we have part of the film board staff and the statistical branch of trade and commerce. We are actually preparing plans for the erection of a new film board building. As to the site, we are waiting for a report from Mr. Greber, who is planning the national capital, and the moment we have a site that will fit into the plan for a special kind of film board building we shall be ready to put up that building and clear out the buildings on Green island.


I would ask the minister the same type of question I asked the Minister of Agriculture yesterday. I do not think it is fair to compare the estimate of the previous year with the estimate this year. I would ask him to give, on each vote as the votes appear on page 33, the actual amount that was spent during the particular year. Referring to item 247, which we are now
TMr. Ferguson.]
considering, the minister asked for $191,595 in 1944-45; I should like to know how much he actually spent in that fiscal year. Will the minister from time to time, as he comes to the various items and without having to be asked for the information, give the amount actually spent in connection with each vote? Take number 247.


On vote 247 the estimate in 1944-45 was $191,595; the actual expenditures were $185,989.50. The actual estimate for 1945-46 is $196,195, an increase of $4,600 over the preceding year. This increase comprises: statutory increases $1,065; cost of living bonus, $1,300; travelling expenses, $1,500; miscellaneous adjustments, $735; making the difference of $4,600.


The picture as it presents itself now is entirely different from that shown in the estimates. Of the $191,000, $185,000 is the amount actually spent. We are now asking for $196,000 and instead of an increase of $4,000 roughly the increase is $11,000. I should like to get the same picture in connection with each of these estimate from beginning to end.


I will have that done.


Am I not correct in that?


The hon. member is right. The estimate sometimes is not all expended during the year. It will be found that we have revotes of amounts voted in the preceding year. There is a difference of about eight or nine thousand dollars between the amount voted in 1944-45 and the amount expended. That can be easily accounted for by saying that somebody in the personnel retired and was not immediately replaced.' The salary during that lapsed period would not be paid. Or certain works may have been undertaken and were not completed; therefore the amount was not paid. I believe there is a justification for every case of the kind we have in the estimates.


I am not quarrelling with that at all. I realize that there is justification for anything that is not spent or an amount that may be overspent. But it is totally unfair to compare an estimate of one year with an estimate of the next year, because of the fact that an estimate may be inflated to a very large degree. In this case it is inflated to the extent of $11,000.


I wish to direct the attention of the minister to the situation as it exists on some of the lakes in Kootenay West.

Supply-Public Works
The minister will realize that for some years there has been a restricted programme of expenditures in that district. I am not criticizing that so far as the past is concerned, but I do wish to bring to his attention the fact that on the lakes many people are in isolated places without roads and are dependent upon water transportation. I urge upon the minister that in the future he give these people every consideration by providing wharf facilities where it is pos'sible or convenient so to do.
Then there is the question of dredging. In recent years the dredging programme has been restricted until now navigation is difficult between the upper and lower Arrow lakes. Steamers going through there at low water almost touch bottom; in fact they have to be very careful when coming into the low water area. Navigation into the northern end of the lake, where the Columbia enters the Arrow lake, is extremely difficult. I would ask that the minister have the whole matter investigated and these conditions corrected.
May I now say a word with reference to the question of the removal of snags. Years ago the department periodically reihoved snags from the low water areas and close to the docking points so that navigation was reasonably safe at night. I would ask the minister to have the question of the removal of snags on the upper and lower Arrow lakes investigated. There is one other matter, the question of erosion, which has been a constant problem to the Department of Public Works. I refer particularly to the channel between the two lakes. Because the work has not been done in recent years, erosion has taken place in certain areas, I would ask the minister to give that consideration.


I understand the position ur there in Kootenay. We have the snagboat, and we have this dredge, the Samson. The hon. member will find these items mentioned in the estimates. We do a great deal along that line. The intention of the department is to undertake this work in the next year and complete the work which has not been completed in the past.
The hon. member made one request for British Columbia which I received from all parts of the country. I cannot give any other answer than to say that during the war years, and because of the war effort, we did not .receive, and we did not ask parliament for, larger votes.


I should like to pursue a little
further the general administration as it affects the staff, and inquire is to the general policy.
I understood the minister to say when he replied to the hon. member for Simcoe North, that those who were taken on in his department were largely replacements. Is the policy of the department one of promotions? Does the department advertise open competitions? Perhaps I may give a specific instance. I understand that one of the senior officials of his department has about reached the retirement age. How would his position be filled? Would ,it be by competition or promotion?


When there is a vacancy in my department, as in other departments, we send in a request to the civil service commission. They advertise. If it is a senior position, it goes by promotion. It is advertised in the department; a board examines the qualifications, service, seniority, and so forth, and we take on the man who is appointed by the civil service commission.


I think the minister knows- if he does not, his departmental officials do- that for some years I have discussed with his department the matter of repairs to the wharf at Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, and a breakwater at Port Morien. The reason I have pursued these two problems year after year is that in the Mqrien case it directly affects the livelihood of a village of about twelve or fifteen hundred people. It is the only industry on that coast. I was assured by both Public Works and Reconstruction that the breakwater at Morien was a post-war project and would be proceeded with in the post-war period. I notice that the estimates make no mention of it, and certainly there is no item in Reconstruction that anticipates anything being done as far as the breakwater there is concerned.
Glace Bay harbour is a very important one, because the sword-fishing industry is largely concentrated there. For the last six or eight months I have wired and written both Fisheries and Public Works with regard to the condition of that harbour. Vote 283, which deals with that matter, makes no mention of that harbour or of any appropriation in regard to it. Neither is there any mention of it in the war estimates or civil estimates of Reconstruction. I think that the least the people affected in both these communities could expect is a definite answer that something is going to be done. We should like to know if anything is anticipated. These people have a right to know so that they can make their arrangements accordingly. I was convinced last year that the matter was left in abeyance pending the termination of the war, but that in the immediate post-war period the Glace Bay harbour and MorieD breakwater would
Supply-Public Works

be major projects for that area, and that things were going to be done. I cannot find any item anywhere which indicates that the government intends to do anything with respect to these two points. The story is well known to Public Works; I am not going to elaborate it, but I should like to know from the minister whether he has anything in mind.


When I first
spoke to the committee I explained that those estimates were prepared in December 1944 and January 1945. We were then right in the midst of the war. The war concluded in May and August, but we still have those same estimates before the house, and as an hon. member remarked, we have spent most of this money, because five-twelfths were voted at one time and one-sixth or two-twelfths at another time. These are estimates which are prepared as I am preparing actual estimates which will be presented at the ensuing session. We prepare them in November, December and January. Now, I would not want to undertake at this time, a discussion of those two projects, Glace Bay harbour and the Port Morien breakwater, but we are having reports prepared by our engineers. I do not think that the hon. member would ask me on these estimates for a definite statement as to the intentions of the department in respect of the new estimates which will come up in February or March of next year, but he may be sure that we are studying and considering those post-war projects. They are post-war projects; do not ask me on these present estimates, which were prepared before the end of the war, for any post-war works. I do not think I could give an answer which would satisfy the hon. member.


I appreciate the minister's
difficulty. If he carries on the same system year after year he is going to be in the same position in 1949. It is not the fault of the people affected that the estimates are handled in that way. You are running on to the end of 1945 with these estimates, and as far as these communities are concerned they can anticipate nothing by the end of 1945. Remember, you have two industries tied up there, with the means of livelihood for the communities. While you prepared those estimates last August, do not forget that the members of this house were sitting at home for three or four months when they could have been here doing business and dealing with these estimates. It is not our fault that we were away. The condition at these two points is serious. I could mention a dozen more cases, but I do not think there is the same urgency in respect of them as there is in [Mr. Gillis.l
these two particular matters, where action is badly needed and should be taken now. The Minister of Reconstruction, who is handling post-war projects, has prepared his reconstruction estimates, and there is not an item in them dealing with these matters. Evidently they are forgotten, so far as those who can sit down and write the necessary appropriations into the estimates are concerned.
We leave here in December. My message to these two sections of the country where there is an urgent problem is, "Nothing is to be done for 1945." We shall come back here next summer, and, you say, the money available under these estimates is all spent. You will start preparing the next estimates in December or January, and by the time they pass through the house all the money will1- again-be spent and there still will not be any appropriation.


That is not the way at all.


That is exactly the way you put it just now. As I said before, I am not concerned about money for projects such as new buildings; I realize that one can get around to those thipgs any time. But where the means of livelihood is directly affected the situation is different. Your department should not have to begin now to study the Glace Bay harbour or the Port Morien breakwater, because you have been dealing with it for the last ten years, throwing a few planks around.


Then you have not been convincing in the past.	.


I was not here except during the war, and you always have the alibi, "There is a war on."


Mr. Chairman, I must protest against a procedure which is growing up, and regarding which my own colleagues are as reprehensible as anybody else, of hon. members speaking across the floor to each other. Every question should be addressed to the committee through the Chair. [DOT]


That is quite true, but I cannot very well blame the present chairman of this committee for the inactivity of the Department of Transport; and while I realize it may not be exactly in order, it is natural,
I think, to talk to the person concerned.


Does the hon. gentleman mean the Department of Transport?


The Minister of Veterans Affairs is correct. The procedure, as we all know, is to address all questions to the chairman, and all remarks which are delivered

Supply-Public Works
by any member of the committee should be addressed to the chairman. I agree with what the Minister of Veterans Affairs has said, that sometimes his own colleagues are just as guilty in this respect as are other members of the committee.


Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
I realize that, so I am going to talk direct to you now, and through you to the minister. Mr. Chairman, what I was endeavouring to do was to point out to the minister that despite the fact that for the past six years certain definite commitments have been made verbally to people in the community I represent in this House of Commons, with regard to certain improvements to harbour and breakwater facilities which direcfly affect the means of livelihood of a large number of people, I am rather disappointed, in looking over the public works department estimates, that, regardless of all these promises that in the post-war period these necessary improvements would be undertaken, there is no item in the estimates providing the money to bring about the necessary improvements. Secondly, in checking over the reconstruction estimates for the immediate post-war period, as these were supposed to be post-war projects, I still find not an item there to provide the necessary funds. I should like to find out through you, Mr. Chairman, if the people of the communities affected can expect any relief in the immediate future in the very urgent matter of improving their means of livelihood, as regards repairs to the harbour in Glace Bay, Nova Scotia, and the breakwater at Port Morien. I should like to be able to go home and tell the people of these two communities that the alibi offered by the government through the war years, namely that they were fighting a war, concentrating upon that, and spending all their money on it, was legitimate, but now that the war is over the promises made are going to be kept; that while the minister, maybe through an oversight on the part of his officials, had failed to include in the estimates any reference to these projects, he at least would take the matter up with the Department of Reconstruction, because' Public Works is the department which will do that work, although Reconstruction may have to provide the funds. I should like at least an assurance from someone that as soon as they can get around to it the promises made during the war period with respect to these two particular projects will be carried out.


Mr. Chairman, I would not impute any motives to an hon. member speaking in the committee. The hon.
member who has just taken his seat is speaking of post-war public works, and I have explained that these estimates do not contain any post-war items. We just admit that. These estimates were prepared for March 31, 1945, to March 31, 1946. We were here presenting these estimates last spring while 