EDMOND CLOUTIER, C.M.G., B.A., L.Ph., PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY CONTROLLER OF STATIONERY 1946
DotlSe Of
Commons; Debates;
Thursday, October 18, 1945.
Mr. RALPH MAYBANK (Winnipeg South Centre) presented the first report of the standing committee on railways and shipping owned, operated and controlled by the government, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I said in Toronto yesterday at the conclusion of the conference which I called in an attempt to settle the Ford strike, that any statement I had to make regarding the situation would be made in this house.
In every industrial dispute, it is important that public statements on the part of all concerned should be factual and not provocative, and that hasty judgments be avoided. I thought it desirable, therefore, that my first statement with respect to our efforts at the conference, and the attitude of the parties towards them, should await to-day's sitting of this house.
I recall to the house the first statement I made on this strike. I then pointed out that the dispute between the union and the company over the terms of a new collective agreement dated back to April, 1944, and that relations between them prior to that time had not been good.
I placed on the record a brief review of the several attempts which had been made by the departments of labour of the dominion and the province of Ontario to resolve the dispute. These included prolonged efforts by members of the wartime labour relations board (national) acting as a conciliation tribunal, those of Mr. Justice S. E. Richards, Winnipeg, acting as an industrial disputes inquiry corn-47696-79
missioner, over a lengthy period, and finally those of the board of conciliation headed by Mr. Justice G. B. O'Connor of Edmonton.
Mr. Justice Richards, in making his report to me as commissioner, referred to the deep-seated antagonisms which he found in the attitudes of the parties towards each other. He said:
There is bad feeling between the parties, which has arisen without good reason. ... I believe the bad feeling between the parties and the lack of good will and cooperation which should exist in the interests of both parties and for the public good, are such that the parties will not approach each other at the present time in the spirit of compromise which is necessary for the negotiation of a collective agreement. . . .
The board of conciliation which reported to me subsequently on this dispute, corroborated Mr. Justice Richards' view, when it said that:
There has been considerable difficulty between the parties ever since the first contract was signed between the company and the union in January, 1942.
When, last week I decided in consultation with the appropriate minister and officials of the provincial department of labour for Ontario, to call company and union officials into conference in Toronto on Monday of this week, it was thought that there was a possibility of getting both sides to take a more cooperative attitude and of reaching a settlement based on a compromise of their respective positions.
As I intimated earlier to the house, the issues of union shop and check-off are paramount in this dispute. Let it be clearly understood that there is no question on either side of the right of men and women in the industry to belong to the union. That is not the issue in dispute. The issue in dispute is the question, as I have just indicated, of a union shop and check-off. This is what the board of conciliation said:
The issues of union shop and check-off, in our opinion, are at the root of all difficulties between the company and the union. The union insists upon the inclusion of both these provisions. The company, on the other hand, is fully determined that it shall not be a condition

Ford Motor Plant Strike


May I ask the minister
one question? He stated that apparently there were two elements in the quarrel between the union and the company. Was not the question of annual wages one of the paramount issues? I was given to understand that that is so.

Ford Motor Plant Strike


That is an issue in
dispute.


It is not the paramount
issue?


I would say that the
paramount issues are the union shop and the check-off.


In view of the minister's statement that if this dispute is not settled soon the men may be out and the plant closed for the winter, what further step does the minister propose? Something must be done. What about appointing a controller, bringing the parties together, and operating the plant pending a settlement? It seems to me this matter is so serious that some further step is necessary.


No controller could do
better than the minister.


I can only say to the
hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar that if he has the answer, God bless him.


The question was not
asked in that spirit.


No, but I am sincere.
I did not interrupt my hon. friend.


It was a very sarcastic remark, though.


I say. if he has got the answer, God bless him. I have had very little sleep in the last few days. We have had engaged in this matter the best people that I know of in the dominion, good Canadians, who have endeavoured to bring this dispute to a successful conclusion. There was Mr. Justice O'Connor of Edmonton, a man of liberal outlook. There was Mr. Justice Richards, of Winnipeg, one of the ablest conciliators in Canada. We have had our own officials, and I myself have had some experience in these matters. But there must be a willingness to come together and talk. After all is said and done, that is the genius of the British people; it is the very principle on which, this House of Commons depends. If we want a system of government which we have spent millions of lives to get rid of in the world-


What about Ford? Ford spent millions of dollars and was decorated by Hitler.


If my hon. friend wants a frank answer-


Send him down there to
run the plant, and see what they do then,


Order.
47696-79J


I want to say this-


Let him settle the coal
strike in Great Britain and the dock workers? strike in Great Britain.


I say that if any hon..
member has a formula by which this problem may be solved, the door is always open and. I am ready to put it forward. I cannot say anything more sensible or sincere than that..


I would like to ask a.
question dealing with practical needs. I was wondering who was going to supply the necessities of life for these workers. Will it be the union officials? Will it be the province of Ontario? Will it be the dominion government? Will it be the city of Windsor? Because the workers have to eat, and they have no right, so far as I can see, to go into debt to keep their bread baskets supplied. I would like to know who is going to be responsible.


I would remind hon.
members that there is no motion before the house. I have permitted certain questions because the minister made a very important statement, but I do not think there should be a debate. It is against the rules.


Mr. Speaker, I rise
to a question of privilege relating to what you have just said. I think that, from the way the matter has gripped the members of the house, you will realize that this is one of the most serious questions that have come before us and the country since the end of the war, and some latitude ought to be allowed in a matter of the kind. I can quite understand that Your Honour would not want to permit open debate upon it, but a reasonable number of questions might be allowed which would bring into relief the position of the government and the strike situation. Such questions ought to be permitted and may I ask very humbly that Your Honour permit, them at this time.


I think there is some-merit in what the hon. member has said,, but the proper place, surely, is on the orders of the day. This is being done under motions..


We have done this on
occasion before, and the subject is now before the house. No one realizes better than my hon. friend that once a subject passes and something else comes up it is not always possible to revive that subject and place it in the same position as it was before. I would ask as a matter of special consideration that Your Honour do not restrict hon. members too much.
Ford Motor Plant Strike


If latitude is not given, there is but one recourse open to those who feel strongly in this matter, and that is, a few minutes later, to move the adjournment of the house for the consideration of a matter of urgent public importance. We know that there is some pressing business to come before the house, and we hesitate to take that step.


May I ask the minister two
questions? First, did the Ford representative state that he will not accept union security because there is no union security on the statute books? Second, may I ask whether or not Mr. Blackwell hinted at any legislation along the lines of giving the workers union security?


My hon. friend apparently has a pipeline in the wrong direction.


It is running up instead
of down.


Obviously that question cannot be answered. It is a matter of good faith and of character. You cannot disclose what takes place in a conference of that description. There has to be some decency and confidence in respect of such things, and that goes for both sides, the trade unions and the employers.


May I ask a question of the minister, following the exchange of comments between himself and the member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell)? The suggestion was made by the leader of this group that further consideration be given the appointment of a controller pending the settlement of the dispute. The minister did not take too kindly to the suggestion, and asked if we had some formula to suggest. I would ask him this question: Is not the formula suggested by the leader of this group parallel at least to the formula adopted by the minister in connection with the packing house situation, and is not this just as serious, with the winter coming on? Would he not give further consideration to this matter?


A different thing entirely.


May I ask a question of the minister? I am anxious to say to him how deeply I appreciate his efforts to settle this matter. I do not want any doubt about that, and I am not trying to be smart. Does he think that when parties separate on this principle of union security it can ever be a matter of conciliation? In other words, is it not something in connection with which some government, provincial or other, whoever has the authority, must by law lay down a policy? One side says, "We will not look at union
(Mr. Giaydon.]
security"; the unions say, "We will not work without union security." I ask that question as simply as I can because I know the minister is very able in these matters. Does he not think it may have gone beyond conciliation and may perhaps require some government action?


I would say this. You cannot legislate on the basis of threats. I am not speaking to my hon. friend when I say that. I know he appreciates that.


Louder.


I say you cannot legislate on the basis of threats by any group in the community.


Threats both ways.


I know what makes the clock tick. My hon. friend should read a primer on British institutions. May I say to the hon. member for Calgary West that industrial relations are the product of slow growth and I emphasized that the last time I spoke in the House of Commons. Some people will live to regret the speeches they made a week ago last Monday. I pointed out then that agreements were based on character. I am convinced of this, that if the approach were on that basis-and I believe we had this thing out of the fire yesterday-everyone will recognize that sooner or later these people have to sleep together, as we say in the trade union movement. I believe that if that had been the approach, and I say that from my experience in negotiations of this kind, these people would be at work in the next few days. We know of the factors on both sides of the river, and it is far better that they should meet together and come to an agreement mutually satisfactory, which would be lasting on both sides of the picture. I am convinced of that and I think that will be the outcome.


My good1 friend the Minister of Labour did well in his attempts to settle the Windsor strike, and spoke highly of Mr. Justice O'Connor, who has been made conciliator. The minister asked an hon. member in the C.C.F. group if that hon. member could suggest anyone who could help the minister in the matter. I have a suggestion to offer now, and it is that he should seek the assistance of the committee of this house on industrial relations. I believe the minister would find there quite as good assistance as he would receive from anyone in his department. My suggestion to the minister is that the committee be called as soon as possible, so that he may have the assistance of its

Postal Service
members in an effort to do something in connection with the condition at Windsor, and other matters.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Labour. I realize, of course, the great burden of work which has been placed upon his shoulders in the last few days. May I ask, however, if he is in a position to-day to make a statement respecting the strike situation in the meat packing plants of this country?


Mr. Speaker, may I emphasize this point: We are now passing through a difficult period, and as I have often said before, this is not the place to negotiate trade union agreements. My hon. friend knows as much about it as I do.


No, I do not. I was seeking information.


Just a minute; I say my hon. friend knows as much about it as I do. I have had conversations with the packers and with the union. We have a controller in the plants. We have appointed Mr. Justice Richards of Winnipeg to act as a commissioner under the provisions of section 402. I know my hon. friend does not wish to make my task-or, might I say, possibly his task-a little more difficult. Those people are at the moment in charge of the situation; for goodness' sake give them a chance. Do not try to make it difficult for them by asking questions in the house at the present time.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. I said that I realized the burden under which the Minister of Labour is working, but I think that in what he has said he has imputed to me motives of which I am not guilty.


No.


I am seeking information as to the situation, and I am not trying to make anybody's position more difficult. If the minister is not in a position to give any information, then I shall be perfectly content with an answer stating that he is not.


I have no further information to give. There is no strike in the packing industry.


I wish to make a statement in connection with the rates and weight limits of parcels being sent to England and on the continent.
In the course of the past few weeks, I have answered questions on the subject. Letters in regard thereto have been received by some of my colleagues and myself, and open letters, which unfortunately did not put facts in their true light, have been sent to newspapers. It is hoped that this further statement will clear up the matter.
Shortly after the end of the war in Europe attempts were made to restore mail service, particularly parcel post services to European countries, and it has been found possible to resume the mail service for correspondence to most places, but the parcel post services are another matter and they have presented many difficulties arising out of factors entirely out of Canadian postal authorities' control.
As the house knows, shipping facilities are not always of the best, and the question of the ability of the country of destination to provide delivery has been found to be the main difficulty. We have been successful in resuming the parcel post services to England (up to a weight limit of five pounds), to Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland up to eleven pounds, and to Italy and the Vatican City state up to four pounds for gift parcels containing food, drugs, toilet articles and used clothing.
This has required constant effort, as in all cases, with the exception of one, the Netherlands, our parcel post services are at present operating through Great Britain, who are sorely pressed as regards staff and accommodation but have been most cooperative in assisting us to the greatest degree possible. The shipping situation from the United Kingdom also comes into the picture, but we are sure they are placing all facilities possible at our disposal. The fact that England has set a weight limit of five pounds and is transmitting parcels to the continent up to a weight limit of eleven pounds shows her willingness to help devastated countries.
As regards the question of parcel post rates, the parcel post service to the Netherlands, which I previously stated operates on the direct route without going through England, is, of course, the cheapest service. On all eleven pound parcels to the Netherlands, the rate is SI.60; to France it is $2.25; to Switzerland $2.10; to Belgium $2.05, and to Sweden $2.60.
Taxation

Parcel postal rates from Canada to other *countries are based on the charges due to the *country of destination and any intermediary *countries, when it is found necessary to route the parcels through those countries. Also on the amount due Canada for handling and transportation by railway in Canada, including the conveyance across the Atlantic at 75 cents per cubic foot, which is the same for any parcel going to continental Europe, except the Netherlands.
In the case of those countries in Europe to which it has been possible to resume parcel post services, it has been found1 necessary to route the parcels through England. Direct steamship services will be used as soon as they become available and when we are assured of proper accommodation and regularity of service.
Our main efforts, of course, have been directed to the reopening of these various parcel post services to those countries in Europe who have so greatly suffered during the war, and which would permit some measure of relief being sent to them by civilians in Canada. It is quite true that in some cases the rates might be considered a trifle high, but it is purely a question of what we have to pay other countries for handling in addition to the cost of the conveyance in Canada and transatlantic dispatch to Europe.
Complaints have also been lodged as to the delivery of parcels, a number of which have not reached their destination. This is absolutely beyond our control. All parcels were sent in good condition from Canada and with the least possible delay. While we are following up these matters with diligence, we cannot press the receiving countries to change their own regulations.


Before we leave this statement of the Postmaster General, I should like to refer to a question I submitted to him in writing a few moments ago. It is as follows:
Will the minister kindly inform the house whether immediate steps can be taken to speed un the regulations to permit ten pound parcels sf food or clothing to be sent from Canada to Great Britain, the same as applies to civilians in continental Europe?
I intended to ask this question, and I thank the minister for his lengthy reply.


On the order for motions:
Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Acting Minister of Finance): Yesterday the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bracken) inquired about the 
tabling of the report of the royal commission on the taxation of cooperatives. With the scanty information I had been able to obtain over the telephone I told him that it had not yet been received from the printer and that it would be tabled as soon as it was received. The leader of the opposition then said, as reported at page 1210 of Hansard:
Would it not be possible for some of us on this side to see that report before we proceed with the budget debate? It may not be possible to make it available to every member of the house before the budget debate, but I think that before important speeches are made on the budget we should have the opportunity of seeing that report.
To that I replied:
I think that the request made by the hon. leader of the opposition is quite fair. I will communicate with the officers of the department and see if there are not copies that could be made available to the hon. member and to such other members as may wish to see it, rinless of course, I am assured that the report will be available in print almost at once.
The leader of the opposition had said that the Minister of Finance- had referred to this report in his budget speech; and I felt that if it had been used by the Minister of Finance it would be only fair that it should also be available to other members who might wish to take part in the same debate. But on further inquiry I found that all that the Minister of Finance said with respect to it is to be found at page 1008 of Hansard, and it is as follows:
The second royal commission was directed to report on the taxation of cooperatives. Its report has been received only very recently and it is now being printed for tabling in the house and distribution. There has not as yet been time to give full study to the report but, if it is possible to do so, I shall introduce in the committee on ways and means further resolutions for such changes in taxation as seem desirable after consideration of the recommendations of this commission.
I also inquired about the report itself, and I found that only two copies had been received by the government from the commission. Apart from the briefs, evidence and other material collected by the commission, the report consists of 417 pages. The preamble is a matter of 14 pages; the main part of the report 107 pages. Then there are appendices and charts, original work made and submitted by the commissioners on their responsibility, making up in all 417 pages. One of the copies was sent at once to the king's printer to be printed. He has been communicated with, and we have been informed that if he were to attempt to do the work in the king's printer office it would be a matter of some months before he could get around to it because of the pressure of the daily printing he has to do

Questions
while parliament is in session; and it has been farmed out to a contractor. It is hoped that within three or four weeks it may be available.
The other copy which was submitted to the President of the Privy Council was referred, without being examined at all, to the Minister of Finance, and is now in the hands of the experts of the Department of Finance who are preparing memoranda in connection with it for submission to the Minister of Finance. Under these conditions I cannot take the responsibility of taking it away from the experts and making it available for discussion in the debate. It could not be discussed in the debate in the budget without being tabled. I can assure hon. members that everything is being done that can be done to expedite its preparation, but, as Acting Minister of Finance I would not take the responsibility of taking it away from the experts to whom the Minister of Finance referred it for the preparation of memoranda for his use in bringing those recommendations before his colleagues, and making it available to other members of the house. I regret that circumstances are such that I cannot have copies available for hon. members, who I know are, like many others, much interested in ascertaining what are the recommendations in this report.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
special depreciation allowances
["What was the quantity of apples produced in Canada, by provinces, from September 1, 1939, to September 15, 1945?\nMr. MacKINNON;\nApple Production\tin Canada,\tby Provinces,\t1939-1945\tN.S.\tN.B.\tQue.\tOnt.\tB.C.\tCanada'000 bu.\t'000 bu.\t'000 bu.\t'000 bu.\t'000 bu.\t'000 bu.1939* \t\n5,953\t225\t1,011\t3,031\t6,195\t16,4151940 \t\n3,453\t161\t970\t2,350\t5,931\t12,8651941 \t\n3,444\t201\t767\t1,845\t4,468\t10,7251942 \t\n3,918\t246\t1,170\t1,851\t5,797\t12,9821943 \t\n4,846\t330\t911\t2,372\t4,395\t12,8541944 \t\n5.262\t297\t900\t2,620\t8,750\t17,8291945f \t\n975\t119\t80\t546\t5,764\t7,484\nNote: 1 bu. equals 45 lbs; 1 bu. equivalent to 1 B.C. box.\n Total crop harvested in 1939. Not possible to show quantity harvested before Sept. 1. t September estimate of total crop to be harvested this season. Not possible to show quantity harvested before Sept. 15. t Preliminary."]
I desire to answer this question orally. The answer to the first part is, none. The answer to the second part is, answered by No. 1. I recognize that this is not a satisfactory answer, but it is technically a correct answer to the question as we understand it. If the questions were drafted a little differently, however, we could give the information requested by the hon. gentleman. The first question would then be in this form:
Since November 10, 1944, under order in council P.C. 8640 of that date, how many certificates have been granted by the Minister ol Reconstruction for depreciation allowances under section 6 (1) (n) (ii) of the Income War Tax Act?
The second question would be:
What is the total amount of depreciation to be allowed under the said certificates on the assumption that the construction in respect of
which the certificate was requested is carried out according to the plan submitted and within the prescribed period?
The answer to the first question is, 1,159; the answer to the second question is $157,956,313.07. If that answer is satisfactory to the hon. gentleman who put the question I will table it together with a copy of the order in council under which that comes into effect.


1.	How many labour exit permits were granted to men to take employment in the woods in the northeastern states of the United States of America, (a) in 1944; (b) in 1945 to date?
2.	What is the maximum number of such permits which may be granted for such purpose, and will this maximum be increased?
3.	Within what area of Canada have American timber operators been permitted to canvass or advertise for Canadian labour, (a) in 1944; (b) in 1945?


1.	The number of labour exit permits granted to men to take employment in the woods in the northeastern states of the United States of America was: (a) In 1944-12,902; (b) In 1945 to date 16,447.
Since more than one labour exit permit may be issued to any one man during any one year it is necessary to state that in 1944 the maximum number of Canadians working on woods operations in the United States with labour exit permits at any one time was 4,993. In 1945, this figure is 4,616.
2.	The maximum number of such permits which may be granted for such purpose is 5,060. It is proposed to increase this number to 5,750.
3.	American timber operators have been permitted to canvass for Canadian labour in the provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec in both 1944 and 1945. None have been permitted to advertise.


1.	How many corvettes have been declared surplus and handed over to the War Assets Corporation for disposal?
2.	What has been the cost of each corvette?


1.	87.
2.	30 corvettes at $958,160 each; 7 corvettes at $780,296 each; 4 corvettes at $718,120 each; 46 corvettes at $690,000 each.
Questions


Did any of the following persons receive unemployment benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act during the year 1944, and, if so, how much did each of them receive: P. C. Colquhoun, Maple Creek, Sask.; C. Dixon, Luseland, Sask.; H. P. Kruesel, Kerrobert, Sask.; F. Lang, Tramping Lake, Sask.; J. T. Letourneau, Lisieux, Sask.; G. N. Morrison, Eastend, Sask.; A. R. Porter, Truax, Sask.; A. L. Rees, Stranraer, Sask.; G. Slade, Sceptre, Sask.?


I am not sure that the information requested should be put on the records of the House of Commons, for very-practical reasons. In the first place, there are
2,500,000	people insured under this plan, and if we are to have the proceedings of the house cluttered up with this kind of thing I do not know where it is going to end. I think also there is another principle which enters into it, which I am sure my hon. friend will see if he looks at this matter from the point of view of the workingman or woman. Pride is a very necessary element in our relations with each other, and these people do not like to have any benefits received under this or any other plan bandied about. However, I should be
glad to give my hon. friend the information privately or make it available to him if that should be necessary.


That is satisfactory.
volunteers FOR ACTIVE SERVICE REMAINING IN CANADA


1.	How many volunteers who enlisted for
active service remained in Canada, in the various war service offices:	(a) army; (b)
navy; (c) air force?
2.	How many of such volunteers were Frenchspeaking?
3.	How many of such volunteers were Englishspeaking?


The hon. member has
agreed, in view of the considerable work involved and the difficulty of securing the information, to drop this question and redraft it.
Question dropped.


What was the quantity of apples produced in Canada, by provinces, from September 1, 1939, to September 15, 1945?
Mr. MacKINNON;
Apple Production	in Canada,	by Provinces,	1939-1945	N.S.	N.B.	Que.	Ont.	B.C.	Canada'000 bu.	'000 bu.	'000 bu.	'000 bu.	'000 bu.	'000 bu.1939* 	
5,953	225	1,011	3,031	6,195	16,4151940 	
3,453	161	970	2,350	5,931	12,8651941 	
3,444	201	767	1,845	4,468	10,7251942 	
3,918	246	1,170	1,851	5,797	12,9821943 	
4,846	330	911	2,372	4,395	12,8541944 	
5.262	297	900	2,620	8,750	17,8291945f 	
975	119	80	546	5,764	7,484
Note: 1 bu. equals 45 lbs; 1 bu. equivalent to 1 B.C. box.
 Total crop harvested in 1939. Not possible to show quantity harvested before Sept. 1. t September estimate of total crop to be harvested this season. Not possible to show quantity harvested before Sept. 15. t Preliminary.


1.	During the years 1940, 1941 and the first month of 1942, did the national revenue department collect, (a) duty; (b) a ten per cent war exchange tax; (c) a three per cent special excise tax, on raw cane sugar coming into Canada as an import?
2.	Were these three taxes or imposts abolished in 1942?
3.	If so, on what date; by what authority and for what reason was each abolished?


Mr. McCULLOUGH (Assiniboia);
1.	How many army jeeps, station wagons, and army trucks have been shipped out of Canada since V-E day?
2.	To whom were they shipped?
3.	How many of each type of the above vehicles have been disposed of?
4.	To whom and at what price has each type of the above vehicle been disposed of?
1. How many officers and ratings were actually enrolled in the permanent force of the Royal Canadian Navy as of August 1, 1945?

United Nations General Assembly
2.	Of the ratings, how many comprised the seatnen ?
3.	How does this latter total break down as between chief petty officers, petty officers, leading seamen, able seamen and ordinary seamen?
4.	How many ratings in each of the above five categories are allowed for in the complement of the post-war 10,000 man navy?
5.	How many in each of these categories were enrolled in the permanent navy on August 1, 1939?


1.	How much was spent by the dominion government for dredging the St. Lawrence river and Montreal harbour, and for operating and administering the St. Lawrence ship channel during the years 1940 to 1944, inclusive?
2.	How much was spent during the years 1940 to 1944, inclusive, under the Maritime Freight Rates Act to compensate railways for the difference between the tariff tolls and normal tolls on all traffic moved during the above mentioned years ?
3.	How much was spent during the above years to provide for construction and improvements in connection with the Hudson Bay railway, and to provide for losses in connection with the operation of the railway during the above years?
4.	How much money ivas advanced by the
dominion government during the said years for the following:	(a) Montreal harbour; (b)
Churchill harbour; (c) Vancouver harbour; (d) Halifax harbour?


1.	How many boards or commissions have been set up or constituted, (a) since September 3, 1939; (b) since V-E day?
2.	What are the particulars, including names of persons now holding positions on each of said boards or commissions?


1.	How many orders in council passed under the War Measures Act since September 3, 1939, have been rescinded or revoked, (a) since V-E day; (b) since V-J day?
2.	Of these, how many were orders of controllers?


1.	What is the amount paid by the government in subsidies from September 1, 1939, to September 15, 1945?
2.	On what products were subsidies paid during this period and how much on each?


1.	How many employees working with, (a) civil service; (b) permanent government boards are above the age of 65?
2.	How many of these employees over 65 have been appointed since V-J day?


On the orders of the day:
A
spokesman for the United Kingdom government announced yesterday that the first general assembly of the united nations organization is expected to meet in London on December 4. I would ask the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs, therefore, to give the following information to the house:
1.	How many representatives from Canada will be sent to attend this initial meeting of the general assembly?
2.	Who will be designated from Canada for this purpose?
3.	Is it anticipated that the Prime Minister will be able to remain overseas long enough to attend?
4.	Will consideration be given by the government to having all parliamentary parties represented at all united nations gatherings, including the initial meeting of the general assembly?
Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs): I have no information which would permit me to give any kind of definite answer to the third question submitted by the hon. member, as to whether it is anticipated the Prime Minister will be able to remain overseas long enough to attend this meeting. As to the other three questions, no decision has been made as yet with respect to any of them. I can say little more at this time than that the membership of the Canadian delegation to the first assembly of the united nations has not been determined and will be announced as soon as it is determined. The point mentioned in the fourth question will be borne in mind by the government.
I may add that it is my understanding that the meeting, which is expected to take place in December, will be concerned almost entirely with the consideration of recommendations placed before the general assembly by the preparatory commission which was established at San Francisco, dealing with the administrative and financial procedures and related organizational matters. It is expected also that at this meeting the security council and the social and economic council will be established, and the secretary-general appointed. The intention would appear to be, then, that the assembly should then adjourn

Education

and reconvene, perhaps in the spring of 1946, for the discharge of the important continuing functions vested in it by the charter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Justice. In view of the fact that it is getting very close to November 1, will the minister state if he is prepared to announce to the house to-day the composition of the Canadian delegation to the world conference on education to be held in London? Will he, in any event, give the house the assurance that the Canadian Teachers' Federation will be represented on the delegation?
Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs): I am sorry I am not able to announce to-day the composition of the Canadian delegation. One of the gentlemen who had been approached to see if he could become a member of the delegation found it impossible to do so, and others are being approached for the same purpose. I would not care to give any commitment to the house in respect of any part of the delegation until it is possible to announce the composition of the whole of it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. W. CHESTER S. McLURE (Queens): Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of National Defence. Is naval headquarters, as now situated in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, to be removed? If so, why, when and where?
The hon. member gave notice yesterday of his intention of asking this question. The answer is that there is no intention of removing Royal Canadian Naval Reserve headquarters at Charlottetown from that city.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Fisheries. Will any British Columbia canned salmon be released to the trade in Canada this year?


British Columbia?


I spoke of British Columbia.


I shall take what the hon. member has said as a notice of the question.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. NORMAN J. M. LOCKHART (Lincoln) : Mr. Speaker, before the orders of the day are called I should like to ask a question. I noticed that one of the ministers mentioned that he had not received notice of a question. I do not believe any notice would be required in respect of the question I am about to ask, because on October 1 an announcement was made in connection with the matter, and I assume the minister is well informed.
In information supplied by the department I find this:
A new coal order raising the amount of anthracite to which a householder is entitled to seventy-five per cent of his normal annual requirements instead of fifty per cent, effective October 1.
I am being pressed with inquiries these days as to where that seventy-five per cent is to come from. Householders are almost distracted, and I was wondering if the minister could assure us that the seventy-five per cent will be available.
["-who, he said, could compare with any of the experienced statesmen they had at San Francisco. These are matters we must keep in mind, we of the \nCanadian parliament and the Canadian nation. I am telling this house what is in the minds of my own people: miners working in the mines, lumbermen working in the forests of northern Ontario, farmers and settlers in the clay belt of the north, professional men-in a word all class of people. I am expressing their sentiments, aspirations and hopes, and also their fears in connection with the next peace conference. The old idea of colonialism naturally is repugnant to the Canadian people. Anyone who called a Canadian a colonial would arouse a terrific reaction immediately. In our.own minds we believe that this principle should disappear throughout the world, that all the people should govern themselves. I do not go so far as to say that perhaps any small nations or group of people-and no one has the right to refer to them as backward nations-should be under the guidance of bigger nations. It might be necessary for a time under certain conditions. A small nation might be under mandate for a certain number of years. .They might be under mandate for their own natural and physical protection. But we have forgotten our promises of freedom to them at these conferences, and vre tried to forget it at the San Francisco conference. We have blinded ourselves to the situation, one which is bound to face us sooner or later, and which carries with it great responsibilities.\nAnother feature was this, that regardless of the hope we' had early in the war and during the conflict, the major powers want to retain what has been traditionally theirs. It was shown again at San Francisco that the tradition of the past is to be maintained. That was shown all along the line. We saw clear evidence of the fact, the deep-rooted fact, that powerful nations never disgorge except as they are defeated. It displayed the worst side of the mentality of the great, who cannot learn to recede in time.\nI know those are hard words, but they must be uttered. I do not make these statements with pleasure, but I know the facts are there.\nI know that millions of lives have been sacrificed, and that the weary world has been going through turmoil-and almost near death in the last five years. The nations, whether big or small, should now be willing to make sacrifices for the good of the whole of the civilized world. Jealousy, fear and long established habits prevailed in large measure. ,The great powers quarrelled over irrelevancies. In Great Britain and in Canadian newspapers were big headlines, and we were afraid that the soviet representatives would wreck the conference, that they would leave it.\t,\n\nUnited Nations Agreement\nBut, to their credit, they stayed on.^ I believe they are lovers of peace. No nation, either Russian or any other, through its government or through its people, will ever dare to bring on another war. Russia would not dare to carry the responsibility of bringing on a war in which she would be involved.\nI just wish to say a few words about our delegation, and I should like to add again my word of praise for what they did. But they must have had when they went to the San Francisco conference, a sense of frustration, because it was really a big power conference. It is true that the smaller nations were invited there, but one has only to read the speeches made by our own delegation, the speeches made by Mr. Forde of Australia, the speeches made by Mr. Evatt, to realize what the situation was. Mr. Evatt fought, fought, fought for recognition of the component parts of the British empire, as did also Mr. Fraser, Prime Minister of New Zealand. The people whom I have mentioned, the delegates to whom I have referred, our own, knew what the situation was. I wish to offer them my sincere thanks and admiration for what they have done.\nAs I said a minute ago, the Canadian delegation did not go there empty-handed. They had no axe to grind with anyone. We had no special demand to make for ourselves. We did not want any concessions in the Pacific or Atlantic. We were satisfied that Canadian territory should remain in its full integrity. That is why eventually the voice of our Canadian delegation, and those of Australia and New Zealand, had their repercussion throughout the world, and how we won our case and the recognition of the smaller nations' viewpoints. There was a recognition that those intermediary or smaller nations should have a place in future conferences. More than that, if it was not included immediately, it was at one time included under the charter.\nThere is no doubt tlhat wonderful work has been accomplished, but in every human deliberation and every human conclusion we must not expect to have perfection. If we had not had the San Francisco conference, what would we have had? As has been so well said by hon. members, it was a marvellous step in the right direction, because the nations of the world1 have shown to the world of the future and to the whole of civilization the fact that the future resides in understanding, cooperation and peace. There can be no getting away from that. On that score alone I know that the whole of the Canadian people are 100\nper cent behind our delegation, and will be behind the parliament of Canada when it passes this resolution.\nI should like now to say a few words about what has been said so well before respecting the supremacy of moral law, the rights of human beings, international law as the basis of conduct and universality of approach. These matters were taken up by our delegation, and for that alone they deserve praise from Canadians.\nMay I say only a few words about the five great powers which were really the leading powers at San Francisco. First of all I would refer to the United States. There can be no doubt that to a large extent the spirit which prevailed at the San Francisco conference emanated from that great spirit, the thought and the drive of the late President Roosevelt. He had seen the dangers which confronted not only all Europe but every section of the world. There is no. doubt that that great spirit which had been calling and begging for many years for international collaboration was present at the conference, and that tihe doctrine of isolationism was absolutely dead. Everyone has read about the eagerness and the sincerity of Mr. Stettinius, the then secretary of state, and his efforts to create an international league. One has only to look at that to realize that the United States fully comprehends its responsibility, not only to the people of that country but to the peoples of the whole world. .\nThen at that conference were representatives of the United Kingdom-great, Great Britain, which had suffered so much, which stood alone for more than a year against the hordes of barbarism in Europe. This was the Great Britain that suffered economically, and suffered physically in her blood and in her flesh. The British people recognized that they were near exhaustion; and there is no use in covering it up, because the people of Britain would have been the first to recognize the fact that they were near exhaustion. They were cut off from commercial contact with other peoples for five years, except for purely war purposes. For five years they lived under high tension, and have had no physical security from the air, land and sea. They were reduced to the narrow limits of their own British isles, caught on the fringe of Europe between the soviet advance; and I am not suggesting it is an unfriendly advance, but we might as well face the fact that it was a new and to some extent troubling factor. There are now factors arising in Europe in which Great Britain must necessarily take part. On the other hand, she faces the United States. She has not approached the conference as a mendicant; she has not gone there to ask for sympathy,\nUnited Nations Agreement", 'She went there as one of the greatest nations that the world has ever known, for the reconquest of a place in the sun, and the integrity of her empire, and she was recognized as such.\nOn motion of Mr. Bradette the debate was adjourned.']
Hon. members will know that the coal situation is a veiy difficult one. Perhaps the hon. member who asked the question does not know that there are strikes in the United States.


Yes, I do.


There are strikes in practically the entire field, and there are work stoppages in western Canada. We are hopeful that dealers will receive a reasonable part of their quota. There is no hope of their getting the same quota as last year. But the order does permit dealers to distribute any coal they can get over their fifty per cent quota.


I do not wish to press the matter, but are we to assume that we will probably get seventy-five per cent of the anthracite instead of fifty per cent?


No.


The minister so stated.

United Nations Agreement


The house resumed from Tuesday, October 16, consideration of the motion of Mr. St. Laurent:
That it is expedient that the houses of parliament do approve the agreement establishing the united nations and constituting the charter of the united nations and the statute of the international court of justice signed at San Francisco on June 26, 1945, and that this house do approve the same.
Mr. Speaker, it is my hope that by unanimous vote this house will adopt the resolution approving the charter of the united nations. It represents not all that Canada hoped for, or probably that any one of the delegates from any of the nations would have wished, but in its present form I think we can all agree, at least those of us who were at San Francisco, that it represents the highest common denominator attainable at the conference.
Canada, because of her contributions in the two world wars, her disinterestedness in the disposition of territory other than her own and, I believe, the non-partisan complexion of her delegation and the ability of the Canadian representatives to reach agreement on fundamental issues-in spite of the fact that a general election was in progress in Canada-as well as the unique geographical and political situation of our country, enabled the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and the delegation to exert a considerable influence on many aspects of the Dumbarton Oaks proposals. These have been already noted, may I add, in the very excellent speeches that were made by the acting Minister of External Affairs, the Minister of Justice (Mr. St. Laurent) and the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon). We were recognized as near neighbours of Russia and of the United States, yet associated with the United Kingdom and other members of the British commonwealth as an independent selfgoverning nation, having, too, through our French-speaking population, an historic link with old France. To complete the picture let me add that our western shores like those of China are washed by the Pacific ocean.
Canada, then, is a nation of world-wide associations and world-wide interests. We of all nations in this hemisphere can in no sense afford to stand aloof or remain unaffected by events anywhere in this shrinking world of the twentieth century. To us, then, the main purpose of the charter, the prevention of war and the maintenance of security, is indeed of vital concern.
4/696-804
But, sir, this purpose imposes upon Canada as upon all others of the united nations the obligation to assist in every way the development of friendly relations among the member peoples and the promotion of international cooperation in both economic and social spheres, and these aims, let it be said, run like silver threads through the whole charter; for they are of the very fabric of peace.
To arrive at friendly understandings and to>
prevent misunderstandings, the representatives of the signatory nations, which one day we hope will include all the nations of the earth, will meet in annual sessions and in special sessions of the general assembly organization, to which each nation may send five delegates and exercise one collective vote for the delegation. Thus a forum for constant exchange of vi