4.	How long has Inspector John Leopold been a member of the R.C.M.P.?
2.	Was he at one time known as Jack Essel-wein, and (a) was he instructed, as part of his duties, to join an organization or party; (b) if so, what party or organization; (c) during what period or periods of time was he so occupied; (d) was he on the payroll of the R.C.M.P. during such periods?
3.	Did his duties during that period include the investigation of organizations other than the communist party of Canada and, if so, what organizations, and on whose instructions were such investigations carried on?
4.	Did his duties involve travel and investigations outside Canada?
5.	Do his present duties include any portion of those assigned to him during the period he was a member of the communist party of Canada?
Mr. ST. LAURENT:
1.	Since September 26, 1918.
2.	Yes; (a) Yes; (b) Communist party and subsidiary organizations; (c) 1921 to 1928; (d) Yes.
3.	Communist party and subsidiary bodies only.
4.	No.
5.	Yes.


1.	How many members of the R.C.M.P. are currently employed on investigation in trade unions and other organizations, and what percentage is this of the total active force?
2.	How does the number now employed on this type of work compare with the number employed on comparable work in 1939?
3.	Are special payments in addition to their regular salaries made to those engaged in this type of work?
4.	What is the total appropriation devoted to this work?
5.	Who is the responsible officer in charge, and to whom does he report?
Mr. ST. LAURENT:
1.	None in trade unions and similar organizations.
2,	3, 4 and 5. Answered by No. 1.


1.	What is the percentage of the average 1941-42 purchases of evaporated milk distributed in each of the following areas of Canada: (a)
northern Ontario and northern Quebec; (b) southern Ontario and southern Quebec; (e) maritime provinces; (d) Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia?
2.	In what areas of above is evaporated milk sold without ration coupons?


1.	(a) Minimum quota 100 per cent plus special quotas authorized for lumbering and mining operations equal to approximately an additional 30 per cent, (b) No quota set. Distributed on ration coupons for infant feeding and medical cases only, (c) 125 per cent, (d) 125 per cent.
2.	In all areas except southern Ontario and southern Quebec.


How many motorcycles declared surplus -by the Department of National Defence, army, navy and air, respectively, are still in the hands of War Assets Corporation?


1.	How many motorcycles have been declared surplus by the Department of National Defence (army) ?
2.	What are the departmental numbers of the surplus declaration forms in each case?
3.	On what dates were declarations of surplus motorcycles made?
4.	How many of these motorcycles have been disposed of through War Assets Corporation?
5.	How many oi these motorcycles have been disposed of by sale to ex-service men, in pursuance with the policy which grants them priority of purchase?
6.	In what province or provinces are the remainder of these motorcycles now located?


1.	How many motorcycles have been declared surplus of the Department of National Defence for Air?
2.	What are the departmental numbers of the surplus declaration forms in each case?
3.	On what dates were declarations of surplus motorcycles made?
4.	How many of these motorcycles have been disposed of through War Assets Corporation?
5.	How many of these motorcycles have been disposed of by sale to ex-service men, in pursuance with the policy which grants them priority of purchase?
6.	In what province or provinces are the remainder of these motorcycles now located?


1.	How many motorcycles have been declared surplus by the Department of Naval Affairs?
2.	What are the departmental numbers of the surplus declaration forms in each case?
3.	On what dates were declarations of surplus motorcycles made?
4.	How many of these motorcycles have been disposed of through War Assets Corporation?
Questions

5.	How many of these motorcycles have been disposed of by sale to ex-service men, in pursuance with the policy which grants them priority of purchase?
6.	In what province or provinces are the remainder of these motorcycles now located?


How many motor vehicles declared surplus by the Department of National Defence, navy, army, and air respectively, are still in the hands of War Assets Corporation?


1.	How many passenger motor vehicles have been declared surplus by the Department of National Defence for Air?
2.	What are the departmental numbers of the surplus declaration forms in each case?
3.	On what dates were declarations of surplus motor passenger vehicles made?
4.	How many of these vehicles have been disposed of through War Assets Corporation?
5.	How many of these vehicles have been disposed of by sale to ex-service men, in pursuance of the policy which grants them priority of purchase?
6.	In what province or provinces are the remainder of these surplus vehicles located?


1.	How many passenger motor vehicles have been declared surplus by the Department of National Defence (army)?
2.	What are the departmental numbers of the surplus declaration forms in each case?
3.	On what dates were declarations of surplus
motor passenger vehicles made?	.
4.	How many of these vehicles have been disposed of through War Assets Corporation?
5.	How many of these vehicles have been disposed of by sale to ex-service men, in pursuance of the policy which grants them priority of purchase?
6.	In what province or provinces are the remainder of these surplus vehicles located?


1.	How many passenger motor vehicles have been declared surplus by the Department of Naval Affairs?
2.	What are the departmental numbers of the surplus declaration forms in each case?
3.	On what dates were declarations of surplus motor passenger vehicles made?
4.	How many of these vehicles have been disposed of through War Assets Corporation?
5.	How many of these vehicles have been disposed of by sale to ex-service men, in pursuance of the policy which grants them priority of purchase ?
6.	In what province or provinces are the remainder of these surplus vehicles located?


These questions, eight in number, in the name of the hon. member for Peterborough West, were asked previously in the House of Commons and I believe referred to the war expenditures and economies committee. They were answered fully in that committee, and the answers will be found in the minutes of the proceedings and evidence Nos. 34 and 35 of the committee.
[Mr. Fraser.l


1.	How many persons of Japanese origin were patients in the mental hospital in British Columbia as at January 31, 1946?
2.	How many of those have asked for repatriation to Japan?


1.	58.
2.	26.


1.	Have arrangements been made by the government to bring electrical engineers from the United Kingdom to Canada to serve with the Royal Canadian Navy, or in any capacity with the Department of National Defence for Naval Affairs?
2.	If so, how many engineers are being brought to Canada?
3.	What are their names, and what are the special qualifications of each such person?
4.	What salary is each such person to be paid?
5.	Have any other commitments been made to them or any other inducements held out to them to get them to come to Canada?
6.	If so, what commitments Or inducements?
7.	What, in detail, are the duties which each such person is to perform?
8.	Prior to such arrangements being made, was any attempt made to recruit qualified Canadian engineers for such positions?
9.	If so, what method of recruitment was adopted and what inducements by way of salary, or otherwise were held out?
10.	Why were Canadian engineers not secured for such positions?
11.	Was consideration given to sending Canadian engineers to the United Kingdom to secure any additional training required?
12.	If not, why not?


Return
tabled.


1.	How many deserters among those who served for some time at the front are now incarcerated (a) in prisons or detention camps overseas; (b) in federal prisons in Canada?
2.	Will executive clemency be extended to them immediately and a pardon given, and will they be brought home by the government?
3.	Will the same clemency be extended at once to those overseas who risked their lives, as volunteers, as has been given to desertei's and draft, evaders within Canada?

Labour Conditions


II. During each of the years 1930 to 1944, both years inclusive, what was the amount of (a) principal (annual payments); (b) interest due the Soldier Settlement Board by settlers holding contracts?
2.	During the same period, what amount was paid each year by such settlers?
3.	What was the cost of administration of the Soldier Settlement Board for each of the above years?
4.	During each of the above years how many settlers (a) signed quit claim deeds; (b) were served with thirty day notices to vacate their farms?


For a copy of the record of proceedings of the court of inquiry convened on or about April 22, 1943, to investigate the claim of Mr. Nick Charena, against the Department of National Eefenee, with respect to an injury received while working at a Royal Canadian Army Service Corps Depot.


The hon. member has agreed to drop this motion.


On the basis of the department looking into the case.
Motion dropped.


For a copy of the financial statements of the Belleville (Ontario) harbour commission for the years of 1941, 1942, 1943, .1944 and 1945?


On the orders of the day:
I asked the Minister of Labour on Saturday if the controller had made any effort to get-in touch with the parties to the steel dispute, and I should like to repeat that question now. I should also like to ask the minister if he will give consideration to having the deputy minister of his department act as special commissioner, since there is no other commissioner conciliating in the dispute at the moment.


On Saturday I gave an open invitation to both sides, combined with the 63260-337
amendment to the order, at least to get in touch with my department or myself in an effort to bring about some degree of conciliation in this dispute. I have read some of the speeches that have been made over the weekend and I am frank to admit, Mr. Speaker, I did not get much encouragement from them. I am prepared to lend every effort in settling this dispute if there is any degree of sympathetic consideration by either side.
As to my hon. friend's other point about the deputy minister of labour, we have had two or three commissioners in this dispute already. I think it can fairly be said that I run a reasonably large organization which faces difficulties and complications, and the steel dispute is not the only dispute that is in progress at the moment. I want to tell my hon. friend frankly that I cannot have my senior officials running all over Canada trying to settle industrial disputes, because I have an organization stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific that has been set up to deal with just such matters. If my hon. friend has any contact with either side to the dispute I should be very glad if he would call them up and tell them, "For goodness' sake quit making silly speeches," such as I read in the press over the week-end. This dispute, like the rain, must come to an end some time. It always stops raining. But you cannot settle any dispute unless there is a willingness to sit down and settle it.


I thank the minister. I appreciate that I was asking a great deal of him to ask that his deputy go in there. But I was paying a compliment to his deputy in making that request because I believe he would be acceptable, perhaps more acceptable than anyone else, to the employees there.


Much as I should like to do it, I must say that sometimes I wonder how physically I have stood up for the last five years, and I say that without trying to be facetious at all. I say it seriously, and I say the same thing of my senior officials too. I have not had a holiday since the war broke out; my deputy has not had a holiday since he has been with me, and that goes for many of the senior officials in my department. To ask us to run all over the country after grownup men who cannot conduct themselves like grown-up men is asking too much. After all is said and done, the trains are still running, and the aeroplanes, and if these people were anxious to settle disputes instead of trying to make martyrs of themselves or names for themselves, a great deal more could be accomplished. I passed through a similar diffi-

Labour Conditions

cult period after the last war. These men who think they are men of destiny are just ships that pass in the night. I have seen them pass in the night.


I was just thinking of the minister's mixed metaphors.


Some fellows think they are men of destiny, but they take themselves too seriously. If any one of us here died to-day the flag would fly at half-mast until the funeral was over and we would soon be forgotten. So do not let us take ourselves too seriously.


In view of the seriousness of the' situation will the minister ask the controller at Hamilton to see to it that the presence of the police is not used by the company as a basis for further provocative action?


That has nothing whatever to do with the company. Responsibility for the administration of law and order does not rest on any organization, whether it be the employers or the employees. The maintenance of law and order is the responsibility, first of all, of the chief magistrate of the city-and let me say this, that I have never known the chief magistrate to be defeated on the basis of maintaining law and order. If you have not the courage to carry out the obligations of an office, you should not run for that office. The responsibility, after the chief magistrate, is the responsibility of the attorney general of the province, and next, the attorney general of Canada. The chain of responsibility is complete. For my hon. friend to say that the company should not use the police is to overlook that the maintenance of law and order is the responsibility of those charged with it.


What about the violation of the wage control order by the company in giving triple pay?


PRODUCTS	'
On the orders of the day:
Mr. J. 0. PROBE (Regina City): Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply or the Acting Minister of Finance whether there is any arrangement by which the steel that is available in unprocessed form, such as sheets and plates, is being rationed equitably across this country by any organization of the government? I have received a number of telegrams on that and I should like to know whether equitable rationing is taking place.
[Mr. Mitchell.)
What little
steel there is available for distribution is subject to priority allocation by the steel controller, and anything that is left after all priorities are satisfied I suppose is being marketed through the usual channels. But there is very little primary steel going on the market to-day.


There is a definite allotment as between various regions?


Order. The hon. member has put his question and received his answer.


Mr. Speaker, may I not ask a supplementary question? It was a fair question. I do not want to be shut off every time I get up. You take an obvious delight in doing it.


I do not think that the hon. member or any hon. member has been shut off by the Speaker. The rule is very clear. The question should be brief and to the point. Moreover I should say to the hon. member that I will not permit the question period to start a debate on steel or labour conditions. The hon. member will have an opportunity to ask any question of the minister when his estimates are being considered in committee of supply.


I hasten to assure you, Mr. Speaker, that I did not wish to have a debate or altercation at all. I was simply asking for information.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
recently I tabled an answer to a question by the hon. member for Mackenzie, (Mr. Nicholson) with reference to the per capita sales of liquor by provinces for the last fiscal year. The hon. member asked why Prince Edward Island had not been included. I was fairly sure of the answer, but I wanted to be certain. There is no public sale of liquor in Prince Edward Island. Liquor is sold there, I think I should say allegedly, for medicinal purposes only upon presentation of a doctor's certificate. There being no liquor control board in the island as there is in the other provinces, we do not have comparable statistics. The public accounts for Prince Edward Island do not show any figures for retail sales; therefore, we are unable to compare them with the figures of other provinces.

Emergency Powers


for 1943
On the orders of the day:
May I also take this opportunity of giving information to some hon. members who are particularly interested in the matter of wheat participation certificates for 1943. These payments are actually going out, and the operation will be hurried through to completion. The price of No. 1 Northern is 12-146 cents per bushel. This price covers about eighty per cent of all the other grades.


On the orders of the day:
On Saturday last the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) asked the following question :
In view of the increased price of sugar, which is imported from the West Indies, will the government, with a view to increasing production in 1947, consider granting similar concessions to growers and processors in Canada as has been ordered in the United States?
The answer is: The average laid down cost of West Indies sugar in Canada in Canadian funds is not higher than the sugar administrator's selling price to Canadian refineries. The government announced last spring a special payment of 60J cents per hundred pounds of refined beet sugar produced from the 1946 crop. Policy with respect to the 1947 crop of beet sugar will be announced in due course in the light of the then existing circumstances.


CENTRAL HOUSING AND MORTGAGE CORPORATION- RENTS IN EDMONTON On the orders of the day:
On Saturday last the hon. member for Eglinton (Mr. Fleming) asked a question with reference to rentals in the Jesuit college apartments at Edmonton. I am informed that the apartments in question are being operated under the home conversion plan and that the present rentals were fixed before extensive alterations had been effected. Now that the work has been completed, the home conversion administration has applied to the wartime prices and trade board to have rentals fixed. A hearing will be held, and 63260-337J
tenants whose rents were fixed before the conversion took place will have the opportunity of making representations before new rentals are fixed.


Hon. J. J. McCANN (Minister of National Revenue) moved the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the senate to bill No. 370, to amend the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940.
I just received a copy'of the senate amendments. I wish the minister would explain the effect of these amendments, because I have not been able to get a copy of the original bill. I am not sure what the amendments amount to.


I must admit that I am not in a position to give the necessary information. The minister is not here to-day, and I do not think the parliamentary assistant should be required to make the explanation. I wonder whether this motion could be allowed to stand until the minister returns.


If I could get the original bill I might be able to find out what it is all about. I do not think we should be asked to pass these amendments without knowing what they mean.


Votes and Proceedings gives the explanations.
Motion stands.


Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Acting Prime Minister) moved the second reading of bill No. 253, to amend the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945.
He said: On July 5 of this year the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) in a statement to the house indicated that a committee of officers of the Department of Justice and other departments had under close and continuous scrutiny the orders in council which derive their authority from the War Measures Act and of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945. The purpose of this scrutiny is to reduce to a minimum the num-
Emergency Powers
ber of such orders in actual operation. Each of these orders has been carefully considered with the departments more directly concerned. Appropriate action has been recommended to secure the elimination of all orders which are no longer essential to ensure an orderly transition from war to peace.
In his statement the Prime Minister divided existing orders into several categories, and gave the number of each. These figures represent the situation which obtained at the time they were compiled, as the committee continued its analysis and action was taken on its recommendation. The volume of orders in council appearing in each classification naturally varies. On July 5 the Prime Minister referred to a total of 7,103 orders under emergency powers. Since that time the committee has reviewed twelve more orders in council, while a further seventy-two orders in council have been passed under the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act and tabled in the house, of which twenty-six merely revoke other orders in council, but those have not yet been reviewed and included in the tabulation. Accordingly the total number of orders in council passed pursuant to the emergency powers to August 15 was 7,187. There was one passed on Saturday which was tabled here. It is of course difficult to have these tabulations right up to the minute. Of this number 4,207 have been revoked, have expired or are spent. This means that 102 have ceased to have effect since July 5. Some twenty-six orders are in process of being revoked immediately. Some 616 are to be allowed to expire with the expiry of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1946. It is considered that one hundred orders can be reenacted under the authority of existing statutes not of an emergency character. To this end departmental officials are at present taking the necessary action.
The outstanding treasury board minutes under the emergency powers authorizing war duty supplements for government employees now number 1,531. These have been considered and placed in three categories: those granted for special duties which have now come to an end, and the war duties supplements will also come to an end. Then there are those in respect to which special duties for which the supplement was originally granted will continue indefinitely. In this case the civil service commission is being asked to examine each individual case and make appropriate recommendations as to what change in classification the civil servant concerned should receive.
Then there are supplements about which some doubt existed as to whether the special

duties involved can be definitely or finally classified as apt to continue indefinitely. Each one of these is receiving separate consideration. All these will be dealt with, and I may say at once with respect to this whole matter that some five or six weeks ago instructions were sent to each department to examine every one of the orders and to have ready for consideration not later than the end of this year bills for- legislation wherever the government might feel it would be proper to recommend legislation to parliament to take the place of the emergency power.
The remaining orders in council are those which the Prime Minister indicated as constituting the real body of the government's existing emergency power. They number 709. Of this number approximately 225 have been in substance placed before the house during the present session in the form of draft legislation relating to such subjects as war crimes, unemployment insurance, reinstatement in civil employment of discharged members of the forces, control of atomic energy, control of explosives, air and navy cadets, control of narcotics, compensation to veteran airmen, and then the large body of orders in council which were dealt with by the veterans affairs committee and which provided for the demobilization and rehabilitation of members of the armed forces. The remaining 484 orders in council are the measures which may continue to be classed as emergency powers at the close of this session. This total includes orders in council which merely amend other orders appearing in the group. The subject matter was outlined in general terms to the house by the Prime Minister in his statement of July 5. As he then indicated, while world conditions remain critical it is not possible to state for what periods of time each of the powers conferred by this group of orders in council may be required. In some cases statutory authority may have to be sought at the next session.
As I have indicated to the house, these orders in council are under constant review and will be dispensed with at the earliest opportunity compatible with the national welfare. I do not know whether the house would wish to have tabled the classifications that have been made. There are quite lengthy lists of the numbers of the orders, their date, and a sort of summary statement of what they deal with. First, there is the list of the twenty-six .of which the repeal is being arranged immediately or is in process of taking place. Then- there is a list of 225 which it is felt can be disposed of en bloc as having been provided for by legislation enacted by parliament at this session. Then there is a list of 100 which

Emergency Powers
the interdepartmental committee, presided, over by the Solicitor General, are recommending to be reenacted under other powers existing in general statute to the end sought. They are regulations which can be continued under powers that existed prior to the coming into operation of the War Measures Act, and the recomimendation. there is that they be taken out of that category and each placed under the general statute to which it properly appertains. Then there are 268 of another category. That appears to be a large number, but there are very many of them-which are just amendments of other orders and with respect to which there will have to be a recommendation by the government to parliament at the next session to enact legislation. They are the orders relating to the labour code; the wartime prices and trade board; rent control; the control exercised over cereals or other food products with respect to which the government of Canada has entered into contracts with other governments. They exist by virtue of the powers resulting either from the War Measures Act or from the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, but they will be required beyond the period when the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act will normally expire; and it is with respect to those that, the Prime Minister made the statement, which I understood at the time met with the pretty general approval of the house, that the government would ask to have the term of fifteen days after the opening of the next session extended to sixty days so that they could be dealt with by parliament at the opening of the next session instead of having to be dealt with at this session.
If I have the permission of the house I will table, without asking to have it included in Hansard, two copies of these lists, so that any hon. member who may wish to consult them will have an opportunity of doing so. Without going into the merits of emergency powers or anything of a controversial nature, I will submit without further argument that it would be in the interests of dispatch to have the amendment provided for by this bill, extending from fifteen to sixty days the duration of emergency powers after parliament meets at its next session, passed at this time so that it will not be necessary to have additional legislation to deal with these matters at this session.
There is this other consideration. At this time, if we were not to have this extension, we would have to provide for all possible contingencies and would have to ask parliament. to adopt more legislation than is apt to be required at the time parliament meets again I wish to remind hon. members that
the Prime Minister stated positively that it was the intention of the government at that time, and it still is, to have parliament meet towards the end of January, 1947, for the next session. We are conscious of the fact that hon. members made that quasi-undertaking a condition of the position they took when the Prime Minister announced in July that there would be this request to extend the duration of emergency powers until sixty days after the next session opens. I would therefore hope that at this time it will be the pleasure of the house to adopt this amendment and leave us under the existing impression that we have to do our best to get rid of this wartime legislation just as quickly as it is compatible with orderly reconversion to do so.
I rise on this occasion not to comment on the administration of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act., but rather to state our position with respect to the bill now before us. As hon. members know, a year ago when this measure was brought in here we objected to it very strongly. We are still as much opposed to it as we were then; and if this measure were a measure to extend the duration of this act we would oppose it as strongly now as we did then. As the minister has indicated, if the house should meet in the middle of March next year this measure under the existing statute would terminate at the end of March. Under the new bill it would terminate at the end of March if the house met in January. The measure gives the governor in council power to do by order in council what ordinarily would be done by this parliament. That is the reason we objected to it. There was some intimation when the question was raised in June or July of this year that if there was an undertaking that the house would meet in January rather than in March there would not be strong objection taken to the measure. The reason for that was this. If we meet in January and the act continues in force until sixty days after the house meets, the act will be no longer in force than if the house met in the middle of March with the act continued in force for fifteen days as now provided Under these circumstances we did not object and are not now objecting to the bill.
But when we reach committee stage I am going to offer an amendment, which I think the government can accept, because it does not alter the spirit of the amendment moved by the minister. I see no reason why a measure of this kind should be tied to a movable date. Why should we say that this
Emergency Powers

measure remain in existence for fifteen days after the house meets when we do not know when the house will meet? The amendment I shall propose at that time will be this:
To add after the word "forty-seven" in line 14 the following words:
"or on the thirty-first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven, whichever date is the earlier."
The clause would then read as follows:
(1) Subject as hereinafter provided, this act shall expire on the thirty-first day of December, one thousand nine hundred and forty-six, if parliament meets during November or December, one thousand nine hundred and forty-six, but if parliament does not so meet it shall expire on the sixtieth day after parliament first meets during the year one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven, or on the thirty-first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven, whichever date is the earlier.
That amendment does not alter the stated intention of the government, but it does fix a definite date of termination of this measure if the house should not meet in January.
In passing let me say I sincerely trust that, on other grounds as well as on this, the government will plan to see that the house meets next year not later than January.


Mr. Speaker, I think we are all agreed as to the necessity of some such amendment to this act as that proposed by this bill, but there are two comments which I want to make.
First of all, I am very sorry that this legislation is the occasion, as indicated by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) on July 12, for the postponement of any dealing with old age pension legislation in this session. We had been given to understand that there would be such legislation, but later on, on the date indicated, the Prime Minister made it clear to us that by virtue of this act the decision had been made not to introduce such legislation this year but rather to bring it down next year. I am sorry that that is the case. I earnestly plead with the government that there be no further delay than the earlier part of the next session in the bringing down of old age pension legislation, and I hope that when it is brought down it will be adequate.
The other matter about which I should like to say a word is this. I feel the government has been exercising authority by order in council for so long and in so many cases that at times it gets a bit slipshod in its use of that power. I must register my protest against an action which was taken a short while ago, which we managed to get hold of by questions in the house. On Saturday, August 17, we were discussing with the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply (Mr. Howe) certain
'Mr. Bracken.]
matters relating to the Aeronautics Act. I asked about the implementation of a certain section of that act, and I was told by the minister in definite language, as recorded on page 5002 of Hansard, that the section of the act had been changed by order in council. I indicated that I had not heard of that particular order in council, but I was assured that it had been tabled. Well, even at that procedure I was annoyed, because it seemed to me that the provision in the act as passed by this parliament in 1944 was very definite, and that the government was exercising pretty wide use of its powers under order in council to change a significant and important section in an act of parliament. But my concern for that procedure led me to try to get hold of a copy of the order in council. That effort was in vain. I was informed in due course in the privy council office that there was no such order in council. Accordingly, I raised the matter in the house on the orders of the day on Tuesday, August 20, as recorded in Hansard at page 5077. I asked on that 'day for the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply to indicate the number and date of the order in council. He replied to me:
My legal department calls my attention to the fact that there was no order in council.
I asked under what authority this matter had been dealt with, and was told by the minister that it was done by a cabinet decision arrived at on February 16 last. Now, Mr. Speaker, I ask the Minister of Justice to follow this pretty closely. I grant that maybe it was a slip and perhaps the government should be pardoned a little bit for an error now and then, in face of the tremendous amount of business it has to do. But when a cabinet, merely by a decision it makes within the four walls of a cabinet meeting, changes an act of parliament without even going to the bother of getting an order in council, it does become serious.
I have done a little studying of this matter in "The Law and Custom of the Constitution", by A. V. Dicey. But for the fact that I do not want to take much time I could read from that book, with which I am sure the Minister of Justice is familiar, the comments on this whole practice of royal proclamations and legislative action by the executive. The thing which interests me is the opposition there has been to orders in council down through the years of British parliamentary history; and when you get to the end, this at least is clear, that there are recognized only two methods of legislation: one, which is frowned upon, orders in council; the other, acts of parliament. There is no provision for legislation by cabinet decision. Yet the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply told me

Emergency Powers
that this change in an act of parliament was made by a cabinet decision arrived at on February 16 last. If I understand correctly, the minutes of the cabinet meetings are not kept, at least are not made available to the public. My information is that decisions of the cabinet, of the government, have effect and force only when they become orders in council made by the governor general in council on the recommendation of the cabinet or a minister thereof. The Minister of Reconstruction and Supply read from a decision arrived at by the cabinet. This was the decision, according to the minister:
The cabinet, after discussion, agreed that the time limit for separation of control of air services from that of railways be extended for another year, i.e., until two years after the end of the European war.
I am not discussing the issue itself, the actual decision changing one year to two years, but the whole principle of this kind of change being made in this instance not by order in council but by a cabinet decision. I quote further from Hansard at page 5077:
Mr. Knowles:	I rise to a question of privilege. The section of the act says that it must be done by the governor in council. There was no order in council, and therefore I suggest that the act has been violated.
Mr. Mackenzie:	It does not have to be under
an order in council; the government decides in council.
In other words this was not just a slip on the part of the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply; the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Mackenzie), the leader of the house at the present time, concurred in the practice. I continue quoting from Hansard'.
Mr. Coldwell:	Without the authority of parliament? May I ask the Minister of Reeon-strucion, or the leader of the house, if either of these gentlemen means to imply that the government has authority to do what is not authorized by this house or by statute?
Mr. Mackenzie:	The government of the Dominion of Canada is a responsible body, responsible to parliament and responsible by answering questions on the floor of the house, and whether there is an order in council or not the government can take action and answer to parliament accordingly.
Mr. Knowles:	That is not the way the act
reads.
I should have said, "that ain't the way I hear'd it." It does seem to me that even if this is only a slip, and even if it has been taken care of in some other way since it was brought to the attention of the government as was done on that occasion, I should be remiss in my duty if I did not make this further comment, that the government should be very careful under their powers to legislate by order in council, and certainly that this kind of thing should not happen again. It
leaves me with the question of whether or not it has happened in other instances. It was by pure accident that I found this out, by pressing the minister for the information about that order in council which he told me had been passed; and my interest in it, as I have already said, led me to try to get a copy of the order in council. This was the result. I suggest to the government that they should be very careful in the exercise of powers through the medium of order in council. This kind of thing certainly must not take place; there is no provision for it whatever; and even when they do things by order in council I suggest they should be very careful not to go beyond the intent of parliament in the legislation that is passed by this house.


I want to add my protest to that of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles). I believe every citizen of Canada should be fully informed of what is happening here to-day, when this type of thing can take place. Surely it is the duty of every member of parliament to act as custodian of the freedom of the people, and to see that the democratic procedures of government are followed. Members of parliament are sent here as representatives of the people. We pass the laws. The act to which the hon. member refers does not contain any provision under which it may be altered by order in council. There is a right to enact regulations by order in council, but there is no right to change acts. Here we have an act actually changed, not even by an order in council but, as the minister has said, by the cabinet discussing the matter and agreeing that the time limit for separation of control of air services from that of railways be extended for another year, that is, until two years after the war.
I want to know whether the Minister of Justice (Mr. St. Laurent) condones that sort of thing, and what the other members of the cabinet think about what was done in this case. The minister himself will be expected, when he comes before this house, to explain why he informed hon. members that an order in council had been passed, as he did on August 17, at page 5002 of Hansard'.
The effective date of this legislation has been advanced by order in council passed under the emergency powers act.
Then the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre said:
I suppose that order in council was tabled?
Mr. Howe:	Yes; all orders in council passed
under the emergency powers act are tabled.
Emergency Powers

But there was no such order in council, so naturally it was never tabled. I can remember that in 1935 and during previous election campaigns the Prime Minister went from coast to coast telling the people about order in council government. We learned something about democracy in those days; still we have this sort of thing happening in Canada. Every member of parliament should be alert and on guard, watching what is going on. Is this type of thing to be condoned in Canada? I shall have something more to say when we get into committee.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to make one brief comment. I believe the question raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) is of far-reaching importance, and I for one hope that the Minister of Justice (Mr. St. Laurent), whose opinion would carry great weight both in this house and throughout the country, will not let this debate conclude without saying something on the point, particularly in reference to the statement of the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Mackenzie) which to me, though I am not a constitutional expert, certainly did seem an interesting and extraordinary proposition.
Mr. SOLON E. LOW (Peace River): Mr. Speaker, the incident which has been brought before the house by hon. gentlemen to my right emphasizes one of the grave dangers inherent in government by order in council, and indicates that the sooner we can get rid of the emergency powers act the better it will be for government in Canada. Before the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) left for Europe he had a chat with some of us, and on behalf of this group I agreed that if he would call the 1947 session as early as possible in January we would support the amendment to the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, which is now before us. I am going to stand by the agreement I made at that time; aS I say, I gave the undertaking that we would support it, on that one condition. However, I did like the amendment suggested by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bracken); I do believe it is a safeguard, and when the minister speaks I should like him to indicate whether the government will be prepared to accept such an amendment, because my own feeling is that I should support it.


I want to say just one word. I think the matter which has been brought to the attention of the house by the hon. member for Winnipeg

North Centre (Mr. Knowles) is something regrettable, if the facts are exactly as he stated them to be. I hope the minister will be able to give a satisfactory explanation to the house. Personally I am not prepared at the present time to give up all controls which the government now holds. I supported the extension of these controlling powers some time ago, and I will still support them until such time at it may be proper to remove them. I am not sure that we shall ever remove all of them. I hope not, because I think somebody has to control something some time in order that we may go somewhere instead of nowhere.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: Mr. Speaker-


I must inform the house that if the minister speaks now, he will close the debate.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: With respect to the suggestion of the leader of the opposition as to an amendment, may I refer hon. members to page 3157 of Hansard of July 5, 1946, where the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) made this statement:
I believe it would be meeting the wishes of hon. members generally if I were to give an immediate undertaking that, unless something unforeseen may occasion us to call parliament sooner than the time I am going to mention, or something occur which might render it desirable to take an extra week or two before calling parliament, parliament will be called before the end of January, probably the last week in January.
The implementing of that undertaking would have the same effect as the amendment suggested by the leader of the opposition. I will not oppose the addition of that amendment to the bill, although it does seem to me that it is perhaps unnecessary in view of the categorical statement made on July 5 by the Prime Minister.


In the statement the minister has read there is mention of "something unforeseen" happening. It is just to cover those unforeseen things that I advanced my amendment.
Mr. ST. LAL'RENT: If something unforeseen did happen and it became impossible to have parliament meet and deal with the existing situation, a pretty chaotic condition might arise. I am not going to take the responsibility of dividing the house upon it, but I do wish hon. members to realize that there has been as positive an undertaking as any responsible Prime Minister could give, subject of course to unforeseen conditions. We know in recent years that unforeseen happenings do occur. If the house feels that it should take

Emergency Powers
the responsibility of making this terminate on March 31, even though there should be unforeseen conditions that might make it impracticable to have the house meet as stated by the Prime Minister, I shall not ask the house to divide on such an amendment. But I do suggest that the possible disadvantages appear to outweigh the possible advantages of having that addition made.
I wish to tender my sincere thanks to the bon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) for the reasonable and understanding way in which he has made his suggestion. I have not had an opportunity of going into this matter in detail, but there is no doubt that there cannot be any amendment of legislation by a decision of the cabinet. My understanding was that the decision of the cabinet was to refrain from taking any action, but there will have to be by regular constitutional methods an amendment made to the legislation. I have not had an opportunity of examining the statute in question in order to express an opinion as to how that legislative change could be made. Section 14 of the act reads:
Every licence issued under part III of the Transport Act, 1938, or under part VII of the air regulations, 1938, prior to and in force at the time of the coming into force of this part shall be deemed to be a licence issued under section twelve of this act, but every such licence if not cancelled or suspended by the board under section thirteen of this act, shall cease to be valid one year after the termination, as fixed by order in council, of the war in Europe which commenced on the tenth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
There has not yet been any date fixed by order in council as the date of termination of the war which commenced on September 10, 1939. There has been for the purposes of the War Measures Act an enactment by parliament that the War Measures Act would come to an end when the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act came into force. My understanding was that the decision of cabinet was merely a decision that it would not take steps to force the railway companies to divest themselves of licences for air transport. There was no attempt made to modify the legislation; it was merely a decision as to what conduct would be adopted by the department. All hon. members who have spoken about this are quite right in saying that there cannot be amendments of legislation except by parliament or when parliament has so authorized by order in council. '


The minister told the house that as he understood it the effective date of section 14, which you have just read, was May, 1946. The minister stated that 63260-338
an order in council had been passed, and it was when that order in council was not available that he told us this decision had been taken by cabinet. I do not wish to press the matter a great deal further, because I am glad to have on the record the opinion of the Minister of Justice that such action certainly was not in order if it was taken in that way.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: As I said before, I am glad that the hon. member has used the language he has in commenting upon it.


Don't do it again, or the language will be tougher.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: Hon. members know that we have all been under tremendous pressure; when a question is raised in the house without notice one replies according to what his impression of the facts may be at that time and it can happen that that impression may not be strictly accurate. With respect to the question of law, there is no doubt that no amendment can be made by a decision of the cabinet unless parliament states that it shall be made in that way. I do not know of any legislation under which parliament has so stated. The conduct of the administration in carrying out the legislation of parliament is conduct about which decisions of cabinet are frequently made and with respect to which the administration is responsible to this house. I am sure that is what was meant by the Minister of Ve