Mr. HUGHES CLEAVER (Halton) moved that the fourth report of the standing committee on banking and commerce, presented on Wednesday, July 3, be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
1.	What was the rate of war risk bonus paid to seamen on Park Steamships operations?
2.	Who authorized this payment?
3.	From what fund was it paid?


1.	Who are the chief officers of the physical fitness branch of the Department of Public Health (a) stationed at Ottawa; (b) elsewhere?
2.	In what theatre of war did the deputy head of the department and his chief officer in each of the provinces serve?
3.	What is the salary of the deputy and what were his travelling expenses for the last year of record?
4.	Have any of the provinces so far refused to adopt this programme? If so, what provinces?


1.	(a) Ian Eisenhardt, national director of physical fitness; S. B. Carey, technical assistant to the national director of physical fitness; (b) Nil.
2.	Ian Eisenhardt-
1940-	41-Enlisted in the Canadian army; served on Pacific coast; commissioned as second lieutenant, First Battalion Irish Fusiliers, Vancouver Regiment; promoted to first lieutenant.
1942-	43-Promoted to acting captain; seconded to National Selective Service and placed in charge of developing wartime sports and recreation in Canada for war workers and their families.
1943-	44-Canadian army sports officer, National Defence Headquarters, Ottawa with rank of acting major.
June 1944-Granted indefinite leave of absence to assume the post of national director of physical fitness, Department of Pensions and National Health.
5.	B. Carey-
1939-Enlisted in Canadian army chaplain service.
1941-	Reposted to ship conducting staff- Atlantic ocean and England.
1942-	Reposted as auxiliary services officer, Labrador.
1943-	Reposted National Defence headquarters, Ottawa (administrative duties).
Nov. 1943-Assistant to Canadian army sports officer, National Defence headquarters, Ottawa.

Discharged, as from chaplain service, with rank of captain.
3.	Salary S5.000. Travelling expenses for 1945-46-S3.749.23.
4.	Ontario, Quebec and New Brunswick have not yet signed agreements with the dominion government.
fMr. Mcllraith.]


1.	(a) What was the quantity and value of
Indian corn imported into Canada in each of the years 1941-5, inclusive, and in 1946 to the latest date for which figures are available; (b) how were these annual totals broken down among the countries from which Indian corn was imported?	_	.	.
2.	(a) What rates of subsidy were paid in Canada on such Indian corn during the said period; (b) what was the total amount paid by way of such subsidies during each of the years aforesaid?
3.	What is the basic price of such imported corn effective on and after May 20, 1946?
4.	What quantities of corn from Argentina
have been purchased for delivery in Canada in 1946, and what subsidy payments have been made or arranged thereon by commodity prices stabilization corporation and/or wartime prices and trade board, and what is the rate of such subsidies?	.	.
5.	Has the dominion bureau of statistics discontinued publication of its monthly report "The Grain Situation in Argentina?" If so, when and for what reason?


1.	What are the names, ages, nature of duties, rates of remuneration and qualifications of each employee, in Regina, of the Family Allowance Branch, Department of National Health and Welfare during June, 1946?
2.	Which of the above employees are (a) permanent; (b) temporary; (c) casual employees; (d) war veterans?
3.	On what dates did each of the permanent
and temporary employees above listed qualify for appointment?	_
4.	Is the Department of National Health contributing to old age pension or paying childrens' allowance to any of these employees? If so, what are their names?


Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Minister of Justice) moved that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to amend the Exchequer Court Act to increase the number of puisne judges of the court from two to three, and also to present a measure to consolidate and amend the Judges Act to include provision for the appointment, tenure of office and duties of the judges of the dominion and provincial courts, fixing judges salaries and providing for the payment of salaries, and for the payment of increased salaries, travelling allowances and annuities to judges and annuities to their wives and widows in certain cases and subject to conditions therein set out.

Unemployment Insurance
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Will he inform the house what steps are being taken and what progress is being made by the united nations economic and social council by way of preparation for the prospective world trade conference; and, when he is answering the question, will he say whether there is any possibility that the conference will be convened this year?


I have had no notice of the question, and I am not sure that it is properly directed to the Minister of Trade and Commerce; but I shall confer with the Prime Minister and see what answer can be given.


May I point out that I delivered notice of the question to the minister's office at two o'clock to-day or thereabouts. Perhaps there has been some mishap.


The cabinet was in session up to half past two to-day, and that may be the reason for my not receiving it.


Perhaps the minister or the appropriate member of the cabinet will take the question as notice and have it answered to-morrow.


"journal" OF JULY 3
On the orders of the day:
On a question of privilege, I wish to refer to an article that appeared in last night's Ottawa Journal, to the effect that Mrs. Fred Rose had conferred with a number of members of parliament in an effort to end the isolation of her husband in a Montreal gaol. In this article she is quoted as follows:
I believe I can say that all the members of parliament with whom I have talked have expressed themselves as against this policy of isolation . . .
I feel, Mr. Speaker, that this is a reflection on many of the members of this house, and
I want it distinctly understood that I was not one of those interviewed.
In this connection I should like to ask the Prime Minister if he can say when the seat for the riding of Montreal-Cartier will be declared vacant.


Until the pending appeal has been heard and a report of a conviction made to His Honour the Speaker from the court, the seat will not be declared vacant. Further consideration will be given the matter after the final decision of the court.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of Finance whether he has taken occasion to look into the cause of the cement shortage in southwestern Alberta? The other day I asked whether he would be good enough to do so. That there should be a shortage of cement in Canada is something which it is beyond my power to understand.


I did look into the matter, and I intended to write to my hon. friend. When he asked the question I said I thought it was hardly a proper question to be answered before the orders of the day. However, the information that I have received is that there is no greater shortage in that part of the country than there is elsewhere, and the shortage is due to the heavy demand.


Hon. HUMPHREY MITCHELL (Minister of Labour) moved the second reading of bill No. 243, to amend the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1940.
Speaking to the amendment which is now proposed to the Unemployment Insurance Act, I should say at the outset that for the most part, so far as one has been able to understand this very long bill in the short time at our disposal, the changes are very welcome indeed, and a revision of the act in the light of the past five years' experience is timely.
I was glad to note, when I read the report of the debate on this bill in the other place that the advisory committee is now looking
Unemployment Insurance

into the possibility of making some increases in the benefits payable under the act to unemployed persons with dependents. This is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. But since I understand that the scope of the investigation of the advisory committee went only so far as to permit consideration of what increases could be actuarially made without any increase in the rates payable under the act, I should not imagine that any such increases could be substantial. The disappointing thing about the amendment is that neither in the bill itself nor in the statement made by the minister is any hope held out that consideration will be given to making some fairly satisfactory increase in the benefits, if necessary by the increase of the rates payable; because of course this fund must be on an actuarial basis.
Now that we have come through the first year or so of peace, and for the first time use is being made of the benefits under the act b,v a substantial number of persons, there is general realization in the country that these benefits do necessitate a steep drop in income from the moment a person becomes unemployed. Take for instance the two top classes. A person earning from $80 to $100 a month, upon becoming unemployed, is reduced to between $48 and $54, and if he is in class 7 earning over $100 a month he gets not less than $57.60 and not more than $62.50 a month provided he has a dependent. Hon. members will realize that if one takes say $25 a month out of that amount for rent, which I believe is a reasonably conservative estimate for that item, there is not much elbow-room left for the unemployed person. It is perfectly obvious that if this scheme is to be successful it must be maintained on an actuarial basis; therefore, the benefit cannot be increased unless the government itself is prepared to make a greater contribution without an increase in rates.
I hope that consideration is also being given by the advisory committee and by the minister to the possibility of increasing the benefits, particularly to married persons, substantially above the sum of $14.40 a week, which is the maximum possible, even though it might mean some increase in the rates payable. I hope that some scheme can be worked out under which these increased rates would not bear too heavily on a person while in employment. Naturally all these matters have to be taken into consideration by the experts on the commission, but it struck me that if it were possible to pay a higher benefit for the first month, let us say, after a person becomes unemployed, the shock of the drop from his [Mr. Merritt. 1
full earning rate to the unemployment insurance rate might be lessened. In my opinion, in that first month will fall the extra expenses, the back bills that have not been paid, and during that interval time would be given the unemployed person to turn around so that if he is going to remain unemployed more than a month he at least would have a better opportunity to adjust himself to the new conditions.
From a Gallup poll which was taken last November it w'ould appear that there is a general feeling among the lower-paid wmrkers across Canada that the maximum rate of benefit for a person with dependents is too little. It must be obvious that with costs rising as they are to-day, $14.40 is not enough to keep a family in a bare state of maintenance. But any scheme for increasing rates would require an increase in the rates payable. The other way to bring increased benefits on an actuarial basis is for those who have the custody of the fund to reserve it strictly for those for whom no suitable employment exists. If we can be sure that benefits are paid out only where no proper work is available for the applicant, then over the course of some years-and perhaps not so many-I am sure that the factor of safety, which the actuaries must have applied, could be modified and some increases granted without raising the rates payable.	[DOT]
I agree with the minister when he said yesterday that suitable employment is a difficult thing to define and must be considered in each case. Even then I am sure it is not easy. But all the efforts of those concerned with this act must now be directed toward an increase of the benefits which are payable, so that they may reach a level which will, if possible, enable an unemployed person to pull in his horns and save himself from going deeply in debt. At the present time I am sure that a person who was unemployed for a long period would be bound to go into debt or to draw heavily on the amount that he may have saved.
As to prevention of depletion of the fund, I should like to call the attention of the house to some of the figures given, in the debate in the other place, with respect to payments into the fund since its inception and the benefits which have been paid up to the present time. The figures show that up to 1945 substantial payments were made into the fund and the payment of benefits was quite negligible. As a result the fund built itself up to the good position in which it finds itself now, with more than $300 million to its credit. But in 1945 there was a substantial increase in the benefits paid

Unemployment Insurance
out consequent upon the unemployment after the end of hostilities. If I recollect rightly the benefits paid out in 1945 amounted to about $14 million, or 17-5 per cent of the revenue of the fund for that year. That figure may be, and probably is, a bearable figure now, but for the first three months of 1946 one finds that over ninety per cent of the amounts paid into the fund were paid out in benefits to unemployed persons. We have a considerable amount of unemployment in the country at the present time. On May 3 I believe 210,000 people were unemployed, and that, of course, is too many. I do not think it can be denied that on occasions in the future this fund will be called upon to bear much heavier burdens than the amount paid out so far. Therefore the payment out of more than ninety per cent of the amounts paid in in the first three months is not a fact that one can quickly brush aside. I hope, and I know, that the minister is taking that into consideration and will project forward what will happen to the fund if such rates of payment are kept up.
When the minister made his statement yesterday he said the unemployment services which are set up under the bill will come under his immediate direction, whereas the operation of the fund itself remains entirely under the unemployment insurance commission. I believe it is proper that that should be so. I agree that he must have direct power in respect of the unemployment services. If the fund is to be kept on an actuarial and sound basis there is much point in its being handled by the unemployment commission, and not being subject to the dayJby-day direction of the department administering the unemployment services.
I mention the question of suitable employment because it is there that a raid can be made upon the fund. If the time should ever come when persons would be kept on unemployment insurance when suitable jobs were available, then the fund could be quickly depleted. That would do great harm to those who are paying into it, and to those with bona fide cases of actual need, who are the persons for whom the fund was set up.
Although the minister has said that there are insurance officers in every district to handle these applicants, I did not gather whether they were officers of the unemployment insurance commission or of the Department of Labour, responsible to the minister; whether they took from the minister or from the commission itself the directions given to them for their guidance in deciding what is suitable employment. I hope he will make that point clear when he speaks in this debate.
What I have been saying is given strong support by a statement in the Ottawa Journal of recent date in which the deputy minister of labour is reported to have said with respect to the need for finding agricultural workers:
"We can place ten thousand workers on the land" said Mr. Mac Nam a ra, "and the bulk of those men with farm experience are now beginning to accept the inevitable in going to work."
Later, though this is not a direct quotation, the report states:
It had been the policy of the unemployment insurance commission "for some weeks" to cut off their benefits in cases where men refused work for which they were qualified.
That report gives rise to the question whether the unemployment insurance fund has been too liberally administered, and used in a way which ultimately would work against the people who now or in the future might have very real need for its assistance; and whether such a liberal policy could work against the possibility of an increase in the benefits payable without an increase in the rates as well. Certainly while I should be the last to wish to see the regulations or the act enforced in such a way as to harm anyone who finds himself out of work, I think the need to take care of the unemployed who have dependents must outweigh any notions of excessive liberality; and the quotations I have just read would lead one to believe that people who heretofore could have gone to work but did not wish to "accept the inevitable" have not been required so to do. Indeed in the second quotation the actual words "refused work" appear. So I hope the minister will make a further statement on this matter of suitable employment, and indicate whether or not it is within his power, or the power of the unemployment insurance commission, or both, to determine what is suitable employment at any particular time, whether these insurance officers come under the commission or under the minister or under both, and what authority issues to them their instructions.
Again, it seems to me very important to have an understanding of what is meant -by "a reasonable time" in section 31, dealing with the entitlement to continuing benefit after being on the roll for some time, there being no suitable work of the kind to which a person has been accustomed. After a reasonable time one must accept employment of some other type for which one is fitted; and I think the construction of that word might be explained with some benefit. I want to emphasize that my remarks on this point are made in the desire to see the benefits increased, particularly to those with dependents, and are
Unemployment Insurance

in no way offered in criticism of persons who may be on the unemployment insurance rolls at the present time.
There are only two other points I should like to mention. I thoroughly approve the establishment of the employment service under the arrangements the minister has described. I see this service has certain powers and duties in regard to the investigation of working conditions and opportunities for work, which will enable it better to carry out its functions. I want to offer one suggestion to the minister. The employment service, which of necessity will be closely concerned with examining employment opportunities in all parts of Canada, to my mind will have a great opportunity to assemble data and perhaps come to conclusions in regard to the improvement of working conditions in various parts of Canada. I refer particularly to the possibility of providing better housing accommodation and greater opportunities for the construction of houses in mining and logging camps which are far removed from towns and cities. It seems to me that good housing in our mining and logging camps, and indeed on farms and throughout the country, is a wonderful way of adding to good labour-management relations and to promote industrial peace instead of industrial unrest. The improvement of conditions in that respect, of course, would be a way of keeping up production, maintaining employment and relieving the burden on the employment service itself.
Suitable housing in these places, which when you come right down to it are the places where we produce our natural wealth, would kill two birds with one stone. It would enable men to be united with their families on the job and take them off the unemployment insurance rolls, because men are much more willing to travel to another place of employment if they are able to take their families with them; and moving a family out of a congested city area would free additional housing accommodation at that point, where housing accommodation is most critically short. So without going into it further I feel that this employment service could well work closely with the department responsible for housing in devising some amendment to the National Housing Act which would make funds more readily available for the construction of housing accommodation in these outlying places, thus contributing to the work of both the Department of Labour and the Department of Reconstruction.
The other matter about which I should like the minister to tell us something when he speaks is unemployment as related to the

Unemployment Insurance Act. According to the last word of the department, as at May 30 there were in Canada 210,000 people unemployed, while at the same time there were 115,000 opportunities for employment. In order that we may see the relationship of these figures to the unemployment insurance fund I hope the minister will be able to tell us how many are receiving unemployment insurance at the present time, and how many of them have been on the unemployment insurance rolls for more than three months.
That is about all I wish to say on the motion for second reading.


Did the hon. member ask for the number of those in receipt of unemployment insurance for three months?


Yes. That period of three months, which I mentioned, was one chosen at random. Perhaps information for one, two and three months might be useful to hon. members.
Without making any pretence of having digested the bill in full, let me say in conclusion that I welcome the extension of the benefits to veterans and to those in the lumber industry. I hope the minister will not wait too long before bringing within the operation of this useful act some other classes in the community.


Mr. Speaker, the measure before the house is worthy of commendation. There is one matter to which I would draw the minister's attention, and to which I believe he will have to give consideration as the years go by. In my view the principle of contributions on the part of employers and employees is not a sound principle upon which to enter the future. I suggest the minister should gradually and progressively eliminate contributions required from both employers and employees.
Employees' contributions decrease purchasing power among the people, which is exactly where we want the purchasing power to be. Contributions by employers tend to increase prices to consumers, which is exactly what we do not want, because it has a tendency toward inflation. Contributions by the government from moneys raised by taxation, the means by which money now being used for this purpose is obtained, also decreases purchasing power by taking it away from the people throughout the country, which is exactly where the purchasing power ought to be. It also tends to increase prices, which again is a means of producing inflation.
In his customary fashion the minister will be inclined to laugh off the suggestion that the government should make contributions,

Unemployment Insurance
and should make them with debt-free money, money which is created debt free in accordance with the surplus production of the country in goods and services. As the minister grows in wisdom and understanding he will be less inclined to laugh off that suggestion. He will come to realize that it is the principle upon which the future must be based.


Mr. Speaker, the bill before us, to amend the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1940, is a voluminous document, although there is in it no outstanding new principle. I should like however to make a suggestion to the minister which I hope he will see fit to accept. My suggestion is that after second reading the bill be referred to the standing committee on industrial relations. I shall attempt to give the reasons why I believe that suggestion to be a wise one.
The Unemployment Insurance Act is a relatively new statute, having come into effect on July 1. 1941, so it has been in operation only five years. It affects a large proportion of the population. I believe the minister said vesterday it applied to approximately one-fifth-


I said fifty per cent of the population.


Yes, fifty per cent of the population, and perhaps one-fifth or more of the adult population. It affects employers of labour as well as employees.
Until a year ago there was very little unemployment in the country, and relatively few claims for unemployment insurance. Consequently there had been few complaints as to the operation, or perhaps I should say the administration, of the Unemployment Insurance Act. Since a year ago, however, unemployment has increased to fairly large proportions, with the result that claims have increased in proportion. There have been many complaints about the administration of the act. I am sure the minister knows that better than any other hon. member. Some of these complaints arise because of a general misunderstanding of the purpose of the act. Others arise from faults in administration which I shall not criticize at this time but to which I shall refer.
Many of the communications I receive from people who find fault with the administration of unemployment insurance benefits indicate that because they have contributed to the fund they are therefore entitled to benefit from it under almost any circumstances which may separate them from their employment. They feel that when they are
ill they are unemployed, and that consequently it is illogical that they should be refused the benefits of unemployment insurance while they are ill, but granted them if they are unemployed and well. They believe also that if they retire from industry and have not drawn benefits from their contributions, the contributions should be returned to them. These complaints arise from a misunderstanding of the purpose of the act, a misunderstanding which can be overcome only through education of both employers and workers.
Unemployment insurance is a means of sharing the risks of unemployment. Workers in the sheltered trades share the risks with the workers in the unsheltered trades. Employers and the government, through their contributions, also share the risks. Workers and employers pay directly into the fund, while the people as a whole pay indirectly by means of the government's contributions.
I listened with interest to the points raised by the hon. member for Vaneouver-Burrard (Mr. Merritt) and I agree 'with most of what he said. I doubt very much if any unemployment insurance scheme could be satisfactory if we were to have a prolonged period of mass unemployment. An unemployment insurance scheme that is actuarially sound is not designed for that sort of thing. Unemployment insurance schemes in all countries are designed to carry the worker from one period of employment to another. The contributions made by the worker, the employer and the government are based on the estimated percentage of workers which may be unemployed over a period of time. I do not remember the exact percentage upon which our act is based, but I doubt if. present contributions would be able to finance present benefits if more than ten per cent of our working force were unemployed. If the percentage of unemployed went above that, the contributions to the fund could not provide benefits at the rate now paid.
I think perhaps the hon. member for Van-couver-Burrard will agree with me when I say that as the benefits paid are based upon the wages received, what is required is an increase in the wage rates which in turn would increase the amount of the benefits received. Let me point out to the house how low the wage rates are on which benefits are based. The first class covers persons under sixteen years of age who are earning less than 90 cents a day. In this case the employee does not make a contribution; the employer pays the whole contribution of 27 cents a week. The next class includes persons earning from $5.40 a week to S7.50, and here the contribution by the employer is 21 cents and by the
Unemployment Insurance

employed person, 12 cents. The third class covers those earning from $7.50 a week to less than $9.60 a week. The next class covers those from $9.60 to $12, and so on up to those earning $38.50 a week or $2,000 a year. This maximum was later raised.
No benefits are paid for those who earn under 90 cents a day. The next class receive a benefit of $4.08 for a single person and $4.80 for a person with dependents; these benefits are based on earnings between $5.40 and $7.50 per week. It is obvious that if we are to appreciably increase the benefits they will become larger than the earnings on which they are based. I do not think that is practicable. The thing to do is to increase wages, and then if a person happens to be unemployed his benefits will be increased accordingly. I am not objecting to an increase in the benefits, but I do want to show that you cannot increase the benefits very much without giving the worker a higher remuneration in benefits when unemployed than he is receiving in wages while working. Obviously there would be no reason in the world why he should work under such circumstances.
As I said earlier, during the last year a great many complaints have been made to me in connection with the administration of the act. I realize the handicaps under which the unemployment insurance commission and the minister have been working. The minister is practically the commission at the present time, because there is only a chief commissioner. \s I said before, this is a new field of idministration, and that in itself would make be administration difficult. The commissioners vho were appointed had had no previous experience with legislation of this kind. The Minister and the commission had to contend lot only with inexperienced staff but also with inexperienced administrators. Until we get over this particular phase, while criticism might be popular I am inclined not to engage in it at the moment.
Let me again draw the attention of the minister and the house to the desirability of referring this bill to the standing committee on industrial relations. The bill affects a large number of workers, and an opportunity should be given to their representatives, to the representatives of organized labour particularly, to make representations as to the shortcomings or otherwise of the act. The employers also should have an opportunity to appear again before a committee.
I had the privilege of being a member of the special committee to which the bill was referred in 1940 when it was introduced in this house as a new measure. A large number of representations were made at that time,

and I am convinced, now that five years have passed, that we should again hear from those who are affected by the act as to what they think of it, how they think it can be improved, and so on. I urge as strongly as I possibly can that when this bill has received second reading the minister move that it be referred to that standing committee. If it is not referred to the committee it may not be possible to have second reading of the bill to-day, because of the short time we have had to examine the bill. I was fortunate in getting a copy of it last night, but until about one o'clock or half-past one this afternoon most hon. members, at least those of my group, had not seen it. We should like to have more time to study it. If, however, my suggestion finds favour with the minister, perhaps we could let the bill have second reading without extended debate.
Mr. DAVID A. CROLL (Spadina): As one who for some years was responsible for the employment offices in the province of Ontario when there was very little employment, I am not likely to be given to much criticism today, but the minister said he wanted a little, so I shall try to provide it.
The hon. member for Vancouver East said that unemployment insurance is not new. I agree with him but as we know the act, it is almost in its infancy in this country. But the idea that unemployment is an insurable risk was given official sanction in England back in 1911, and it has developed there and on the continent with the result that to-day we profit from their experience. Canada is able to benefit to some extent from the field work which has been done in other countries.
The unemployment insurance commission, in adapting to Canadian conditions the theories which have been developed, has done an admirable job. I do not expect there will be any criticism of the commission or of the act. As a matter of fact we who were away from this country for several years were glad to know that in 1940 the house took the time to place this act upon the books, and in 1943 to improve it. It indicates that hon. members of that day were thinking about us and laying well the cornerstone of the unemployment insurance structure. I think this is a great social measure, and I fully agree with what the minister said about the present administration of the act. All of us are familiar with the workings of it.
It should be made clear, however, that the first purpose of the act is to find work for those who have been thrown out of employment. whether because of labour turnover, of seasonal unemployment, or of the vagaries

Unemployment Insurance
of the business cycle. And that purpose is a proper one. The people want work, not charity. Statements one sometimes hears, that they are more interested in drawing insurance than in obtaining work, are just rot. It is only when the possibilities of obtaining work have been exhausted that benefits are payable, and then of course in each case they are based on the amount of the contribution and the length of time during which they have been paid. To this scheme 2,294,000 insured persons and 150,000 employers contributed over $62 million in the year 1945, to which the government added twenty per cent, or some $12,500,000, as its share. Out of this fund $14 million were paid in benefits over the same period: as the hon. member for Vancouver East has already told the house, it amounted to 17-5 per cent. To paint the over-all picture, from the inception of the fund to the end of February, 1946-I am quoting from the April, 1946 issue of the Labour Gazette-the total amount contributed has been $348,309,381, and the total amount paid out in benefits for the same period was $29,530,514, leaving a net balance in the fund of $318,778,866.
I think there will be general agreement that the method of contribution up to the present time has not worked too badly, except that apparently the government's contribution has not come up to what it ought to be. In Great Britain, subject to certain statutory exemptions, all male workers under the age of sixty-five and female workers under the age of sixty are covered by unemployment insurance. The contributions are shared in equal thirds by employees, employers, and the state. The scale of contributions and benefits for males is as follows-this is another provision of the scheme which appeals particularly to me, and I recommend- it to the minister: in addition to the weekly benefits there are benefits to a wife or other adult dependent of sixteen shillings weekly; as to children, each of the first two receives five shillings weekly, and others receive four shillings.
The United States works on a different scheme. Unemployment insurance is wholly within the province of the states. However, the Social Security Act authorizes federal cooperation in two ways. Federal grants are made to states to defray the costs of administering state legislation. We had a joint plan of providing for the employment offices, before this scheme came into effect in Canada. Employers are allowed credit against the federal unemployment tax for their contribution to a state unemployment fund. The federal unemployment tax is an excise tax levied on all payrolls of employers with more than eight employees; it amounts to 3 per cent of the wages paid, and covers everyone.
I point out to this house that up to the present time the fund has ben more than adequate, and that a surplus has accumulated which swells the fund very considerably. But when we come to examine the benefits paid, the inadequacy of the scheme becomes apparent. Total disbursements to date have been less than ten per cent of the fund. In this connection the hon. member for Vancouver East gave some figures. The British operate on the basis of paying the same benefit to a person, whether he is married or single, then making an additional allowance to his wife, and then a further allowance to his children. We look at it in a rather different light, and the differential between the married man and the single man at the present time is so little that in that respect the act fails. If a single person receives $4.08 in the first category, the married man receives $4.80, and in the second category the single man receives $510 and the married man $6, so the relationship remains about the same. It is true that the first four years of the commission's existence have been good years, and the amounts of benefit have only begun to show a marked increase in the last twelve months; but the fact remains that after five years ninety per cent of the fund is still untouched.
I agree with the hon. member for Vancouver-Burrand that is no reason for raiding the fund, because it belongs to the people who have contributed to it. But let us examine the case of a married man with a child whose income while he is employed is the largest possible under the act, $2,400. The average industrial earnings in Canada in 1942 were recorded at $31.44 a week and in 1939 at $24 a week. If we strike an average we get an earning of $27.72 a week; yet the largest possible unemployment benefit under the act is $14.40 a week, or 51-9 per cent of a man's earning capacity. In the United States it is 60-8 per cent, and in Australia 53-4 per cent.
In the United States, where unemployment insurance is financed by a tax on salaries, regardless of the amount of salary, and is in all cases with the exception of four paid by the employer, the benefits range from a minimum of $15 to a maximum of $28. One might go on and quote statistics relating to England and Australia, but I believe a comparison between benefits payable in different countries gives no real indication of their adequacy. There are many disparities, differences in costs, differences in standard of living of differ-
Unemployment Insurance


I should like to say a word on this bill before the house goes into committee. As has been pointed out, most of us never had a chance to see the bill until about one o'clock to-day, because it was not put into our boxes until that time; therefore it v'as difficult to go over the bill as carefully as some of us would have liked. The only thing we could judge the bill on was the address of the minister of yesterday. After reading what the minister said and looking over the bill, it can be said that it is going, to be a little improvement on the bill of 1940.
I wish to say to the minister that while I am not sympathizing wdth him

he needs no sympathy; all he needs is a little criticism and jacking-up once in a while, and then he does very well-he will have a difficult task before him in administering this act. It is bound to present a lot of difficulties. He can clearly see that now, because while this bill is entitled the Unemployment Insurance Act, greater attention should be paid, possibly by the Minister of Reconstruction (Mr. Howe), to an employment act. The more an employment act fails to fulfil its obligations, the greater the obligation that rests on the Minister of Labour (Mr. Mitchell) to carry out the terms of the Unemployment Insurance Act.
It can be readily seen that the number of unemployed is steadily climbing. A few months ago we had something like 250,000 registered unemployed. We now have around 300,000.


My hon. friend is just going in reverse.


That is not the way it is reported from my part of the country. Look at the statement just put out by the deputy minister, in which he took a rather dictatorial attitude in regard to transporting workers from one part of the country to another. That, too, I think is going to add to the difficulty of administering, the act.


When my hon. friend talks about a dictatorial attitude, I should like him to enlarge on that a little.
Unemployment Insurance


Very well. I did not want to go into too much detail-


Because you haven't any detail.


-but since the minister is asking for it I am sure he will not mind if I elaborate a little. It has been stated already that those who do not obey a direction from selective service in regard to employment will be given only so long before having their benefits cut off. If that is not getting dictatorial I do not know what is. I shall go into that a little more fully when we come to discuss what is meant by "suitable employment" in the bill. I was not going to discuss the bill in particular to-day, but I do think the minister is going to run into a great deal of difficulty in the administration of this act when he comes to define what suitable employment is. That is a difficulty right now, as a matter of fact.


Has my hon. friend a definition?


I can give the minister his own definition; I do not suppose he will object to that. I quote from page 3105 of Hansard for yesterday:
On the other hand it is likewise specifically provided that after a lapse of a reasonable interval from the commencement of unemployment, employment in another occupation is not to be considered unsuitable (in other words it is suitable) if the wages offered are not lower and the conditions not less favourable than those obtaining in that occupation.
Then the minister went on to say:
-what is not suitable to-day may well be suitable a month from to-day.
The minister will correct me if I am wrong, but there I think he was trying to define what is suitable employment. I must admit that he has defined it very vaguely, but I do not think he would care to endeavour to define it right now. I too realize the difficulty of defining just what suitable employment might be.


Would the hon. member tell the house just what he considers unsuitable employment?


The hon. member probably was not in the house when I began to speak. I was giving the minister's definition; surely the hon. member would not object to that. I did not want to get into too much of an argument on this matter-


I should like an answer to my question. What is unsuitable employment?


I will tell you what suitable employment is. It is employment a person desires of his own accord, which gives a desirable remuneration. Would the hon. member object to that? Anything else is not suitable.


I have never known of unsuitable employment.


If I tell you what suitable employment is I imagine you would have sufficient intelligence to know what unsuitable employment is. You just put in the negative form and you have your definition. A moment ago the hon. member for Spadina (Mr. Croll) mentioned what might be considered unsuitable remuneration, when he said the total payment to a married man was $14.40 a week or about $60 a month. In my opinion that would not be suitable remuneration.


Well, Mr. Speaker-


If the hon. member will just sit down and wait until we consider the bill, we can go into these detailed discussions then.


Perhaps the hon. member would answer this question. Did he ever know of a man with health and a little initiative who could not add to that amount, in some way, through his own enterprise?


I do not think I quite got the question.


Did the hon. member ever meet a man who was living on unemployment insurance who could not add to his income, if he was in good health and had a little initiative? Could he not add something through his own enterprise?


But the act definitely limits him in that regard. If he is in receipt of other remuneration, that is taken into consideration in fixing the amount he receives. I am afraid my hon. friend has not gone over the act very carefully.


I know something about it.


A few years ago in the old age pension committee the hon. gentleman was very much disturbed over the possibility that old age pensioners might receive increased pensions. I should think he would be also disturbed over the possibility that a material advantage would be given these people under this legislation.


Better call the whole thing off.

Unemployment Insurance


I think perhaps that
would be a good idea, and my hon. friend can discuss it whenever he sees fit. I believe the consensus is that this act is an improvement over what was in existence previously. I have no strong objection to it, but I should like to point out that as time goes on our unemployment problem will get worse instead of better. With the present system of contributions, as the hon. member for Spadina (Mr. Croll) has pointed out, the difficulty will become greater. It seems to me the remarks of the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) would be found to have a great deal of merit if they were properly considered. He suggested that the government should be. contributing more to this scheme, and that view was supported by the hon. member who preceded me. The fact is that when the employee has to contribute, his purchasing power is reduced. When the employer has to contribute, the purchasing power of the public is reduced because increased costs of production go into the price of goods; as a result the people can buy less goods; industry can produce less goods because they sell less, so there is a general increase in unemployment. Whether or not people like to accept it, I think that is a sound proposition, and I believe the government must recognize it as such or find their difficulties in administering this act continually increasing. So I should like to support the suggestion of the hon. member for Spadina that the government should seriously consider increasing its contribution; and I would go one step further. The government has issued state money, and I think the Bank of Canada should be used for this purpose. It would not entail any increased taxation if the Bank of Canada were used to provide at least a portion of this increased government contribution.
These things will interfere with the administration of the act as it stands; the minister will have difficulties under many sections. As I read the act I can see trouble ahead in the administration of the section which tries to define suitable employment. I noticed the minister's interpretation in Hansard and tried without success to find the same interpretation in the act. I shall discuss that point when we come to it in the bill, but it seemed to me that what is contained there was quite the opposite to what was stated by the minister. I think that is all I care to say at the moment.


Mr. Speaker, I do not propose to attempt to discuss the bill. In common with most hon. members I have not had an opportunity to' 63260-197
look at it, because I have only just received a copy of it. I should like to make some references to what appear to be disabilities in connection with unemployment insurance. In doing so I am not in any sense critical of the measure itself; I think unemployment insurance is indeed commendable legislation. It will not however in my opinion be fully appreciated or fully operative until such time as we can combine health insurance with unemployment insurance.
I, too, hold the view that because of the higher cost of living there is much to be said for consideration being given to increasing the benefits to workers. I am not in any sense sympathizing with those who are unemployed and who refuse to accept good, healthy employment, and I am not too critical of the stand taken by the deputy minister because I know something of the hardships being experienced by farmers in my own riding who would be only too glad to have some good, robust fellows help them out at this time. It seems to me we must draw the line somewhere.
However I feel that no measure of governmental assistance should have as its objective a deterrent to work. When I suggest that benefits might be increased for the worker I am appreciating the fact that the benefits from unemployment insurance are limited. That is, there is a time limit on them. And while a worker may be unemployed, I do not feel that he will cease to look for employment because he knows that his time in that regard would be limited. There may of course be exceptions to the rule.
As I said, I am going to refer to some of the handicaps about which people complain. I have in mind those who are temporarily employed. I suppose it is difficult to have the act apply to all in a practical way, so that it can be administered without too great administrative costs. But, to give an example, I am thinking of a lady who is now married but who engages in temporary work by relieving cashiers at certain offices and by doing secretarial work for from two to four weeks each year. Certain deductions are made for unemployment insurance. Yet the fact remains that if she worked only two weeks in each year, it would be a matter of about fifty years before she would be eligible for benefits. It is felt, of course, that that is a hardship.
Another class I have in mind is that of farmers who left their farms, I suppose for some very good r