Mr. Speaker, I desire to lay on the table the third report, which is also the final report, of the royal commission on veterans' qualifications. Included are two supplements of the second report which was tabled last session, on October 19, 1945. The third report and the two supplements are the result of sittings held in the province of Quebec during January and February, 1946.


3ESIGNATI0N OF MR. JUSTICE M. B. ARCHIBALD AS CHAIRMAN
I wish to table copy of order in council P.C. 2583 of June 25, 1946, by which the governor general in council accepts the resignation of Mr. Justice M. B. Archibald as chairman of the national war labour board. After more than two years in that position Mr. Justice Archibald felt it necessary to relinquish it in order to devote his whole time as a member of the Nova Scotia supreme court.
I take this opportunity of paying warm tribute to Mr. Justice Archibald for the conscientious, able and wholly valuable manner in which he has filled a very difficult position. The administration of the wartime wages control order has not been easy, calling for a combination of fairness, good sense and understanding of the vital importance of economic stabilization. In every way Mr. Justice Archibald measured up to the qualifications of the position. I am sorry to see him go, but felt I could not press him to remain after giving so much of his time and energy.
Mr. C. A. L. Murchison, secretary of the national war labour board, has been appointed vice-chairman, and we shall carry on with alternate chairmen, Mr. Justice D. A. McNiven, Regina, and Judge J. C. A. Cameron, Belleville.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Are military woollen uniforms being manufactured in Canada at the present time for shipment to foreign countries? If so (a) for which countries are they being produced; (b) how many are contracted for each country?


The wartime prices and trade board has investigated and finds that no military woollen uniforms for shipment to foreign countries are being manufactured in Canada.


1.	What have been the total expenditures in each of the fiscal years 1935 to 1945 by the fisheries research board?
2.	What was the number of permanent and non-permanent employees of the fisheries reseai'ch board in the fiscal year 1935, and in in each year up to 1945?
3.	How many scientists have been employed by the said board in each of the years 1935 to 1945?


1.	(a) How many judges in the district or county courts who have resigned from the bench are now in receipt of annuities under section 26 of the Judges Act; (b) what are their names and present addresses?
2.	(a) How many judges of the district or county courts now living resigned after thirty years in office; (b) what are their names and addresses ?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: To answer this question requires a long list of names and addresses, of which I have given a copy to the hon. member for Lake Centre. Perhaps the question might be made an order for a return, which I now table.


1.	What is the number of government employees bonded or covered by insurance for the faithful performance of their duties?
2.	What is the number in each department?
3.	What is the annual cost of such insurance??
4.	With what firm or firms is such insurance carried?
5.	Has any claim been made by the government during the past ten years for default of any employee covered by such insurance?
6.	If so (a) were any such claims made good by the companies carrying the insurance; (b) what sums were received by the government for default of any employees during the above years?
THE CiyL SERVICE


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to ask the Secretary of State if the government would not consider extending

Precious Metals Marking
the privilege of the early daily closing to the civil service starting July 2. I would ask further if in his opinion the civil service should be penalized because this house chooses to remain in session all summer.


Order. I think the question should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Labour, of which I sent him notice. In view of the importance of endeavouring to prevent a stoppage of production in the steel industry, has the minister or his department received any definite proposals from the companies in reply to the union proposals, the forty-hour week, or union-management proposals for settling the dispute in the industry? I have tried to summarize the questions.


The hon. member was kind
enough to give me notice of these three questions. In reply may I say that the matter of wages and hours of work in the steel industry is now being dealt with by Mr. Justice W. D. Roach, of the Ontario supreme court, as an industrial disputes inquiry commissioner. The points covered by the questions are under consideration, and I am advised by the commissioner that a meeting of all parties concerned is to be held to-morrow. I do not think there will be any undue delay in the report of the commissioner.


On the orders of the day:
Y'esterday the
hon. member for Nanaimo (Mr. Pearkes) asked a question about the disposal of the Pacific communications system. The question of the disposal of the Pacific communications system was discussed at a meeting between officials of War Assets Corporation, together with representatives of the R.C.A.F., the ' British Columbia Telephone company, Canadian National Telegraphs, Canadian Pacific Telegraphs and Dominion Government Telegraphs, and it was agreed that the surplus
communication system should be sold to the proper parties and in the best interests of the public and all concerned.
The ultimate disposition of the Pacific communications system has been adhered to in accordance with the agreed requirements necessary to operate this high grade telephone and telegraph service in the best interests of the public in the areas covered by the system.
As a result of the sale of the Pacific communications system, wire facilities between Hope and Ashcroft, British Columbia, are composed of one circuit between Hope and Lytton and four circuits between Hope and Ashcroft. Complete telephone facilities at Ashcroft are provided by the British Columbia Telephone company, and telegraph services by Canadian National Telegraphs, Canadian Pacific Telegraphs and Dominion Government Telegraphs.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I believe the question that I wish to ask should be directed to you, Last year the Department of Public W'orks supplied the elevator operators in this building with summer uniforms. Would it not be possible for you as Speaker of the House of Commons to see that summer weight uniforms are supplied to the messengers and guards in this building? The men are now wearing winter weight uniforms.


Order.


Hon. J. A. MacKINNON (Minister of Trade and Commerce) moved the second reading of bill No. 17, respecting the marking of articles containing gold, silver, or platinum.
Motion agreed to, bill read the second time, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair'
On section 1-short title.
In view of the fact that this bill is a redrafting of the act, perhaps it would be well if the minister were to make a brief; statement. Will he tell the committee whether' jewellery manufacturers and dealers had any say in the redrafting?
Precious Metals Marking


Mr. Chairman, the Precious Metals Marking Act was passed, under that title, in 1928. Since then a number of amendments have been made, and it was found advisable to make some further amendments at this time. Instead of asking simply for the amendments it was considered advisable to rewrite the statute; therefore the bill being presented to-day contains the provisions of the original act, with the suggested amendments. The amendments are only of a minor nature, following experience in the working out of the act. The original act was passed for the purpose of giving protection to the public when purchasing articles of carat gold, silver or platinum. It is my understanding that officials in my department have consulted with the trade in respect of the proposed amendments. To speak frankly, the bill is largely routine, and a process of tying in the amendments which have already been passed.


Section agreed to.
Sections 2 to 5 inclusive agreed to.
On section 6-Quality mark.
I understand that by this section the minister is doing away with the English or heretofore commonly known marking by carats, and is ordering a substitution in the nature of a decimal fineness. In other words under this bill one will be able to refer to gold as 'having so many carats or so much fineness. I see nothing in the bill which states that when, for instance, a metal is marked -6S0 of fineness a statement shall be made as to the other metals in the alloy. This point may or may not be important, but I believe the committee would like further information as to why these changes are being made.


An officer from the
department will be here in a moment, or two, at which time I shall be in a better position to answer the question. Perhaps the section might stand, so that we could return to it.


Speaking to this section, *will the minister explain what is now required on silver articles manufactured in Canada? They are not covered, by the United Kingdom gold mark. What does Canada require to designate the pureness of silver?


This is a change in our act to conform with international usage, and with the system that has been in practice in England. I am informed that the silver marking is exactly the same as that used internationally, showing pure silver to the extent of 925/1000t.hs.


What mark on a piece of silver would designate that?


The mark would be the wrord "sterling," or the words "sterling silver," or the wrord "silver". It is to protect these markings that this legislation has been introduced.


Is this legislation intended to make the markings now used more readily understood? Why is the previous method of marking in carats being departed from?


We are not getting
away from the carat marking system. The explanation I have just given shows that the marking designates the actual silver or gold content.


Is a mark required on a plated article?


That is permissible,
not compulsory.


Under the act as it now reads, nothing under nine carats can be designated as gold.


That is correct.


That is now in the bill.


I am told that is not new.


Section agreed to.
Section 7 agreed to.
On section 8-Marking silver articles.
I suggest that it might be advisable to provide for a date along with the Canadian national marking of a lion's head surrounded by the letter "C". We are endeavouring to establish a silversmith's industry and have gone quite a wray in that direction. Silver gains in value as it ages. Georgian silver is much more valuable than Victorian silver, and I suggest that it would be advisable particularly on flatware and other silver household articles, to have near the "C" a date mark, which could be changed slightly every five or ten years.


I have just discussed the point raised by the hon. member for York West, and I am told that his suggestion is an interesting one and w'as given consideration by the department just prior to the war, and was again considered when these amendments were under consideration. I should like to have the departmental officials go into the matter a little further.

Precious Metals Marking


Subsection 3 reads in
part:
-there may be applied to the article a national mark authorized under licence . . .
Is this system to be adopted so that in future will these articles be marked with a lion's head?


This has always been optional, as is indicated by the words "may be".


Has it ever been used?


I am advised it has
been used to a considerable extent.


If I understand subsection 1 correctly, aif article could be described as a silver article, even though it contained a base metal, as long as the silver was -925 pure. Is subsection 1 drawn as carefully as the minister intends it to be? Reference to the definitions of "silver" and "silver article" in the interpretation section would not seem to disabuse my mind of the interpretation I have put upon this subsection.


International custom in the manufacture of silver has called for a silver content of 925/1000ths with 75/1000ths copper. That is the only other metal commonly used in the manufacture of silver articles.


I take it the minister is referring to sterling silver, not to plated silver. It does not seem to me that this section gives the public the protection which I am sure the minister intends them to have. The wording would indicate that an article could be described as a silver article-the definitions in the interpretation section are by no means limited-as long as the silver in the article is [DOT]925 pure. Surely greater protection should be given to the public than appears to be given by this section.


I am advised that this is considered as giving the public all the necessary protection. Ever since the sixteenth century 925/1000ths fine has been considered pure silver. In the great majority of cases copper has been the other metal used, but even if some other metal were used, if it were 925/1000ths fine it would still be classified as pure silver.


I think the point raised by the hon. member for Rosedale is worthy of consideration by the Minister of Justice. It depends upon the interpretation of section 8 of the bill, which says:
Subject to subsection- two of this section the mark "silver", "sterling" or "sterling silver" or
any abbreviation thereof may be applied to a silver article containing at least nine hundred and twenty-five parts by weight of pure silver in every one thousand parts of the silver in the article.
Then if you turn to the definition clause,
2 (p):
"silver article" means an article wholly or partly or purporting to be wholly or partly composed of silver.
Therefore it would appear that any article with silver in it is a silver article. Section 8 might be interpreted to mean that the silver in that article must represent 925 parts by weight of pure silver in the article. I may be wrong; I have not studied the point at all, but I think the wording of section 8 is worthy of consideration, particularly when you look at section 2(p).
Mr. ST. LAURENT: If the hon. member will look at subsection 2 of section 8 he will find that the only deviation permitted from the 925/1000ths is to the extent of ten parts in one-thousand when solder is used and four parts when solder is not used. The definition in clause 2 reads:
"silver article" means an article wholly or partly or purporting to be wholly or partly composed of silver.
But the only thing that can be marked "silver", "sterling" or "sterling silver" is something of which 925/1000ths is pure silver, with the permissive deviation provided for in subsection 2 of section 8. It may be that an article of which a part is silver would not be wholly of silver. The head of a cane may be of silver. A certain portion of the cane may be of ebony or something else. In order to mark that part which purports to be silver with the words "silver", "sterling" or "sterling silver", that part must contain at least 925/1000ths of pure silver, subject to the slight deviation provided for in subsection 2.


Is that the international standard for sterling silver?


Yes.


Section agreed to.
On section 9-Articles to which applicable.
Subsection 2 says:
Except as authorized by sections ten and eleven of this act, a mark other than a mark authorized by this section shall not be applied to a plated article.
But section 10 permits the use of a trade mark, without waiting for official registration, once application has been made.


Delay is sometimes unavoidable in authorizing the granting of the
Precious Metals Marking

proper marks, and this is intended to coyer the case where an application has already been made.


How long a delay is allowed?
Mr. MacIvINNON: It is a departmental delay. It might be very short, or it might run into a few weeks.


It would not go over a month ?
Mr. MacIvINNON: I could not guarantee that. It all depends on the state of affairs in the particular branch of the department which receives the application.


What I have in mind is that a number of articles which were not up to standard might be marked and sold before the department caught up with them.


There is a close inspection, and we have had very close cooperation from the trade generally. It would be a very rare case in which advantage would be taken of that situation.


This is a safe clause to have in the bill?


Yes.


Section agreed to.
Sections 10 to 15 inclusive agreed to.
On section 16-Time for laying information and complaint.
This section says:
In the case of any offence punishable under this act the complaint shall be made, or the information shall be laid, within one year from the time when the matter of complaint or information arose.
W'hy is one year allowed? Why all the delay?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: If it was not expressly provided for in the bill the delay would be two years. The criminal code provides that in all cases not provided for by statute the proceedings to recover a penalty must be brought within two years from the time the offence is alleged to have been committed.


But this section also permits the information to be laid within one year.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: I take it that means that a complaint is made under oath for a warrant and that an information is laid for a summons.


I am told that under the criminal code action must be started within
	.
six months. The department wanted a longer period, and asked for this alteration to one year.


There seems to be a conflict of opinion between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I think it should be a shorter time. I do not see why the time should be extended, particularly in view of the provisions of the following section.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: I am sorry; I had possibly in mind the provision of our Quebec statutes, which I remember having had to seek to have applied in several instances, where the period is two years if no special time is set. I see in the criminal code, in the case of any offence punishable by way of summary conviction, if no time is specially limited for making any complaint, or laying any information, in the act or law relating to the particular case, the complaint shall be made, or the information laid, within six months from the time when the matter of the complaint or information arose, except in the northwest territories and the Yukon territory.


Section agreed to.
On section 17-Power to enter, inspect and seize.
Apparently power is given in subsection 1 to enter and seize, and under subsection 2, to hold the articles for ninety days, or almost ninety days, and then proceedings can be instituted. Subsection 2 says:
Any article seized pursuant to subsection one of this section may be retained for a period of ninety days and if before the expiration of such period any proceedings in respect of such article are taken under this act may be further retained until such proceedings are finally concluded.
In other words, they can seize the articles, they can hold them for practically ninety days, and then they can commence proceedings. Why do they not have to commence the proceedings when they seize the articles? Why are they permitted to wait ninety days?


This extra time is frequently needed. There are, I am told, only two points in Canada where the proper assay can be made to determine the quality of the goods seized, and it is found that this extra time is necessary. It is for the protection of the department that this extra time is provided.


I should like to say another word about section 17, subsection 1. From a note on another page I find that before it was amended the section provided that any officer appointed under this act or any regula-

Supply-Justice
tion should have power during business hours to enter the premises of any dealer. Now it is proposed to delete those words "during business hours" and substitute the words "at any reasonable time". It would appear that this is being done merely to meet the convenience of some inspector. He may go into some city and want to get out before the man's store is opened, or he may arrive after it is closed and he does not want to stay there. So to meet the convenience of some government inspector this amendment provides that he can enter a man's premises "at any reasonable time". Why should that be permitted? Why is the act as it stands not satisfactory? It must have been satisfactory to everybody except some government inspector; at least that is the way it impresses me. It seems to me that no government inspector should be permitted to enter business premises at any time that he considers reasonable, and that is all this section is going to amount to if it is changed as proposed. I think we should have some explanation. I may be putting a wrong meaning on the amendment; there may be some other reason why this is being done, but I do not think a government inspector should be permitted to enter a man's premises except during business hours, while he is carrying on his business there.


This clause is introduced to cover a point which the hon. member has not thought of. Across the country many people keep their merchandise not only in their business premises but also in their homes. This is to allow an inspector to make an investigation and get possession of these articles at any reasonable time,-not merely during business hours, which may be from six to eight-where part of the merchandise may be in the merchant's home.


Section agreed to.
On section 18-Certificate of master or assayer of Royal Canadian Mint.
I think it is reasonable
that a certificate signed by any assayer of the mint shall be evidence of the facts stated therein. It is the standard certificate, the only possible certificate of fineness. The question I want to ask is this. Is there a definite Canadian marking, as there is in silver, with regard to platinum articles? We are probably the greatest producer of platinum; if not, we are very nearly so, and it seems to me that we should have some specific Canadian marking for platinum goods.


In Canada there is a definite marking for silver and gold only, but not for platinum.


I suggest to the minister that he consider a definite Canadian marking for platinum, in view of our particularly large production of platinum, iridium, and other metals which are in so much greater demand now than heretofore on account of their great strength.


I shall see that that is done.


There is no decimal point used either in regard to platinum?


No.


Section agreed to.
Sections 19 and 20 agreed to.
Schedule agreed to.
Bill reported, read the third time, and passed.
The house in committee of supply, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
106. Penitentiaries	branch-administration,
When the debate was adjourned last Friday evening I was commenting on the fact that people like myself who take a deep and keen interest in penal reform are often criticized. It has been said on more than one occasion that we are a people who are swayed by emotionalism and by sob stories, and I for one have resented that, because I think I can say rather that we are men and women who are motivated by the dynamic of righteousness. It will be a sorry day for Canada, and a sorrier day for the inmates of our federal penitentiaries, when our hearts fail to be moved by the needs of these unfortunate members of society.
I have seen men working in prison gangs garbed in prison clothing, guarded by men armed with rifles, and I have said to myself, as I suppose many another hon. member of the house has said to himself: "There I go but for the grace of God". For my part, I do not want ever to condone wrongdoing, no matter where it is found. I fully realize that men and women with criminal tendencies need to be taught that crime does not pay and that certainly the way of the transgressor is hard. But when all that has been said, I believe we still need to temper our justice with mercy.
As I read carefully the report of the Archambault commission, I find that it has some scathing things to say about penal administration in the past, and it emphasizes
Supply-Justice

the need for a humane and brotherly understanding of these unfortunate people. I am inclined to think that the criticism of the Archambault commission's report made by the Minister of Justice last Friday evening had to do with these particular assertions on maladministration. I notice that the minister very graciously admitted that there is very much that is good in the report itself. Then he went on to say at page 2739:
There are certainly some assertions in it that are exaggerated.
That to my mind is a very serious reflection to pass upon esteemed persons whose judgment and ability have been so highly praised during the course of this debate. Speaking to tire member for Selkirk, the minister qualified his criticism, when he said:
I have not had time to verify all the conditions described in the report.
And later on in the discussion, speaking about Stony Mountain penitentiary, the minister said-page 2740:
I have not been there myself. In fact, I have not been anywhere else since I came to Ottawa four and a half years ago.
I am satisfied in my own mind, Mr. Chairman, that when the minister made that statement he. was not offering it to the house in any way as an excuse, because I do not think he is that type of person at all. But the people across Canada read Hansard, and they are going to read those remarks that the minister made and that other people are making. I know they read them, and I believe that a great many people will say to themselves it is about time the Minister of Justice got around a bit and visited some of these institutions that are under his care.
We who are here in the house from day to day and see the minister sitting in his place know that he has a most difficult task to perform and is giving himself to that task most diligently. It seems to me however that he ought to visit the federal penitentiaries as occasion offers, possibly between sessions of parliament, and acquire for himself first-hand information of the conditions that exist in those institutions, because I am satisfied that many of the conditions that have been complained about still exist, and they form the basis of our modem appeal for penal reform. Not punishment, but reformation, not revenge, but redemption:	that, I believe, should be
the keynote of our penal institutions to-day. And here I would place on the record an item culled from the Vancouver Sun of June 17, entitled "Contrast in Crime":
Education minister G. M. Weir said in Burnaby a few days ago that reestablishment of the Borstal home at New Haven "likely will be considered soon." It would be more

reassuring if he had said that this matter is already receiving the earnest consideration of the provincial government. The record of both provincial and federal governments with respect to the treatment of delinquents and any real farsighted attack on the problem of crime, is disheartening. The public had a right to expect action earlier than this from Attorney-General Wismer, who is known to have the right idea but who seems, since his reappointment to his high post, to have let the matter sleep. The Department of Justice has issued a report which shows that 78-4 per cent of the 1945 penitentiary population were repeaters. This is an increase of 10 per cent in the last decade. What a terrible indictment of the existing penal system and of governmental sloth! Society is not getting the protection that a decent penitentiary system would give. The penitentiaries supply no corrective, they afford no deterrent. They are making criminals instead of curing them. The Sun, long an advocate of the reintroduction of Borstal, has pointed out before the sorry contrast the Canadian record offers when compared with that of Britain. An article in the current issue of Maclean's magazine highlights this contrast. Between the two wars Canada's serious crime rate multiplied three times while Britain's rate dropped one-quarter. In 1942, for example, the forty-one million people of Britain committed 4,000 indictable offences. In Canada, the same year, our twelve million people committed 46,723. What does Borstal purport to do? Maclean's article gives the answer. Regarding the years between 16 and 23 as the most critical in the life of the criminal, its sponsors try to give youths in this group a treatment that will "turn one kind of human being into another kind of human being." All but those who have demonstrated themselves as hopelessly vicious morally or defective mentally go to Borstal for a term of three years-that being the length of time that it takes to do what Borstal aims to do.
The system works. Four out of five Borstal graduates go straight, and Britain is able to get along with 39 prisons and jails for forty-one million people, while Canada maintains 147 corrective institutions of various kinds.
Before I bring these remarks to a close I want to offer a couple of suggestions to the Minister of Justice. First I suggest that he give serious consideration to the possibility of granting an amnesty to those whose conduct shows them to be deserving. By the grace of God we have been granted victory in a world shattering war. As nations and as individuals we have celebrated, and have expressed our joy and thankfulness. In some lands I believe it is customary at such times to mark the occasion by the granting of an amnesty to certain groups of prisoners. While it may not be feasible, and may not even be desirable, to grant a general pardon, surely something can be done, such as the partial remission of sentence, to mark this great victory.
My second suggestion may be more far-reaching, because it would entail a radical departure from our present system of adminis-

Supply-Justice
tration. I realize that as a suggestion it may appear to be one born out of due time, but in my own mind I am convinced that it is sound and that time and the evolution of circumstances will bring it into being. To-day an arrested person is brought before a court of justice and tried. If found guilty of a serious crime he is sentenced to a period of imprisonment, and if that period exceeds two years he is confined in one of our federal penitentiaries. My suggestion is that after a man has been arrested, charged, tried and sentenced, the court of justice has done its work. From the moment a prisoner enters the gate of a prison he should no longer be under the law, which has been applied in the past in military form. He should be under the care of social and redemptive agencies, persons specially trained in reform work. It should be made quite clear to the prisoner that part of his punishment is the curtailment of his liberty, but that the period of his incarceration will afford him opportunities to regain
his lost manhood.	.
. -*"**
I realize that I have spoken at some length,
but the subject is one in which I am deeply interested. For long enough we have contented ourselves with talking about penal reform. Now may God give us grace and strength to go ahead and do something about it. In closing I should like to read a clipping from the Christian Science Monitor of a few weeks ago, written in connection with the revolt, at Alcatraz prison:
The revolt at Alcatraz prison caused five deaths and hundreds of war-sized headlines. The only corrective result so far reported is a plan to repair the cell block which gave a desperate convict a chance to get weapons. Will that be the total product of the headlines? Or will the attention focused on Alcatraz prick the public conscience a mite?
What is Alcatraz? Is it simply an "escape-proof" prison set on a rock amid the rip tides of San Francisco bay? Or is it a spectacular symbol of society's failure to deal adequately with crime? It is not a place for reform or rehabilitation; most of the 277 there society has given up. Most of them are "lifers" the public did not wish to execute and dared not give any chance at freedom. At Alcatraz they are safe-[DOT] and comfortably forgotten.
George Bernard Shaw has a new book called "The Crime of Imprisonment," in which he says: "In imprisonment, the public is seeking its own salvation, not that of the lawbreaker." Perhaps this is the best our society can do at present-seek protection for itself from such desperate enemies as it sends to Alcatraz. Prisons arc easier to repair than men. But the method is costly and does not provide any protection from new crops of criminals-it is not even a sure deterrent. If we could not put such men out of sight in the Aleatrazes, would we make more effort to remove the causes of crime?
This, sir, I contend is a question that society as a whole must answer, and that very soon.


Mr. Chairman, I realize that prison reform is not a new subject, for it has been under review in this country for well over a hundred years. The most recent review was conducted by the Archambault commission in 1938, when the problem was explored and reexamined and many valuable recommendations put forward. In the light of these researches it is interesting to examine the statistics on crime in Canada over the past forty years. From 1900 to 1943 the number of crimes increased from 5,768 to 41,752, an increase of 642 per cent. The increase in population during the same period was 120 per cent, so we see that the increase in the crime rate was more than five times the increase in population. A further breakdown of the statistics is even more revealing. Convictions for all offences in 1905 numbered 62,559; in 1925 they were 177,783, and in 1943 they numbered 517,363. Or to consider the ratio of crimes to population, convictions for all offences were 1,042 per 100,000 of population in 1905, 1,913 per
100.000	of population in 1925, and 4,379 per
100.000	of population in 1943.
As far as juveniles between the ages of sixteen and twenty-one were concerned, the same trend is apparent. To consider only major offences, or what would be equivalent to indictable offences when referring to adults, the convictions of juveniles were 238 per cent per 100,000 of that age group in 1911, 708 in 1937, and 900 in 1943. I presume hon. members may ask, can that be true? Well, those are the figures; they may be found in the Canada Year Book and in the publications of the statistics bureau, and they are true. I think it well that this house should realize these figures are an appalling reflection upon the moral therapy of our prison system, particularly when we consider that a great proportion of the crimes were committed by repeaters. These figures are very interesting. Of the 1,335 males committed to the seven dominion penitentiaries during the year ended March 31, 1945, 1,050, or more than 76 per cent, three out of every four offenders, had been in prison before. Of the 42,000 men sentenced for indictable offences of all types in the same year, more than 13,000 of them, or one out of every three, had been in prison before. The Archambault commission of 1938 reported that there were 188 prisoners then in confinement who had been convicted an average of nineteen times each, and had cost the taxpayers of this country an average of 825,453.24, without taking into consideration the loss occasioned by the crimes which they committed.
Supply-Justice


They cost that much each?


Yes, each. No hon. member will deny that these figures represent a staggering defeat of crime prevention. I think we ought to ask ourselves: Why have we failed to keep crime under control? In my opinion -and I think it is the opinion of the Archambault commission-no cause is more influential than the prison system itself. Because, as the hon. member for Kootenay East has said, while Canada's rate of serious crime was increasing threefold between the first and second great wars, under another system the British rate has dwindled by four. In twenty years, in conjunction with the Borstal system for young offenders, Great Britain reduced the population of her prisons from 186,000 to 46,000. More significantly, in the year 1942 there were 47,000 indictable crimes committed in Great Britain, which has a population of 41 million; and in the same year in Canada, with a population of 12 million, there were 46,723 indictable offences.
Chief Justice J. C. McRuer, who was a member of the Archambault commission, said in a public address in May, 1942:
Why we should have 46,723 persons convicted of serious crimes in Canada in one year, while in Great Britain with nearly four times the population the annual convictions were approximately 47,000 is a matter for careful consideration and profound examination.
Well, the explanation it seems is quite clear. There are two methods of handling lawbreakers. One decreases violation of the law, and the other seems to increase violation of the law. An examination of the Canadian penal system, as reported by the 1938 Archambault commission, discloses deep-rooted and yet remediable defects. These defects are:
1.	Staffs are inadequately trained, sometimes unsuitable for their duties, and generally underpaid.
2.	Any individual attempt to ameliorate conditions is frustrated by a multitude of detailed regulations.
3.	The prisoner is cut off from the rest of the world by walls and by regulations which deny him newspapers and restrict his correspondence and visiting privileges.
4.	He is treated as one of a disgraceful class of persons to be denied any humanizing contacts.
5.	He is allowed only one half hour of daily exercise in the open air, consisting mainly of walking in a ring with no conversation allowed.
6.	His work is unproductive and insufficient.
7.	Generally, trades are not taught.

8.	A great proportion of the prisoner's time is spent in idleness.
As for youthful offenders, the commission reported that-
Contrary to the general public belief they have not the least opportunity to learn a trade- -to fit them for employment on discharge.
It also appears that-
Education has been largely neglected in all Canadian penitentiaries, and no real interest has. been taken in this important feature of reformative treatment.
Further:
The school rooms are all poorly equipped . . . accommodation is meagre and unsuitable . . . there is no vocational education worthy of the name . . . there is little use of the library as. an agency of education . . .
And all this in a penitentiary in which-
-a large proportion of the population is. illiterate.
In spite of the obvious opportunities for agricultural work the commission found that-
-the farms are not exploited or cultivated to the extent of their possibilities . . . are inefficiently operated and there is no one connected with the penitentiaries branch who has the required experience to direct the operation of farms which total over 1,000 acres.
Something has already been said about the Borstal system. I looked through Hansard and I did not see there a clear statement of what the Borstal system consists of, so I now quote from a report respecting the Borstal system by Barman of London, in 1934:
Borstal is not a boys' prison. To collect all prisoners under t-wenty-one and confine them in a corner of a large gaol and call the result a Borstal institution is a sham and a pretence, a piece of administrative complacency defrauding a credulous public. A Borstal institution is a training school for adolescent offenders, based on educational principles, pursuing educational methods. To be sent there is a punishment, for the training involves a very considerable loss of liberty, but to stay there is to be given a chance to learn the right way of life and to develop the good there is in each.
The English Borstal system which deals with young offenders over the age of sixteen years was instituted by the Prevention of Crime Act, 1908. The act recognized for the first time that youthful adolescents, whatever their crimes may be, were to receive special treatment adapted to their needs. Subsequent legislation increased the age from twenty-one to twenty-three, and extended the possible period of detention from one to three years.
Young offenders between the ages of sixteen and twenty-three were divided into three classes (1) those who are not bad enough for Borstal and can be dealt with by probation

Supply-Justice
or other non-institutional treatment; (2) those who are too bad for Borstal, and (3) the remainder, mostly repeaters, who are selected for Borstal. As a rule first offenders are not sent there.
The Borstal sentence is ordinarily three years, of which two are spent in the institution, with one year at liberty under supervision. In the eight Borstal institutions, some are locked up at night, and some are locked neither day nor night. The institutions offer a graded system of supervision and restriction according to the character of the inmates. Some exercise no more restraint than there is in an ordinary boarding school-in fact the boarding school principle is extensively used. In each institution the boys are divided into houses, in charge of a housemaster and his assistant. They progress from grade to grade, promotion being governed by good conduct and industry, until they are trusted to work without supervision and then without escort.
Industrial training and. vocational guidance play an important part in the Borstal system. Through hard work, physical training and planned recreation, delinquent boys are thus able to reshape their lives. Much of the credit for their success is due to the unusually high calibre of the Borstal staffs, who are given the widest possible scope in dealing with their charges, and to the Borstal association which supervises and assists boys who have been discharged from one of the institutions. The success of Borstal is shown by the fact that two-thirds of the boys who are discharged do not again appear at any time during their lives in prison; and fewer than twenty per cent are repeaters. Almost all youngsters, with few exceptions, develop sufficient strength of character to take their places in the world as useful citizens. Such is Britain's very wise investment in youth. It seems to me that where we cannot lead, we can at least follow.
The report of the Archambault commission proved conclusively that the present system in Canada is fifty years out of date physically and morally. To remedy it requires more than the handful of amendments which have followed this, indictment. In my opinion the need is for a thorough change of perspective on the part of the government and on the part of the people of Canada. Many of the vices of the present system have grown up because of the complete indifference of the public in general. This mentality is undoubtedly a hangover from the Victorian era, where a prison was the place to which you sent lawbreakers and forgot all about them.
Five of the seven penitentiaries in Canada were built upwards of sixty years ago, and
the way of thinking that conceived these gloomy buildings still governs the treatment of their inmates. But if the physical constitution of our penitentiaries is antiquated, the penal therapy practised in them is equally obsolete. Yet it is useless to change one and [DOT]not the other. It is useless to develop modern methods of treatment if young and reformable offenders are to be given a complete education in crime through, enforced and indiscriminate association with experienced criminals. As it works out in practice, the first offender is a better citizen when he goes in than when he comes out. To remedy this situation, the Archambault commission made some eighty-eight recommendations. I shall not read them all, but I should like to refer to a few.
1.	A centralized prison system under one federal government authority.
2.	A classification system to separate young and salvageable prisoners from repeaters and the mentally deficient.
3.	Stress on education and vocational training.
4.	A new approach to prison discipline.
5.	Facilities for helping released prisoners take their place in civilian life.
6.	Institutions patterned after the Borstal system for young offenders from sixteen to twenty-three years.
7.	Better training and pay for prison officers.
8.	Thorough medical and psychiatric examination.
9.	A merit system for reformables on the model of the English system.
10.	More outdoor games and exercises.
11.	Reorganization of prison industries.
12.	Installation of parole officers.
The committee may or may not agree with the Archambault report, but I think we must all pay our respects to the intelligence and probity of the commission. But what has been done in the eight years since their report was submitted can only be put down as insignificant. In fairness it must be said that in six of those years we were involved in a horrible struggle and not much could be expected, but that is finished. We ought to be ready now to make progress. Some small reforms have been made, and credit must be given. These reforms include permission to the prisoners to have playing cards in their cells so that they can amuse themselves. They are allowed to have puzzles and drawing materials. They are permitted to hear a slightly wider selection of radio programs, and to see one moving picture per month. They bathe more often than they used to. One peniten tiary has installed mechanical dishwashers. The rule of silence
Supply-Justice

is now enforced only between the hours of seven and eight in the evening. Only a short time ago a psychiatrist was assigned to the penitentiary at Kingston, but there is still none in the other six penitentiaries.
But the rest remains practically as before. There is still the hole, the strapping bench, the thirty minutes of exercise a day, and the necessity of prisoners spending fifteen hours of each day alone in their cells. Prisoners still earn five cents per day in old and badly equipped shops. Virtually nothing has been done to facilitate the classification of prisoners, to supply vocational training, or to segregate and supply curative treatments' for young offenders. In the words of the 1913 penitentiaries commission:
The old and the young, the bad and the well disposed, the hopeless and the hopeful, all are treated as so much human waste in a common heap.
I would call the attention of the committee to the fact that penal reform is not a matter of amending one or another of the seven hundred odd regulations which have accumulated since the original Penitentiaries Act was passed in 1868. It is a question, first, of recognizing and, second, of applying, well established principles. The cornerstone of modern penology is classification, segregation and after-care, none of which is adequately practised in Canada.
Criminals may be divided into three main classes, as the hon. member for Saskatoon City has said. They are, first, accidental or occasional criminals; second, reformable criminals, and, third, habitual criminals. In Canadian prisons these types are thrown together in hopeless confusion, and when to them are added the criminally insane, for whom no separate provision is made, if they become insane more than three months after they have been committed to prison, the reason for Canada's failure in crime prevention becomes apparent.
Only adequate classification and segregation will avoid this evil, and these are almost physically impossible in the Canadian prison system as at present constituted. Sheer lack of facilities prevents the separation of the young from the old, the reformable first offender from the hardened repeater, the weak from the vicious, and the moron from the wayward intellectual. The only solution, as the Archambault commission realized, is to centralize penal control. I can see some difficulties about that. They recommended that the reformatories and provincial gaols must be brought under the same jurisdiction as the penitentiaries so as to develop a coordinated system of classification and treatment for all except short-term offenders. Instead

of automatically sending a man to the nearest penitentiary following a conviction of two years or more, as is done at the present time, it should be made possible to put him through a screening process that will permit the segregation in various prisons of the habitual offender, the young prisoner, the mentally deficient, the incorrigible, and the insane.
The Archambault commission recommended a six-point, programme of classification designed to remove many of the evils of the present system. This recommendation must be implemented, but its functioning is predicated on centralized control. But a just and humane prison system in itself does not complete the picture. The after-care of discharged prisoners is fully as important. The Archambault commission concluded that the alarming increase in repeaters was chiefly due to two factors:
First, the absence of any serious attempt to effect the reformation of the prisoner while he was incarcerated . . . and
Second, the failure to provide him on release with adequate assistance ... to obtain honest work and support himself and his dependents.
It costs this country $4,000,000 a year to keep 3,000 men in penitentiaries, but when a prisoner is let out, he is on his own. He faces an unfamiliar and hostile world with a railroad ticket, a few dollars earned at five cents a day, and a suit of prison-made clothing which he gets rid of at the first opportunity. Through enforced isolation from the outside world he has lost touch; his unproductive, rigidly controlled life in prison has left him badly handicapped in his efforts at rehabilitation. Sooner or later ninety-five per cent of our penitentiary inmates are released, and