Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. The Montreal Gazette of this morning carries the following heading on its front page:
M.P. scores "Empty Seat" report, accuses Gazette man of bad faith.
I did not accuse the reporter of the Gazette of bad faith. As a matter of fact I did not use the term at all, and the body of the report bears me out on this point. To the mass of readers who do not always read an editorial to the very last line, the heading is most misleading, and so I leave it to the house and the country to determine whether or not such a heading discloses lack of good faith, or just bad faith, to use the words of the Gazette.


Order. The hon. gentleman must state his question of privilege and be brief and to the point.


The newspaper in question insinuates that I accused the reporter of bad faith, which I did not do, when referring to the fact that the house has now but 242 members as the result of vacancies which had occurred recently and of which the reporter did not seem to be aware. I made the following statement in this house, which is reported verbatim in the Gazette:
Either the reporter's sense of observation is no keener than his judgment, or eVo he is disclosing an unusual lack of good faith, and that requires no further comment.


What is an unusual lack of good faith if it is not bad faith?


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege affecting the members of a special joint committee of the Senate and the House of Commons. As joint chairman of the committee which is examining and considering Indian affairs I raised this question of privilege at our committee meeting this morning, and the committee have directed me to raise the same question in this house at the first available opportunity.
The question arises out of newspaper headlines and reports which give an entirely misleading, unfair and untrue impression of certain of the proceedings of the joint committee on Tuesday, July 9, 1946. Newspaper reports I hope unintentionally, are unfair to both houses of parliament, mislead Canadians generally and will cause grave distress to the people most concerned-the Canadian Indians. As examples I should like to quote the Toronto Evening Telegram of July 9, which contains this heading: "Defeat motion to put Indians on committee." The Cornwall Daily Standard Freeholder of July 10 had this heading: "Defeats motion to have Indians on committee." The Kitchener Daily Record of July 9 has this: "Reject Indians on Ottawa body." The Owen Sound Sun-Times of July 9: "Refuse to name Indians to Commons body." The Toronto Daily Star of July 9: "Defeat move to let Indians give opinions." The Toronto Globe and Mail of July 10: "Oppose naming of five Indians to house group." The newspapers from western Canada, the maritimes and British Columbia are not yet on file, but it is likely that many of them will carry similar headlines unless some correction is made.

Questions
I have seen the story which was sent out from the House of Commons by the Canadian Press. That story is fair and impartial, and if properly used by the newspapers this question could not have arisen.
Your committee has put itself on record time and again as being unanimous in its desire to give all interested parties the fullest opportunity to make representations to the committee. At present we are getting on record the departmental case. As a courtesy we have already heard representatives of one Indian organization, because they were in Ottawa in conference; and if we can find some feasible means of having Indians in attendance at all times we shall be glad to recommend it. However, the Reverend P. R. Kelly, himself a full blooded Indian, who represents the largest democratically organized group of Indians in British Columbia, and in fact in Canada, has expressed to members of the committee his belief that the present is not the time for the committee to have Indians attend Ottawa constantly to be in attendance during the deliberations of the committee.
But we have, and I think it is important to emphasize this, engaged as counsel and for a liaison officer between the committee and the Canadian Indians, a member of the Six Nations band who is also a member of the Ontario bar. He attends all meetings of the main committee and the subcommittee on agenda and procedure, questions the witnesses, and later, when we arrive at the time to hear representatives of Indian bands, will assist them in the preparation and presentation of their briefs.
It is most unfortunate that the newspapers did not take the time and trouble to make a proper use of the Canadian Press report. This is not the time when the Canadian Indian should be allowed to believe that your committee is not doing everything in its power to give effect to the resolution moved on May 13 last by the Minister of Mines and Resources (Mr. Glen), the order of reference to the committee, or desires in any way to restrict either the scope or the character of our inquiry. I am glad to have this opportunity to assure the house, the people of Canada generally, and Canadian Indians in particular, that the work of the committee will be as thorough, as comprehensive and as searching as it is possible to make it.
Permit me in conclusion to assure all concerned that the committee is doing and will do all in its power to ensure that the revision of the Indian Act will in every sense be the magna charta of Canadian Indians.


Mr. Speaker, arising out of a similar question of privilege my complaint is this, that the Midna-pore Gazette, immortalized by Bob Edwards but never published, has not mentioned my name in the last three months.


Second report of standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines.-Mr. Breithaupt.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk)
1.	Has the Borden-Tormentine Ferry Prince Edward been overhauled and repaired?
2.	If so, when will she resume her work? Where were her repairs done?
3.	What was the cost of repairs?
4.	Has the Scotia been able to take care of all freight at Borden-Tormentine ferry? If not, how many cars are waiting transportation?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Resumed regular operation on July 6 at 2:31 a.m.; (b) At Halifax Shipyards Limited, Halifax, N.S.
3.	Not yet finally determined. Specifications can be prepared only of known work to be done prior to entering ship repair plant, but drydocking and examination of hull by steamship inspector frequently reveals the necessity of considerable additional work, and the over-all price has not yet been settled.
4.	The Scotia has taken care of movement of all freight between Borden and Tormen-tine, but there has been some delay in the movement of the lower grade commodities.


1.	How many applications for (a) land; (b) loans, have been made by veterans under the provisions of the Veterans Land Act within the federal eonstitutency of Lake Centre, Saskatchewan, since the 1st of January, 1945?
2.	Of these, how many have been (a) accepted; (b) refused?
3.	What are the names and addresses of the applicants and what decision was made in each case?


1 and 2. Lake Centre federal constituency is in the Regina and Saskatoon regional areas. The following information is supplied respecting applications for financial assistance that had been reported to the Saskatoon district office from inception of operations to May 31, 1946:

Prairie Farm Assistance
Regina	Received Approved Declined
Full-time farming..	420	259	40Small holding ....	35	25	1Commercial fishing	-	-	-Provincial lands...	26	21	4Saskatoon Received	Approved	DeclinedFull-time farming.	414	260	25Small holding ....	35	19	8Commercial fishing	1	1	-Provincial lands...	10	7	-
The number of properties purchased in the constituency of Lake Centre since January 1, 1945, as shown on head office records is 51.
3. It is not considered to be in the public interest to disclose information of -this nature affecting individual veterans.


1.	Has the Canadian government made a survey of the St. Lawrence waterway project to determine (a) what benefits, if any, would accrue to Canada from this development; (b) particularly in relation to the competition which will thus be created to the Canadian National Railways?
2.	If so, what is the date of such survey?


1.	Yes. The following surveys of the St. Lawrence waterway project which are concerned with the benefits to be derived from the development and with the competition with other forms of transportation have been issued as Canadian public documents:
(a)	Report of the international joint commission on the St. Lawrence Navigation and Power Investigation 1921, submitted to both the Canadian and the United States governments on January 6, 1922;
(b)	Report of the Canadian national advisory committee submitted to the Prime Minister on January 11, 1928.
A special committee of the senate also heard evidence, received documents and presented a report to the senate on June 6, 1928.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Who are the personnel of the Canadian
Information Service?	_
2.	Where does each one live and what is his regular occupation?
3.	What do they receive by way of salary and remuneration?
4.	In what way is the service organized and what office, if any, does each one hold?
5.	Is there an executive of the service, and if so how often did they meet in 1945?
6.	What days and how many were present at each meeting?
7.	Are the meetings open to the public?
8.	Have any persons other than the executive of the service attended the meetings, if so, who are these persons and on what occasions did they attend?


1.	What quantities of corn were imported into Canada in the years 1941, 1942, 1943, 1944, 1945 and 1946 to date?
2.	From what countries?
3.	What subsidies were paid each year on the above corn?
4.	For what purpose was the corn used?
5.	Have any subsidies been offered to the Canadian growers of corn to induce greater production?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Maple Creek (Mr. McCuaig) on Monday last asked me a question with regard to the bringing down of amendments to the Prairie Farm Assistance Act. At that time I stated that while my estimates were under consideration I had indicated that it was the intention to bring down amendments this session and refer them to the agriculture committee. I had hoped that the bill would be prepared and ready to present to the house at a much earlier date than this. As a matter of fact it was prepared just before I left to go west three weeks ago and could not be given final consideration until I returned. It is now suggested to me that to place this bill before the house at the present time would have two results which might not be helpful so far as this session is concerned. In the first place there are, I think, sixty members on the agriculture committee, and therefore many members who are now tied up almost continuously on other committees would have to sit almost daily from now until the end of the session to consider the bill; in the second place, full consideration could not be given even then. It has been suggested that hon. members be permitted, when my supplementary estimates come down, to ask any question on prairie farm assistance which they desire to ask on my general estimates; that I take time then to answer those questions, and that the legislation be not brought down until early next session, when it can be referred to the agriculture committee and there will be more time to discuss it thoroughly and go into all the details. If this meets with the
Labour Conditions

approval of hon. members, I will bring the legislation down not this session but early next session.


If there is no bill this session to amend the Prairie Farm Assistance Act, will that prevent changes in regulations for this year's operations if the suggestions are acceptable to the minister?


No. There is a general section in the act which provides for the making of regulations. I presume it would be the same in an amended act. The regulations could, if thought desirable, be changed.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. MARK C. SENN (Haldimand): I understood that earlier in the session the Minister of Agriculture suggested that the Seed Act was to be revised this year. Is there any intention of bringing down now a new bill?
I am not certain about a revision of the Seed Act. There was a suggestion made earlier in the session, which I hope and believe is being carried out, that some provision be made in the supplementaries for payments which had not been provided for in the regular estimates and which it was understood would be provided for. I think the passing of the estimate itself in that regard constitutes legislation upon it. But there is no change made in that intention, if that is what the hon. member had in mind.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour, of which I have given him notice. Because of inquiries I have had in the province of Saskatchewan may I ask if railway companies are subject to provincial legislation regarding holidays with pay for their employees?


I thank the hon. gentleman for sending me notice of his question. In answer to him I can only say that the question is a legal one which may eventually have to be decided by the courts. The legal departments of the railways. I am informed, have discussions under way with the provinces and I prefer to refrain from expressing an opinion for the present.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to ask a question of the Minister of Labour, arising out of a long distance telephone call I got from Toronto just before I came into the house. Did the minister say that the representative of the united steelworkers of America bad received a copy' of the order in council which he tabled in the house yesterday? The complaint is that they have not received it.
Hon. HUM-PREY MITCHELL (Minister of Labour): The order did not go through council until about half-past four yesterday; it then had to be signed and passed through the usual channels, but I did instruct my department to send copies forthwith to the parties concerned. That is purely a matter of mechanics; it is always done in that-way.


May I ask a supplementary question arising out of the one just asked by the hon. member for Vancouver East? At the present time a maximum increase of approximately ten per cent or ten cents an hour is fixed by the wage regulations. Is that mandatory in the present steel dispute, or has the controller power to negotiate further with the war labour board if he so desires?


I have no knowledge of any fixed amount in any regulations of any kind whatsoever. My advice to the leaders of some labour organizations-and I am now speaking of a very small minority-is that if they would avail themselves of ,the machinery that is set up I do not think we would have a strike in Canada to-day. Let me say very plainly to my hon. friend, because I think it should be said, that down through the years labour and employers have asked for representation on boards. Now I know that some of the young men who are in charge of organizations to-day, who have not had the experience of some older men like the hon. member and myself, believe they are rendering a service to organized labour by circumventing the machinery set up for the settlement of disputes. I think that in the light of experience they will find out that they were wrong. Consider my own position. These people take the men out on the street, as they say, and they are out for a while; they break agreements with the employers-I am not speaking generally, you understand-[DOT]


Or of the steel workers.

Foreign Exchange


No, I am not speaking of the steel workers, that is true, because they are not on strike yet. But they take these people out on the street, and then, when they get into a jam, as they say, they come to me and ask me to get them out of it. I believe that the sanctity of contract is the very basis of democratic life, and I do not think that anybody, be he employer or employee, who deliberately breaks a contract is rendering any service to the organization he is supposed to represent, or to himself, or to the country.


Mr. Speaker, I hardly think that lecture was called for by the question I asked, because I too agree as to the sanctity of contracts. But the present dispute involves a large percentage of the steel workers in my own community.


Order.


There has been no strike there. They have been negotiating.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I mentioned yesterday that I hoped to be able to make a statement to-day on Canada's representation at the Paris conference. Hon. members will have noticed that in the invitation which was accepted there is mention of the following fact:
Detailed particulars of the organization of the conference and of the rules of procedure recommended for consideration will be forwarded to the Canadian embassy in Paris.
I have cabled the embassy to see if it is possible to get this detailed information before making a statement to the house. I expect to have it in time to make a statement to-morrow afternoon.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence whether any consideration has been given to the recommendation of an honour list of members of the reserve army, which rendered such valuable services and carried out its duties so faithfully during the entire period of the war. Is it proposed that the services of these men be given any special recognition?


I thank my hon. friend for his question, which has been asked by some
other hon. members. I am glad to be able to say that an appropriate certificate has been authorized expressing the government's appreciation of the devoted services rendered by the men who served in the reserve army during the war. It will be available to all who were not on active service but who had not less than six months' service in the reserve army, and it will be issued through the commanding officers of the units concerned.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. W. CHESTER S. McLURE (Queens): Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance, of which I sent him notice as soon as I received it myself. What protection will be afforded to an exporter of goods to the United States who signed B-13 form with the foreign exchange control board, thus contracting to bring back American money, prior to the parity of Canadian and United States funds, and who shipped, delivered and sold but had not received payment? Will he receive SI.10 Canadian money on his contract with the foreign exchange control board?
Right Hon. J. L. II.SLEY (Minister of Finance): The answer to the question is as follows:	Facilities have been available by
which exporters could cover themselves against exchange risks for certain periods ahead by entering into a forward exchange contract with a Canadian bank acting on behalf of the foreign exchange control board. If the exporter had entered into such a contract he would receive an amount of Canadian dollars based on the exchange rate prevailing at the time the forward exchange contract was made. If he did not enter into such a forward exchange contract, he will receive the rate prevailing at the time the exchange is sold to his bank in Canada.
On the orders of the day:
["Mr. Speaker, I shall not waste what little time I have in discussing other matters. I have but a few moments left to utter my remarks on federal policies and I cannot use part of them to answer the question that has just been asked. I shall merely add that to my mind the habit of a sister of charity, the cassock of a priest, are just as sacred as the uniform of a nurse of the Victorian Order or the uniform of a British soldier.\nIn the province of Quebec we were faithful to the teachings which were instilled into us in so far as communism is concerned. In our\n\nThe Budget-Mr. Gariepy\nuniversities and our schools, long before the recent events took place, we had erected a bulwark against that nefarious doctrine. I have in my newspaper clippings an article which appeared in the Montreal Gazette, the Tory sheet of Montreal, lauding Stalin, Russia's hero.\nIn keeping with those teachings, our province, once war had been declared, held fast and accepted all sacrifices in men, in munitions, in food and in money. In my modest town of Three Rivers all victory loans exceeded their\nobjectives. Everyone, the rich as well as those of average means, responded to the appeal. In regard to the war itself, my youngest son volunteered and spent five years overseas, under enemy fire. We have accepted all that, Mr. Speaker.\n(On motion of Mr. Gariepy the debate was adjourned)."]
I desire to direct to the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply two questions pertaining to financial asistance to coal producers in Alberta. First, were Acadia Coal Mines Limited, of Calgary, Alberta, refused a hundred thousand dollar loan by the Industrial Development bank in May or June, 1946, the loan being sought to increase coal production? If so,
The Budget-Mr. Boivin

will the minister at an early date tell the house (1) why this loan was refused in these times of dangerous fuel shortage; (2) what the government is doing to enable this coal company and any other coal cohapany similarly situated to obtain the financial assistance necessary to increase production of coal?


Order. I would ask the hon. gentleman to put his question, which is a lengthy one, on the order paper.
[Later]:


Mr. Speaker, shall we get an answer from the Minister of Finance with respect to these questions?


I have asked the hon. member to put his question, since it is a lengthy one, on the order paper.


The house resumed from Wednesday, July 10, consideration of the motion of Right Hon. J. L. Ilsley (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Maedonnell, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Maclnnis.
Mr. Speaker, since the first session of the 20th Parliament was convened, the electors of the constituency which I have the honour of representing carefully followed the various reports on the House of Commons appearing in the newspapers and probably wondered, rightly so, when their member would rise to speak in this chamber. The moment, so long-awaited by many is finally at hand, and since the electoral division which I represent is mostly French-Canadian, I will take the liberty of speaking in their language, which is also mine, that is to say, in my beloved mother tongue.


Hear, hear!


Since coming here, I have leatned that a member of the Liberal party has a right to his opinions and convictions-


Hear, hear!


-in that ease, it may well be that I shall differ with some of my colleagues, but as I am aware of my rights, I consider it my duty, with reference to the budget now before the house, to express my opinion shared, I might add, by a large section of my constituencj'.

The budget is the most important item and if discussion of its provisions were left only to the financial experts of the house, the debate would soon end and it would be carried in no time.


Hear, hear!


May I at the outset congratulate the Right Hon. the Minister of Finance (Mr. Ilsley) for his masterly budget speech and for the manner in which he has accomplished such a thankless task, although he has been in poor health during the last six years.
After taking cognizance of the real meaning of the budget and in view of the confidence which our constituents have placed in each one of us, I consider that it is our duty, whoever we may be, to express our views. Some people claim that speeches delivered in this house are not very effective. I believe that eventually they will change their minds for in my opinion those speeches have always received and will continue to receive consideration. Further they are placed in the official records of the house in support of our statements and show whether we are right or wrong.
I have listened carefully to the mover of the address in reply to 'the speech from the throne, my colleague from St. Boniface (Mr. Viau); may I digress here to say that bishop Cabana of St. Boniface is a native son of Granby, and the constituency which I have the honour to represent is proud of him. I have also listened carefully to the seconder of the address, the hon. member for Queens-Lunen-burg (Mr. Winters). You will agree with me that both did their work with the same mastery and ability as their predecessors of the first session and one might have been led to believe that they had several years of experience in parliament.
Lord Athlone's message on the occasion of the opening of the second session, that is shortly before his departure, was followed with interest and even read over again by the members of the house following its publication. As I read it later, I shall take the liberty of referring to it when I conclude my remarks.
Mr. Speaker, since your appointment to that office, several of my colleagues have spoken in this house for the first time, either in reply to the speech from the throne or on various other matters.
You have, more than anyone else, been in a position, especially in view of your experience in the Legislative Assembly and the House of Commons, to appreciate their tact in fulfilling such an arduous task, and those are moments which remain forever in the

The Budget-Mr. Boivin
memories of the members elected by the people to represent them in the House of Commons.
Having spoken about my predecessors, I think it is my duty, at the beginning of my speech, to introduce myself and beg your indulgence as I am no philosopher.
You have no doubt noticed that I am one of the tallest members on the government side, but 1 am also one of the youngest.
You can easily understand why the diffidence I now feel is much greater than that of my predecessors, and for quite a good reason which I should like to state.
I had the honour to visit Parliament Hill as a young child, and my constituents showed their confidence by electing me as their representative, old memories come back to my mind. I may add further that when I went to the library in order to glance through the debates of many past years I noticed that thirty-five years ago, just a few days after the opening of the first session of the twelfth parliament, that is on November 29, 1911, in this very house, the then youngest member delivered before His Honour Thomas Simpson Sproule his maiden speech as the member for the constituency which I now have the honour to represent. While I am not a professional man, Divine Providence has ordained that the son should follow in his father's footsteps in order to protect, defend and assert the rights of his fellow-citizens.
On August 7, 1926, Divine Providence called to his reward a man who had devoted the best that was in him to his party and his country. He had been entrusted with the functions of Deputy Speaker of the house and later on, just about a year before his decease, that is, in 1925, those of Minister of Customs and Excise, duties which he honourably discharged in spite of the strong campaign waged by the opposition of that time.


Hear, hear!


I shall never forget the following message of sympathy sent to my mother, by the then prime minister, who is still at the head of the administration, the Right Hon. William Lyon Mackenzie King:
No other man of his time has rendered so many services to his country, with so much devotedness and loyalty, both as member of parliament, and as minister of the cabinet, as did the late Hon. Georges-Henri Boivin.
I feel it my duty, as one of the successors of the faithful supporter of the party and defender of his fellow citizens, to relate these facts to my younger colleagues from Quebec and the other provinces, so that they might draw inspiration from them and follow in his
footsteps during the transition period on the threshold of which we stand at the present time; thus, we shall ease to a certain extent, the heavy burden of our cabinet and, in particular, of the Prime Minister, who has directed our country through six long years of war, in such a way as to ensure its prosperity and cause it to be better knowm throughout the world as a country in which it is good to be living.
I grant, Mr. Speaker, that I should have liked to take part in this debate before to-day, but felt it my duty, as a junior member of the house, to take my bearings and first look after the interests of my constituents, by answering their requests and fraternizing with them, as I have ever done in the past, so that I may better understand their needs, which are largely those of the province and of the country at large.
May I be allowed to digress at this point in order to pay them tribute. Yes, the urban worker and the rural worker have indeed devoted time and energy to send one of their number as their representative in Ottawa; and you may be sure that, in return, I strive to represent them with that same sincerity which is theirs to such a high degree. Mr. Speaker, I was saying just now that they have made their needs known to me and, therefore, as their representative, it is my duty to acquaint you with those needs and tell you what the people of Shefford expect from the central government.
The county of Shefford lies in one of the most picturesque parts of the country, a region known as the Eastern townships, about 45 miles from the metropolis. Its industrial centre is my own home town of Granby, also known as the Princess of the Eastern townships, a most fitting appellation in view of the many parks and playgrounds that grace the locality. With a population of some 20.000, it boasts of some fifty different industries which provide employment due to the initiative of its business leaders.
I should add that the city of Granby also feels the effect of reconversion. We have our quota of unemployed. Its public organizations, such as the junior and senior boards of trade, and others too numerous to mention, are constantly on the lookout for new industries, ready to welcome workers and, thus decrease its claims on unemployment insurance.
Several of its citizens live in a princely fashion in this queen city, owning their homes of which they are justly proud.
On the other hand, a great number of our citizens are still homeless. In view of their insecure position, the town of Granby appealed
The Budget-Mr. Boivin

to the people through its radio station, its daily, its French and English weeklies, to provide them with housing facilities, but all to no avail. A government subsidiary company was approached, but answered that the number of our veterans was too small to warrant such building projects. Some time later, I took upon myself to inquire from a member of the legion in Granby the number of returned veterans. I learned that up to now we had more than 600. As a reward for the sacrifices they made overseas, those brave men would ask for nothing more than a home, however small. It is rumoured that the company to which I referred is ready to reconsider its decision. Meanwhile, a large portion of the people are waiting to see this hope fulfilled.
May I be permitted at this point to mention the county town of Waterloo, whose loyalty to the party in power has not wavered, although its two munitions factories were closed at the beginning of June last year. It can boast of the greatest war effort on the basis of its population. I tried vainly to secure the crown buildings for the municipal authorities. They were sold to strangers by the War Assets Corporation, to be demolished. Waterloo is left waiting for a new industry to absorb its unemployed, as a reward for its war effort. In view of the above mentioned facts, I hope that the wartime prices and trade board will cooperate in the way indicated recently by the Right Hon. Minister of Reconstruction (Mr. Howe)	to help this municipality.
Because of our returned veterans and of a floating population which has come back to its pre-war domicile, there is a housing shortage in Granby and Waterloo, as in most other cities and municipalities of the country. I hope, Mr. Speaker, that for a long time to come, the Minister of Finance will keep in office the housing administrators all over the country.
Several of my colleagues and myself have been informed of a shortage of building materials which contractors expect from manufacturers; rumour has it, however, that the latter must attend to priority orders before supplying other customers. That being the case, it is to be hoped that the building trade will increase its activity in the near future so that several thousand families now living in inadequate quarters may be properly housed. With reference to this industry, may I draw your attention to existing conditions and while my suggestion will not, I hasten to add, solve the construction problem it can substantially improve the situation. Throughout the country, at present, many wholesale merchants dealing in building materials are issued licences authorizing them to do both whole-
sale and retail business; nowadays, they tend to limit themselves to retail trade which is more profitable to them; contractors who formerly had the right to buy at wholesale prices and are now forced to pay retail prices, naturally refuse to purchase at an increased price. Distributors take advantage of the shortage of materials to make unreasonable profits, and in my opinion inspectors should be appointed to make sure that they sell at wholesale prices, for if their business was profitable in normal times they should, in return, do their fair share in critical times. I am sure that such steps would help to curb black market operations and materially increase the building of houses.


Hear,
hear.


The primary purpose of the budget in former years was to bring the war to a successful conclusion. Why should it not aim to put an end to difficulties occurring not overseas this time but right here in this country?
Speaking of the budget, I wish to refer to [DOT] a problem which is being discussed from coast to coast at present, a problem which it seems dangerous to tackle. This matter is highly important but it seems that my older colleagues are reluctant to discuss it. I am speaking of army deserters. On July 4, 1946, the Ottawa Journal, five o'clock edition, published an article under the following headline which appeared in large type: "The Provost Corps is seeking 14,000 deserters".
It read as follows:
The Mounted Police and Provost Corps are still seeking 14,117 deserters, of which 5,819 are volunteers and 8,298 have been called up.
After reading that item I wondered whether the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Abbott), in spite of his numerous occupations, ever took time to discuss this matter with the Minister of Finance in order to ascertain the cost to the country of these gentlemen, who deserted the army for a reason which in their own mind appears quite legitimate, and of which you are all aware.
Some people seem to believe that deserters cost nothing to the country as long as they are absent without leave. I do not agree with that opinion, especially since I visited military camps and found out that officers and men are waiting for the return of the deserters, and spend their time playing cards or fooling around; they seem to hope that the deserters will take their time to return so that they may keep their well paid jobs, especially in the case of officers. It is only natural that those

The Budget-Mr. Boivin
officers should want to remain in the army, in view of the higher rate of pay they are drawing in addition to dependents' allowances in the case of married men.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to continue my speech on this same matter but to speak about judges of military courts.
In the opinion of the rank and file in the camps those men have some of the nicest posts in the army, and you may rest assured that the judges want to acquire as much credit as possible by condemning deserters to twenty months, or even more, in order to make a good name for themselves and keep their highly-paid jobs as long as possible.
I again wish to refer to that item from the Journal which I mentioned a while ago. I must say a few words about the members of the provost corps who go around in the country to look for deserters and, in 90 per cent of cases, make useless trips at the expense of the Department of National Defence, whose estimates are included in the present budget. We must take into account the fact that most deserters do not have the same education as the majority of members of this house. I beg you to believe that when they deserted the army they were willing to fight for their country, but not for another country where they never lived and which really did not mean anything to them. It is true that they deserted the army, but they would have been willing to fight had their country been threatened.
Mr. Speaker, although I do not yet know much about life in Parliament, I have already made representations several months ago to the appropriate authorities regarding the way they are treated and, later on, I heard that the lot of deserters had been improved. I speak in their behalf again and I beg you to believe that they are not murderers or thieves, and I am convinced that they should receive a reasonable sentence.


Hear, hear!


You are no doubt under the impression that I am going to request an amnesty on their behalf, but I admit, Mr. Speaker, that this would not be practical, because the resolutions passed by the various legions would run counter to my request. I shall voice my personal opinion by stating that the best course to follow, in view of the fact that scarcely one year after the war of 1914-18 we granted full amnesty, I am wondering why the Department of National Defence does not make another concession this time, 63260-211
by punishing deserters with a 30-day jail sentence. The latter admit that they transgressed the law which had been passed by a majority in this house. So that I may be clearly understood I repeat that they transgressed a law of their land, but that they did not default against their country, because the latter was not threatened. Most of those deserters would submit to the law provided we give them a reasonable punishment and a humane treatment. This would considerably decrease the military estimates which, after all, are connected with this budget. Our people could then resume their pre-war employment and help to insure a sorely needed increase in our industrial and agricultural production. Fair treatment in their case would help production and those men would thereby be enabled to earn their living honourably and pay their fair share of taxes.
It is true that the government has levied heavy taxes on workers during the last six years and I know whereof I speak because I was one of them until June 11 last. I may add that we have accepted those taxes because we knew that they were necessary. The war has ended over a year ago and, now, the working people expect a fair decrease in taxes. You may be sure, Mr. Speaker, that they have done their duty and deserve proper consideration. Allow me, Your Honour, to quote Right Hon. Minister of Finance, whose statement appears in Hansard of June 27:
A review of our war finance and of our other economic policies and activities during the war would remind us of many achievements in which Canadians may justly take pride.
This is an excellent excerpt from the budget speech of the Minister of Finance. The credit given to our fellow citizens by the minister is well deserved, especially if we consider that the war not only has caused the sacrifice of the lives of our sons overseas, but has also broken Canadian homes and spoiled the future of thousands of our young men. Going still further, demobilization costs, in the previous budget, that of October 12, 1945, represented a percentage of 83-23 of our total expenses, or the fabulous sum of $4,418,446,000. I will admit, Mr. Speaker, that our population accepted the budget of 1945-46 realizing that war had ended but a few months previously, but, to-day, war being over for more than a year, it is regrettable that it has been found impossible to reduce the percentage by more than 8 per cent, since it remains at 75-85 per cent. This may be, in part, an explanation of the delay, until next January, in granting the tax deductions.

The Budget-Mr. Boivin

Mr. Speaker, the minister stated in his speech that taxation was the fairest means of providing revenue and that taxpayers' ability to pay was being taken into account. This, he says, applies to the low income earner no less than to people in the higher income brackets. As far as salaries are concerned, I agree, but when it comes to the taxation of professional men and business men, on this point, I must differ to some extent with the Minister of Finance. In order to achieve a fair distribution and to ensure equitable treatment to the people of this fair country, we should start with paying fair wages to the income tax assessors throughout Canada, so that they may further the interests of the department and tax all classes on the same basis. If they rvere paid a decent wage, the income tax assessors would better serve the interests of the department instead of catering to individuals. Tax revenues would thus soar and provide relief for the wage earner.
Mr. Speaker, I was also struck by the minister's statement to the effect that this period of numerous and persistent shortages, with the present strong demand for commodities, was obviously not a good one in which to embark upon a large-scale programme of public works. He added, however, that, as a result of the war, and of the depreciation of public property, many of our resources have been depleted to such an extent as to make it necessary for us to prepare long-term plans for a decided effort in all branches of public works when circumstances render them feasible. In this connection, Mr. speaker, I might add that in my riding of bhefford the people are living on expectations. We are in great need of such a programme of public works. It should materialize soon, considering the millions of Granby dollars which have found their way into the national revenue. I must congratulate the Right Hon. Minister of Finance on his presentation of the difficult financial relations between the dominion and the provinces, which have called for a great deal of extra work in the preparation of the budget. I realize that a prosperous central authority working in the general interest is essential to prosperity in the country.
May I be permitted to say, Mr. Speaker, that the people of Shefford are well aware of the minister's predicament and understand the pressing needs for great quantities of our products overseas. We know also that these countries are in no financial position to pay cash and that -we must extend our credit to them. As the Minister of Finance so aptly said, it is all very well to replace our expenditures for the last six years by investments which w'ill add to the productivity of our 
country, but we also believe that such credits should bear. interest, if they are being used I commend the government for its initiative and foresight and add, as was so aptly indicated by the minister in his speech, that in an unsettled and restless world, it is impossible to determine the economic trend of the future, which justifies us all the more in continuing to lend a helping hand since our investments bring returns.
In the budget speech, Mr. Speaker, I also carefully noted the section which dealt with the simplification of the tax procedure with regard to individuals, but I regret that the budget does not raise the exemption, formerly set at $660 for single people and $1,200 for married men, above $750 and $1,500 for these respective groups. It is to be hoped, however, that the suggestions of my colleagues will be implemented and that the pre-war exemption of $1,200 for single people and $2,000 for married men will soon be in effect.
Mr. Speaker, I now come to the other section of my constituency which is not the least important; I refer to the farming population which, to my mind, deserves immediate consideration if we would halt auction sales and the exodus from the land in our constituencies.
The county of Shefford is not outstanding for its agricultural products in general but the dairy production is unequalled. The wartime prices and trade board placed a ceiling price on butter and subjected this industry as well as other industries to certain restrictions. I deem it my duty tff call attention to the following, but before doing so I wish to congratulate the government for having allowed, a few months ago, an increase of four cents per pound in the price of butter. On that occasion I carried out a survey in my constituency and I found out that milk had a butterfat content of 3-5 per 100 pounds, which meant a thirty-five cent premium for the producer. The latter was receiving for 100 pounds of fluid milk giving 34 pounds of butter the sum of $1.04 plus thirty-five cents premium, a total of $1.75. On the other hand fluid milk could be sold in the metropolis for $3.05 per 100 pounds, including premium, or $2.70 after deducting shipping costs. I personally found out at the time that there was a substantial difference between those two prices in addition to the difference in the amount of labour required. This may explain the scarcity of butter.
In 1938 the agricultural cooperative of Granby township was organized. I may add that the people of Granby, as well as myself,

The Budget-Mr. Boivin
had some doubts as to its success, but from that moment I realized that the agricultural classes wished to get together in order to help one another and overcome the obstacles which they might have to face. I may add that the cooperative has met some difficulties but with the help of its 550 members, belonging to fifteen parishes in the vicinity of Granby, it has succeeded in overcoming them. In short, unlike a trust, the cooperative instead of exploiting the farmers, has made them prosperous and it wishes to continue to do so. It has entrusted its management with the creation of a powdered milk division which would produce for every hundred pounds of fluid milk thirteen pounds of powdered milk priced at thirty cents a pound, plus the bonus of thirty cents per 100 pounds; it would mean a profit of $4.40 which the cooperative would pass on to the farmers.
Let me add. Mr. Speaker, that I am acquainted with the cooperative movement in our province and that I give it credit for having helped the farmers to withstand bard times, because I remember how, not 'ong ago, the farmers were living in poverty. as regards the provisions concerning the cooperatives in this budget, I support the amendments proposed by the Department of Finance and the general attitude of the government, but I reserve the right to criticize the provisions of any bill that may be based on the government's proposals. I wish to take this occasion to compliment the minister for having spread over three years the income tax to be paid by the farmers.
Hogs are also raised on a large scale in my constituency, which in this regard takes a high rank, in proportion to its population. While I was speaking of butter a few moments ago some of my colleagues no doubt were thinking of the by-products. Yes, Mr. Speaker, a medal always has two sides and you-, no doubt, know that the slaughtering permit system -was adopted so as to control and ration meat; and, for my part, I consider these permits, as far as pork is concerned, as having outlived their usefulness, and I wish to bring the facts of the matter to your attention. Each month, a permit holder can only slaughter his quota, which is very low in our rural districts. It happens that a number of farmers take pigs to the slaughtering house, when they are ready, but the permit holder has to tell them that his quota being filled, he cannot accept them. The farmers must then take them back to the farm and wait another month in order to comply with the instructions of the Wartime Prices and Trade Board, and when they take them back they are placed in a lower class, if not rejected.
63260-211J
I revert now, Mr. Speaker, to my opening remarks on the throne speech. For more than a year the European war has been a thing of the past. We are glad of it but we realize that many countries who have resisted to the armed forces of an enemy bent on world domination are still to-day in the throes of privation, suffering and1 even starvation. May I remind those people overseas that Canada understands the sacrifices they have made to protect us from the dictators. We are prepared to help them as much as we can. We wish to develop. We desire the memory of those who fell on the battlefields to live forever. We intend to increase our export trade which has been promoted by the war.
In conclusion, I would ask the leaders of Canada to supply the needs of our own people, for charity begins at home. By such action we shall prosper, thus acknowledging that the sacrifices accepted for the glory of our country have not been useless.
May I repeat, Mr. Speaker, what I said at the beginning of my speech when I commended the stand taken by the Minister of Finance. In expressing by appreciation of the budget I told him that I understood the thankless task devolved upon him. I grant that, in view of the difficult years that lie ahead, he can hardly count on the improvement of the situation and I am sure that, under the circumstances, if all the members of this house who are more conversant than I am with parliamentary procedure, should undertake to supply some constructive criticism and express ideas which might directly or indirectly be of benefit to the Minister of F