CONTINUATION OF ACT OF 1945 UNTIL mat 15, 1947
That, whereas subsection one of section six of The National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945, chapter twenty-five of the statutes of 1945, as enacted by chapter sixty of the statutes of 1946, provides that subject as thereinafter provided, that act shall expire on the thirty-first day of December, one thousand nine hundred and forty-six, if parliament meets during November or December, one thousand nine hundred and forty-six, but if parliament does not so meet it shall expire on the sixtieth day after parliament first meets during the year one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven or on the thirty-first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven, whichever date is the earlier:	Provided that, if at any time while
that act is in force, addresses are presented to the Governor General by the Senate and House of Commons respectively, praying that that act should be continued in force for a further period, not in any case exceeding one year from the time at which it would otherwise expire and the governor in council so orders, that act shall ;ontinue in force for that further period.
And whereas it is considered desirable to continue the said act in force until the fifteenth day of May," one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven;
The following address be presented to His Excellency the Governor General of Canada:
To His Excellency Field Marshal The Right Honourable Viscount Alexander of Tunis, Knight

of the Most Noble Order of the Garter, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George, Companion of the Most Exalted Order of the Star of India, Companion of the Distinguished Service Order, upon whom has been conferred the Decoration of the Military Cross, one of His Majesty's aides-de-camp, General, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of the Dominion of Canada. May it please Your Excellency:
We, His Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the House of Commons of Canada, in parliament assembled, respectfully approach Your Excellency praying that The National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945 be continued in force until the fifteenth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and forty-seven.
He said: Mr. Speaker, on Friday I indicated to the house that an address would be moved praying for an extension of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945, until May 15. 1947. This procedure is provided for in section 6 of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945 which, after establishing the day upon which the act will expire, contains the following proviso:
Provided that, if at any time while this act is in force, addresses are presented to the Governor General by the Senate and the House of Commons respectively, praying that this act should be continued in force for a further period, not in any case exceeding one year, from the time at which it would otherwise expire and the governor in council so orders, this act shall continue in force for that further period.
As matters stand at the present time the act will expire on the 29th of this month. As the house is aware, the legislation introduced by the government at the beginning of the session, which was intended to give permanent effect to certain orders and regulations made under emergency powers-or, perhaps I should say, rather than "permanent effect", effect for a further length of time of a year, or thereabouts, in most instances-has not been fully dealt with by parliament, and none of it has received royal assent. As yet opportunity has not been presented to introduce a bill which is to continue in effect the orders which are required for a limited period beyond the end of March.
In order that the measures which are to be provided for in this legislation may not expire before the legislation becomes effective, it is necessary to extend the life of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945, sufficiently to enable parliament to complete its work and royal assent to be given to the resulting statutes.
As I indicated on Friday, I think it would be unsafe to plan for the completion of that legislation within a period of less than approximately thirty days after the conclusion of the

Transitional Measures Act
Easter recess. I should like to make it plain that the government has no desire to continue beyond the end of March any orders or regulations of the governor in council, except those to be appended by way of schedule to the Continuation of Transitional Measures Act to be based on the resolution standing in my name on the order paper, and except the orders and regulations of the governor in council to be replaced by the following bills:
An Act to Amend the Canada Grain Act;
An Act to Amend the Militia Pension Act;
An Act to Amend the Customs Act;
An Act to Amend the Feeding Stuffs Act, 1937;
An Act to Amend the Inspection and Sale Act, 1938;
An Act to Amend the Fertilizers Act;
An Act to Amend the Immigration Act, and to Repeal the Chinese Immigration Act;
An Act Respecting Import and Export Permits;
An Act to Amend the Militia Act;
An Act to Amend the Patent Act, 1935;
An Act Respecting Supplemental Payments on Mail Contracts;
An Act to Amend the Department of National Defence Act;
An Act to Continue the Revised Regulations Respecting Trading With the Enemy (1943);
An Act to Amend the Canadian Wheat Board Act, 1935;
An Act to Provide for the Sale and Export of Agricultural Products.
Then there is a bill, not yet before the house, relating to the compensation of government employees.


It is before the house now.


The resolution is before the house, but the bill has not been introduced.
The government is therefore prepared to revoke, effective the first day of April, all orders and regulations of the governor in council, with the exceptions I have mentioned. Submission will be made to council promptly to effect such revocation.
I am further prepared to give the undertaking, on behalf of the government, that as soon as the bills to which I have referred receive royal assent, orders and regulations of the governor in council which they replace will be revoked.
It may be that I have been just a little too concise in what I have said. But it may also be that what the government's plans are is perfectly clear. I should like what I have said to stand exactly as I have said it, as the
government's undertaking. Perhaps however I might elaborate a little so as to explain what the plan is.
We have before parliament, at various stages, these bills which I have mentioned. We also have a resolution on the order paper which will be used as the basis for another bill, called the Continuation of Transitional Measures Act; and to that bill will be appended, as I have explained to the house before, a number of orders in council, approximately fifty-five in number.
Now, it is not necessary to continue in force any orders in council which derive their validity from the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, except those orders in council and regulations which are to be [DOT] appended to the Continuation of Transitional Measures Act, and except the orders in council which are to be replaced by the legislation before the house, namely the list of acts and bills I have mentioned. Therefore the government is prepared to revoke, as of April 1, all orders in council except those I have mentioned. And as soon as the bills I have mentioned receive royal assent, they are also prepared to revoke all orders and regulations which the legislation itself replaces.
I do not know that I need say very much about the necessity for the bill. If we saw any reasonable probability of all this legislation becoming law before March 29, I think we would not ask for this extension. But every one of us knows that it is utterly impossible, in the time that remains before us, between today and March 29, for this legislation to pass its various stages in this house and in the other house, and to receive royal assent.
The matter is so important, and the results would be so disastrous if there were to be an abrupt termination of all these orders and regulations on March 29, that the government has a responsibility to begin-and to begin in time-to see to it that that result does not ensue. That is the reason we are proposing, on this 18th day of March, this address to His Excellency; and a similar address will be introduced in the senate.
I do not think that on this occasion I should outline in any detail the consequences of these orders in council lapsing. However, I might say just in passing that if they do lapse, rent control will disappear; eviction control will disappear; price control will disappear; the supplements to old age pensions now payable under orders in council could no longer be paid, and labour legislation which provides for a system of collective agreements between employers and employees would cease to have any effect. The effect of such an abrupt lapsing of this emergency legislation would be
Transitional Measures Act

confusion, if not chaos. My colleagues who are more intimately connected with the various phases of the matter could go into the thing more fully than I am prepared to do at the moment, but I think it is realized, whatever our views may be about controls, that this would be no way to end controls. To those who do not believe in controls at all on principle, the argument I think must be convincing that controls must be abandoned or dropped in a little more orderly way than this would be. To those who believe that there must be some measure of control in some of these fields for some time to come-and that is my belief-the importance of not permitting a lapsing of this control legislation on the twenty-ninth day of March is very great indeed. I am therefore moving the resolution.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) has gone a long way in accepting the suggestions made during recent months by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Bracken) and those on this side of the house, that statutes such as this which grant extraordinary and emergent powers should be brought to an end at the earliest possible day. I think consideration should be given to the repeal of the War Measures Act, another act in the same position as the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act; for as long as acts such as these stay on the statute book there is a continuing invitation to governments to utilize them and thereby abrogate the powers and prerogatives of parliament.
A lot of legislation has been introduced at this session and I think it has been passed with reasonable dispatch on the part of this parliament. When the minister spoke on February 4 last, as reported on page- 82 of Hansard, he set out in detail the various bills that were to be introduced by the government to take the place of orders in council. If it had not been for the fact that some other legislation was introduced which was not emergency .legislation, such as that dealing with the Chinese exclusion act, in my opinion there would have been no necessity for the minister to ask for any extension of this par-: ticular statute.
I think the time has come to put a stop to unnecessary departures from constitutional legislative practice and process. I think this is a step toward the restoration of the sovereignty of parliament over a bureaucracy noted by its multiplicity and even by its anonymities, a bureaucracy which in many cases is still above the law of this country, denied, as the individual is, the right of recourse to the courts against those acts that

are done to him individually and which he believes to be unjust. The minister might well continue the step he has taken today and make provision immediately to do away with those portions of the orders in council which deny the individual the right of recourse to the courts when at any time he is treated any differently by order in council or by regulation from others in the same class.
Our experience has shown that when you do not trust the courts, injustice and unfairness is the natural consequence. Now that we are taking this step forward, and a step forward it is, to deny extraordinary powers by way or order in council, I suggest to the Minister of Justice, through you, sir, that now is the time to show that, the emergency having passed, the courts of this country should be trusted to protect the rights of the individual. I am going to ask the minister when he gets the opportunity to take the house into his confidence in regard to whether or not parliament in fact has the power to pass this legislation at all.	.
At the time the bill was originally passed in the fall of 1945 the doctrine of emergency that had been enunciated in the privy council by Lord Haldane in 1922 and 1923 was still believed to authorize the dominion- parliament to entrench upon the legislative jurisdiction of the provinces under the guise or excuse of emergency. Within the last year a decision has been rendered by the privy council in the case of Attorney General for Ontario and the Canadian Temperance Federation. ' This case arose in connection with the Canada Temperance Act. I should like very much to have the minister explain how it can be justified under the excuse of emergency to pass large portions of the legislation that is being submitted to parliament, indeed the address that is now before parliament. If I understand that authority aright, and it has been interpreted on a number of occasions, not by the courts but by outstanding jurists and writers of jurisprudence, the doctrine of emergency no longer exists, and the excuse for the dominion parliament to entrench upon the legislative ambit of the provincial legislatures under the British North America Act no longer holds.
I intended to ask the minister to do what he has already indicated would be done, namely, to repeal or revoke all orders in council passed under the War Measures Act and continued under the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act as of March 31. That has been done. The other day I had occasion to suggest to the minister that he give us a list of all orders in council that were in effect

Transitional Measures Act
at the present time. I did that on March 14, and my remarks and the answer of the minister appear at page .1370 of Hansard. At the time it was impossible for the minister-or difficult, he said-to set forth in detail the orders in council that were in effect. Apparently now there is no necessity of having a list of those that are in effect and those that are being repealed, because all will be repealed as of March 31. But I am sure, sir, that I should not be denied the opportunity of saying this, that it was a serious situation that was revealed, that the people of Canada were subject to laws of which the cabinet was unable without great difficulty to set forth a list. We had an experience not so long ago of a secret order in council, and I am going to ask the minister when he replies to advise whether or not there are any other outstanding orders in council which will remain secret or are at present secret.


I will say at once that I know of none.


The minister says he knows of none. I presume by that he is guarding against the possibility that one might turn up which later on he might locate. I do not know about that. At any event I accept that assurance from him that there are none.
Next, if we pass this transitional bill covering a period of six weeks there is nothing to prevent the government from passing orders in council during that six weeks over and above those comprised as an appendix to the omnibus bill. Section 2 of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act will still remain in effect, whereby the governor in council may make regulations and orders in council to facilitate the readjustment of industry and commerce, maintain and control and regulate supplies and services, prices, transportation, property, rentals, employment, salaries and wages, and so forth, and assist the relief of suffering and the restoration and distribution of essential supplies and services in any part of His Majesty's dominions or in foreign countries. I therefore think that the minister's declaration should go further and that he should undertake that no orders in council will be passed on and after March 31 under the powers contained in the act in regard to any matter other than those covered by the list of subjects and the orders in council appended to the omnibus bill, except by way of repeal of existent orders. I think too that he should give us the undertaking that in asking for this extraordinary undertaking departmental heads and officials shall be denied the right of passing regulations further and other than those now in effect.


You mean taking the price ceiling off? That is what it means.


I do not mind dealing with that, but the minister specifically refrained from it and I am simply following him. I am asking for the assurance that parliament shall not go through the motions of denying the right of the government to pass orders in council under the transitional powers act with the government still in the position of being able to pass orders in council by reason of the continuance of the act for a further period of six weeks. In other words I want the assurance that the act will no longer be in effect except in so far as it is necessary to carry out the provisions made by the orders in council printed as an appendix to the omnibus bill. With that assurance, sir, we of the opposition are prepared to give support to the address that has been moved. It will mean that in giving that support parliament would now be making its declaration of supremacy and a declaration on the part of all of us that hereafter except in a very few matters the rule of bureaucracy in this country which continued throughout the period of the war and since will have come to an end.


Mr. Speaker, we are prepared to give support to this resolution. We believe that pending the passage of the omnibus bill it is essential that the government have power to continue controls in the interests of the Canadian people. We all remember the chaos that occurred in the United States about the first of July last year when their controls went out of existence because of the negligence of congress of that great country. The government of the United States at that time was unable to restore in very large measure the conditions that had existed prior to that period of chaos, and we would not be a party to anything that would bring about a similar condition in this country. Those of us who were in the United States last autumn when the president announced the removal of the remaining controls will remember the manner in which prices skyrocketed almost within a few hours of the removal of those controls.
As I listened to the discussion this afternoon and to the points made by the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) my mind went back to the period following the first great war. I remember how at the close of that war hon. gentlemen who now comprise the government of this country criticized very
Transitional Measures Act

bitterly the former administration because it had been necessary to utilize orders in council to do many of the things that must be done following a war of the magnitude of the war of 1914-18, as it had been following the second world war. I have in my desk at the moment one or two acts passed by my hon. friends to my right when they were in power from 1930 to 1935, such as the "blank cheque" legislation, the Natural Products Marketing Act and other acts of that kind giving the government of the day powers to pass orders in council to do many things which in the opinion of many of us should be done only by parliament. But it seems necessary that parliament must at times give authority to the government to do the things which it must do in an emergency.
I approach this question from a different point of view from that taken by the hon. member for Lake Centre. Parliament is sitting now, and I do not think the controls that have been lifted already during the sittings of this session should have been lifted without some discussion in this house. The cost of living has jumped during the last few months, and in my opinion this house should first have had the opportunity of discussing what should be done with regard to the controls which have already been removed.
As to the right of parliament to decide what shall be done, the bill which is to be introduced by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) to secure from parliament powers in the fields covered by the omnibus bill is I think now the proper procedure for this house to follow. As far as this group is concerned we are not anxious to see the government destroy those controls which work to the benefit of the Canadian people. Indeed we should like to see some of the controls which have been removed put into effect again to improve the conditions of our people at this time. And so, Mr. Speaker, we are prepared to give the government this exten-tion of six weeks.
It has been suggested that this should not have been necessary had we not been dealing with other legislation which was inconsequential, but the only bill mentioned by the hon. member for Lake Centre as being in the latter category was the Chinese Immigration Act. As I recall it the discussion of that measure took only one day.


That is correct.


And if my memory
serves me correctly, that day was February 11.


That is correct.


Since then it has not been discussed and it certainly has not delayed the business of this house. It was an attempt, with all its defects, to remove something that never should have been placed upon the statute books of this country.
My hon. friend makes a great deal of the denial of the right of the citizen to bring an action against the crown. That has not been the result of anything which the C.C.F. group has done in Canada.


May I just interrupt my hon. friend to say that he has not interpreted correctly what I was saying, which was as to the right of the individual to have recourse to the courts being affected by an order.


I was thinking of
what the hon. gentleman had to say the other evening when he did raise that question. So far as I know, only one government in this country has granted by statute the right to bring an action against the crown, and that is the C.C.F. government of Saskatchewan. Under clause 3 of the Crown Corporations Act of that province, a crown company can sue or be sued. I just wanted to mention that because this question has been raised two or three times in the house.
May I say that we are in favour of giving to the government the extension of power for which they have asked. May I add that if things move slowly through this house and it is necessary to extend the time beyond May 15, we shall be prepared to assist in granting that extension.
Mr. SOLON E. LOW (Peace River): Mr. Speaker, we are pleased to see the government take this step, which we consider a step forward, to relinquish some of the unusual and extraordinary powers which they felt they should have to meet the emergency situation brought on by the war. We should like to see the government take steps as soon as it is possible in the interests of the Canadian people to relinquish more of these powers and to restore to parliament its full sovereignty. We are prepared to support the resolution to extend the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act for a period of six weeks. We hope that in that period we shall be able to make sufficient progress to make it unnecessary for the government to ask for any further extension. We shall honour our commitment to assist in every possible way to get these bills through so that there will not be any necessity for asking for that extra extension.


Order. The hon. gentleman should not use this resolution as a pretext to discuss old age pensions.


Mr. Speaker, like the
Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) I am referring to old age pensions only so far as this resolution deals with the matter. If you will recall the remarks make by the Minister of Justice, he said that this resolution has to do with orders in council covered by a long list of acts which this house is now dealing with, plus the orders in council which are a schedule to the omnibus bill. There are fifty-five or more of them. He specifically named old age pensions. My point is that when I asked the government a few weeks ago abput this matter, the answer was that the subject of old age pensions is under discussion with the provinces, and that was given as the reason why it could not be expected that the matter would be dealt with in this house at the present time. I submit if that is the reason why it cannot be dealt with before March 31, that can go on being the reason for the entire life not only of this resolution but of the omnibus bill.
I call upon the government to realize that in the meantime the old people are suffering. The government has the power now, between now and March 31-even if it were to give to the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) an undertaking not to pass new orders in council after that date-to amend order in council P.C. 6367 of August 10, 1943, and raise the amount of the old age pension. This order in council included in this schedule
is different from other orders in council in this document. The others, whether I agree or not, are for the most part orders which are on the way out, orders which hon. members to my right at any rate wish to get rid of. But so far as the old age pension order in council is concerned, no one suggests that it is on the way out. We hope it is on the way up. If the government's reply is that they can do better later when they get an agreement with the provinces, well and good. But let us not wait until that maximum of $50 a month, shall we say, is attainable. Let us have an act or order in council right now improving the position of old age pensioners, in order to avoid suffering even for another month. That is my whole plea. I ask that this necessary resolution be not used as a basis for delay.


Just in the interests of clearness, may I say that there are two other classes of orders in council in the same category as the old age pension orders in council. There is the one relating to the veterans' preference in the civil service, and the one relating to labour relations. The whole three classes of subject matter are to be dealt with by legislation later in the session.


The minister is perfectly right in referring to those other two; and I will say in support of him that those and the old age pensions order are the three which he named when he first spoke on this matter on February 10. I would support him wholeheartedly if he would treat all three as emergency matters and bring in now legislation relating to them rather than using this as a basis for interminable delay.


Mr. Speaker, the house is being asked for authority for the extension of the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act of 1945 as amended in 1946. I contend that the enforcement of the orders in council, should be a responsibility of the government of Canada instead of being left to the municipalities. By the time parliament deals effectively with this whole control matter the war will have been over for more than two years, and in the meantime all business is being hamstrung. Business men do not know what orders in council have been passed that are still not repealed. I know this because I have received letters from magistrates and other persons from which I gather that people have been fined under certain orders in council, and when I have looked them up, having gone to a great deal of trouble to search the records, I find that some of those particular orders under which people were convicted had
Transitional Measures Act

expired or had been repealed. The list of those still in effect should be published.
No business man can conduct his business satisfactorily today. The small business man is complaining of the handicap he i3 under through some of these irksome controls. It is all very well for certain hon. members to applaud and to support this legislation, but I can assure them that in the city of Toronto a large section of the police force is engaged in the enforcement of over 100,000 of these orders in council that should have expired right after the war was over. Take the housing situation. The summer will be gone before anything effective can be done by this parliament to aid it and remove some controls. The government has dilly-dallied with this question right along and it will not be before May 15, or four months after the first meeting of parliament, that we shall be able to deal with it. We might as well grant an extension to the end of the year of the whole act of 1945 as amended in 1946.
In the United States they got rid of their controls as quickly as they could. It is true that prices rose considerably for a short time, but they fell by the law of supply and demand when it was found that people were not buying the goods at the prices that were being charged. I do not see why these controls should be extended and played with by bureaucrats as they are in this country. As a member of parliament, I do not know what orders in council are still unrepealed, nor does the public know. I am sure the people do not want this legislation and a wide spread control system continued indefinitely. It leaves the administration and enforcement of these controls to the municipalities and is putting a burden on .the taxpayers. Building inspectors, architects and others engaged in that line cannot get on with their work because they do not know what the law is under all these various controls that have been set up. I would not object to a reasonable extension if an effort was made to eliminate them, but I hope that between now and May 15 all the unrepealed orders in council will be tabled.


Before the minister rises to reply may I make one observation and ask one question. It has to do with the omnibus bill. The proposed schedule to that bill is before us. The house will know, and the minister will know, that the member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) said that this resolution would have the general support of this party, but he asked one assurance, namely, that no orders in council be passed during the extension
	|
period on matters other than those in the uncompleted legislation we have before us. The minister has indicated that he will likely give that assurance.
There is one other point. The minister has not yet introduced the omnibus bill. He has made no statement with respect to it. I think the house would appreciate having that bill before us before Easter. I hope the minister, will give an affirmative answer to the suggestion that he introduce the bill and make a statement with respect to it before the Easter recess.


Mr. Speaker-


I have to advise the house that if the minister speaks now he will close the debate.


With regard to the first request, made in the first instance by the member for Lake Centre and later by the leader of the opposition, the government is quite prepared to give an undertaking that no orders in council will be passed under the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act relating to any matters other than those dealt with by the orders and regulations of the governor in council which are being continued. I do not mean merely the ones in the schedule to the act, but the orders and regulations of the governor in council which deal with matters that are dealt with by the other bills, a list of which I have read as well.


But you may amend some of those.


Yes. It must be remembered that if we do pass any orders in council under the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act in that field we must table them within fifteen days and they may be dealt with by parliament. But I am prepared to give an undertaking to stay in that field.
To make myself technically correct, I should say that it will be necessary to continue, not to revoke, the orders in council relating to the appointment and remuneration of persons in connection with the administration of those orders to which I have referred. That will be dealt with in the bill that will be placed before the house. It is a small matter, and I mention it only to keep myself technically correct.


You are not concerned about being correct, apart from the technicality.


The other question was with regard to the omnibus bill. I shall introduce the resolution. I am prepared to do so at any

Transitional
appropriate time and make an explanation in broad terms of the legislation that is to be based upon that resolution. If the resolution goes through I am prepared to introduce the bill itself, and will do that before the Easter recess.
At the moment I am not prepared to deal at all competently with this constitutional point. I do not understand that the emergency doctrine was abrogated by a decision of the privy council. If it has been varied, it has been in the direction of the extension of the powers of the dominion rather than a limitation, by the Canada Temperance Act case. I can go into that matter fully when I introduce the legislation on the continuation of the transitional measures bill.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion? Carried.
Some lion. MEMBERS: No.


Mr. Speaker


Order. Before the minister spoke I told the house he would close the debate.


On division.


I declared the motion
carried on division.


No.


I shall put the question. Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion? Carried.


No.


On division.


Orders of the da.y.


Mr. Speaker, it seemed to me I heard several voices say "No. In the circumstances the government would like to have a division on this.


Call in the members.


Carried.


Mr. Speaker, the motion was carried. I don't see how you can call in the members.


I was paired. Had I voted I would have voted for the resolution.


I was paired with the hon. member for Colehester-Hants (Mr. Stanfield). Had I voted I would have voted in favour of the resolution.


Order. I will not permit the hon. member to discuss the conduct of the Speaker.


I desire to raise a question of privilege. I submit with great deference that this house should not, without the unanimous consent of the house, revert to other items of business that have already been decided upon and passed. I would have raised this question prior to the vote being taken except that some people might have regarded it as a move whereby this group was opposed to the resolution, which we are not. I raise the question now and say that I do not think the Prime Minister's influence in this house should be any greater than that of any other member.


Hear, hear.


Order. I would ask the hon. member to resume his seat. I repeat that over twenty members rose, and according to the standing order it is the duty of the Speaker to call in the members. Moreover, as nobody protested at the time, I think-


They did.


I protested.


Mr. Speaker, I rise either on a question of privilege or a point of order. A few minutes ago you declared this resolution carried. One minute afterward you called the orders of the day. Then for some strange reason, to suit the whims and fancies of a few, you asked-


Order.


Order. I would ask the hon. member to resume his seat.


On a question of
privilege-


I ask the hon. member to resume his seat. When the Speaker saw over twenty members rise in their places to ask for a recorded vote I believe it was the duty of the Speaker to call in the members in order to have a recorded vote.


I protested before they stood up.


What I am asking is this: The resolution having been declared carried by you, and the orders of the day having been called, on what authority or under what rule of the house-


Order.


Order.


Sit down.


Order. I would ask the house to pjroceed with its business. Orders of the day.


On the orders of the day:
['There is a new clause 5. Since clause 3 and clause 4 are going to stand, Mr. Chairman, I think we had better allow clause 5 to stand also.\nProgress reported.\nOn motion of Mr. Mackenzie the house adjourned at 10.50 p.m.\nWednesday, March 19, 1947']
Mr. Speaker-


Sit down.


Mr. Speaker, I know quite well that I do not have to sit down for any hon. member in that corner of the house.


Stand up.


I should like to ask the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply a question based on many wires and letters which I have received.


Order. I would ask hon. members to preserve more decorum in the chamber.


I should like to ask the minister of reconstruction a question based on letters, telegrams and long distance calls I have had from my riding. The minister made

Inquiries oj the Ministry
the statement on March 4 that he had not heard of any shortage of nails during the past two months. My question is this: hardware stores, contractors and carpenters in my riding-


I would ask the hon. member to make his question brief and to the point.


Carpenters have not been able to get nails. I should like to ask the minister where they can get a few kegs of nails, because there are none in the Peterborough district.


In the hardware store.


There are none in the hardware stores.


If hon. members are anxious to put questions they must be anxious to get the answers. I would ask them to moderate their voices.


Where can they get any nails?


In response to a complaint about the shortage of nails in the Toronto district made in this house some two weeks ago I made inquiries and found that there was a stock of 5,000 kegs of aluminum nails in the warehouses. These were not selling well, although it is admitted that the aluminum nail is as good as the steel nail, and perhaps better for some purposes.


Oh, no.


If my hon. friend will write the Aluminum Company of Canada I can assure him that he will get as many aluminum nails as he wishes to buy.


A four inch aluminum nail is no good.


My hon. friend did not specify a four inch nail. I am speaking of two inch and two and a half inch nails.


You cannot put up studs without four inch nails.


I am trying to give my hon. friend some information.


I will keep quiet.


The production of nails is high as compared with any previous year. Hon. members are well aware that during the steel strike stocks of nails became exhausted, and at present all pipe lines have not been filled up. I realize that Peterborough may be pretty well out on the pipe line; nevertheless I can assure my hon. friend that there 83166-94i
is no real reason why any builder, for priority construction particularly, should have any trouble in getting nails. If my hon. friend refers to so-called non-essential building which hon. members opposite say should be stopped, then I am not particularly worried about whether nails can be had or not. But for any priority work, or for any essential purpose, nails are now available.


These are veterans' homes.


May I ask a supplementary question, based on two wires from Nanaimo saying that the building of houses has been stopped because no nails can be bought in Nanaimo? Can the minister do anything to assure a reasonable supply?


I am informed that between 600 and 700 tons of rod per month are being shipped to Morrison Steel and Wire Company, Vancouver, for the manufacture of wire nails. This is fifty per cent above the shipments from eastern mills to Morrison in normal times. British Columbia is getting a greater percentage of the total nail production, compared with normal times, than any other province. I know that there can be no real shortage in that area.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday on the orders of the day the hon. member for Wellington North (Mr. Menary) asked for some information with regard to the price of fiax in his district. For the crop year 1946-47 the price of flaxseed is $3.25 per bushel-No. 1 Canada eastern flaxseed basis in store Montreal. The flax producer delivering the top grade of flax in Toronto would receive $325 per bushel less a handling charge of five cents per bushel and less freight charges of 24 cents per 100 pounds Toronto-Montreal or a net price of $3,064 per bushel. The Hanover-Montreal rate is 27 cents per 100 pounds. Lower net prices are accounted for in the grade spreads for grades of flaxseed lower than No. 1 Canada eastern flaxseed and also discounts for tough and damp flaxseed.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege, not that I have any particular brief
National Defence Act

for the gentleman mentioned, not even on March 17. I quote from an item in the Ottawa Journal of March 17-and I think I am in order, Mr. Speaker, because this is a matter that affects everybody:
Late this afternoon there was no trace of Mr. Sullivan nor his family around Chelsea.
"It was five o'clock in the afternoon," related Mrs. Jeanne Bambriek, postmistress at Chelsea, when a little girl came around and asked for the Sullivans' mail. I gave it to her and she walked back down the road to deliver it."
Chelsea, I understand, is in this district. I would ask the Postmaster General, has any postmistress any authority to relate anything about anybody's mail, even Pat Sullivan's, or to say to whom it was given or when?


Mr. Speaker, the question was
pretty long and I should like to see it in Hansard before answering. I did not hear it clearly.


Read it in Hansard
tomorrow.


I will take good care that I do.


.SERVICE ESTATES-CONCURRENCE IN SENATE AMENDMENT
Hon. BROOKE CLAXTON (Minister of National Defence) moved the second reading of and concurrence in an amendment made by the senate to Bill No. 19, to amend the Department of National Defence Act.
Will the minister explain the amendment?


Mr. Speaker, section 2 of Bill 19 as passed by the house would facilitate the administration of service estates of members of the armed forces who die during their service as such members. When the bill came before the senate it was found that two or three, certainly a very small number of members of the armed forces, had died while they were in veterans' affairs hospitals and before what would have comprised their service estates could be paid to them during their lifetime. It is possible that such a case may occur again, that a member of the naval, military or air forces of Canada may be discharged, undergo treatment under Veterans Affairs and die before what would constitute his service estate is paid to him during his lifetime. It is to cover this possibility that the amendment is introduced.


Is the amendment acceptable to the minister and the officials?
(Mr. Cruickshank.]


Yes. The amendment is to insert in line 30 on page 1 of the bill, after the word "or", the words "of former members". The amendment was suggested by the law officers of the crown and was acceptable to the members of the other place and to the department.
Motion agreed to; amendment read the second time and concurred in.


The house resumed from Monday, March 17, consideration of the motion of Mr. Gardiner for the second reading of Bill No. 25, to provide for the sale and export of agricultural products.
Mr. JEAN -FRAN QOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata):	Mr. Speaker, this is a bill which
I have read with great care. We have been told so often that the ideal of the Liberal party was to give the private individual a chance that I am greatly surprised at this kind of legislation being sponsored, not by Mr. John Stracliey in England but by a Liberal government. I cannot conceive how a Liberal government would sponsor such legislation.
If what has been said about assistance to other countries of Europe is true, I would draw the attention of the minister to the first line of the preamble, where he will see that, whether inadvertently or not, the United Kingdom is not mentioned among the countries which were and still remain in grave distress for want of adequate food supplies. The question is not that of assistance to any other country, the United Kingdom, France or any other country. The question is whether this is a true democracy, whether we have private initiative any longer in this country, or have we a planned economy for good? We are told:	Oh, this is only for
a year-we will change it next year. How many times were we told during the war: This measure is only for the time of the war, and as soon as the war is over we will go back to normal. How many times did I tell the then leader of the opposition that he was wrong in that, that it was the duty of members of parliament to act as a brake to prevent this country from falling into ruins; and he said:	Well, I am patriotic and I
close my eyes during the war, but after the war we will see to it. The war has been over now for two years and still this thing is going on.

Agricultural Products Act
After all tlie denunciation we have heard of controls from all comers of the house I was surprised to see only thirteen members rise a moment ago to express their dissatisfaction with the continuance of controls. They speak one way and vote the other way. The members who are logical and have the courage to stand by their guns are very few in this house, and that is why parliament is falling into discredit in this country. It is because the actions of members of parliament are different from their public speeches. I want the Minister of Agriculture to understand very well that I am not discussing his case particularly. I am not discussing the case of the Right Hon. James Gardiner, Minister of Agriculture in the King government. I intend to discuss the case of any minister of agriculture. He will have control of all agricultural produce in this country except wheat, which is something formidable. He will have control even of the feed of animals. Did you ever think of that? I wonder how many members of parliament have read this legislation contained in Bill No. 25, establishing a special case, something that no one would have dreamed of in this country. Under it the Minister of Agriculture is being authorized by parliament to pass certain regulations and is being given by parliament more powers than any minister of agriculture ever had in any country.
Naturally the Minister of Agriculture will choose his own advisers. He will have power to buy and sell the agricultural produce of this country. He will have the right to establish boards, and he will have the right to tell every farmer in this country: "You will produce such and such agricultural product. You will sell it to me. If you do not sell it to me, you may be found guilty of an offence and sentenced to a fine or to jail, or to both." With the approval of the attorney general of Canada, who is the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilslcv), and the attorneys general of the provinces, the fine may go up to $5,000 and the imprisonment to two years. The man who will not obey the order of the Minister of Agriculture may be sentenced to two years in jail and to pay a fine amounting to $5,000 as the maximum; because that man will not have obeyed the Minister of Agriculture, he will be found guilty. As a Liberal I cannot approve that.
We are supposed to pass legislation. I want legislation passed by this parliament-meaning passed through all stages in the House of Commons, the Senate and having the sanction of the Governor General-establishing what an offence is. That is the way it is done in tlie criminal code. Who ever gave a blank
cheque to anyone regarding the imposition of fines and imprisonment in this country? Where is the civil liberties league? We do not hear of them when we need them. We must do the work of the so-called civil liberties league. They are in existence only to defend rascals who have been traitors to this country.
Coming back to the bill, may I say that no farmer will approve it when it is explained properly to him. No farmer will say this bill is all right if he has an opportunity to read it. I know the farmers. I live among: them. They abide by the law but they want sensible laws. They want laws which appeal to their sense of justice. They do not want to receive orders from anyone. They will not understand why such immense powers have given to one man, however worthy he is of the confidence of his fellow citizens. Even if the Minister of Agriculture deserved the confidence of the whole house-and it is possible that he has it-he may die tomorrow, and his successor as minister of agriculture will have the very same powers, powers undreamed of by any Canadian public man. This is going to be done as a matter of course.
Yesterday excellent speeches were made by some of our colleagues who explained their points of view. Those who were in favour of the bill spoke very well too, but they did not convince me. It is said in the bill:
... it is necessary by reason of the existing national emergency that parliament-
That is all of us.
-confer authority to enable the government of Canada to fulfil its obligations.
In the dark, outside of parliament, the government of Canada has assumed tremendous obligations to other countries; and now we are called upon to give our sanction or approval to ail that. How is it that none of those agreements are published as an appendix to this bill? Some explanation may be given occasionally about it. We do not know what it is all about, and when we ask for some information we get it drop by drop. We have to fight for the information. It cannot be given properly because everything has been done in the dark. We have complained bitterly time and time again that parliament has been informed only after the thing has been done. We were informed of the accomplished fact. Parliament has never been consulted about the emergency-and I use the word which is used here-of passing such agreements w