Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Secretary of State for External Affairs): Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to table the report on the second part of the first session of the general assembly of the united nations which was held in New York from October 23 to December 15 last year. Copies of the report are being circulated to all members of the house. The present copies of the report are in English; a French edition is in preparation.
Though the report is formally a report on the New \rork meeting of the assembly, it is in fact more than that. The discussions of some issues in New York were part of a process of study and discussion which had gone

United Nations
on in various bodies of the united nations since the end of the first part of the first session of the assembly in London. The report therefore covers many of the developments in the united nations during the whole period from the close of the London meeting on February 14, 1946 until the close of the New York meeting on December 15, 1946. This is indicated in the title of the report, which is "The United Nations, 1946".
The report is the third in the series of reports which the Department of External Affairs has issued on the united nations. The first report was on the San Francisco conference and the second report on the London meeting of the assembly. Together, those three reports describe the progress of the united nations and Canada's participation in it from the opening of the San Francisco conference to the end of 1946.
In many ways, this report is a departure from ordinary practice. It is not merely that it is more extensive but it is more explanatory and more outspoken.
Frankness is, I think, appropriate in a report of the united nations from the government of Canada to the parliament and people of Canada. The charter of the united nations begins with the words "We, the peoples of the United Nations". The charter thus recognizes a very direct relation between the united nations and the individual citizen of the member states. It is, therefore, fitting that the Canadian government should give to the citizens of Canada a full account of its steward' ship in respect of the united nations.
The report contains not only a summary of the discussions and decisions of the assembly but also the text of the more important resolutions adopted by the assembly. It tells how Canada voted on about forty of the more important or the more controversial issues and gives the reasons why the Canadian representatives voted as they did. It also gives the text of the more important speeches made by Canadian representatives at the plenary meetings of the assembly and in the committees.
The report is a lengthy document and perhaps the members of the house w'ould allow me to draw attention to some of the sections which might be of particular interest.
The preface to the report explains the structure of the united nations and of the various bodies linked to it. We thought that this might be useful because the structure is somewhat complex.
This is followed by a general survey of the work which the assembly was able to accom-83166-119j
plish in New York. Perhaps I might mention some of the conclusions set forth in that survey.
More was accomplished in New York than could reasonably have been expected when the assembly opened. The assembly demonstrated that, when it had delicate political questions to deal with, it would usually deal with them with moderation and restraint. Usually, not always. It would be too much to expect of any deliberative body, when it is dealing with questions which arouse deep feelings, that it should always act with moderation and restraint. Appeals to passion and prejudice were made, for example, in the debates on the Spanish question and on the treatment of Indians in South Africa. These appeals were not confined to the advocates of any particular resolution.
Under present conditions issues like the Spanish and South African issues cannot be properly settled in a deliberative body such as the assembly by counting heads. Unfortunately this truth was not always recognized in the discussion of these issues but it was recognized in the discussions on disarmament. What appears to be the most important accomplishment of the assembly in New York was the unanimous adoption of the resolution on disarmament, and this unanimity was made possible only by the joint and sustained efforts of many delegations to reconcile the separate proposals which each had advanced. These efforts were based on a common recognition of the fact that, if an assembly resolution on disarmament was to have practical results, it had to be concurred in by all the heavily armed powers and by the great majority of all the other powers.
One encouraging feature of the assembly was that in voting on important questions there were few hard and fast blocs of states. To demonstrate this, we have included in the report an appendix showing how each of the 54 members of the united nations voted on ten significant issues. This table is worthy, I think, of careful study.
The general survey of the work of the assembly is supplemented by a somewhat similar survey of the work of the economic and social council. The structure of organized intergovernmental cooperation on economic and social questions is more complex today than before the war. In addition to the economic and social organs of the united nations itself there are at present seven, and there may soon be twelve, international organizations which are specialized and functional and to which large areas of international collaboration have been entrusted. It is hoped that this great
United Nations
series of organizations will provide for comprehensive and varied attack on those economic and social problems to the solution of which international collaboration can contribute. The range and complexity of the system, however, carry with them certain dangers. The report sets forth some of these dangers as we see them and some of the ways in which they might be minimized.
One of the dangers is that, because of the increasing number of international meetings and their increasing length, governments may find it difficult to send adequate delegations to all the meetings. It was for this reason that the Canadian government had included in the agenda of the assembly in New York an item entitled "measures to economize the time of the general assembly". Our views on this question, to which we attach considerable importance, are set forth fully in the report.
The general survey is followed by sections dealing with each of the main issues which arose in New York. These are grouped under six heads-political, economic and social, trusteeship, administrative and budgetary, legal, and other questions.
I shall not attempt to list these questions. I would, however, like to draw the special attention of the members of the house to the section on disarmament.
We feel that Canada was able to make a valuable contribution to the discussions in New York. On this question and in order that the record may speak for itself, we have included in the appendix to the report the text of the final disarmament resolution together with the various preceding drafts including the Canadian proposals. We have also included the speeches given by Canadian representatives in explanation of the Canadian proposals. It seems clear that, had the assembly adopted a disarmament resolution wrhich contained the imperfections and ambiguities present in the original proposals, the debates, which would have been precipitated in the security council and the atomic energy commission on the precise meaning of the words of the resolution and exactly what the assembly had recommended the security council and the atomic energy commission to do, would have been long, harassing, and probably sterile.
As members of the house who have attended international conferences know, a great deal of the most useful work of a delegation does not appear on the surface of events. Perhaps the proportion that rises above the surface is very much the same as the proportion of an iceberg which is above the surface of the water.
As an indication of this, we have thought it wise to include in the report the text of the

"working paper" on disarmament which was prepared in the Canadian delegation over three weeks before we formally submitted to the assembly our resolution on disarmament. We have also printed for the first time the memorandum on sanctions and the veto which the Canadian delegation to the atomic energy commission circulated to the commission on December 19.
Questions have been raised about Canada's attitude on the various issues which have arisen in the united nations concerning relations with the present regime in Spain. I think that hon. members will find that these questions are fully dealt with in the report. There is, for example, a statement of the position which Canada took on each of fourteen votes on the Spanish question.
In the hope that it might be of assistance to the special committee of both houses which is to be set up to study the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms, we have included in the report the statement of essential human rights which was drawn up [DOT]by a committee appointed by the American Law Institute, the resolution of the assembly referring that statement to the commission on human rights, and the resolution of the economic and social council establishing the human rights commission.
During this session of parliament, the house may be asked to consider various questions relating to refugees and international relief. There are sections in the report dealing with these questions which might provide useful background material for the members.
The same applies to the sections in the report on the budget of the united nations and on the scale of contributions to those budgets.
The Canadian delegation to the assembly in New York .contained members not only from the government side but also from the Progressive Conservative and C.C.F. parties. I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to express on behalf of the government our appreciation of the contribution which was made to the work of the delegation in New York by the leader of the opposition in this house and the leader of the opposition in the Senate and by the leader in this house of the C.C.F. party. We worked together as a team in New York. We discussed fully and frankly at daily meetings the problems with which the delegation was confronted.
This policy of sending to the general assembly of the united nations a delegation representing all the major political parties of Canada is an experiment. Under our system of government, the government of the day must accept full responsibility for every action of a delegation at an international conference.

United Nations
That responsibility must be ours and we do not ask the opposition parties to share it. We do feel, however, that it is of immense value to the people of Canada .to have leading members of the opposition parties participate at the united nations assembly in the discussions which lead up to decisions on the attitude which the Canadian delegation should take.
Pending the time when we may be able to have a discussion in this house of Canada's relations with the united nations, it might be appropriate to have this report considered by the standing committee on external affairs and, if I have the unanimous consent of the house, I should be glad to move that the report now tabled be referred to that committee.	.
The UNO is nothing but a tower of Babel. We should send missionaries over there instead of politicians.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the
members of the house will welcome the receipt of this report from the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. St. Laurent). I rise to make one observation and to ask one question. The observation I wish to make is as a member of the Canadian delegation to the general assembly of the united nations which met in New York last fall. As a member of that delegation I wish to pay tribute to the man who was honoured in having been chosen as chairman of the delegation. We found not only the chairman of the delegation but the technical advisers well prepared for the heavy task which they had to perform. We found the minister always courteous and thorough and one in whom we could take pride as chairman of the delegation of which we were all members. While I am speaking of the chairman of the delegation I want my words to apply equally to all of the members, including the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar who sits to my left.
After glancing at the report which has been tabled, and from what the minister has said, I take it that it is not a report of the general assembly of the united nations but rather a report of the Department of External Affairs on what took place at that gathering.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: That is correct; it is a report of the part taken by the Canadian delegation in the activities of the assembly.


It is a report of the
Canadian delegation, or rather of the Department of External Affairs, dealing substantially
with what took place at the general assembly in New York during the months of November and December last?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: Yes.


Since the leader of the opposition has referred to the chairman of the delegation at New York I should like to associate myself with his remarks in that regard. Canada and the Canadian delegation were fortunate indeed in having the present Secretary of State for External Affairs as chairman of the delegation. As he said, we met every morning, and while sometimes we did not see eye to eye with him in every particular, through his ability h* was always more or less able to bring us together to present something of a united front. I think that was a great tribute, both to the chairman and to all of the members of the delegation. I should like to associate myself with the leader of the opposition in paying this brief tribute to the work of the chairman.


May I be permitted to ask the minister one question? I did not hear the minister mention the work of the security council. I realize that we are not on that council yet, although I have hopes that at sonie time we shall be. That council of course has been doing important work and is the one organ of the united nations which is heavily endowed with power. I wonder why in the report there was no reference by some of our observers in the Department of External Affairs to the work of the security council, which is of tremendous interest and concern to all Canadians.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: This was intended to be a report of the Department of External Affairs on the participation of the Canadian delegation in the work of the united nations and the Canadian representative on the atomic energy commission who participated in the work of the security council on the atomic energy question. He was called in under I think it is section 31 of the charter of the united nations. Our participation to that extent was covered by the report I tabled the other day on the work of the atomic energy commission.
As to the activities of the security council, the hon. member will find that they are indirectly referred to in the discussion of the matter of the voting procedure in the security council, but that is the only portion that was covered. There will be available to hon. members copies of the report of the security council. There was a report of the security council to the general assembly, which served
Veterans Guard oj Canada

as the basis for much of the work of the general assembly on this second part of the first assembly.


Have we an observer constantly at the security council gathering?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: No, we have not an observer. We have not appointed a representative to be permanently at the site of the united nations, and we have no permanent observer at the security council. Though I shared with my hon. friend the disappointment we experienced when we were not elected to the security council, I must confess that had we been there we would not yet have any accomplishment to be proud of.


I wish to make a brief statement in regard to the basis of wheat deliveries in western Canada. Members of the house will recall that since August 1, 1941 wheat delivery quotas have been based upon what was known as the authorized acreage. An authorized acreage was established covering each farm unit in western Canada and delivery quotas were established on the basis of so many bushels per authorized acre. Authorized acreages were more equitable than seeded acreages whenever there was a possibility of a final limitation on producers' wheat deliveries in any crop year. Because it is not the intention of the government finally to limit wheat deliveries, it has been thought advisable on grounds of equity to use a seeded acreage basis in 1947-48.
Under the conditions which now exist the government is of the view that for the crop year 1947-48 and until further notice, any seasonal delivery quotas necessary for wheat and other grains in western Canada will be based on seeded acreage.
I am making this statement at this time in order that grain producers in the west may understand that any seasonal delivery quotas which may be established in the coming crop year will be on a seeded acreage basis for wheat and other grains.


Mr. Speaker, if the house will permit I should like to make a statement with respect to the veterans guard.
	.
Another stage has been reached in the demobilization of Canada's armed forces. We have already said good-bye to such fine wartime organizations as the Women's Royal Canadian Naval Service, the Canadian Women's Army Corps and the Women's Division of the Royal Canadian Air Force, better known with affectionate respect as the WREN's, the CWAC's and the W.D.'s. Now it is with feelings of pride that I call the attention of this house to the work of that splendid body of men, the veterans guard of Canada, due for disbandment today.
The veterans guard was authorized during the dark days of May 1940 to give the veterans of the war of 1914-1918 their chance to serve in the defence of the home front. They stood on guard for Canada in the front line trenches of 1914-1918 and in the second world war they stood on guard for Canada on the frontiers of their native land.
Amongst the tasks which their country asked them to undertake during the recent war was the protection of many lonely but important places on both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts and many vital and vulnerable points in Canada where sabotage or any form of enemy attack might have been a national calamity. These men, too, willingly undertook one of the most wearing, tiring and thankless of all tasks with the firm discipline which they themselves had learned as Canadian soldiers, and, with the tact and humanity which they had learned as Canadian citizens, they guarded the enemy prisoners of war and escorted them back to Europe when the war was over.
In October 1941 the first members of the corps proceeded overseas for duty at Canadian military headquarters, in London, and other companies soon followed. A special detachment was sent to Newfoundland early in 1942 and companies were sent to the West Indies and British Guiana.
In the ranks of the veterans guard were men who had gallantly led their comrades into successful action in the great war of 1914-1918. Their ranks were decorated with the ribbons of two Victoria Crosses, 65 Military Crosses and bars, more than 75 Distinguished Conduct Medals and over 300 Military Medals.
At the peak strength in August 1945, nearly
9,000	veterans were serving in the veterans guard. Some of these men spent ten of the last thirty years serving their country in two world wars. Those thirty years should under happier circumstances have been the happiest and most productive of their lives, dedicated to peaceful tasks and the joys of family union. The fact that ten out of thirty years should have been spent in this way is a challenge

Veterans Guard of Canada
not only to us but to the whole world of men to work with each other and with all nations, in order that such devotion and unselfish service can hereafter be dedicated, not to the harassing duties of war but to the advancement of national, international and human welfare.
On behalf of the Canadian people, I extend to the Veterans Guard of Canada heartfelt thanks for a good job well done, and a grateful farewell.
With regard to the demobilization of the remaining men in the three services who enlisted for the duration of the war or for interim service, a relatively small number are being retained, with their consent, until the end of September of this year to assist in putting the armed forces on a post-war basis. As this phase is completed, the men so serving will be progressively reduced and all will be out of uniform by September 30, 1947. This is the date by which every man who joined up for the duration of the war will have returned to civilian employment or enlisted in the post-war active forces.
This termination date will be marked by appropriate ceremonies, particularly to recognize the part played by Canada's reserve forces in our total war effort and to emphasize the great part that the naval reserve divisions, the Canadian army reserve force and the air force auxiliary squadrons can, and we trust, will, play in the post-war forces which should the need arise again will be available to serve our country. Every fit young man too young to serve in war should join one of Canada's citizen services. The reserve forces are proceeding with their organization and their essential place in Canada's national life in peace and war calls for strong support in every community.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to add just one word, if I may, to the remarks which have been made by the Minister of National Defence, because I had a large number of these old soldiers serving under me.
In the minister's statement three words stood out. The first was thanks, the second was farewell, and the third was challenge. Thanks and farewell are not enough for these old soldiers who have given up so much of their time to the service of this country. The challenge-


Order.


-is to this government fo provide some sort of employment for these old soldiers and to make some sort of provision for them so that they may be
reestablished in civilian life. Under the present regulations they are trying to get certain benefits-


Order.


I think all members
of the house, regardless of party, would like to associate themselves-


Hear, hear.


Order.


I thought the hon.
gentleman had resumed his seat.


I had not, I wish to
point out-


Order. I have allowed
the hon. member to make a few remarks but I would point out to him that it is not permissible for him to make a statement or start a debate.


Surely he has the same
right as the minister.


Oh, oh.


Oh, yes. He has just
the same right and perhaps more.


A
shadow minister?


I am not playing politics-


Oh, oh.


-I am merely speaking up for some men who served under me-


Hear, hear.


-and I have the right to do so. I want to say one more word regarding some old soldiers who have received notice that they are to be discharged ou the first of April of this year.


Order.


Order. I would ask the hon. member to be brief. He cannot make a speech. The statement made by the minister is not debatable and I would ask the hon. gentleman to be brief in his remarks.


I will be very brief, sir.


Order.


May I ask whether those permanent force soldiers who have done more than nineteen years' service and who hope to get a pension for twenty years of service, and have now received notice that their service will terminate on the thirty-first day of March, today, can also receive the thanks of the minister for the services that they have
186S
Veterans Guard oj Canada

given, and also receive the consideration which the minister is giving to assist these old soldiers of the veterans guard?


Mr. Speaker, I think that all members of the house would like to associate themselves with the thanks expressed by the minister to the men of the Veterans Guard of Canada who have served their country so well. May I say that I should also like to associate myself with the remarks of the hon. member for Nanaimo (Mr. Pearkes) and to express the hope that this country will do more for these old soldiers than merely to give them a vote of thanks.


The members of this group, Mr. Speaker, would also like to associate themselves with the remarks made by the hon. member for Nanaimo. It can be truly said, I think, that the men who served in the first world war and the men of the veterans guard are Canada's forgotten men.


Mr. Speaker, speaking for the apex of the Liberal party, we would like also to associate ourselves with what has been said; only we hope that we shall have the same privilege of making speeches in favour of the veterans as has been accorded to the hon. member for Nanaimo.
Mr. LESLIE A. MUTCH (Winnipeg South): Under the circumstances, Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact you have permitted a debate on this question-


Order. I would call the attention of hon. members for the second time to the fact that I cannot permit a debate.


I shall be satisfied, Mr. Speaker, if you will afford me the same facilities as have been accorded to other members.


Why don't hon. members over there yell "order" now?


In the beginning I should have been content to allow the Minister of National Defence, in what I thought were well chosen words, to pay tribute to these men for me as a supporter of the party. But I have had some opportunity to serve with the men who are being disbanded today, and as a comrade of theirs in two wars, speaking for myself and everyone on this side of the house -if we are going to do it in this way-I wish to pay my tribute and to express the hope that in view of their doubly difficult rehabili-
tation they will have not only equal but special consideration. I am sure that is the hope of this house.


That the second report of the special joint committee of the Senate and the House of Commons appointed to continue and complete the examination and consideration of the Indian Act, presented to the house on Wednesday, March 26 last, be now concurred in.


Motion agreed to.
Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Secretary of State for External Affairs)-: I would ask for the consent of the house to move at this time the motion of which notice is printed on page 27 of the routine proceedings and orders of the day. W'hen the house took recess some time after six -o'clock on Friday, the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon), who was then acting for the leader of the opposition, asked the leader of the house to indicate the programme of work for today; that was done, and it seemed to me to meet with pretty general satisfaction as being a proper programme for this day. But it so happens that that programme cannot be carried out in accordance with the standing orders of the house unless this motion printed on page 27 of the routine proceedings and orders of the day is considered at this time. There had been a motion made that government notices of motion have precedence over all other matters, but the introduction of bills, questions, notices of motions for the production of papers. But the effect of that resolution expired on Friday the 28th, and we would therefore, under normal procedure, revert to the standing orders which would be in accord with the proceedings as printed in the orders of the day.
I discussed this with several members of the house and it was suggested, amongst other things, that in making this motion at this time, the exception providing for the introduction of bills, questions and notices of motions for the production of papers should be extended and should include, from eight to nine o'clock in the evening on Tuesday and Fridays, private bills and public bills. That seemed to be a reasonable suggestion, and if I have the consent of the house to make the

Business of the House
motion at this time I should be disposed to include that exception in the motion, so that on Tuesdays and Fridays from eight to nine o'clock private bills and members' public bills might be considered-in accordance with standing orders so long as government business has precedence over other matters.
There is another feature which was pointed out to me, which I in turn discussed with my colleagues, and which we found was quite proper. I do not think any member of the house considers it to be entirely fair that private members should be deprived of the opportunity of bringing before the house matters which might not be on the routine proceedings and orders of the day. Having discussed that with my colleagues I am prepared to give the undertaking that so long as government business would have precedence under a resolution such as this, the government would as the first order of government business on each Monday move the house into committee of supply so that all hon. members would have at that time a full opportunity to air any grievances which they might have or to bring to the attention of the house anything not on the routine proceedings and orders of the day which they felt was of sufficient importance to engage the attention of the house at that time. I think it would be well if each Monday that is to be taken for government business, as the first order of government business there were a motion to go into committee of supply, so that every hon. member would have an opportunity to bring up at that time anything which he felt was of sufficient importance to warrant its being discussed. The intention of the government would not be to go on with the consideration of supply when the house got into committee, but rather to call two or three departments and have them opened so that they might on any appropriate occasion be dealt with in accordance with the standing orders.
If that arrangement seemed to be suitable, it might be taken as an undertaking of the government to move, on every Monday when government business would have precedence over other affairs, to go into committee of supply as the first order of business so that any question not on the order paper but about which any hon. member was concerned, could be discussed. We have now only today, tomorrow and a short day on Wednesday before taking recess and I think it was the general feeling that we should continue with the emergency legislation before the house. I would therefore request leave to move at this time:
That on Monday, March 31 instant and every sitting day thereafter until and including Monday, April 28 next, government notices of motions and government orders shall have precedence over all other business except introduction of bills, questions and notices of motions for the production of papers, and except, from eight to nine o'clock in the evening on Tuesdays and Fridays, private and public bills; and that standing order No. 15 be suspended in relation thereto.
The acting leader of the government has indicated the position in which we find ourselves today as a result of the way in which our programme is printed in the routine proceedings. The procedure allows private members' business to have priority over government business. The minister has suggested that we reverse that order and put government business before private members' business. As he has indicated and as we all know, in order that the change may be made now, notice not having been given before, the arrangement must have the unanimous approval of the house.
Speaking for the official opposition, when requests of this kind have been made to us, as has been the case several times this session, we have raised no objection, and we raise no objection now. I think it only fair, however, to point out what the minister himself indicated, namely, that particularly during this session private members have been asked to make sacrifices, and there should be some recognition of the position in which they have been placed. We have no desire to take advantage of the technical position in which the government finds itself today. I do not think we should. And I do not mean to urge the government to grant any more concessions to private members than their judgment would suggest. But the minister has said that from now on the government is willing to move to go into supply each Monday. To that extent private members will be permitted to discuss questions they feel should be dealt with. I think that is a good suggestion, and I support it. It is an ill wind that blows no one good, so if the situation confronting us today is a little difficult, I believe some good may come out of it for the private members of this house.
We are agreeable to the. suggestion reversing the order of business today, provided that free discussion is permitted each Monday when the motion is made to go into supply, and provided that we are not denied the right to discuss matters mentioned in private members' resolutions, which under a narrow technical interpretation of the rules I understand might be denied us. I do not think that right should be denied. I would respectfully suggest to the minister that his proposal should not be limi-
Business of the House

ted to the period mentioned, but that he undertake that this motion be made every Monday from now until the end of the session.


May I say that we too approve the suggestion of the minister, which I understand to be that on Mondays hereafter until these motions run out private members will have the right on going into supply to state any grievances or raise any questions they regard as of urgent importance. It is an improvement on the procedure we have followed in this house up to the present, and after trying it out we might consider making it a permanent part of our rules of procedure. We also approve the proposal to devote the usual hour from eight to nine o'clock on Tuesday and Friday evenings to private and public bills. That is something we appreciate, for it does give private members an opportunity of doing things which otherwise, under the resolution we have adopted this session with regard to procedure, they might not be able to do. Therefore I support the proposal of the minister and express the hope that we may be able to facilitate the business of the day by adopting it unanimously.
Mr. SOLON E. LOW (Peace River): The members of this group will be prepared to support the minister's proposal. I take it that on Mondays when the government does move into committee of supply, only one or not more than two departments at the most will be called. With that understanding we will certainly give our support to the suggestion.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: I shall not ask to open more than two departments unless at the time I have the consent of the house to open more. With respect to the other suggestions that have been made, during the whole session Monday is a private members' day, and if we applied this rule during the whole session it would mean that Monday would not again become a private members' day; but that we can further consider. For the present all I am asking is that while -we are taking something from the private members on Mondays, we call supply as the first order of government business so that there may be an opportunity of airing any grievance that may have arisen.


The Mondays the minister has mentioned are the Mondays until April 28, or whatever date was mentioned by the minister; it was not the Mondays until the end of the session?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: Not beyond the time covered by the motion. We may have to

suggest that the motion be extended at another time, but if that were done another undertaking would be given.


May I ask the minister to comment on the suggestion I made with respect to the possible limitation of debate on this motion to go into supply? Are we to be denied the right to discuss matters which may be mentioned in resolutions now on the order paper, but which have not oome up for discussion? I think we should have the utmost freedom of discussion on Mondays.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: I am not as well informed as I should be about the standing orders of the house. I was under the impression that we could not move the adjournment of the house to anticipate a discussion on something already on the order paper, but that on going into supply hon. members were not limited, and I would not like to see them limited, in anything they might feel it was proper to bring before the house at that time.


But is that not a matter for His Honour the Speaker? No member of the government can possibly commit the Speaker to something which contravenes the rules of the house. That is the way it stands, at least on the face of the rules.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: So far as I am concerned I shall be prepared to rely upon the sense of responsibility of each hon. member, at a time when there is urgent public business to be attended to, not to raise anything he does not feel is of sufficient importance to warrant taking the time of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I desire to draw the attention of the house to the fact that this discussion has been agreeable and pleasant, and the motion probably will be adopted unanimously, because the acting leadership of the house is different. We do not any more hear anyone being called "irreverentially impertinent", which was something rather tough in reply to the word "touchy." When one feels that he is the lord spiritual because he has been appointed right honourable, it cannot cause anything but trouble. The discussion today has been very agreeable, between humble men, some of whom have titles and others of whom have not, and it is rather admirable. Last year I brought the attention of the Prime Minister through Hansard-I did not do it in any other way-to the fact that it was quite i ecessary to change the acting leadership of the house, and now that it has been changed

Business oj the House
we are at peace. I hope the acting leadership will remain under another sky for a very long time.


The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Cold-well) referred to the possibility of 'having a trial of this proposal. I do not want to take much time just now, but I should like to bring up a matter which has to do with the business of the house, and I think this is the appropriate time to do it. At the risk of being accused of having repeated something I said on Friday night I want to say that I feel keenly about this. Will the government consider making an experiment after we return from the Easter recess with a view to changing the unearthly sitting hours with which we now have to put up and arriving at something that would be more satisfactory? If we sat every sitting day of the week from one o'clock in the afternoon until seven o'clock in the evening it would give us three more hours of actual time for debate. There would be no question of reducing the hours of sitting; it would simply be a matter of trying to find a more convenient and satisfactory, and shall I say a more humane arrangement for the House of Commons. I should like the government at least to try it out; if it did not work, no great harm would be done. After the Easter recess I suggest that for the first week the government consider sitting from one o'clock until seven to see if the proposal I am making will not -work out in the interests of all concerned.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: I can assure the hon. member that the government will give serious consideration to the suggestion he has * made and will endeavour to have it considered by the chairmen of the special committees set up by the house to see if it will be possible still to have time to do that part of the business of the session which has to be attended to by the select committees. The select committees might have to meet somewhat earlier than eleven o'clock if the house were to meet at one. I think that is an aspect of the matter that should receive consideration. I can assure the hon. member that if arrangements can be made which will be more conducive to the convenience of hon. members and will allow the work of the session to be accomplished, it will be a great pleasure to me personally.


I presume that the house itself will be consulted on this matter as well as the chairmen of committees?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: Of course the government would not attempt to do more than to bring a motion before the house for the
determination of the house, but I think the chairmen of committees should have an opportunity to consider the work they have to do and how they might have to arrange the sittings of their committees to fit in with any new arrangement for the hours of sitting of the house.


If it is adopted we will [DOT] call it the Graydon rule.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. WILFRID LaCROIX (Quebee-Mont-morency) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 133, to amend the criminal code (illegal organizations).
Explain.
Mr. LaCROIX: The communist party of Canada and the Labour-Progressive party of Canada and organizations with similar objectives and advocating the use of similar means of overthrowing constituted authority as developed in Canada under our constitution are a menace to the safety of the state and should be outlawed by an adequate provision of the criminal code. The government, with the approval of parliament, thought it necessary and expedient for the safety of the state to outlaw the communist party during the war. Such organizations constitute a great threat to the safety of our national institutions in peace time and should be suppressed in like manner. With this object in view it is proposed by this bill to declare the named parties illegal organizations under the criminal code.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Mr. SARTO FOURNIER (Maisonneuve-Rosemont-for Mr. Rinfret) moved the first reading of Bill No. 106 (from the senate) to incorporate Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway Company.
Are we to have no explanation? I should like to call the attention of the house to one fact about this bill. It wdll take ten years to build this railroad and the company is to be permitted to build pipe lines, carry on shipping and ocean services, operate hotels and many other things -light and power developments, air lines, etc.
Questions

It gives them the right to do almost anything in Labrador, provided that authority is first obtained from Newfoundland. It is clearly ultra vires of the dominion.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk).
How many married women paid income tax in 1945 in respect to salaries alone (as contrasted from those who paid income tax on investments) and what was the aggregate of the income tax so paid?


As stated in answer to an earlier similar question statistics have not been assembled in a form to answer this question but arrangements have been made to gather such statistics in the future beginning with the year 1946.


1.	What is the personnel in charge of the arsenal at Valeartier?
2.	How many of this personnel have had overseas service?


1.	183. for the most part permanent government employees.
2.	Twenty.


1.	Does Edwin Eraser hold a position with the federal government in Nova Scotia?
2.	If so (a) what position; (b) what remuneration does he receive; (e) on whose recommendation was he appointed, and what are his qualifications for the position?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Supervisor of fisheries, district No. 2, Nova Scotia; (b) $3,000, plus war duties supplement $480 per annum; (c) Appointed by Civil Service Commission as fisheries inspector February 1, 1920 and promoted to present position by same authority July 1,1932; (d) Adaptability to fisheries administration and an intimate knowledge of requirements based on long experience.
TMr. Church.]


1.	Does the amount of $8,815,680.52 owed Canada by the U.S.S.R. for advances made under section three of the War Appropriation Act, bear any interest?
2.	If so, at what rate?
3.	When will the principal be repaid?


1 and 2. After these advances had been outstanding for several months and no agreement had been reached on the terms of a long term credit to cover these and other purchases then contemplated, Canada proposed to the U.S.S.R. that the advances should bear interest at three-quarters of one per cent if paid off in cash within a relatively short time, or should bear interest at whatever rate was later agreed upon for a long term credit if they were covered by such a credit. As yet it has not been possible to secure the agreement of the government of the U.S.S.R. to the payment of interest at these proposed rates.
3.	When the U.S.S.R. requested these advances, immediately after the end of hostilities in the Far East in order to purchase food for the U.S.S.R. troops which had been fighting the Japanese, the government of the U.S.S.R. undertook to repay them either by cash or on the basis of a long term credit agreement then under negotiation. As yet it has not been possible to secure the agreement of the government of the U.S.S.R. to a definite date for the repayment of these advances.


1.	Is the pilot plant at Chalk River being maintained for atomic research?
2.	How much money was spent to maintain this plant for each year of its operation during the war?
3.	How much has been spent on it for each year since the war?
Mr.McILRAITH:
1.	Yes.
2.	and 3. The expenditures including capital and operating on the Chalk river pilot plant have been as follows: For the fiscal year
1944- 45, $2,830,106.82; For the fiscal year
1945- 46, $14,202,466.82; For the fiscal year
1946-	47 (to 28 February 1947), $6,504,828.26.


1.	As concerns the 1946 census in the prairie provinces, under whose authority was section 19 of the Statistics Act, chapter 190 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, which provides that the census shall be so taken as to ascertain the racial origin, religious denomination, etc., of the population, departed from?

Questions
2.	If such deviation from the act was authorized by order in council (a) what is the wording of such order in council; (b) under what authority was it passed?


1.	Minister of Trade and Commerce.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
Note: It is the policy of the bureau of statistics to restrict the questions in the census schedules to those which supply essential information. For 1946 it did not appear to be essential that a question be asked on ethnic (racial) origin, in view of the fact that the question is asked at every decennial census.
The question on religion has not been included in a quinquennial census since 1916. It is sufficient to ask the question in the decennial census when the whole dominion is covered.


1.	Has the Secretary of State for External Affairs received any protests following the statements made recently by the Consul General of Yugoslavia, Mr. Popovitch, with reference to the Sovereign Pontiff, His Excellency Bishop Stepinac and the Roman Catholic church?
2.	Has the Secretary of State for External Affairs taken any action in the matter?
3.	If so, what action?
Mr. ST. LAURENT:
1.	Yes.
2.	I have studied with great care the representations which have been made to the government concerning the statement which Mr. Popovitch was reported to have made in an interview published in the Montreal Standard on March 1, 1947. It is clearly the right and the duty of a diplomatic or consular representative of a country to use his best efforts to explain the policies and actions of his government and to clear up misunderstandings. Since we expect our representatives abroad to do this for Canada we should be the last to deny the same right and privilege to representatives of foreign governments in Canada.
The existence of the right is one thing and the way in which the right is exercised is another thing. A foreign representative is guilty of an impropriety if, in the course of defending the actions and policies of his
1.	Name
Adams, C	
Boivin, T	
Campbell, J. M Charron, G. E..
Cole. W. H....
Cushing, G. G.. Cuthbert, J....
government, he uses language which is clearly offensive. Part of the language reported as having been used by Mr. Popovitch we would regard as clearly offensive. If such language had been used in similar circumstances by a Canadian representative abroad, we could not object if the government to which he was accredited complained. In fact, we would reprimand him ourselves for having overstepped diplomatic propriety.
I understand that at the interview Mr. Popovitch spoke in French and that his remarks were translated into English for the benefit of the representative of the Montreal Standard. It is therefore possible that the account of the interview may not have conveyed precisely what Mr. Popovitch meant.
We are making inquiries about this.
3.	Answered by No. 2.


1.	What are the total amount of undue allowances of family allowances and the number of accounts affected ?	_2.	Of the amount shown, how much is recoverable through suspension of the family allowances account?	_3.	What part of the total undue allowances is considered recoverable by other means of repayment?4.	How much of the total undue allowances is considered uncollectable?


-
As of January 31, 1947:
1.	1165,920.83; number of accounts affected, 4.644.
2.	$102,860.00.
3.	$48,826.83.
4.	$14,234.00.


1.	What persons received payment from the
Department of Labour and what amounts, in each of the years 1944, 1945, 1946, as correspondents supplying material for the Labour Gazette?	_
2.	How much of each correspondent's material was published in the Labour Gazette in each of the years 1944, 1945 and 1946?
3.	How much of the expenditures, if any, was cost-of-living bonus and for what reasons was bonus paid?


1944	1945	1946S 140 40	$ 140 40	$ 19 40140 40	140 40	81 9073 15	175 56	175 56	87 78175 56	175 56	165 92175 56	175 56	165 92150 00	150 00	75 