Hon: LIONEL CHEVRIER (Minister of Transport): Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. The Montreal Gazette of this morning carries a Canadian Press dispatch concerning the introduction of Bill 254, to amend the Canadian National - Canadian Pacific Act, 1933, which gives the impression that the proposed amendment is to permit the federal government to invade the provincial field in regard to the labour relations of the railways.
The purpose of the bill is to give the federal government jurisdiction over rates of pay, hours of work and working conditions of the employees of the Canadian National and Canadian Pacific Railways. Parliament has exclusive jurisdiction over these railways, and the object of the bill is to occupy the field in so far as labour relations of their employees are concerned. The government considers it is now time for parliament to exercise its jurisdiction by legislating in the field of labour relations as affecting the construction, operation or maintenance of these railways.
Did not the minister use the word "invade" yesterday?


Yes, I did use the word "invade", but I intended to use the word "occupy". But then the press report went on to say that a question was asked by the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon) with reference to whether the government intended to invade this field without the consent of the provinces. I do not think the hon. member used any such word. He simply asked whether we had obtained the consent of the provinces, and I said it was not necessary. The press report stated that I replied, "not necessarily",

and clearly indicated an intention to invade the field. There is no such intention at all. We already have the field.


Right Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs) moved:
That the name of Mr. Maedonnell (Muskoka-Ontario) be substituted for that of Mr. Harris (Danforth) on the standing committee on public accounts.
That the name of Mr. Knowles be substituted for that of Mr. Moore on the standing committee on industrial relations.
That the name of Mr. Moore be substituted for that of Mr. Maclnnis on the standing committee on marine and fisheries.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Perhaps it should more properly be directed to the Prime Minister, but I sent notice to the Secretary of State for External Affairs because I knew it was at least partly within his purview. Does President Truman's request to congress yesterday for enactment of legislation "authorizing a programme of military collaboration with all countries of the western hemisphere" mean that there has been any alteration in or extension of the policy of collaboration between Canada and the United States which was announced by the Prime Minister earlier this session?


The answer is no.


Then in view of the fact that the legislation requested evidently would open the w'ay for Canada to make purchases from the United States through a new avenue, would not that be an extension of what was originally announced to the house?


I have seen nothing in the statement which to my mind extends the meaning of what I said in the house some time ago. I do not know if my hon. friend has something in mind that I cannot fathom, but I gather he wdshes to know if the statement made by President Truman

Inquiries of the Ministry
alters in any particular the statement I made here some little time ago, and my answer is no, it does not.


On the orders of the day:
Last week I asked the Minister of Finance about the storage of gold by certain mining interests. Yesterday I believe an announcement was made regarding the reimposition of certain measures of foreign exchange control as they concern United States currency. Could the minister give the house a statement regarding the latter matter, and is he prepared to answer the first question, which I asked him last week?


No, I am not yet prepared to make a statement on the question asked last week. It is continuing to receive very careful consideration. As my hon. friend will appreciate, it is not a simple question, nor is it free of certain complications, but I will make a statement to the house at a very early day.


What about the reimposition of foreign exchange control?


On that matter it is a fine question as to what announcement should be made in the house and what should not. There is no change in policy with respect to the regulations announced yesterday. The house will recall that when the foreign exchange control bill was before the committee last year it was suggested that Canadians should have the right to retain in their possession a certain amount of United States dollars, and an amount of up to S100 was suggested. It was decided to do that as a trial measure. It has been found that the retention of United States dollars by Canadians, presumably as a result of that general provision, has substantially exceeded the amount involved in a similar period last year. For that reason it was decided to change the regulation and provide that amounts up to $10 only could be retained, and that a person going to the United States could take only $25 in all without obtaining a permit, of which $10 could be United States currency. There is no change in the regulations which allow any Canadian wishing to go to the United States for travel or other purposes to obtain reasonable amounts of United States dollars. The only difference is that he must go to the bank, obtain a permit on form H and have that permit when he reports at the customs office at the border.

INQUIRY AS TO PAYMENT ON 1944 CROP On the orders of the day:


Can the Minister of Trade and Commerce inform the house w'hether a payment on the 1944 wheat will be made at an early day?


There will be a payment on the 1944 participation certificates this summer. This morning the hon. member sent me notice of his intention to ask this question, and I was in touch with the wheat board in an effort to give my hon. friend and other hon. members of the house more definite information in this regard. The best information I can get now is that every effort is being made to get these payments out as quickly as possible, but they cannot be more definite than that it will be as early as possible this summer. Later today I hope to have an opportunity to make a statement in connection with participation payments and other matters connected with wheat.


On the orders of the day:
I believe hon. members have received letters pointing out that many factories in Canada may have to shut down owing to a shortage of tin. Would the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply make a statement as to whether anything can be done immediately to rectify the situation?


I received
notice of this question only a few minutes ago. While Canada's allocation of tin for 1947 was only 75 per cent of the allocation for 1946, supplementary purchases have been made and I was told recently that the situation is improving. However, I will try to find out the situation as at the present date and give a more detailed answer tomorrow.


LOSS OF TRANSPORT PLANE ON PACIFIC COAST On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Weyburn (Mr. McKay)
34G6
Inquiries of the Ministry

inquired about the lost T.C.A. plane. His first question was:
Has the search for the T.C.A. plane lost on April 29 on the Pacific coast been abandoned?
I am instructed that the R.C.A.F., who carry on searches and rescues in connection with planes, as the official government service, advise that the search has been officially abandoned. T.C.A. report that they are still following any clues that may come in, in an attempt to solve the fate of the plane. The second question was:
When will the investigation of cause of loss be commenced and what will be the personnel of the investigating body?
The answer is that the investigation has been completed. The board was composed of R. Carter Guest, Mervyn Fleming and Norman Terry, all senior officers of the civil aviation division, Department of Transport. The third question was:
Have any claims for damages been filed?
T.C.A. advise us that no claims have been filed.


If I may ask a supplementary question, is the minister in possession of any information with regard to the report that messages from the plane were heard at Ashcroft and Lytton? I believe these reports came in during the course of the last week. Has any further information come to light in that regard?


Complete investigation indicates that there is no authenticity in these reports.


On the orders of the day:
As the house will recall, last session I brought the matter of offshore fisheries to the attention of the government, and in this connection I would like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs or the Minister of Fisheries. It arises out of a statement made in the house last week by the Prime Minister, in which he said that among the resolutions to be introduced in the house this session was one respecting the conservation of fisheries on the high seas. The question is, has the government decided whether or not it will adopt a policy of conservation of coastal fisheries on the high seas similar to that enunciated by President Truman in his declaration of September 28, 1945?

Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Secretary of State for External Affairs): On September 28, 1945, President Truman made two declarations. In order to make the answer complete and intelligible I think I should recite the first one, which was as follows:
By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Interior shall from time to time jointly recommend the establishment by executive orders of fishery conservation zones in areas of the high seas contiguous to the coasts of the United States, pursuant to the proclamation entitled "Policy of the United States with Respect to Coastal Fisheries in Certain Areas of the High Seas," this day signed by me, and said secretaries shall in each case recommend provisions to be incorporated in such order relating to the administration, regulation and control of the fishery resources of and fishing activities in such zones, pursuant to authority of law heretofore or hereafter provided.
The second declaration had to do with placing the subsoil and sea bed of the continental shelf under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior for administrative purposes pending the adoption of legislation. I take it that the hon. gentleman's question refers to the first declaration, which has to do with the conservation of sea fisheries adjoining the coast. The answer to his question in that sense is in the affirmative. The government intends to introduce a resolution in that regard, as the Prime Minister stated on May 21, 1947.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether the government has yet made any decision with respect to the projected acquisition of property for the purposes of the Canadian embassy at Washington.
Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Secretary of State for External Affairs): Yes, Mr. Speaker, a decision was made this morning, and before coming into the house I ascertained that it had received the approval of His Excellency, authorizing an offer for the property for residential purposes which was under consideration.


How much is the offer?
Mr. ST. LAURENT: $300,000.

The Budget-Mr. Langlois


The house resumed from Friday, May 23, consideration of the motion of Hon. Douglas Abbott (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the Chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Macdonnell (Muskoka-Ontario) and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Coldwell.
Mr. Speaker, I shall make the most of the opportunity I am afforded of taking part in the budget debate to discuss exclusively the important matter of relations between the central power and our various provinces.
We have heard several hon. members express divergent opinions on the subject and we have noticed more particularly the objections raised by hon. members who, in line with the principles that their provincial leaders have advocated, stand against the dominion government's policy in this respect.
I shall first point out that those who do not favour acceptance, on the part of the provinces, of the central power's proposals, have put forward no new argument but repeated only those which were stated by anti-confederation-ists during the conferences held by way of preliminary to Confederation. In fact, on October 24, 1864, Mr. E. B. Chandler, of New Brunswick, member of the legislative council, speaking on a motion of Mr. Oliver Mowat, said the following:
We agree to a legislative union.
We set about destroying the constitutions of local governments, thus relegating the latter to the humble status of great municipal corporations.
Mr. A. A. Dorion who, at the time of Confederation, led the anti-confederationist movement in Quebec, expressed similar opinions and claimed that the resolutions passed at conferences were an attempt to establish a centralized federative union, as is shown by the following excerpt from one of his speeches on the subject:
The confederation I suggested was a true confederation, entrusting vast powers to local governments and allotting only a certain amount of authority to the federal government.
He continued:
Such a confederation is very different from the one now suggested to us, for the latter hand over powers to the central government, reserving for local governments the slightest possible degree of freedom of action.
You will recall that Hon. Maurice Duplessis, ever since he came to power in the province of Quebec, has often quoted these two excerpts. Yet, in spite of arguments put forth by Mr. A. A. Dorion and others, including Hon. Maurice Duplessis, confederation has been in effect since 1867 and the provinces have not yet been reduced to the status of great municipal corporations, far from it.
In fact, our Canadian provinces have grown and prospered together with the rest of the nation and have thus contributed to the building of one of the most prosperous and free countries of the world. Our past constitutes a brilliant refutation of the arguments put forth by the opponents of the proposals submitted by the dominion government. However, we must not pause there because the achievements of the past compel us to prepare our future. As the Canadian nation develops, it must solve administrative problems of ever increasing importance.
In 1867, one of the main obstacles to Canadian confederation was the settlement of financial problems. The task consisted in granting subsidies to compensate the loss of revenue incurred by certain provinces entering confederation, on the one hand, and enabling those provinces, by means of subsidies to establish, on the other hand, provincial budgets sufficient to permit the various provinces to meet their obligations towards the people and act as local governments within the framework of the confederation.
Mr. Speaker, a brief study of the expenses incurred by the provinces since confederation under the three main administrative headings clearly shows that the subsidies provided in 1867 are no longer sufficient. For instance, as far as education is concerned, the current expenses have increased in the following proportions from 1867 to 1930:
1867: $2,500,000 or 78 cents per capita;
1896: $8,000,000 or $1.60 per capita;
1913: $37,500,000 or $5.00 per capita;
1921: $88,000,000 or $10.05 per capita;
1930: $119,200,000 or $10.54 per capita.
The maintenance expenses of highways have doubled from 1921 to 1930, increasing from $364,000,000 to $734,000,000. From 1867 to 1937 there has also been an increase from $1,200,000 to $284,000,000 in the budget of those same provincial governments as regards social services and public welfare. The logical conclusion, Mr. Speaker, is that the subsidies granted the provinces in 1867 are no longer sufficient, in spite of the increases obtained since, and especially in 1907, when the Canadian constitution was amended.

The Budget-Mr. Langlois

Is it not a fact that one of the provinces was once on the verge of bankruptcy, while the financial position of two others is far from steady.
Moreover, our country's development since 1867 has increased the scope of the administrative problems of the various governments which make up confederation; those national problems require settlement on a national scale.
The first step in that direction was taken in 1927 by the dominion government when they introduced old age pension legislation in order to help provincial governments who could not afford expenditures on such a large scale. When the act first came into operation, the federal authorities paid only 50 per cent of expenses, but in time they had to raise their contribution to 75 per cent of the total cost. The pension provisions for the blind are another example of federal intervention directed towards helping the provinces in the solution of purely provincial matters. I could also mention the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Family Allowances Act.
Who would dare contend that our country will keep on growing through strict adherence to what was laid down in 1867 by the fathers of confederation? Moreover, the dominion proposals would simply apply to our present needs the principles on which confederation was based in 1867.
Those who oppose the federal plan claim that such proposals are directed against provincial autonomy and are conducive to centralization. The argument with respect of autonomy cannot possibly be serious. Autonomy means independence, neither restricted nor limited, but full and complete even in the financial field.
Economists might say that as long as the family, the municipal corporation and the province are financially independent, so will be the country as a whole. But such autonomy and independence may not be achieved when the contrary is true, as it is unfortunately so at the moment in too many cases.
Is an invasion of provincial autonomy possible, when an amendment to the constitution is not even necessary to authorize provincial legislatures to negotiate with the dominion? Is an attack on provincial autonomy possible, when the legislatures are perfectly free to accept or to reject the federal proposals? Is centralization possible, when the dominion is willing to surrender to the provinces exclusive jurisdiction in the administration of social legislation? Are we threatening the autonomy of provinces, when we provide them with the means of meeting their obligations to the

people? Do our provincial premiers believe that the autonomy of the provinces is better protected when, in order to balance their budgets, they must resort to foreign lenders, as was too frequently the case in the province of Quebec from 1936 to 1939? In the 1930-1935 period, when the central government, under the leadership of the Right Hon. R. B. Bennett, distributed unemployment relief benefits and contributed 50 per cent of the cost of municipal works, why did the province of Quebec not worry about its autonomy as it does today? Was the fact that such unemployment relief benefits and 50 per cent contributions came from a government wholly sympathetic to the present leader of the Quebec government sufficient to protect her autonomy? I leave it to my hon. friends of the opposition to answer this last question.
The hon. member for St. Maurice-Lafleehe (Mr. Hamel) speaking on this matter on Wednesday, May 21, quoted figures that I cannot accept. Indeed, as shown by the record, at page 3309, the hon. member stated:
Even the dominion proposals, however, uphold an intolerable discrimination. Subsidies vary according to each province, here as elsewhere: the per capita grant paid to the province of Quebec will be the lowest in the country. Ontario's will amount to $18.04, Alberta's to $18.64, Saskatchewan's to $19.03, Nova Scotia's to $19.20, New Brunswick's to $19.69, Manitoba's to $19.77, British Columbia's to $21.29 and Prince Edward Island's to $24.31, while that of Quebec will be only $17.29, namely, $2.37 less than the average rate.
My hon. friend seems to have followed the example of the member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Dorion) who is reported, on page 1689 of Hansard, as having said:
In the last twenty-five years, when I had to plead cases before the courts of my country, I always made it a point to present facts, and once the facts were proven, draw conclusions.
The hon. member should have added: but only such facts as could serve the purpose of the cases which I pleaded.
That is possibly why, following that example, the. hon. member for St. Mauriee-Lafleche quoted only such figures as enabled him to draw conclusions in line with his opinion on the government's policy in the matter of direct taxation.
I shall therefore immediately demonstrate this serious omission of the hon. member in his summary of the dominion's proposals to the provinces.
I have chosen to outline the proposals made to four of the provinces: Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia and British Columbia, i.e., two central provinces, one of the maritimes and one of the western provinces.

The Budget-Mr. Langlois
The proposals were as follows: $12.75 per capita (which amount was offered to all provinces without exception), plus the statutory subsidies guaranteed by confederation; plus 50 per cent of the personal income and corporation taxes as collected in 1940 in each of those provinces, plus the family allowances already paid, and the dominion's contribution to payment under the pensions act for the aged and the blind. The aggregate amounts for the four provinces mentioned are as follows:
Quebec-$42.66 per capita.
Ontario-$38.01 per capita.
Nova Scotia-$44.86 per capita.
British Columbia-$39.84 per capita.
The average for all provinces in Canada is $41.43. It will be seen therefore that Quebec's share exceeds the average by $1.23 per capita, whereas Ontario's will be $3.42 short of the average. Can it now be held that the dominion's proposals discriminate against the province of Quebec?
Family allowance statistics show that, under the act, Quebec is getting $22.24 per capita while Ontario gets only $16.69, British Columbia $15 and Nova Scotia $20.82. According to our estimate of what the province will obtain from the financial agreements proposed by the central government, Quebec, in case of acceptance, would receive a total sum of $63.011000 in 1947, or three times what she collected in 1940 in personal and corporation income taxes, plus $1,511,000. Besides, the central government guarantees minimum subsidies to the provinces and this amount, would be $56,383,000 in the case of Quebec. In addition, the federal government makes an alternative offer of $15 per capita, instead of $12.75 plus 50 per cent of personal and corporation income taxes, to those provinces who had no income or very little income from these sources, in 1940. Each province is free to accept this uniform amount if she thinks that her interests are better served thereby. It seems, however, that Saskatchewan and Nova Scotia alone could benefit by this alternative offer.
Such are the proposals of the federal government to the provinces. They were submitted to them in the best interest of our people as a whole and, to use the words of the Right Hon. Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. Mackenzie King), on a totally free and temporary' basis.
Mr. Speaker, I have prepared a table which I will be glad to show the hon. member for St. Maurice-Lafleche, whenever he wishes to secure information so that, in future, when he speaks on the matter he may state all the facts without reservation.
83166-222J
In the last few days, Mr. Speaker, we have followed an interesting debate on the legal aspects of the proposals submitted to the provinces. Our so-called nationalists, who have now taken the name of autonomists, claim that the British North America Act grants the provinces exclusive jurisdiction in matters of direct taxation.


Would the hon. member permit a question?


Surely.


Could he tell us who stated in this house that the provinces had exclusive jurisdiction in matters of direct taxation?


The hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay (Mr. Dorion) speaking on the budget, a few days ago-I cannot specify on what day, but it was last week-


Could the hon. member quote the statement?


The hon. member for Charlevoix-Saguenay' quoted part of a judgment, which in fact was not a judgment, but a statement by' a judge, who was attempting to prove that the province of Quebec, in a special case had obtained a [DOT]favourable ruling from the privy council, granting her not only the exclusive right, but priority, in case of conflict.


Quite so.


Mr. Speaker, as I was saying a few moments ago, we have heard for the last few days an interesting debate on the legal aspect of the proposals made to the provinces and I stated further that oui so-called nationalists-I believe I did hit at least one of them-who assume today the title of autonomists, claim that the British North America Act confers exclusive jurisdiction on the provinces as regards direct taxation. I certainly do not share that view, which is at variance with numerous decisions by our highest courts and is not consistent with the way sections 91 and 92 of our constitution should be construed. However, that does not prevent me from respecting the opinion of our friends in the opposition who claim further that our language, our fadth and our most sacred rights are endangered by those they are wont to call "the Ottawa centralizers". I wish, nevertheless, to suggest to those hon. members, whose sincerity I do not question in the least, to face the facts as they are. It is not by voicing protests, and expounding nationalist arguments that they will safeguard our rights and freedoms, should such rights and freedoms be really imperilled, as they claim. Let us suppose, for a moment,
The Budget-Mr. Langlois

that those gentlemen are right and let us ask them if, in the light of existing texts, and especially in the light of the decisions given by the privy council, and finally taking into account the opposite views expressed both in this house and outside, they are justified in taking refuge behind the protests they voice as protectors of their race and as the last bulwarks of our rights and freedoms. I believe that we must rather be realistic in approaching that important problem and that we have no right to harbour a feeling of false security. Moreover, I claim that if we want our rights and freedoms to be safeguarded, we should not merely assume that they are sacred and inviolable, but rather that it behooves us to ensure such inviolability through concrete and definite facts.
My hon. friends opposite must realize that there is now in Canada an important group of socialists whose aim is to establish a planned economy and who do not hesitate, at all times, to prophesy, should they ever assume power, a complete upheaval in the economy and the mode of life until then known in this country. Therefore, are we not justified in dreading the future should those socialists ever come to power ii* Ottawa, because their policy of planned economy and what they call social planning cannot be carried out without encroachment on provincial prerogatives? Would it not be better if, to show its respect for provincial autonomy, the dominion should set a precedent giving further practical evidence of its intention not to take advantage of prior or exclusive jurisdiction in the field of direct taxation?
This precedent is now being set when this government offers the provinces a temporary agreement-and I insist on the word temporary-recognizing provincial jurisdiction and asking the provinces to enter into such an agreement for the simple purpose of avoiding duplication of taxation and costs of collection. The opportunity is given us to set this precedent for the benefit of the future generations of this country as a whole and of each of the provinces. It is a new idea but one to my mind worth trying for it implies a genuine guarantee of our rights and liberties, and especially because I should be extremely loath to let my French-speaking compatriots' future depend solely on the right of veto held by the present Prime Minister of Ontario, as our opponents would have us do. Recent statements by the originator of the famous principle "equality of sacrifice" are still too fresh in my mind.
Mr. Speaker, I am dealing with the concern expressed by the hon. member for St. Maurice-

Lafleche who in a nightmare of nationalist apprehension-I was going to say alarm- sees our racial group ruled with a rod of iron and deprived of its essential freedoms.
In answer to his remarks, may I remind him that it is not by preadhing fear and suspicion to our French-speaking compatriots that we shall encourage them to go on playing the part which they have taken up to this day in this great and wonderful Canada of ours.
I submit that French civilization in America is past the survival stage and is waiting only for the growth of a new generation of bold and proud youths to burst into bloom. I am sorry for my hon. friend, but I cannot conceive of a French-speaking Canadian who takes pride in the achievements of his forebears, wishing that his racial group be confined within the limits of some Canadian reserve.
I have no hesitation in saying that we need have no fear to go forward in Canada side by side with our compatriots of any race or creed. I say also that our French civilization compares with any other. What would have been the point in surviving, if we chose to perish within the confines of self-imposed limitations.
Mr. Speaker, I say also to my hon. friend for St. Maurice-Lafleche that we are not a group of failures who should be segregated in a separate enclosure. We have enough courage and mettle not to surrender our own heritage in order to seek refuge in a narrow and benumbing separatism. My hon. friend might, find a source' of inspiration more in keeping with the aspirations of our fellow countrymen if he borrowed the words with which the Right Hon. the Prime Minister of Canada, during the war, urged French-speaking Canadians to raise the torch of French civilization which had fallen from the hands of agonizing France.
Mr. Speaker, returning to the important problem of dominion-provincial relations, I state that the people of my province do not share the views of their present leader; if the hon. the premier of the province of Quebec has any doubt on the matter I challenge him, on behalf of the French-speaking members on this side of the house, to vindicate his policy by immediately going to the people on this very issue.
Moreover, if he is sincere and if he still claims that our rights and freedoms are really threatened, it is his duty to appeal to the people. I need not have an exceptional amount of courage to challenge Mr. Duplessis and his satellites to fight that issue with us before the Quebec people, because I am convinced that the population of my province still

The Budget-Mr. Argue
possesses enough pride and courage to continue its magnificent contribution to the building of a powerful Canadian nation on the American continent.
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, I think all hon. members would be happy to see this debate concluded at the earliest possible moment. However, this is indeed an important budget and deserves the conscientious attention of all hon. members. As has been said so many times already in this debate, the most glaring fault in the budget is that nothing was done for that half of Canadians who find themselves with incomes less than the minimum necessary to get into the taxation bracket at all. The government surely has slipped up badly in not having done something to increase the living standards of these people, who are finding it so difficult to get along under present conditions.
On looking over the changes in the amount of income tax for this year, I can see that the reduction for those in the lower brackets has been considerably more than it has been for those in the higher brackets, in relation to what they paid at the beginning of this year. It seems to me that to reduce by 54 per cent something which is unfair is to take away only 54 per cent of the unfairness and still leave something which is exceedingly unfair. I have worked out a little table of my own, comparing the relief granted in the various income tax brackets. I have done this with regard to a single man, but the same thing applies generally to a married man, to a married man with two children, and so on. If one takes the income tax relief in dollars for 1947 as a whole, as compared to the tax at the beginning of this year, and then relates that tax relief to the man's income, one sees that the effective amount of relief has been low in the low income brackets and relatively high in the middle and higher income brackets. If the man with an income of $1,000 should be given tax relief of $10 or one per cent, surely all will agree that the man with an income of $10,000 should not be given relief of more than $100, which is one per cent, the same proportionate amount. The single man, however, with $800 income has been given tax relief in this budget amounting to S3 or -375 per cent of his gross income. To the single man with an income of $2,000, the tax relief is $47, which amounts to 2-35 per cent of his income. Not only is the man with an income of $2,000 already making two and a half times as much as the man with an income of $800, but the government are giving him in tax relief six times as much, on a proportionate basis, as they are giving the man with the $800 income.
The same thing applies going up the scale to the higher brackets, and to a greater extent, until one reaches the $7,500 bracket. A man with $10,000 income is granted relief of $393, which is 3-93 per cent, or more than ten times as much relief as is granted to the man with an income of $800. I say that the emphasis has been placed entirely wrongly in this budget. The only basis for fairness would have been to increase the exemptions far above the present $750 for a single man and $1,500 for a married man.
I note also that a married man with an income of $1,800 pays $36 in taxes and a single man with the same income pays $180. The married man with an income of $1,800 is given, through the income tax laws, an additional net income of $144 compared with a single man earning the same income. Going up to the $10,000 bracket, a single man pays a tax of $2,253; a married man with, that income pays a tax of $1,190. To a married man earning $10,000. the government allows $263 with which to maintain his wife, as compared to a single man earning that amount and as compared to the $144 for maintaining his wife allowed to a man who earns only $1,800. I think that that difference in tax, as between a married man and a single man, should be the same in all income tax brackets. Here is a married man with $10,000 income who, gets $7,767 net income on which to maintain himself and his wife, and he is paying to the government $263 less in taxes than a single man with that amount.	r
As 1 said before, the tax relief for a single man with an income of $800 amounts to -375 per cent of his gross income, the magnanimous sum of $3. The married man earning $2,000 gets tax relief in 1947, compared with the present rate, of $24. or 1-2 per cent.. A married man with two children earning $2,000 gets tax relief of $16, or an increase in his income through tax relief amounting to [DOT]8 per cent.
The government through this tax relief is giving to persons in these income tax brackets increases in income anywhere from about one-third of one per cent to 1-2 per cent; and the change in the cost of living index from March this year to April this year amounted to 1-7 points. The change in the cost of living in one month has more than wiped out all the tax relief the government is giving the people in the year 1947. Surely that is not good enough. The government should have given a good deal of tax relief to the people in the lower income brackets, and

The Budget-Mr. Argue
maintained price control, so that the people in those brackets would be able to obtain the necessities of life.
But while the average income earner in Canada is not faring well, we see that the corporations are making very large profits. An article in the Financial Post of April 12 says this:
Caught between high taxes and sharply rising prices consumers are not going to be any more complacent when they learn that company profits have been mounting. A survey of the combined results of sixty companies show earnings almost 30 per cent higher than in 1945.
Then it goes on to say:
The same trend is abundantly apparent in the United States where President Earl Bunting of the National Association of Manufacturers bluntly warns if the constant sudden upward winding of the spiral continues you will see one of the most terrible busts this country ever had.
Corporations are making more money than they have ever made. The government is giving them in addition great taxation relief. And the corporations in return are going to give to this country "one of the most terrible busts".
The Nesbitt, Thomson and Company revised index of dividend payments shows that corporation dividends are on the increase. Taking the index of 100 for the period 1935-39, the following figures will show the upward trend:
January, 1946	 131-2
July, 1946	 140-2
January, 1947	 155-3
March, 1947	 156-8
Dividends are going up by leaps and bounds. I have figures here showing the profits of some of the companies which supply goods of great importance to the consumers of Canada. The table is as follows:
Company
Easy Washing Machine Company ..
Building Products Limited	
Canadian Western Lumber Company Canada Cement Company	
Net Profit After Taxes, 1945
$	25,496
335,242 459.619 1,080,440
Net Profit	Increase
After Taxes,	in Profits
$	50,594 about 100 per cent
1,295,434	286	per cent1,019,428	121-8	percent2,178,523	10,1-6	percent
It will be noted that some of these com-tpanie.- supply building materials. No doubt the great increase in profits is one of the main reasons why houses cost so much more [DOT]today than they did a few years ago.
But the cost of living is not the only thing tthaJt is going up. The cost of production for farmers in western Canada has gone up at a tremendous rate in the last year and a half. A year ago this spring the government removed the subsidy of 45 cents a barrel which was paid on crude oil shipped to the prairie provinces from the United States. At the time of the withdrawal of the subsidy the companies were allowed a two cents a gallon increase in the price of gasoline. That two cents would take care of the subsidy of 45 cents, and perhaps a little more. But the two cents a gallon increase was allowed on all petroleum products sold in western Canada, even including gasoline manufactured from crude oil taken from the Turner valley-. The companies were thus able to make large profits on the increased price granted for all their gasoline, irrespective of the crude from which it happened to be made.
On April 1 of this year the government removed its three-cent wartime tax on gasoline. At the same time it removed the ceiling on that product. The companies absorbed the tax that the federal government was otherwise
getting. It is too bad that the government had not removed the three-cent wartime tax on gasoline before it lifted the price ceiling. Then the people would know that the companies have, in effect, taken over the taxing powers of this government, because they increased their price by- that three cents, or more. In tractor gasoline in Saskatchewan there was an increase of four and a half cents -and that is the most important fuel sold to farmers in that province.
The oil companies did not do so badly in 1945 and 1946. These figures will serve to show the profits:
Net Profit, Net Profit, Company	1946	1945Imperial Oil Limited $17,326,112 $16,6'16,586 B.A. Oil Company ...	3,319,572	3,151,334
McColl-Frontenac Oil
Company	 3,218,596	1,464,515


Was that a net profit?


Net profit after taxes. I am sure that with the large increase in price they are obtaining for their products in western Canada, and to a lesser extent throughout the rest of the nation, these companies will make still higher profits in 1947. Another reason they will make higher profits lies, of course, in the removal of the excess profits tax, which is to take effect at the end of the year.

The Budget-Mr. Argue
A year ago t'he agricultural implement companies got a 12| per cent increase in price. The two Canadian companies made considerably more profit in 1946 than they did in 1945. The profit of Cockshutt Plow Company increased 18-4 per cent. The profit of the Massey-Harris Company increased from $1,588,480 in 1945 to $2,125,570 in 1946, an increase of 29-5 per cent.


Can the hon. member give the profit on domestic business and export business?


I tried to get the figures of those companies broken down in that way, and I was told they did not keep their books in that manner. All I am pointing out is that the trend is upward. I venture to say their profit in 1946 was greater than in 1945, and certainly I would be pleased to have the assistant to the Minister of Finance, if he can. bring forward evidence to show that the reverse was true. I 'have tried to find out what were their profits on Canadian business only, but I do not think that is too important because I believe the trend is definitely upward. If that is not so with these companies they are different from almost all other companies doing business in Canada.
The government is claiming to give income taxation relief amounting to anywhere from 54 per cent to seven per cent. It is estimated that personal income taxes for 1947-48 will bring in $625,000,000, or a reduction of $70,000.000 from $695,000,000 estimated for 1946-47. This represents a decrease of about ten per cent in the amount of money the government expects to get through personal income tax in 1947-48 as compared with 1946-47. Then the government estimates that in 1947-48 it will obtain $300,000,000 in corporation taxes as compared with $239,000,000 in 1946-47; but it expects to get only $170,000,000 in 1947-48 through the excess profits tax whereas in 1946-47 it obtained $449,000,000. The total taxes the government expects to get from the corporations of this country in 1947-48 amount to $470,000,000, as compared with $688,000,000 in 1946-47. This reduction in taxation on corporations amounts to more than 31 per cent, as compared with 10 per cent for the salaried men, the wage earners and the farmers. I say this government has fallen down badly; that it is giving tax relief where tax relief is not needed, and that it is not giving tax relief to those who today are suffering through the rise in the cost of living. I have friends in this city; I have friends in western Canada, and in talking to these people I find many of them are actually in dire need
because of the rapid rise in the cost of living. These people were expecting that if the government would not maintain price control at least it would exempt those in the low income groups from the payment of any income tax whatever.
When one reads the daily and weekly press, or almost any magazine, one finds scattered throughout warnings that a depression or a recession is imminent. I think it behooves the government to state in the budget what its programme is to maintain prosperity and see that a depression or recession does not come. I believe one of the most important things it could do would be to take complete control of the banking system of this nation, and there are very good reasons for that. One is that in 1945 the chartered banks of this country had three times as much invested in government securities as they had by way of loans. In that year they had $3 invested in government security for every $1 they had on loan. In other words the governments of this nation, federal, provincial and municipal, are supplying the income of the banks; and I say that when any corporation depends upon the government for its income it is time the government owned that corporation.
The banks, too, have done very well in the last few years. I was able to get the 1946 profits of only a few of the banks. I have here the figures for the Bank of Montreal and the Royal Bank of Canada. In 1945 the net profits of the Bank of Montreal were $3,514,522, while in 1946 their net profits were $4,487,782.91. The profits of the Royal Bank increased from $3,828,143 in 1945 to $4,020,895.51 in 1946. The dividends paid by the Royal Bank increased from $2,100,000 in 1945 to $2,800,000 in 1946. If we are not to experience a depression then we must see that purchasing power reaches the hands of the people who want to spend the money on consumer goods. Banks are willing and glad to lend in times of prosperity, but in times of depression they are not willing to lend and do not lend. It does not matter what steps the government may take to see that the reserves of the chartered banks in the central bank are adequate; if a depression is upon us they do not lend, not matter how high their reserves may be. So I suggest to the minister that by nationalizing the chartered banks the government will obtain a very good instrument for preventing depressions.
Throughout the budget speech of the minister. on one page after another, he refers to our dependence for our prosperity on what happens in the United States, pointing out how
The Budget-Mr. Argue

closely our economy is linked to the economy of that country. According to an article appearing in the Toronto Daily Star of May 15, ten leading economists in the United States, of whom three were former heads of the OPA, believe that a crisis is imminent in that country. The Minister of Finance stated that our prosperity might continue to be reasonably good provided there was not a depression, or a recession as he called it, in the United States. Well. I think it is time we saw to it that we had a measure of prosperity in this country all the time depending upon the resources of this nation, not depending upon what may or may not happen in the United States. I do not believe the United States is following or will follow economic policies that will enable Canada, if our present practices are maintained, to have prosperity; and that applies to all the other nations of the world as well. I do not think the United States is going to admit the imports necessary for foreign nations to have the American dollars they need to buy the imports they require from the United States. The minister pointed out that we were short of American dollars, had an adverse balance of some $603,000,000 in 1946; and an article in the Financial, Post of May 24 states that at the present rate Canada is buying United States goods, and the present rate at which we are selling goods to the United States, this year we shall be short of American dollars to the extent of $850,000,000. The government should take steps to see that that situation is corrected, and I suggest that as they have seen fit to make a contract for the bulk sale of Canadian wheat to Great Britain, they should be willing and prepared to make contracts for the bulk importation into this country of the goods we need from countries like Britain which need our dollars to pay for our wheat.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I think that the budget falls short in many respects. The most glaring fault is the lack of a single provision for improvement of the economic position of the majority of Canadians whose income is so small as to keep them out of the income tax brackets.
2.	The tax relief granted in the lower income brackets is proportionately much less than that granted1 in the middle and higher brackets. For example, the tax relief in 1947 for a single man earning $800 is $3. This relief equals only -375 per cent of his total income. But a single man earning $10,000 is afforded tax relief of $393, which is equal to 3-93 per cent of his income. This relief is proportionately ten times greater for the man

in the $10,000 bracket than for the man in the $800 bracket.
3.	The government's headlong policy of decontrol has resulted in a sharp rise in the cost of living. This trend is shown by the increase in the cost of living index from 121 in April, 1946, to 130-6 in April, 1947, a rise of approximately 8 per cent. This 8 per cent increase in the cost of living far exceeds the tax relief granted in the budget, which for a married man in the $2,000 income bracket with two children, amounts to only -8 per cent.
4.	The 1948 income tax for a married man earning $1,800 is $144 less than the tax for a single man earning an equal amount. But not only is the married man earning $10,000 left after taxes with an income of $7,747 as compared with $1,636 for the married man earning $1,800; he is taxed $253 less than the single man with an income of $10,000.
If a married man in the $1,800 bracket is allowed only an additional $144 on account of being married, this amount should apply throughout all the brackets.
5.	At a time when the standard of living of the mass of the Canadian people is being reduced, company profits are at a record high. Dividends, too, are on the upgrade from the index of 131-2 in January, 1946, to 156-8 in March, 1947. Profits of the major Canadian oil companies are much higher in 1946 than in 1945 and promise to be still greater in 1947 with the large and unwarranted increase in gasoline prices.
In the midst of all this, the reduct