Mr. F. W. TOWNLEY-SMITH (North Battleford): Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege. My attention has been called to an editorial appearing in the Winnipeg Free Press of June 26, which reads in part as follows:	.
Speaking on June 21 at Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan, Mr. F. W. Townley-Smith, C.C.F. member for North Battleford, criticized the United Kingdom-Canada wheat agreement at $1.55 and the guaranteed minimum price for all wheat of $1.35 per bushel. Mr. Townley-Smith was not opposed in principle but he argued that the price as fixed in the agreement and the five-year compulsory pool were too low.
Order. I would suggest that the hon. member quote only the relevant part, and then state his question of privilege.


He did not get time to do it.
Mr. TOWNLEY-SMITH: I wish to state that I discussed the agreement but did not criticize it, and also that the last sentence, namely, that "Mr. Townley-Smith was not opposed in principle but he argued that the price as fixed in the agreement and the five-year compulsory pool were too low" is a misstatement because it is incomplete. What I really said was that if the prices of other things that farmers had to buy were to be allowed to skyrocket, then the price of wheat and wages should be allowed to go up with them. With this correction, the remainder of the Press Press editorial is quite pointless.


As usual.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege based upon the fundamental free-

dom of speech. As a member of parliament today I went before the human rights committee and drew the attention of hon. members to the following extract from an editorial published in the Montreal Daily Star of Wed1-nesday, June 25. It states:
Were the characters involved in this episode other than they were, this debate would assume national importance.
The debate was about the united nations organization, and the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church) and I expressed honest views in the debate. Here is the commentary of the Montreal Daily Star:
It would be rightly interpreted as a resurgence of old-style isolationism-the kind of doctrine which above all else brought on what Mr. Churchill has called "the unnecessary War." It will be so interpreted in Moscow and elsewhere: for the students of public opinion in those parts can hardly be expected to know very much about the irresponsibility of Mr. Church, Mr. Pouliot and their strange allies from Alberta.
This morning I went before the committee for protection of freedom of speech. Perhaps there was a little exaggeration in my calling the owner and chief editor of the Montreal Daily Star a bum, but there was much less exaggeration in my language than in their description of the hon. member for Broadview and myself as irresponsible.
My contention is this, that the human, rights committee serves no more purpose than an umbrella made of only wire. Everything is gone out of it. I asked them for protection and I did not get it. I was referred to the house. I protest most strongly against the uselessness of that committee.


I have not seen the reference in the Montreal Star but I want to tell the hon. member for Temis-couata that I do not pay any attention to what that newspaper says. I found out years ago that there is no use trying to answer a newspaper; they always have the last word. As far as I am concerned I do not care what they say. My position can be explained in the house. I contend that there has been a flat failure of the UNO and I gave my reasons for it. This paper or its columnists never report what is said here in the house. President Roosevelt when 'attacked called some of them calumnyists.


The Evening Citizen of July 3 states:	'
Canada's first French-speaking winner of the empire's most coveted award, the Victoria Cross,

Business oj the House
Lt.-Col. Paul Triquet, of Cabano, Que., has retired from the Canadian army after twenty-one years' service.
We are all very proud of Colonel Triquet, but I should like to have it on the record that we are also very proud of two other Victoria Cross winners who came from the constituency of Rimouski. They were Captain Jean Brillant and Corporal Joseph Kaeble, who won the Victoria Cross in 1918 and 1917.


Hon. members may have noticed that I have had placed on the Votes and Proceedings of yesiterday the notice of a motion for the house to sit in the mornings next week at eleven o'clock from Wednesday until the end of the week and on Saturdays thereafter. If I can be given unanimous consent, I would move the motion this afternoon so that hon. members will know at once just what to expect. Otherwise I will leave the motion over and move i't on Monday. May I ask the house if I have unanimous consent?


I take it that the Prime Minister is obliged to get unanimous consent before he can move this motion today, and I take it that is his object in ,v'aking the request he has made. Perhaps the house ought to be brought up to date in connection with the ramifications of the whole matter of shortening the time of the session. At the opening of the house yesterday we heard that there were to be some negotiations with respect to Saturday sittings, and I was wondering whether that had been decided upon. I ask that because it w-ould have a direct bearing upon any move made with respect to morning sittings next week.


With regard to the previous discussions, there was an understanding that we would not meet tomorrow without considering the matter in advance to see if we could reach an agreement. There was no understanding with regard to future sittings. We have reached the point now where, in the light of the circumstances as we know them in connection with bringing the business of the house to a close, the government must itself take the initiative and responsibility. It is for that reason that I have had this motion inserted in Votes and Proceedings to cover the sittings of the house for the remainder of the session.
Hon. members perhaps may not realize that we have been sitting here since the month of January and we are now into July. .Neaf the
close of every session of parliament measures have to be taken to expedite the business. I would point out that not only is the convenience of hon. members of the house to be considered but, as they will have noticed, there is the position of members of the public service including the officials of this house. For six years past the civil servants at Ottawa have not had the opportunity of enjoying summer shorter hours. As long as this house continues to sit, members of the public service in Ottawa have to be on hand. They do not get a chance to enjoy the earlier hours of closing during the summer months they otherwise would have.
I am sure hon. members will be prepared to consider that aspect. There are the employees in the printing bureau, those connected with Hansard and others whom I might name, on whom there is great pressure at this time. I submit that that is something of which account might well be taken, particularly by those who are interested in seeing that as much consideration as possible is shown in as many directions as possible.
So far as the business of the house is concerned, if I thought that there was the slightest reason why we should not expedite matters at this stage, I would be the first not to permit any attempt at hastening the conclusion of the session. However, we know that all important measures have been brought forward. I have asked time and again that if there was an}' particular measure that hon. members wished to have brought forwardi, or if there were any items of the estimates hon. members wished to have brought forward, the government wTould have them brought forward at once. I have had no further requests, and I think that with the items that there are on the order paper, if we have, as I hope we shall have, the cooperation of hon. members generally, we should be able to bring the proceedings of this house to a close next week, and that before the end of the week.


Mr. Speaker, this group has no objection to giving unanimous consent to having the motion put today in the terms in which it appears' in Votes and Proceedings, but there are one or two questions I should like to ask. Is it the intention of the government to go through with the labour bill? If it is, I doubt very much if that bill can be got out of committee in time to go through the house. Is it the intention of the government to go through with the bill to amend the Dominion Elections Act which appears in Votes and Proceedings? I would like to know how much we are supposed to get through next week. ' 1
Business of the House

I would remind the house that if we sit from eleven o'clock to one, from two o'clock to six and from seven o'clock to eleven we shall be sitting two hours longer each day than we ever did before, at least in my time in the house. That puts a burden on the staff, the printing bureau and others. If the Prime Minister could give us some information on the matters I have raised, we shall have some idea of what we have to do before we leave here a week from tomorrow.


The government naturally has been concerned with the matters my hon. friend has raised. So far as the Dominion Elections Act is concerned, as the hon. member has mentioned, a number of amendments have been proposed. I do not think, after this session, that there will be a general election before there is another session of the house. For that reason the government has thought it would be preferable that hon. members should have an opportunity of studying these proposed changes to the elections act between this session and the next. Therefore we will not proceed with this measure at this time.
With regard to the labour bill, there are a great many who feel that we ought to get that measure through at once, but there are a very large number who are of the view that perhaps it would be the part of wisdom, in the light of what we know has happened in connection with legislation in some other parts of the world, particularly legislation affecting industrial questions, that it would place hon. members in a better position to deal with that most important question, if we allowed this measure to stand over until another session. Hon. members would then have an opportunity of carefully studying the statements made to and the evidence which has been given before the committee.
Those are the two measures my hon. friend has mentioned. I cannot say offhand whether there will be any others which will not be proceeded with, but I do know the government will seek to accommodate hon. members of the house as long as we are not hindering in any way the essential business of the country.
Mr. GR.AYDON: May I ask the Prime Minister if his remarks about the elections act would apply also to the redistribution bill?


It is important,
I think, that the redistribution measure should be proceeded with at this session.


Mr. Speaker, I would not wish to say a word to
[Mr MacInnfe.J
impede greater progress in the house, but I am rather in a difficulty with regard to Wednesday next. Some of those associated with me have been endeavouring to arrange a public memorial service for the late Right Hon. Viscount Bennett, and overcoming a considerable number of difficulties we chose noon on Wednesday for that service at Chalmers church. My card has only just reached me, and it is possible that the Prime Minister's card has not yet reached him. But if he would give consideration to putting off the morning sittings from Wednesday to Thursday of next week it would be considered a very courteous thing.


Mr. Speaker, may I say that naturally I would be the first to wish that as many members of this House of Commons as possible would be present at the memorial service to the late Lord Bennett. I hope very much to be present myself. I did not know at the time this motion was drafted that there was to be a special service at twelve o'clock on Wednesday. I wonder if the house would agree to meeting on Wednesday at ten o'clock and adjourning at eleven-thirty? If that amendment were made to the motion, perhaps that would meet the situation.


Yes.


That on Wednesday, July 9 instant, the house shall meet at. 10 o'clock a.m., and on that day there shall be an additional intermission from 11.30 a.m. to 2 p.m.; that on and after Thursday, July 10 instant, until the end of the session the house shall meet at 11 o'clock in the morning of each sitting day, and that in addition to the intermission at 6 o'clock p.m. there shall also be an intermission every day from one to two o'clock p.m., and that on Saturday the 12th July instant, and every Saturday thereafter until the end of the session, the house shall meet at 11 o'clock a.m., and the order of business and procedure shall be the same as on Fridays.


Motion agreed to.
Second report of the special committee on radio broadcasting.-Mr. Maybank.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the Secretary of State. Has the government. taken action on the recommendation in

Inquiries of the Ministry
the fourth report of the standing committee on public accounts that a commission be appointed to inquire into alleged loss of property by persons of the Japanese race, residents of Canada? If a commission has not been appointed will the minister say if it will be appointed, and when?


Consideration is being given to that, and arrangements are being made to secure a commissioner. The announcement I hope will be made shortly of the appointment of a commissioner to carry out the inquiry.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I was handed just before coming into the house an Associated Press dispatch from Canberra, Australia, in which it is intimated that the suggestion has just been made in Australia's legislative body that all the British dominions should send their most senior representatives, preferably their prime ministers to a British empire conference for the purpose of "devising general strategy for winning the 1947 battle for Britain". I would ask the Prime Minister if Canada would be prepared to participate in such a conference and what his views are towards the suggestion.


Mr. Speaker, I would like first of all to know what is meant by a conference in aid of winning the battle for Britain. I do not wish to commit myself to any view that there is a battle for Britain to be won at this stage. I believe that Britain is well able to look after her own troubles just now, without anticipating that there is going to be a battle that will require all the dominions to assist her. I would prefer to say nothing about the dispatch until I receive something official.


I take it that it is the economic battle of Britain.


I do not know what is meant.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of a recent press announcement in reference to the dedicating of a cemetery on the outskirts of Hong Kong, 33166-324
where the remains of some three hundred Canadian victims of the Hong Kong tragedy are said to be buried, may I ask the Minister of National Defence whether the names of thos'e soldiers are to be published, or are all available particulars to be forwarded to the next of kin?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member has said, the cemetery for Canadian soldiers who died at Hong Kong was consecrated and a memorial sendee was held for them on the first of July, Dominion day, of this year. My understanding is that the names of all those buried there have been or under existing arrangements will be communicated to the next of kin. If that has not been done, I will see that it is done.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce that the government of Canada and the government of Sweden have concluded an agreement for air services between the two countries. This agreement is similar in form to previous bilateral air transport agreements already concluded by Canada.
The agreement provides for an air line of each country to operate a return service originating in its own territory and terminating in or passing through the territory of the other country, and includes an exchange of third and fourth freedom traffic rights. The route to be operated by the designated air line of Sweden is from Stockholm via intermediate points to Montreal, and the route laid down for the designated air line of Canada is from Montreal via intermediate points to Stockholm. Since, however, Canada does not propose to operate an air service to Siveden in the near future, the agreement makes provision for subsequent review of the services to be performed by the air lines of the two countries at such time as Canada designates an air line to operate scheduled services between the two countries.


Hon. DOUGLAS ABBOTT (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a bill to amend the Civil Service Superannuation Act by provid-


Civil Service Superannuation Act
ing a new and extended definition of ciril servant and civil service; changing the age of retirement; amending the conditions upon which contributions may be made to the superannua* tion fund and benefits paid therefrom; and by a comprehensive addition to the act covering temporary employees in the service.
Is the minister going to make an explanation at this stage?


I will make an explanation when we are in committee.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.


Civil Service Superannuation Act
annuity, payable at age sixty, and adjusted for the number of years of service as outlined above.	.
This very brief summary explains the principal new provisions relating to retirement or transfer from the service. The counterpart of these provisions is a section of the bill which is designed to encourage mobility into the service. It enables an employee who enters the civil service from an employment in which he was subject to a pension plan to count his period of employment in such "pensionable employment" as service for the purpose of the Superannuation Act, if his separation from such employment involves the loss of pension benefits under the said plan and if he elects to contribute twice the amount of the regular contributions with interest (in order to cover his own and the government's share). Such contributions in regard to past service so purchased are to be based on the contributor's salary immediately after his appointment to the service. Pensionable employment is defined as any employment designated by the treasury board as employment in respect of which there was an established superannuation or pension fund or plan.
This privilege has been extended to a limited extent in the past in the case of certain special groups such as provincial government employees transferred to the unemployment insurance commission or the Department of National Revenue. It is now proposed to give it the more general application outlined above, in order to facilitate the recruitment of persons who might make a valuable contribution to the public service but who are now debarred from entering it because of the heavy financial sacrifice they would have to make by giving up their pension rights in their present employment and their inability to secure immediate comparable protection in the service.
I come now to a series of amendments which extend the benefits at present enjoyed by war veterans.
Provision is being made to count the period of absence of a contributor who resigned to enlist or of an employee other than a contributor who resigned to enlist or was granted leave of absence to enlist, if he served on active service overseas-subject to payment of contributions on the basis of salary of the contributor or employee immediately prior to his enlistment. In the case of a contributor who resigned to enlist-that is, a permanent civil servant who resigned and got his contributions back-his service in the civil service may be counted on payment of his
[Mr Abbott.]
withdrawal allowance plus interest at 4 per cent from the date of payment to him to the date of his election to count such service.
This provision reopens the privilege of electing to count service in world war I to certain employees who were given the option of counting such service in 1940 pursuant to recommendations of the special parliamentary committee. A small number of eligible persons failed to take advantage of the opportunity at that time and they will be given another chance. In addition, employees who served in world war II will be given the opportunity to count their service in similar circumstances. The permanent civil servant, who was subject to retirement provisions at the time of his enlistment, may count his period of absence on active or full-time service with the forces during world war I or world war II without contribution, provided that in the case of world war I he was granted leave of absence. With these added provisions, all persons who were employed in the civil service immediately prior to enlistment may count their period of absence on war service, except those who were not contributors or resigned to enlist and did not serve overseas.
There is another new provision relating to war service. From time to time we have had representations that employees who served overseas and who have since entered the public service should be allowed to count war service although they were not employed in the public service prior to their enlistment. While these representations have been considered with a good deal of sympathy, it had to be recognized that to extend benefits to a comparatively small group of veterans through the superannuation account would hardly be fair to the great body of veterans entering other employment, to whom such benefits would not be available. As I mentioned earlier, we now propose to allow certain service in pensionable employment outside the civil service to count on payment of double contributions. While war service could not be categorized as this type of employment, we are nevertheless proposing that veterans who were not civil servants prior to enlistment be given a similar privilege. This, we believe, will meet the problem where the counting of such service is of some consequence in building up an adequate pension and is, at the same time, eminently fair to all veterans.
Another important provision of the bill is the continuance, on the basis established by order in council during the war, of contributions by temporary employees to the retirement fund. The problem of temporary employees

Supply-External Affairs
has received a great deal of careful consideration. At the moment the situation in regard to temporaries is abnormal and, although the matter is being dealt with as expeditiously as possible, it will be some time yet before the public service reaches a normal level in this respect. In the meantime, we consider it inadvisable to disturb the present plan which has worked very satisfactorily during the war and under which the employee contributes to the retirement fund and receives on retirement the amount of his contributions plus interest at four per cent.
There are a number of other amendments, including provision for a minimum return of contributions in all cases, the establishment of $15,000 as a maximum amount of salary countable for purposes of the act, and some minor changes required to give consonance to the act and to meet circumstances which have developed since the act was last amended in 1944.
In conclusion, I express the hope that the amendments I have outlined will commend themselves to the house. We believe that they are in accord with modern developments and progressive thinking in the field of personnel management and pension planning. We hope that some of the principles they now incorporate into our superannuation plan will be favoured by an increasing number of employers and that the Canadian worker will not be unduly restricted in his freedom of choice of employment by severe penalties involved in the loss of all accumulated pension benefits should he change his employment. We would like to see a more general acceptance of the principle that retirement provision is earned in respect of each period of employment.
I thought that on the resolution stage I would give this explanation of the general purposes of the bill, in the hope that the committee would allow the bill to be introduced and given first reading and be distributed to members so that they might study it over the week-end. Then, if it were the wish of the committee, we could have the main debate on the second reading.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Abbott thereupon moved for leave in introduce Bill No. 415, to amend the Civil Service Superannuation Act.


Is the bill ready for distribution?


The Clerk says it is ready.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


The house in committee of supply, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
1>1. Departmental administration, $1,534,144.
Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Secretary of State for External Affairs): In introducing these estimates of the Department of External Affairs I do not think it is necessary to say much to the house about the international situation generally. I will, of course, where appropriate, attempt to answer any questions which may arise out of these estimates and which concern that situation, but I think the general picture is sufficiently clear to those who read to make any public explanatory comment almost superfluous.	.
Though we must admit that picture is not a cheerful one, I am sure we all feel that there is no reason to become panicky. On the other hand, of course, it would be folly to ignore the fact that there are difficulties ahead and that those difficulties might possibly develop into serious dangers. To assume a complacent attitude is certainly not warranted by the facts. Realism is the best foundation for national and international policies, and a realistic analysis of the situation at the present time cannot be said to give much cause for too great optimism.
What might, I think, become a serious danger to the peace of the world is its division, both politically and ideologically, into two great groupings. Somehow, methods which can make possible peaceful cooperation, political and economic, between those opposing groups, must be found. The sources of fear and suspicion between them must be removed. It must be the first objective of every country's foreign policy to avoid, or do what it can to heal, these tragic divisions. No government of men of good will can accept the irrevocability of any development of this kind. No government, least of all the Canadian government, can accept the view that there is any fundamental hostility or division between the common peoples of the several nations. Such hostility or division, however, in this age of mass propaganda, can easily be created by ruling groups whose authority rests on the power they exercise rather than on the freely expressed will of their peoples. If somehow we can break through the fog of ignorance and misrepresentation which seems to surround certain peoples, international affairs will be conducted in a much more sincere and amicable fashion. No fog of this kind obscures the vision or judgment of our own people, because our way of life and rule is democratic and
Supply-External Affairs
popular, not only in words but in reality. We are conscious of the will and aspirations of the people of our nation and we act accordingly.
Another source of our strength is the fundamental unity of our people, and of all parties in this house, on these matters of international consequence and on the principles of peaceful cooperation which must govern our relation with other states. These are times when one oannot help but feel that other principles-the creation of discontents and enmities, the emphasis on the influences which divide rather than on those which unite men-unfortunately prevail in some other quarters. It had been hoped, and indeed it is still hoped, at least as far as I am concerned, that the united nations can be the agency to counteract these dividing forces, that it can act as an organization of civilized states within which universal and friendly cooperation will become possible and should be realized. It is because it still thinks that this can- be done that the Canadian government feels that the growth and strengthening of. the united nations must be a real cornerstone of Canada's policy in foreign affairs. It would be folly to disparage the organization merely because it has not, in its short history, already accomplished all that we hoped for from it. The weaknesses which have been displayed make it all the more necessary that support for it be strong and steadfast with a view to removing those weaknesses At the same time we must not complacently allow any one state or group of states to use the united nations for their own selfish national or propagandist purposes. It must be a form for the expression of the collective will of all peoples and not a sounding board for false and misleading propaganda.
Within the united nations there is room, of course, for closer associations not inconsistent at all with the ideals of the world organization. One such association which day by day and every day proves its enduring value is our commonwealth of free British nations, which during the last few months has in recent developments again shown the genius of the British people for adaptability and political wisdom.
Within the united nations there is room also for the closest and most friendly cooperation between Canada and the United States. That cooperation has been strengthened during the year, and one reason for its strength is that it respects the sovereign independence of the parties to it. The United States, of course, is a great country; Canada is a much smaller one. But the relations between the two are

based not only upon frienship but upon scrupulous respect for each other's rights. The intimacy and friendliness of this cooperation bears no threat to any other nation. We would hope that our collaboration, for instance in the north, could be extended to include other interested powers. On our part there is no reason why this should not be done. We seek the closest and friendliest contacts with all northern powers so that the development of that great area of the world may be for the welfare and progress of all peoples, and that it take place without the kindling of national envies or national fears. Also our association with other nations of the western hemisphere is growing in friendship and mutual value. The development of our diplomatic contacts in Latin America are one reflection of that growth.
I do not think it is necessary to make any more general observations. I think all hon. members will -agree when I say that the foundation of our international policy must be hostility toward none, and peace and friendship with all. That, of course, is not a foreign policy in itself; but it is a statement of the principles upon which foreign policy must be based in order that peace may be maintained.
It certainly is no exaggeration to say that should there ever be another war, what we have experienced in the past in the application of human ingenuity for purposes of destruction will be merely child's play to what this unhappy planet would be subjected to in the future.
As to the activities of the department during the calendar year 1946, they were in broad outline stated in the report of the department for that year which I tabled some time ago. two matters of major concern in the department during the past six months have been, precisely, the united nations and the European peace settlement. I mention the two subjects together purposely, because it has become increasingly clear that the future of the world organization upon which we embarked when the Prime Minister signed the charter of the united nations at San Francisco two years ago will succeed only if political and economic reconstruction of the world is achieved sufficiently speedily and according to some coherent pattern.
We have therefore directed our attention closely to the European peace settlement. The government has recently secured from parliament approval of the treaties prepared with four of the satellite states, and in due course Canadian ratification of these treaties will
Supply-External Affairs
be deposited. We know however that acts of ratification on this occasion, while ending a state of war, will not of themselves establish real peace, the real conditions for which depend, first of all,' upon a reasonable settlement with Germany and then upon the implementation of a great programme of reconstruction.
In the light of the general frustration which has fallen upon the process of peace-making with Germany and Austria, our own efforts to take a reasonable part in that settlement may not seem to be of particular worldwide significance. There is no escaping the fact, however, that if we are to contribute, to the measure of our ability, to that settlement, we must deal with the problem of securing adequate means for the expression of our views. In this connection, as hon. members know from previous discussions on the subject, we have sought to take a practical line which would not interfere in any way with the initiative of the great powers in the settlement of Europe but which would, however, permit us to play an active and constructive role. We have formulated and prepared our views in this connection and we have also made constructive suggestions in regard to the settlement itself.
The conference of foreign ministers which met this spring in Moscow did not get very much farther than to consider in what ways they could define with unmistakable precision the major issues upon which compromise will have to be reached before it will be possible to proceed with the settlement. In some cases the area of disagreement is small, even though the issues appear to be stubborn and unyielding. It is clear, however, that a new effort at compromise will have to be made before further progress can be achieved. That effort is now being undertaken by the Austrian treaty commission to find a solution to the major outstanding problem in regard to the settlement with Austria. Certain questions with regard to Germany were also referred by the foreign ministers to their deputies, but we have not heard that any real progress has been made, since the foreign ministers themselves adjourned their meeting. Hon. members know that they are expected to meet again in New York, and that the further session is to take place in November. We are still hopeful that the work of peace-making will go forward in the near future, and we shall be ready to contribute to the full measure of our ability in that process.
In the meantime, we are doing all we can to support the expanding activities of the united nations. I should like to call the
attention of hon. members particularly to the special session of the general assembly which met for three weeks during May to discuss the question of Palestine. This was an occasion of great importance. For the first time in history a great modern state, confronted with a difficult international problem, has turned voluntarily to an assembly representative of the nations of the world and asked for guidance and assistance toward settlement. It seems to me that we shall have achieved a very great measure of success in our efforts to establish a world organization if, within two years, we have created a body which can be looked upon as capable of dealing in a practical manner with a problem of that kind.
The future of the united nations depends,
I am convinced, upon its ability to contribute to the solution of questions of this nature on a realistic basis and in a practical manner, rather than perhaps upon progress being made in respect of some of the other activities of its committees in formulating theories of world government. The Canadian delegation to the special session took, as we know, an active and constructive role. The Canadian delegate was chairman of the main committee of the assembly in which the greater part of the actual work was done.
I do not wish to offend his modesty, because he is sitting before me at the present time, but I do not think that in the opinion of the world there has been a man who has handled himself better in these international meetings than did the head of our Canadian delegation at Lake Success in May last.
Hear, hear.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: I rejoice in saying that that is the opinion of the world at large, and not merely the opinion of his admiring fellow citizens in Canada. We have also accepted membership in the special committee which was established to report on the Palestine problem, and the Canadian member of that committee, Mr. Justice Rand, is in Palestine with the committee at the present time. I think that is striking testimony of our willingness to do everything that is within the power of Canada and the Canadian people to contribute to the reestablishment of world peace. That was a serious problem, one that was not ours but one to which we have made an important contribution, whatever the results achieved in the end may be.
We have also participated in the regular activities of the united nations. We have sent delegations to sessions of the economic and social council and other commissions of that body on which we were represented. We have attempted to relate the work of ths
50S0
Supply-External Affairs

united nations to the life of our own country. In the report to parliament on the united nations we have endeavoured to set forth, not only for hon. members but for the citizens of this country generally, the major issues which are now before the united nations. I am sure that hon. members have felt that the department did a pretty creditable job in connection with the report it published on the second part of the general assembly of the united nations. I feel free to say that because all I had to do with it was a little editing while it was being prepared. All the material was supplied to me by the hard-working officials of the department.
As members of the external affairs committee and the special joint committee on human rights and fundamental freedoms know, we have attempted in the discussion of subjects such as refugees and human rights to relate our activities in the united nations to our own interests in immigration and proposals for a draft bill, if it be necessary, on human rights in our own country. I have no hesitation in saying that the time and effort which we have expended in participation in the united nations has been justified by what has been accomplished up to the present time. We have reason to still continue to do our best to strengthen the united nations and to make it capable of performing the lofty purposes for which the charter was signed.
I shall be glad when dealing with the various items to supply such further information as to the new missions we have had to open, staff, the incorporation into the department of the Canadian information service, appointments, other international conferences we have attended, and generally the things for which we expended last year the money which was voted by parliament and for which we are asking parliament this year to vote the supply we are now considering.


I wonder if the minister would answer a question with reference to the statement made in connection with offshore fisheries, a matter I brought up last year. The minister said earlier in the year that he intended to bring down a resolution in regard to Canada's attitude towards these fisheries. Will he make a statement now in the light of the fact that that resolution has not been brought down?
Mr. ST. LAURENT; The hon. member is quite right. It was Stated in the house that it was the intention of the government to introduce a resolution to assert a policy that would in fact be in accord with that announced by the President of the United States, and drafts of resolutions were prepared to make sure that there would be a uniform 
policy for the western hemisphere. The terms of the resolution were discussed with our United States friends. So far it has not appeared that we had reached the point where we were both agreed as to the best form of language to be used, and for that reason it was felt that it might be preferable to wait until there had been complete agreement on the exact language before bringing the resolution before the house. I should like to give hon. members the assurance that as far as the government is concerned the general policy is in accord with that which was expressed by the President of the United States.


Will an act be passed by the congress of the United States, or is the proclamation which the President made sufficient? Are we to pass legislation here before legislation is passed by congress?
Mr. ST. LAURENT.: Those are precisely matters which are now under discussion. The two governments are in accord as to the aims to be achieved, but there has not yet been full agreement as to what is the best way of laying the foundation for an effort to get international agreement to the implementation of proper conservation methods for offshore fisheries.


Has there been correspondence with any of the other commonwealths, or have they been consulted about this principle? I do not say that is necessary, but I was wondering if that had taken place in the interests of conservation.
Mr. ST. LAURENT: The answer would depend upon the meaning one gives to the word "consultation." These are matters which are brought to the knowledge of the others, and the observations which any may have to make are welcomed and considered. The objective we are pursuing is to try to get a policy which will ultimately become world wide, and which can be implemented to the benefit of the whole of humanity.


Mr. Chairman, I should like to make a few observations on what the minister has said and perhaps range a little farther afield. I should like to reassure the committee at the outset that I have no intention of making a long speech. I think I can settle for ten minutes, or fifteen minutes at the outside.
I think we should be grateful to the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. St. Laurent) for having given us this statement. In my short experience, and it

Supply-External Affairs
is short, this is the first time that I have heard such a statement when passing these accounts.
I think it would be hard to disagree with a single word which the minister has said. For myself I do not see how any person who would not echo what he said about the desirability of working for the success of the united nations, however disappointing that may be at times, could retain his sanity. Otherwise it seems to me that the world would have lost all meaning.
I echo strongly what he said about the difference between those countries where freedom is practised and those where it is not. I find myself asking from time to time: How is it that people behave in the way that our friends on the other side of Europe behave? I have been able to answer it to myself only by saying that they are prisoners of the situation which they have set up, that they are no longer free to behave except in the way they do behave. I suppose their power depends upon creating those feelings which they have created, and that they have reached a situation where they are terrified of uncreating it for fear that the source of their power may slip and they themselves fall.
Having expressed, and expressed most sincerely, my thanks to the minister I now want to make some comments which perhaps are not ones of eulogy. I still feel that the members of parliament are left in the position of receiving a report after things have been done. I want to say very quickly, and I said it in this house the other day, that I think I have common sense enough to know that the government cannot come into this house and discuss in advance with parliament everything they are going to do. I do not mean that at all. What I mean can best be described by referring to what goes on in England. I suppose we can in some ways regard them as a model because they have been dealing in foreign affairs, they have had such experience ; and of course foreign affairs is one thing when you are a small island off the coast of Europe and it is another thing when you are three thousand miles away, although that distance is becoming vastly less than we used to think it was. Nevertheless, we must admit that in England they have had this experience and no doubt it has given them a technique which we can hardly expect to attain overnight.
I looked up today to see just what had happened and I noticed that in February last there was a debate in connection with supply 83166-325
for foreign affairs. That was opened by the foreign secretary who spoke at length. There was a subsequent debate in May and a further debate in June. The foreign secretary did not open the debates in those cases, but he spoke in both debates. What struck me was that in those debates every opportunity was given parliament to make a contribution. Mutatis mutandis, what had been done there enabled parliament to do what parliament did yesterday afternoon when we were considering amendments to the criminal code. There was a discussion across the gangway by. hon. members on both sides who had experience in these matters, and the result was a meeting of minds.
I am not suggesting that that can be done exactly in connection with foreign affairs, but I am suggesting that if it were possible to have from time to time reports such as we have had today, with perhaps a little addition-I shall refer to that in a moment- then two things might happen. First, this house would be better informed and, second, the people of Canada would be better informed and I think that is important.
I should like to say a word further on another point. I notice in particular how Bevin in his speech last February closely related economic things to political and diplomatic things. If I heard him accurately, the minister made no specific reference to what I suppose is the most important thing affecting our welfare, the meeting at Geneva. I fully realize that that primarily concerns other departments; nevertheless I take it that it does concern also the Department of External Affairs to a considerable extent. I suggest that whatever the department be, the people of Canada and of parliament have been too long in ignorance. That is a most unsatisfactory position as regards that all-important matter. I suppose it is no exaggeration to say that our economic welfare -I do not want to say it will stand or fall-may be vitally affected by the success or failure of those proceedings. Subject to being corrected, I have been able to gain no knowledge of where we stand. As far as I know there has been no opportunity for anyone in this house to express his opinion on the general policy that we should follow. We know nothing of the instructions that have been given-and when I say instructions, again let me say that I am not seeking to get the fullest information, which can only be within the knowledge of the government itself; but I am suggesting that there could have been

Supply-External Affairs

and should have been opportunities for this house to express itself on that all-important question.
Therefore while thanking the minister gratefully for what he has done and for this review, I feel that it is lacking in two respects: first of all in specific reference to these things which are so vital and secondly I feel that it should have been made earlier. It is earlier than last year or the year before, and we have time enough now without immediate pressure to discuss these things, but I suggest that a good deal still remains to be desired. Meanwhile of course decisions are made and have to be made, and as I said at the outset, we are in danger of becoming more and more a rubber stamp-I should not say becoming more and more but continuing to be a rubber stamp, which almost inevitably parliament had become during the war.
I should like to read a small extract from Mr. Bevin's speech in February last to show what I mean by saying that he had diplomatic and economic things in his mind. He said this towards the end of his speech:
The present situation is very difficult. We want houses, and, in order to keep themselves warm, some countries are burning timber which we need for the houses. They cannot let us have the timber unless we can let them have coal. Therefore, we get a bottleneck both ways. They want goods, but there is a terrible vacuum in the world. I am constantly being pressed, first by one side and then by another, to try to help them to get supplies for which they are willing to pay.
I said a moment ago that I thought the practice which has been followed leaves gaps in our knowledge, and what is even worse in my opinion is that it leaves gaps which give rise to misunderstandings. The Secretary of State for External Affairs this afternoon spoke very warmly and to my mind very wisely in what he said not only about UNO but- about other groupings in the world; he spoke about the commonwealth and what it had done, and he spoke about unity in this country. Of course compared with some countries we in Canada are united. Nevertheless I cannot feel that we have the unity in this country which I believe we could have if we had been able- and when I say "we" I am not speaking of any political party-if we had been able to talk more frankly and openly to each other about our difficulties.
Frankly I do not think we are a united country. I think there are great gaps, and the great problem in this country is that we shoul