Mr. Speaker, hon. members will recall that yesterday a bill was introduced by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles). When Mr. Speaker proceeded to read it a first time objection was taken. A vote followed, and it was decided that the bill should be read a first time. In my view that was all to the good. I notice however that some of the press are misinterpreting the nature of the vote. I have before me, for example, one newspaper which says: "PM"-I presume that refers to myself

"votes for no secrecy in income tax." I did not do anything of the kind. I voted for the first reading of a bill, to which I think an hon. member is entitled, unless there is something particularly obnoxious to the house in his bill. I cannot imagine anything that would help to do more to destroy the hon. member's bill than to have it read so that the house might know what it contains.
I wish to have it clearly understood that my vote was given simply on the basis of the right of a member to have his bill read the first time. The decision as to the principle would come up on the motion for second reading. However that motion has not yet been made -and I doubt if it will be made at any time this session. What I have said as to my vote applies I think equally as to the votes of many others given at the time.


Mr. Speaker, on April 20, when there was a celebration in honour of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), I suggested we should celebrate the birthdays of all members of parliament. Today is the birthday of one of our colleagues who, although he does not belong to my party, is the only privy councillor left in the House of Commons from the Bennett regime. He is a most likeable man,
and he has achieved the rare distinction of being the only person who has spiritual authority over the chief opposition whip, his son-in-law. I refer of course to the hon. member for Dufferin-Simeoe (Mr. Rowe). This does not mean that I subscribe to all the policies the hon. member advocates; but I do congratulate him, offer him my best wishes, and express the hope that on the next occasion of a birthday anniversary one of our colleagues will offer the good wishes of the whole House of Commons.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to join with the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot) in extending warm congratulations to the hon. member for Dufferin-Simeoe. The hon. member, in point of service in the house, is one of the oldest members. He has taken a most faithful and prominent part in the discharge of his duties here as well as having been a long time in public life. Those of us who have associated with him in parliament over the years will be the first to wish him continued health, strength and happiness for many years to come. This wish I am sure will be shared by all hon. members.


Mr. Speaker, while this is somewhat unusual, nevertheless it is appreciated. I should like particularly to thank the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot), both of whom have served many years in the house. It is a source of great pleasure to me to have been associated with them, and I can assure them I have always had the most kindly personal feelings toward them. May I reciprocate by offering them my good wishes and expressing the hope that they may celebrate many more birthdays-and that in that event many more of us may be here on this side to congratulate them.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by
an asterisk.)
Is any subsidy now im effect and being paid on coal imported from tbe United States of America (a) anthracite; (b) bituminous; (c) coke?

Questions


In so far as the wartime prices and trade board is concerned:
By Commodity Prices Stabilization Corporation Limited-none.


1.	Has the government or any department thereof purchased a property in or near the city of Edmonton, Alberta, to replace the advanced registry hog testing station which was burned down in Edmonton last March?
2.	If so, by whom was this property formerly owned ?
3.	For what purpose was this property formerly used?
4.	What price was paid for this property?


1.	The Department of Agriculture has had under consideration the possibility of purchasing a property, but no purchase has been made.
2,	3 and 4. Answered by No. 1.


1. How many widows of those who served with the merchant navy are drawing pension?
Navy
Province	Officers	MenPrince Edward Island ...	. 1	10Nova Scotia 	. 11	79New Brunswick 	. 5	34Quebec 	. 19	80Ontario 	. 92	305Manitoba 	. 9	64Saskatchewan 	. 13	73Alberta 	. 18	76British Columbia	. 37	91Abroad, including U.S.A...	. 13	3Total 	. 218	815


What was the amount of unemployment insurance benefits paid by the unemployment insurance commission offices, in the county of Terrebonne, during 1945, 1946 and 1947?


The amount of benefits paid in the county of Terrebonne is not available as this county is serviced through the local office at Ste. Therese, Que* Benefits paid through Ste. Therese from April 1, 1945 to March 31, 1948, by fiscal years are as follows: 1945-46, SS2.945.87; 1946-47, $102,849.70; 1947-48, $108,854.08.

2. How many dependents other than widows are involved?


Awards made under the Civilian War Pensions and Allowances Act to March 31, 1948:
1.	173.
2.	455.


What was the amount of unemployment insurance 'benefits paid .in the province of Quebec during 1945, 1946 and 1947?


The amount of unemployment insurance benefits paid in the province of Quebec from April 1, 1945, to March 31, 1948, by fiscal years, is: 1945-46, $13,371,141.60; 1946-47, $14,554,400.20; 1947-48, $10,605,824.57.


How many recruits were enlisted for each branch of the Canadian armed forces during 1947 from each of the provinces?


Army	Air Force
Officers	Men	Officers Men	Total2	29	26	6810	413	1	88	60212	209	41	30144	917	6	117	1,183115	1,901	19	382	2,81411	466	5	86	6419	334	14	121	56415	423	5	111	64820	386	3	62	5998	34	1	8	67246	5,112	54	1,042	7,487* These	figures	are for	the areas	serviced
through St. Therese local office, comprising: lie Jesus-Town of Ste. Rose.
L'Assomption-Towns of La Plaine, Lauren-tides, Mascouche, St. Henri de Mascouche, St. Lin and Sault St. Lin.
Terrebonne-Part south of Mascouche river (but not including that portion of St. Janvier parish south of the river), plus municipality of Ste. Anne des Plaines which is north of the Mascouche river.
Two Mountains-Part south of C.P.R. line excepting parish of St. Hermas.

Inquiries of the Ministry


What was the total amount of pensions paid to veterans of world war I and world war II, in the province of Quebec, during 1945, 1946 and 1947?


Disability and Death Awards World War I
Annual Liability
At March 31, 1945.. $2,700,000 approximately At March 31, 1946 .. 2,700,000 approximately At March 31, 1947 ..	2,700,000 approximately
At December 31, 1947 2,700,000 approximately
World War II Annual Liability
At March 31, 1945.. $1,500,000 approximately At March 31, 1946.. 2,500,000 approximately At March 31, 1947.. 3,700,000 approximately At December 31,1947 4,100,000 approximately


On the orders of the day:
Although there was no
formal announcement at the close of the session last night it was understood, I believe, by the leaders of the different parties that the first order of business today would be interim supply. If I am right in that, I assume the Minister of Finance will be allowed precedence with his measure.


There will be no objection from this side of the house to the minister proceeding.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Revenue, arising out of press dispatches to the effect that margarine has been brought into this country despite the ban. I have received inquiries asking if certain sections of the public are immune from the law in this respect. In view of the publicity this matter has received I think some official statement is necessary, and I should like to know if the minister intends to make a statement clarifying these press dispatches.
Hon. J. J. McCANN (Minister of National
Revenue): Mr. Speaker, this is the first time
this matter has been brought officially to my attention, and consideration will be given to the question asked by the hon. gentleman.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Acting Minister of Mines and Resources. As the committee on Indian affairs has had to suspend sittings for lack of a committee room, will the minister intercede on behalf of the committee so that this important work may be completed for presentation to the house this session?


The hon. member for Selkirk was good enough to send me notice of his intention to ask this question. I made inquiries and I am informed that there is no problem about space.


May I ask the minister if it is the election in Ontario that is hindering the proceedings?


Hon. DOUGLAS ABBOTT (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of supply.
Motion agreed to, and the house went into committee, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
Resolved', that a sum not exceeding $'89,567,384.33, being one-twelfth of the amount of each of the several items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1949, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, and in addition thereto the sum of $17,982,745.67. being one-sixth of the amount of items 43. 151. 154, 155, 447, 541 and 542 of the said estimates be granted to His Majesty on account for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1949.


I thought the Minister of Finance would make a brief statement with respect to this matter.


In the proposed resolution, provision is being made for an additional one-twelfth of the main estimates, and an additional one-sixth of certain special items which provide for services coming up for payment within the early part of this year. These additional items are item 43 in the agriculture estimates covering freight assistance on western feed grains; items 151, 154 and 155, which relate to the Senate and the
Interim Supply

House of Commons, where, as hon. members will appreciate, the greater part of the expense has to be met early in the year; item 447 of the estimates of trade and commerce, which cover exhibitions, and where an additional amount is required at an early day for the expenses of the international trade fair which is being held in Toronto from May 31 to June 12; items 541 and 542, for estimated additional requirements in the Department of Veterans Affairs to cover increases in pensions and war veterans allowances which have either been adopted by the *house or are now under consideration.
The form of the bill which will be founded upon this resolution is exactly the same as the bill which has been presented in previous years. Of course the passage of the bill will not prejudice the rights and privileges of hon. members to discuss any item in the estimates which will come up for consideration from time to time during the remainder of the session. I give the usual undertaking that such rights and privileges will be respected and not curtailed and restricted in any way as a result of the passing of this measure.


Mr. Chairman, the matter before us is spoken of as interim supply. Interim supply means the granting of huge sums of money to the government for its purposes, practically without debate. The minister is now asking that one-twelfth of the total amount of this year's estimates be voted without debate. Prior to this one-sixth of the total amount was passed under a similar motion. When this measure passes one-quarter of the total supply will have been voted, without debate. The reason why this motion comes before us is that we are now in the early part of a new financial year and the government has financial obligations, salaries to pay and other expenses to meet. The government finds itself without money and has to ask for a measure of this kind, to be passed practically without debate.
There is no question that the house will grant requests of this kind when they are made under similar circumstances. I rose simply to say that this practice, which is not a wise one, arises from the fact that the budget is not brought down early enough.


It has nothing to do with the budget.


That is the moral of my remarks. An opportunity is not given, to deal with all these matters and to pass the budget, and so we are asked for these interim amounts. As I said, one-sixth has been voted already, and

another one-twelfth is being asked for, making one-quarter of the whole. The only point I wish to make is that the budget, including the estimates, should be considered earlier in the session.


I think the remarks of my hon. friend call for a brief comment. Obviously, of course, the date on which the budget is brought down has nothing to do with the date on which supply is voted. The budget simply outlines the means by which the taxes will be raised to provide for the expenses of government, and that is a completely separate function from the voting of supply by the committee of supply.
There is nothing new in voting interim supply, as my hon. friend has indicated; but each year when it is asked for I listen to a repetition of this statement, that it is improper to vote large sums like this without debate. I w7ant to point out to the country what is well known, of course, to the house, that the estimates, which indicate the sums of money which parliament will be asked to provide for the public service of the financial year, are prepared early in the year. They were tabled this year in good time-in the month of February, I think-and have been before hon. members ever since that time. They are discussed, it is true, and formally voted in committee of supply; but my experience has been that the discussion in committee of supply rarely relates to the item under discussion and never suggests that an item be reduced. I have been here some little time and I recall no case in which the opposition has suggested that an item of proposed expenditure be reduced. The house and the country have been aware for months of the government's estimates of the amounts required to maintain the services of the country for the year. The practice of voting interim supply-one-sixth or one-twelfth of the estimates, as the case may be-is not for the purposes of the government as a government, but to carry on the essential services of the country.
I am not taking exception to what my hon. friend has said, but the date on which the budget is brought down has nothing whatever to do with the date on which the house may or may not be able to discuss the items of supply. Let me add that consideration of the estimates by the committee of supply has been unavoidably but inevitably delayed by the necessity of considering other measures such as emergency exchange conservation and the like. I must, however, take exception to any suggestion that the government has delayed the consideration of supply by not bringing down the budget.

Ways and Means-Interim Supply


Mr. Chairman, this is the eighty-third day of the session and we have had little or no opportunity yet of discussing the main estimates. While it is true that the minister must have money to run the sendees of the country, I would point out that businessmen and retail merchants and others have been looking for retrenchment in government expenditures. Practically all we are doing now in committee of supply is holding a post mortem after the money is spent. That is no way to conduct the business of the country. The government is spending money like water. I can see no sign of retrenchment in the main estimates or the supplementaries. We are being asked to vote large sums of money for bonuses, subventions and subsidies for the prairie provinces, and the other provinces do not get anything. There are manjr items here for interim supply, one for 880,000,000, another for $17,000,000, and so on. These expenditures, under this method of conducting the business of the country, really mean expenditures and taxation without representation. The house is abdicating its functions to the executive. It is a dangerous principle. The expenditures for civil government in the days of Sir Wilfrid Laurier amounted in 1897 to $36,000,000. and the population of the country has increased by only one-third or one-quarter since; but the civil estimates now are nearly two billions.
There should be some better way of conducting public business. The municipalities would be bankrupt if they did business'in this way. The auditor general should have wider powers to deal with some of these expenditures. The Minister of Finance may take this humorously, but it is no laughing matter for the working classes I represent. Government extravagance and lack of retrenchment, added to the high cost of living, are becoming scandalous, and the public will not stand for it. We should have some redress of grievances before we are asked to vote any further interim supply on this eighty-third day of the session.


I do not rise to object to passing interim supply but rather to take exception to the minister's statement that nobody has ever moved to reduce an item of supply.


I said that I had never heard it done.


The minister was
sitting in the house in the session of 1946 when we were discussing the administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs and my colleague the hon. member for Lake Centre moved that a certain item be reduced to one dollar. Despite the fact that the minister never explained what the item was for, the government supporters trooped in and we were voted down.


Did not my hon. friend suggest that the agriculture estimates ought to be $80,000,000 instead of $40,000,000?


Certainly I did, and I gave reasons why.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.


Hon. DOUGLAS ABBOTT (Minister of Finance) moved that the house go into committee of ways and means.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $89,567,384.33, being one-twelfth of the amount of each of the several items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1949, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, and in addition thereto the sum of $17,982,745.67, being one-sixth of the amount of items 43, 151, 154, 155, 447, 541 and 542 of the said estimates be granted to His Majesty on account for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1949.


I do not want the minister to say that the question I am about to raise is one which should be dealt with by the rules committee, of which I am a member; so I anticipate and protect myself beforehand. Has the government given serious consideration this session or in previous sessions to the whole question of dealing with the estimates of the various departments in a much more efficient way? Time after time, in session after session, members on both sides of the house have contended that our system of dealing with the estimates would not commend itself to any business handling even a fraction of the amount that this house is asked to vote from year to year. This is a matter that rests with the government rather than with other parties or with private members, because it would have to be a matter of government policy before any other system could be brought before the rules committee or before parliament.
The estimates of the Department of External Affairs are the only ones, outside of the railway estimates, that are dealt with in
3884	COMMONS
Ways and Means-Interim Supply
detail by committees before they are dealt with by the house. If the minister has carefully scrutinized the work of these committees he must have found that they have done a reasonably good job in investigating the details of the expenditures of money by the departments concerned.
Suggestions have been made from time to time. One was that the various committees of the house might have referred to them at each session the estimates of the department whose activities are closely related to the kind of work that they are supposed to do. On the other hand, it has been suggested that a committee on estimates ought to be set up in the house which would deal with the question of estimates generally. That would be different from the public accounts committee, which, as I understand it, considers the auditor general's report. On every ground it would be distinctly different from the ordinary committees. I am not here to advocate one scheme or plan as against another, but I do advocate a change in a system which must have worked all right when we had a few million dollars to vote year after year but is not satisfactory now. We have the same machinery and we are doing the same thing in parliament that we did when I first came here twelve years ago-and twelve years is a short time compared with the length of time that some other hon. members on both sides of the house have been here. We are spending at least five times as much as we did when I first came here, and passing appropriations of five times as much money as we did at that time. Surely the situation calls for some reform.
The minister and the government might give serious consideration to this matter, because I think they will find on all sides a strong feeling of approval, of some change. People who are in business, people who are used to handling large sums of money and seeing that it is properly spent, must find this kind of arrangement antiquated, to say the least, and certainly not always productive of the best kind of audit and examination of our public expenditures. I ask the minister if he will consider the suggestion. Having brought it to his attention I think I have at least discharged part of my duty in connection with a serious matter.


The hon. member for Peel has raised an interesting and important question, one to which, speaking for myself, I have given a good deal of consideration. It is not easy, though, to find what would be an acceptable alternative method of dealing with estimates. I am told that in the British parliament they do not give the detailed consideration to estimates that we do in our house; that

the estimates of the service departments are always considered in some detail, and several days are set aside for that purpose, but that the estimates of almost every department are simply passed en bloc. No opportunity is given for detailed consideration. Each year certain departments are selected and the estimates are discussed in some detail. That is one method. As hon. members will appreciate, it is not always the estimate which provides for the largest amount that provokes the greatest discussion. An estimate of an expenditure of 810,000 or 815,000 may promote more discussion and arouse more interest among members than one which involves $50,000,000 or $60,000,000. Therefore one cannot take the size of the estimate as a test of the amount of time that should be given to its discussion. The impression I have got from members is that in respect to various departments- fisheries, agriculture, trade and commerce, or whatever it may be-where special interest lies, they feel that they want an opportunity in the house to discuss these estimates and get information from the minister. I have not been given the impression that members would be satisfied to have these estimates considered and passed by a small committee.


Opportunity for discussion in the house is still guaranteed to them.


Yes, and I do not think it would save much time to refer them to a committee. I simply mention that to point out some of the difficulties with which I know all hon. members are familiar. All I can say is that I have not yet been able to think of a solution which would be generally acceptable. Perhaps that inspiration may come to me later.


The minister has referred-no doubt correctly -to the substantial difference in practice which prevails in the British house. Has he fully considered what I understand to be the very different procedure which they adopt before the estimates are finally brought down to the house? I think he will agree it is different, and perhaps he knows more about the actual difference than I do. I suggest that is well worthy of consideration from our point of view.


It is not greatly different. Of course these estimates receive long, detailed and painstaking consideration by treasury board. May I say that my opening gambit to each member who came into treasury board with these estimates was: "The only savings that will be made in expenditures this year will

Ways and Means-Interim Supply
be made in this room". I was referring to my office in the east block, where we were holding the meeting. I said: "There will not be any savings made when these estimates are being considered by the house, because in my experience that is not the place where reductions of expenditures are made. Any savings on public expenditures will be made right inside this room." I simply mention this to show that that is where the estimates of expenditures receive detailed and painstaking consideration. I may be mistaken, but so far as I am aware our method does not differ substantially from that under which estimates of expenditures are prepared in Great Britain. The estimates are prepared by the departments. They are submitted to the treasury, and then are settled by the treasury, and by the government finally, before being presented to parliament. That is the procedure which is followed here.


May I point out that one of the provisions of the proposed bill is to provide an additional one-sixth of certain items, namely, items 43, 151, 154, 155, 447, 541 and 542. I should like to say a word or two about items 154 and 155. which relate to the House of Commons itself.
The Minister of Finance has already indicated that because of the heavy sessional expenses of the House of Commons it is necessary for him to ask for a little more interim money for these items than for the others. A motion is before the House of Commons calling for the approval of certain salary increases. I am not going to discuss that at this time; I might be out of order if I did; at any rate I approve that motion and therefore I do not need to discuss it. But I do wish to point out that the increases proposed do not cover all the employees of the House of Commons, as was promised to us on March 24. I hope that in the additional increases which were suggested yesterday by the Secretary of State consideration will be given to some of our House of Commons employees who are not now covered.
My reasons for speaking about this matter at this time are these. First, if one does not get a word in on the matter before final decision is made, it is too late when the motion is before us. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance is a member of treasury board, but, as I understand it, the Secretary of State is not, and the only matter before us on his motion-


These increases do not relate to treasury board.


Order. Probably I should call the attention of the committee to the fact that we are now in committee of ways and means. These items have been before the committee of supply and have been passed by that committee. This resolution is to the effect that the sums referred to therein be granted out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada. I hardly think that the discussion thus far in this committee has been strictly in order.


Are we not in committee of ways and r-rang on the bill?


No.


Probably the hon.
member was not in the house at the time, but we are now in committee of ways and means on the resolution.


In a few moments a bill will be introduced based on this resolution. I shall carry on then.


Shall the resolution carry?


I have one question about the proposed setting up of committees to consider the estimates. Some time ago a motion was made in the house that we adopt the British practice of sending the defence estimates to a defence committee. I know we have not set up a defence committee here, but the defence estimates are some of the largest and most important spending items. Has any progress been made in this regard at cabinet level?


So far as I am aware, no further consideration has been given the question of referring the defence estimates to a special committee.


I would object to any proposal to send these estimates to a committee. This is the eighty-third day of the session and it would be just a whitewashing committee.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in. Mr. Abbott thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 299, for granting to His Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of the financial year ending the 31st March, 1949.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first and second times and the house went into committee * thereon, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
Sections 1 and 2 agreed to.
Ways and Means-Interim Supply
On section 3-817,982,745.67 granted for 1948-49.
If I may continue with the remarks I began a few moments ago-I believe I am in order, inasmuch as we are on clause 3, which refers to the schedule attached to the bill and to the items in connection with which the minister is asldng for an additional amount to the extent of one-sixth of those items, including the amounts asked on behalf of the House of Commons. What I have to say can be put briefly. It is to this effect. So far as I can find out, there have yet been provided no increases for any of the mechanics around the building, or for the ordinary messengers. When I say ordinary messengers I distinguish them from confidential messengers, for whom I understand there have been increases. I am led to believe also that there have been no increases for the cleaners in this building, though I am told, unless there has been a change in the last few days, that the men cleaners on the senate side get fifty cents a day more than the men who clean our side of this building.


You are quite out of date in your remarks.


Am I? Then I shall be glad to be corrected.


You are quite out of date. They got their increases.


The men cleaners?


I think so. You spoke of the messengers.


Stand up and put it on the record. I should be glad to hear it if it is so, but it certainly is not the information communicated to me.
I would point out also that there have been no increases for the House of Commons stenographers, nor have there been for the amanuenses on the third floor who put into typescript our words which the Hansard reporters take down on the floor of the house. I am interested in the remark interjected by the hon. member for Ottawa West (Mr. Mcllraith). I hope that what he says is true, that there have been increases for those to whom I have referred; but if so they do not know it. I repeat, however, that when the matter was before the house on March 24 we were told that all employees of the House of Commons were being considered, and that as a result of that consideration all our employees would be satisfied. That has not yet been

done, and I hope that further consideration will be given to the matter by the financial authorities.


I do not propose to discuss the other matter which is before the house, and which is on the order paper, with respect to the establishment and increases.


We are all in favour of that.


Without going into that question, leaving it aside at the moment, I would point out that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) is somewhat in error about the staff that does not come under the civil service commission, and their increases. They did get their increases, as I understand it. I am speaking about the men, the messengers and the cleaners.


Does the hon. member know when it was done, or can he find out?


First the messengers got theirs.


All messengers, or just the confidential messengers?


All the messengers, as I understand it. I had not expected that this was coming up or I would have had the information more accurately.


You have been busy with the voters' list, anyway.


I am quite sure they got their increases.


I hope you are right.


I do not wish to assume any credit for what the government tries to do for the staff of the House of Commons, but the government should be congratulated on having taken the matter into serious consideration and having submitted to us a list of the proposed increases. They are not complete; they are supposed to be completed and adjusted. I wish however to pay a special tribute to the two members representing Ottawa for the care they are taking not only of the employees of the House of Commons but of the whole staff in the civil service in the city of Ottawa. I refer especially to the hon. member for Ottawa West, the very able assistant to the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply and Trade and Commerce.
I have been dealing with the hon. member for many years and I have always admired his patience and his devotion to his electors.


Ways and Means-Interim Supply
No one knows what it is to be a member representing the city of Ottawa, with long lines of people waiting to be heard, having a good word for each of them, and ready to help anyone. That is what has been done by the two members representing the city of Ottawa, especially by the hon. member for Ottawa West. I bow to the hon. member and assure him of my sincere admiration for his understanding of the problems of civil servants. The hon. member deserves every praise; and he should have some other reward than that of being parliamentary assistant to a cabinet minister. I do not know how on earth a member of parliament can represent one of the constituencies in the city of Ottawa and at the same time fulfil his duties as parliamentary assistant to a cabinet minister. It is bej'ond me. I cannot understand it.
For a time I had my office near that of a former member, who is now Mr. Justice Chevrier. At that time he represented one of the Ottawa ridings. He could not go out of his office without meeting forty or fifty people who were waiting for him, and when those forty or fifty had gone they were replaced by another forty or fifty. He never complained about it; he was always pleasant to all.
Is it not admirable? I have the greatest admiration for the hon. gentleman and I take this opportunity to say so. I say it with the utmost pleasure. I consider it is my duty to say it, because at times I have business to do with the hon. member for Ottawa West. I have to call at his office.
Will the hon. member permit a question?


Yes.


Doesn't that apply to all hon. members from this area?


I have shown today that I appreciate the work of my colleagues, and I am proud to be one of theirs. On the other hand, outside of the hon. gentleman I have mentioned, there is no one of us who is at the same time a member for one of the Ottawa constituencies and parliamentary assistant to a cabinet minister w'ho is responsible for a department which has so much to do with everything. Therefore I am not minimizing the work of my other colleagues, for whom I have respect and admiration, when I say that the position of the hon. member for Ottawa West is unique and he deserves all our admiration.


I wish to add a word or two to the remarks made by the hon. member for Peel. I feel, as do a great many others-and I refer not only to members of this house but to the public in general-that sufficient time is not given to the consideration of the estimates. If we could spread out consideration of the various items, it would do much to foster greater confidence in our democratic system of government. We rush through, in the short time of just a few minutes, estimates dealing with hundreds of millions of dollars. If I sit down and no one else speaks, it will mean that we shall have passed this huge amount in a matter of ten minutes. The suggestion made by the hon. member for Peel is worthy of serious thought. Of course he is not the only one who in the past has made that suggestion. I think the government would be well advised to consider a method by which greater consideration could be given to the estimates.
That was not my purpose in rising, however, Mr. Chairman; it was rather to deal particularly with item 154. which covers the sessional stenographers. We shall be appointing, I believe, an additional number of permanent members to the stenographic staff; and they will be receiving employment the year around, with a stated yearly salary. I have no objection to the additional number who will be appointed or to any salary which might be set for their employment. But I do say that the sessional stenographers are not receiving sufficient pay; and I say that from a business standpoint. They are brought to Ottawa and are kept here for a period of six months. They pay their own transportation to and from Ottawa. They are paid at the rate of $5 a day. A	few	years	ago	theystarted out at $4, and	they	were	given an
increase; after a certain period of employment they were given SI extra, thus bringing the pay up to $5. So far as I know, that is the rate at which they are paid today.


Will the hon. member permit an interjection?


Yes.	.


I wholly	agree	with	him
that the pay should be higher. But just in order to have the record straight, may I say that the amount is now $5.90 a day. I agree with the hon. member that it should be higher, in view of the fact- that it is not year-round employment.


Yes, that is quite true. The point I am making is that they are only part-time employees.

Ways and Means-Interim Supply


That is right.


I think it is recognized today by practically every employer of labour that a part-time man is entitled to a higher rate than that which is paid to a permanent employee. For that reason, although I do not wish to press the matter, I thought it was an opportune time to bring it to the attention of the Minister of Finance or the Speaker, or the Clerk of the House-whoever happens to have jurisdiction as to that particular item1-so that consideration could be given to increasing the pay of the sessional stenographers. I have that particular class of employees in mind when I make these remarks. I go further: I think there should be an allowance for travelling expenses. If it is necessary to bring to Ottawa stenographers of this particularly efficient type, I believe they should be provided with transportation to and from their place of employment.


When this bill was brought down, my conception of the matter was that it was for the purpose of getting interim, supply, and that it did not open up a detailed discussion of the estimates. The purpose for which the money is required is clearly set out in the bill: agriculture, freight assistance on western grains-and I think most hon. members will agree that it is necessary-and so forth. I am not disagreeing with anything that is in the bill. It simply represents a certain amount of the regular estimates necessary now in order to enable the departments to carry on. It is unfortunate that the discussion of the House of Commons staff was injected into the discussion at this time, because-


I rise to a point of order, Mr. Chairman.. I referred particularly to one of the items which was included in this bill, namely, item 154. If any objection is taken it would not be to the part of the staff of the House of Commons to which I referred, but rather to the question raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


I was not specifying anybody. I merely said it was unfortunate that it was injected into the discussion-


No matter where it came from.


[DOT]-for the simple reason there is already on the order paper a motion by the Secretary of State which will enable anyone to carry on a detailed discussion of that particular question. Now that the matter has been injected, I have just this to say- and I think the chairman himself can accept responsibility for allowing this discussion to

take place. On the question raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, and what he said was concurred in by the senior member for Halifax, I say that the question of the stenographic staff is one that cannot be passed over by just saying that the salaries are too high or too low. It is a question that requires detailed study. It is a matter concerning 155 people who are in this building for the purpose of rendering certain services to members of parliament, and that aspect of it must be considered. I think the most important question in connection with the sessional stenographers is the matter of transportation. They come from long distances, and they are not employed the year round. I think they should be provided with transportation.


The hon. member agrees with me on that point.


Yes. I say it is a point that should be considered. Second, and I think more important than fixing a higher rate, is the question of superannuation.


That is right,


A great many of the girls who are sessional stenographers have been on the staff for twenty or twenty-five years.


Permanent temporaries.


They have reached the age where they should be retiring. Adequate retirement provision should be made for them. If you continue as you are, what you are making of the stenographic pool is not a pool that will give service to the members of the house, but rather a home in which to take care of people whom you are afraid to put out because the system has not provided for them.
I am not going to enter upon a detailed discussion of the matter now, because I said it was unfortunate that the question had been opened up under this bill. But when the Secretary of State brings in the motion he now' has on the order paper with regard to establishment and revisions in classifications, I am going to say something about it and make certain definite recommendations.
With this short explanation I hope this bill will pass to enable the departments to get along.


I suppose, strictly speaking, it is in order when this bill is before the committee to discuss any item which may be in the main estimates. It has been the practice when the minister has moved for interim

Ways and Means-Interim Supply
supply to make general observations and perhaps to refer to particular grievances, but I do not think it has been customary to discuss items in detail.
I should imagine a good many members might wish to speak about the matter of the House of Commons staff. If we were to proceed to do that now, this would develop into a full-dress debate. I appeal to members of the committee to defer discussion of that question until the motion standing in the name of the Secretary of State is before the house.
I wish to point out that the question of the salaries of the house staff is not within the jurisdiction of treasury board or of the Minister of Finance. It is a question which is in the control of the house itself, and which will no doubt be discussed when the resolution is before the house.


On that last point, it seems to me we should not for ever be pushed back and forth from one authority to the other. I do feel it is not fair for the Minister of Finance to put the responsibility for this solely upon t he officials of the house. They may have their ideas, but they cannot-


Not the officials of the house; it is the house itself. The house is master of its own staff. The staff of the House of Commons is not subject to treasury board control, as are the staffs of every other department of government. That is the point I wish to make clear. Treasury board, of which I am chairman, and which is a committee of cabinet ministers, does exercise general financial supervision over expenditures and has control over the regular departments of government. But the House of Commons, and rightly so, has always been very jealous of its prerogatives and its control over its own staff. The committee of the house which considers these matters of establishment and the like is the internal economy commission, consisting of four cabinet ministers, of which I am one, and Mr. Speaker. It is a committee of the house, not a committee of the government; and Mr. Speaker is chairman. The estimates of expenditures of the house are presented by Mr. Speaker. The Clerk of the House in that respect occupies the same position as a deputy minister in a government department.
I have interjected this by way of explanation, because I think there is some misconception as to the government's responsibility for salaries and the like in the House of Commons. It is not the government's responsibility at all.


The minister says this matter comes within the purview and responsibility of the House of Commons itself, not of the government. Does that mean that members of the House of Commons can propose salary increases or salary changes?


Yes, I would assume so. I am not an expert on the rules, but I assume that is so.


Where would a private member of the house get with a motion to increase these salaries?


Not very far.


Perhaps not very far; but that is-


That is the answer.


That is a different matter.


We would be told that it involved increased expenditure and we would have to get approval either of the internal economy commission or of the treasury board itself.


I do not think that is correct; that is completely incorrect. I take exception to that, and I think the Clerk of the House would sustain me in it. A member of the house who proposed a resolution for expenditures with respect to service of the house would not have to get permission from treasury board or from the government. He would not have to get permission of the internal economy commission. I may be wrong but I notice the Clerk is nodding his head, and I think I am right.


Would the Speaker of the house not have to go before the Minister of Finance with his estimates?


No.


Because it is in the minister's office that they are made. Suppose they are too high; would it not be up to the minister to cut them?


I have no power to cut them.


But you would, though.


I could not.


You would have no power, but you would do it.


I have no power to cut them. All I am interested in is in putting this responsibility where it lies.


Passing the buck.


With respect to this item of 87,750,000 on freight assistance, will the minister make a statement as to what has

Ways and Means-Interim Supply
been used already out of this fund, and the quality of feed grains now in storage in the west and on the western farms which he expects to ship in using up this $7,750,000?


I cannot give that information. As I said a minute ago, in passing interim supply the minister does not give that kind of information about expenditures. If he were to do so he would have to have with him the details of all the items. The invariable practice in interim supply, so far as my experience goes, is that we do not give details and members do not expect to receive detailed information on the items. That is all asked for when the main estimates are being considered. I shall be glad, therefore, to give the information when this item is reached in the main estimates. Or if my hon. friend wishes to have the information in the meantime. Of course I shall gladly get it for him. But if we were to attempt today to go into the details of all these matters-


The Minister of Agriculture is in his seat. Perhaps he would give us a brief statement as to how he expects to use the $7,750,000.


There is an amount of $20,000,000 for the whole year. What is asked for here is to cover until July 31. It has already been announced that in the supplementary estimates provision will be made for the continuance of this form of assistance during the coming crop year. I cannot give further information now because I have not the details here.


The Minister of Agriculture is here, and he knows what was used last year.


The Minister of Agriculture gave that information when his own estimates were under consideration the other night. It is on Hansard.


For the coming year?


The explanation I have on that is this. The main estimates of course include provision only to the end of the present year, July 31. This will have the effect of concentrating the bulk of claims coming for payment into the -first quarter of the fiscal year. Those in April, May, June and July will require a substantial proportion of the vote at this time. That is what my officials, who watch the rate at which these moneys have to be paid out, inform me. In effect we are asking for what it is estimated will be required before the end of June to cover these items.


Mr. Chairman, since a matter having to do with employees of the House of Commons has been brought up, I wish to ask one question about it. The minister says this matter comes within the jurisdiction of the house as distinguished from the government itself. He has indicated that the body which represents the house in dealing with matters of this kind is the internal economy commission, of which he has told us he is a member. Reference has been made to certain reports tabled the other day, and a resolution on the order paper with respect to these officials. Certain salary increases have been proposed, and I have heard no opposition to those increases. There is in the minds of many members of the House of Commons the thought that some of the employees of the house have not had an increase within the last year. My question is this: Is it correct that certain employees of the House of Commons have not had an increase within the last year? If so, is it the intention of the internal economy commission or the government-and I fail to see much difference between the two, since that commission is made up of a number of government officials-to see that all employees, or those at least who have not had one, receive an increase this year?


That is a question which, in the organization of the House of Com