Mr. Speaker, as members of this house I feel we would be remiss in our duty if we did not take this first opportunity to say how sorry we were to get the news last evening of the intention of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) to retire from the government. In this house it is inevitable that among the different parties there will be differences of opinion, and that was so in this case. On the other hand I think I can say on behalf of members of this group and hon. members generally that there is no member on the government benches for whom the house as a whole and the country has had higher respect than the right hon. gentleman. He will be remembered in particular for the service he gave this country as wartime minister of finance. Even in that capacity people at times took his name in vain, but the job he did, particularly in the field of price control, will long be a monument to him.
Some of us might hope he could be persuaded to change his mind, but our experience with him has taught us that he is the kind of person who reaches a point where finality must be recognized. If it is definite that he is leaving us, we can only say that we are sorry indeed, but we wish him the very best.


Mr. Speaker, this is an occasion on which I agree entirely with what has been said by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles). I have known the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) for a long time. He is an old-timer in this house; and he must feel some comfort in hearing praise that is usually reserved until after a man is dead.
The Minister of Justice is a democrat. It is well known in this city that he does not blush when he gets into a streetcar. He does it naturally, without pose. He is a hard
worker and he is honest. I need not say he is a gentleman, because all hon. members of this house are gentlemen.


No.


With one exception, which proves the rule. The Minister of Justice is a remarkable debater with whom I have had to cross swords on many occasions. I very seldom agreed with his policies when he was minister of finance, but that has not affected our friendship. It is remarkable the way this house respects freedom of thought and of opinion. We may entirely disagree and yet remain good friends. By the way, the late Colonel Ralston probably never understood why the Minister of Justice and I were friends, and neither could I understand how the minister could be friends with Mr. Ralston; but that did not affect our good relations.
When the Minister of Justice gives his opinion, it is clear cut; and then he has the great merit of acting accordingly. There is no possible mistake about the choice he makes. For a time he had the most thankless job of all cabinet ministers. As minister of national revenue, and as minister of finance in wartime, he was the goat of everybody in respect to his legislation, but no one ever suspected him of having a wrong intention. He meant well, in his own view. Now he is in the Department of Justice, which is supposed to be the kingdom of peace and calm. He is also the Attorney General of Canada, both positions of great responsibility, which he is filling very well. I wish him every success in life. I wish him in the practice of his profession the same success he had in politics, and at the same time I express my very best wishes to his charming wife and to his children.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to join in the tributes paid this afternoon to the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley). Long after the days of political differences have been forgotten, the basic foundations which support men in public life will remain. One of the things most of us will never forget is the sterling character of the
4602

Tribute to Right Hon. J. L. Ilsley
Minister of Justice, both in private and in public life, while he has been a member of the House of Commons and of the government.
Character in public men is always remembered. To the minister's attributes of integrity and honesty, and his generally sound approach to the many matters which came before him in his various capacities, the public will pay tribute long after he has left this chamber. Let me say to him that if in his presentations before the bench he adheres as strenuously to his point of view as he has in respect of arguments made by the opposition, I fancy we shall witness either a succession of judgments in his favour, or a series of resignations by judges; because there will be no compromise. His arguments will be clear-cut and well advanced.
When the resignation of the Minister of Justice becomes effective it will be a heavy loss not only to the government but to parliament and to the country. With hon. members who have preceded me, I wish him every success in the practice of the profession to which he is soon returning.


Mr. Speaker, if I did not rise first in the house this afternoon to express what I know is the general regret concerning the announced intention of the present Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) to resign his portfolio at the end of June, it is because I felt that, happily, the time for valedictories had not yet come. The minister will be with us for another month at least, and will have further measures to introduce. I hope when he places them before parliament hon. members who have shown their esteem by their words and applause this afternoon will realize how important it is that they recognize his wisdom and judgment in matters of the kind.
May I say however, as I said last night when I was asked by the press to express my views respecting the announced intention of my colleague to retire from the ministry, that I know there will be general regret throughout all Canada that the Minister of Justice has found it necessary to consider retiring from his position as a minister of the crown to resume the practice of law.
To his colleagues in the cabinet, certainly his resignation will mean a very great loss indeed. It is one which will be deeply felt personally, and on public grounds by every member of the government. I cannot express too strongly how deeply I personally feel the loss.
It has been a pleasure this afternoon to realize that what I said last night, to the effect that I believe the minister's proposed retirement would be regretted by all parties

in the house, irrespective of their political affiliations, has already been manifested. I would say more at the moment were it not that, as I say, the time for farewells has not yet come. There is still opportunity for my colleague to change his mind. We on this side of the house would be very happy if he did; and I hope that, should the minister return to the ministry at some later time, hon. members will recall what they have said this afternoon with regard to his exceptional ability, great integrity and fine record of public service, all of which is more than merited so far as my colleague the present Minister of Justice is concerned.


Mr. Speaker, at a time like this it is important that we have at the head of affairs in the country and as members of the House of Commons men of wide experience and proven character. Because of these two considerations, among others, we in this group regret that the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) has found it necessary to withdraw from the government. We wish him the greatest success, and trust that the work upon which he is about to enter will not prove such a heavy drain upon his physical strength as the duties of the offices he has occupied during the last few years.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Justice is a great public servant. While those from my native city of Toronto may not have agreed with everything he has done, let me tell him that he has the admiration and respect of the people of that large commercial and industrial city. Speaking personally, I have found the minister most courteous in any contacts I have had with him. He is a man of sincerity, of modesty, and of great ability. I wish him well in the years ahead.


Mr. Speaker, I am most grateful to hon. members for the kindly sentiments they have expressed this afternoon. Naturally I had not expected that anything of the kind would occur in the house. Nevertheless I should like to express my gratitude to the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) for his remarks at the outset, and I deeply appreciate the words of my old friend, the hon. member for Temiscouata (Mr. Pouliot), who was in the house when I became a member of it in 1926, and with whom my relations have been on the friendliest footing ever since.
I appreciate too what has been said by the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon) and

Flood Relief in British Columbia
also what he said last night in his message to the press. May I express my pleasure at the few words uttered by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King), by the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) and by my old friend, the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church).
Naturally it is with feelings of regret that I sever my connections with the House of Commons, where I have been a member for twenty-two years, and thus terminate an experience which, on the whole, has been a pleasurable one.
As the Prime Minister has said, I shall be in the house for another month, and the time for valedictories has not yet arrived. Nevertheless may I say again how pleased and how touched I am by the remarks made this afternoon by hon. members from all parties in the house.


Hon. LIONEL CHEVRIER (Minister of Transport) moved,
That the name of Mr. Bryce be substituted for that of Mr. McKay, and that the name of Mr. Matthews (Kootenay East) be substituted for that of Mr. Moore on the special committee on veterans affairs.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to say a word to the house about the government's position with respect to flood conditions in British Columbia.
Yesterday I was asked a question by the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Matthews) with respect to the financial assistance which the government might be prepared to give to a certain municipality which he named. The hon. member had sent me a notice of his question in advance, and I had an answer prepared dealing specifically with the point he raised, namely, financial assistance by the government to a municipality.
I notice from accounts which appear in some of today's papers that an interpretation has been placed upon my answer which is not at all justified in the light of what the government has been doing, and is prepared to do with respect to meeting the very serious situation in British Columbia. I would refer hon.
5849-292J
members to the question which appears in Hansard and to my reply thereto. They will see that my reply was directed solely to a matter of procedure and of method. I made it quite clear that what I said related solely to financial assistance. I stated that if there were need for financial assistance to British Columbia or any part of that province, the request for assistance from the dominion should be made through the government of the province. A municipality should make its needs known to the province, and the province would make its representations to the dominion. I shall read the last paragraph of my statement. It will be found on page 4553 of Hansard, as follows:
I assume that if the situation is such that the provinces in which these disasters occur would feel the necessity of financial assistance from the federal government, the government would be so advised by the provinces themselves. I do not believe we would be expected to act on communications received from municipalities. Municipalities would communicate with provinces in the first instance, and our action would be taken in the light of representations that might be made by provinces concerned.
I want to make it quite clear that my reply was to a question which was handed to me by the hon. member for Kootenay East. His question was supplemented by one from the hon. member for Kamloops, asking me to reply in reference to the situation generally. My reply was in reference to the situation generally in so far as financial assistance to municipalities was concerned. I had no other thought in my mind but to deal with the specific matter of financial assistance by the federal government to municipalities which had suffered injury.
May I say that from the beginning of the disastrous floods, our government has taken action, and that on a considerable scale, in co-operation with the government of British Columbia. Possibly the best manner of informing the house as to what has been done would be for me to have my colleagues who have been in touch with the premier of the province and with the situation there state to the house exactly what has been done by their respective departments in the last few days, and what the government is prepared to do.
Let me make this quite clear. From what I have been able to ascertain, I am sure the flood conditions in British Columbia constitute a very serious and grave situation. The federal government should be and is prepared to co-operate to the utmost with the province and help to meet it. We are prepared so to do, but in so doing we must seek to avoid confusion with respect to matters which will come up for subsequent settlement with respect to financial outlays involved.

Flood Relief in British Columbia
For example, hon. members will have seen that the premier of the province has been giving directions to different branches of the armed services. That action would be altogether irregular and impossible under existing conditions without the consent of the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Claxton). I think I should ask the Minister of National Defence, in the first instance, to indicate to the house what has already been done by the armed forces, and then I should like my colleagues in some of the other departments to state just what has been done by their respective departments jp to the present time.
May I make it perfectly clear that with respect to any request that comes to us from the province, that request will be immediately considered. The government of Canada is prepared to do all that it possibly can do in the way of co-operation with the province to meet the appalling situation that exists at the present time and which I am afraid may grow even worse.


Before the Prime Minister calls on the other ministers, may I ask him to comment on the question which was raised in the house yesterday with respect to the suggestion made by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) when he was out there. I think the Prime Minister was going to look into that.


As my hon. friend knows, reference was made to some remark which the Minister of Trade and Commerce had made. I have not been in direct touch with the Minister of Trade and Commerce since, and I cannot say whether he was correctly reported. I am not in position to answer that.


Mr. Speaker, I should be glad to supplement the rather short statement I gave the house last Friday in connection with the work being done by the armed forces in relieving the flood conditions. From the outset of this serious and difficult situation the Royal Canadian Navy, the Canadian army and the Royal Canadian Air Force, in accordance with instructions from national defence headquarters in consequence of my directions, have been co-operating in every way possible with the provincial and local authorities.
This began on May 23 when the first reserve army unit to get to work was activated at Kimberley. Since then a very considerable proportion of the reserve army units and virtually all the active army forces on the Pacific coast have been working full time.

I have kept in close touch with the situation and am receiving reports several times a day. There is continuous radio and teletype communication between the units in the Fraser valley and national defence headquarters. Last night I had two long-distance telephone communications with Premier Johnson. On the first of these he suggested that in order to co-ordinate relief activities it would be desirable to have them directed by Colonel Snow, the area commander of the Canadian army on the spot. Instructions were accordingly given by myself, both to Colonel Snow in a later conversation and through the chief of the general staff at national defence headquarters. I was also in touch through the night with further developments.
Perhaps I might briefly tell the house something of the activities of the three services so that hon. members will know the extent of the operations involved. As for the navy, these operations have been directed by II.M.C.S. Antigonish, a frigate at New Westminster, with Commander O. C. S. Robertson,
G.M., in charge. He has under him thirty naval craft, including tugs, a supply ship, six landing craft, yard craft, .motor boats and ships' cutters and whalers which are operating between the mouth of the Fraser river and Agassiz. Officers of both the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal Canadian Naval Reserve are engaged; in this operation.
The naval radio transmitting station at Sumas had to be evacuated this morning. That station is part of a network around the world, and it handles British commercial ship traffic in the northern Pacific. The job is being undertaken by the cruiser H.M.C.S. Ontario, at Esquimalt, which is handling the traffic from there. The R.C.N. have also established a complete communications network for the whole Fraser valley, centred at Aldergrove. It is in communication with Esquimalt and the army signal officer at Vancouver both by teletype and radio. All the various craft in the area are provided with walkie-talkies. These efforts in the field of communications are enabling local authorities to keep in touch with the situation and also enabling ordinary messages to be carried to and from the people concerned.
The army similarly has been doing a very considerable job in connection with signals. It is handling all the ordinary commercial traffic into Prince Rupert as the other facilities have been washed out. The army has been working to set up with the other services a number of wireless circuits operating from Vancouver to Edmonton and from Victoria to

Flood Relief in British Columbia
Calgary to assist communications. Altogether 120 ranks in the army alone are engaged in this communications work and preparations are being made to handle all commercial traffic in the area should that become necessary. It is a very large undertaking. To assist in this, twenty-one army personnel were yesterday flown from Ottawa to Vancouver.
In addition, the army has been assisting actively in flood control by actual work on the reinforcement of dikes. It supplied all the sandbags asked for. Altogether 290,000 were flown into the area, and there are reserves of another 300,000 established at places between Winnipeg and Vancouver so that they can be flown wherever they are required. The army has made available to the Red Cross large numbers of tents, blankets, and equipment of various kinds, including pumps, assault boats, traction equipment, and so forth. It is working closely with the provincial and local authorities.
The air force has been supplying the air lift for sandbags and other materials, and in addition has been carrying considerable quantities of blood plasma, drugs, tents, signal equipment, water pumps, and so forth. All aircraft in the area have been made available to the authorities in the area for reconnaissance and relief work. A number of reconnaissance flights have been made, flying the provincial authorities over the area so that they can see what is being done. Altogether sixteen aircraft have been employed in the lifts, with five other aircraft engaged on the spot.
The R.C.A.F. has also been asked to make available hangars and other buildings for the reception of evacuated persons at Abbotsford, and the equipment depot in Vancouver; and it has provided cooks, cooking equipment and other facilities wherever required.
I am glad to say that Premier Johnson expressed great satisfaction at the co-operation being extended by the armed forces and it is a source of satisfaction that we should have been able to bring aid to the people in the area who need it so much. I can assure the house that anything further that can be done by way of co-operation with the provincial and local authorities will be done if it lies within our power.
Hon. members might be interested in a message I sent to the army and naval commanders on the spot last night:
I would like you to know that the great efforts being made by the members of the armed forces to assist provincial and local authorities to meet emergency are greatly appreciated.


Will the minister give us some idea of the number of army troops
actually employed on the reinforcement of the dikes?


I do not know just how many are employed on the dikes, but altogether, of the army there are 1,300 assisting in the work of flood relief; navy, 750, and air force, immediately on the scene, apart from those engaged on transport work farther back, 250.


Mr. Speaker, may I add a few words to what I said the other day with regard to flood conditions in British Columbia. At that time I mentioned that the deputy minister of public works was out there, and he returned to Ottawa yesterday. The situation as described in the newspapers is accurate, my deputy reports. He was out there to direct the work of the engineers of the Department of Public Works.
Our interest in these works on the Fraser river may be divided into two phases. The first is dredging from the gulf of Georgia on the north arm and west of New Westminster, and on the main river. We have been dredging for a good many years on the north arm and on the main river. That helps to increase the flow of the river. We have two dredges working continuously on that part of the Fraser river, and at different times have awarded large dredging contracts. This is one way in which we help to regularize the flow of the Fraser river.
The second kind of work to which we have contributed in the past has been to help in the construction of dikes at Agassiz, Kirkland island and other places. We have contributed through the diking commission of British Columbia to the erection and maintenance of some of these dikes, and we propose, after these terrible conditions are over, that so far as navigation conditions justify we shall continue to help in the construction of these -dikes. Our engineer out in British Columbia has been instructed to co-operate and offer his services and those of all his staff to the provincial and municipal authorities, and they are at the disposal of the people of British Columbia to give what help they may.


Mr. Speaker, a few days ago when questions were asked with regard to the floods in British Columbia I said that Mr. L. B. Thomson, director of rehabilitation, P.F.R.A., was already in British Columbia. He had gone there in the first instance to check our engineers at Kamloops and elsewhere with regard to the work that is being done, but when the flood conditions developed we imme-

Flood Relief in British Columbia
diately asked him to report fully on all developments so as to make it possible for us to arrive at conclusions as to what might be done to avoid similar occurrences in the future. Since then inquiries have been made with regard to what assistance might be given in providing feed grain and feed for livestock and poultry generally. Wires started to come through about three days ago. Prior to that we had Mr. A. M. Shaw in British Columbia. He is the director of marketing and the member of our departmental staff who had charge of the distribution of feed grain throughout Canada during the war period. Under him Mr. Davidson was carrying on as the director or feeds administrator during that period. Recently he went to the wheat board at Winnipeg. He has been seconded back to the Department of Agriculture and is in British Columbia directing these activities toward maintaining feed supplies at present. The main feature of the directions has to do with export grain which is in the elevators at the coast, and orders have already been issued to retain that grain there until such time as we know that the supplies will be sufficient.
I am informed that there are about two or three weeks' supply of feed grain at most places but there is difficulty in making new shipment into these areas. Grain is being moved as near to the area as possible in order to have it available at any time that there may be shortages. Up to the moment we have replied to all requests that have been made for assistance, to make it certain that grain will be available for feed as time goes on.


When the flood conditions were made known last week I communicated at once with the minister of health in the province of British Columbia, and offered the services and the facilities of this department, both in British Columbia and here at Ottawa. I may say that judging from the telephone call I had this morning from Mr. Pearson, the situation under his direction and that of the deputy minister of health, Doctor Amyot, seems to be well in hand. The doctors and nurses, the ward aides and the hospitals of this department in British Columbia, have been placed at the disposal of the department of health of British Columbia for whatever use in the circumstances the authorities deem best. Everything that we can do to help will be done.


The assistance which the Department of National Revenue can render in an emergency of this kind may not be very 
great, but such as it is, it may be appreciated by those affected. The time for filing income tax returns expired yesterday, but in view of the exceptional conditions which prevail in many parts of British Columbia I wish to state that income tax returns of those affected by flood conditions in that province will be accepted up to the end of June, without penalty for late filing.


I think I ought to say on behalf of the Department of Reconstruction and Supply that other activities that may be of assistance to those suffering by reason of flood conditions are being carried out. The Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation, through the emergency shelter administration, have made available to the Red Cross space in the Dunsmuir hotel and the old Hotel Vancouver for their work, and also for temporary shelter for evacuees from the flood areas. I might also add that Trans-Canada Air Lines have moved all available equipment into the area in an effort to help meet the transportation needs arising out of the emergency.


The people of British Columbia, and certainly those of us from there who are in this house, will be grateful I know for the assistance which has been given, and which has been detailed by the various ministers who have spoken.
I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question arising out of what he has said, and the general statements which have been made. The question is this: Are we justified now in assuming that this represents to some extent a change in the position which the Prime Minister announced yesterday, when he said-


No.


-that the primary responsibility rested with the local authorities, and that the government felt-


Order.


The hon. member should be allowed to say something.


The hon. member knows very well that in putting a question he should not make a statement. I suggest that he put his question.


I am trying to do it as briefly as I can. That is the general subject of my question. It is based on the Prime Minister's remarks which are to be found on page 4553 of Hansard. My other question is this. Is any provision being made or con-

Flood Relief in British Columbia
templated for the extension of financial relief by the federal government to those who have suffered loss as a result of the flood?


Over a good many years I have had to consider problems which related to the provinces, the municipalities and the dominion government, and I have had enough experience in these matters to realize that unless some course is followed which is consistent there are bound to be difficulties arising in the matter of making settlements, especially in dealing with finance. There we are dealing with the people's money; it is certain to be most embarrassing to all concerned if there is any room for misunderstanding. When one is handed a question, or asked a question on the orders of the day, one naturally looks at what the intent of the question is. The question addressed to me yesterday by the hon. member for Kootenay East (Mr. Matthews) was in writing. It related specifically to financial assistance to a municipality. I came in the house prepared to give an answer to that question. The answer I gave was that in connection with matters relating to financial assistance, the dominion government would consider these matters when representations were made by the province, but that it should not be expected of us that we should deal with requests that came from individual municipalities, or give undertakings to municipalities. That is the substance of what I said yesterday.
In my reply yesterday the general question of what the government was doing in other directions did not enter my mind, because it was concentrated on the specific question. There is no change in the government's attitude from what it has been. I suggest that the hon. gentleman will see from what the ministers have said that we did not wait a day, in any of the departments of government that were in a position to give assistance, to render such assistance as we possibly could.
The hon. member for Kamloops (Mr. Fulton) has asked me about the financial assistance that we are prepared to give. I would reply to that question that when we receive from the Premier of British Columbia a statement in which the premier sets forth the need for financial assistance, we will take immediately that request into consideration, and will deal with it on lines which we believe will be considered fair and just by the province and by the dominion.


In the budget debate the Minister of Justice said that the surplus could be used for a rainy day.


As one of the members from British Columbia may I say this. After listening to the statement made by the Prime Minister, and by the ministers of the various departments, I wish to express my appreciation on behalf of the people of the province of British Columbia for the helpful steps that have already been taken by the government and the ones they are taking now. It has been very interesting to hear what the various ministers have said, but I should like to have heard from the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott), because after all he is the one who has to do with the people's money.


The hon. member will understand that I cannot permit debate on this matter. If he has any questions to put to the government, he may do so.


I have no question: I am merely expressing my appreciation of the government's action.


I want to interject one remark in reply to what my hon. friend has said. I made no comment because the Prime Minister has indicated a general statement of policy with respect to financial matters j therefore it did not behoove me to add anything to what he said.


May I ask the Minister of Finance a question? As the member for Kootenay East has said, we have heard from all the ministers, and they have told us of the work that has been done in connection with the floods. What the people of British Columbia would like to know is just what this parliament and this government are prepared to do in the way of giving cash grants and assistance to take care of the tremendous loss which the province has suffered.


Order.


I do not think it is enough for the Prime Minister to say that he is going to consider it.


Order.


Some policy should be announced by this government.


I am not going to make a political speech about that, Mr. Speaker.


You have made some
before, so you are experienced at it.


Order. I must remind the hon. member for Peel that the rules of the house apply to everyone.
Excise Tax Act


But surely, Mr. Speaker, the rales apply to ministers as well as to the opposition. We are only trying to get some policy from the government, but they will not give us a policy.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Has the minister's attention been called to the fact that today is the day on which Canada's new aircraft carrier is to arrive at her home port, Halifax?


I am glad indeed to say that the ship Magnificent lands in Halifax today. She is the first aircraft carrier to be equipped with a squadron of Sea Furies and also a squadron of Firefly IV aircraft. The ship is winterized and will make a trip this summer to the arctic as far as Hudson strait. The R.C.N. will welcome her joining them.


The hon. member should have given notice of the question.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Macdonald (Brantford City) in the chair.
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Excise Act to repeal, effectii e on and after May 19, 1948, the excise duty on spirits used in the production of vinegar.
Under the budget as it was presented to the house I was pleased to see that the minister took the tax off alarm clocks, flatware, and Braille watches, though he should^ never have had a tax on these watches, since they are for the blind.


This is the Excise Act, and it
deals with the tax on vinegar.


In what order does the minister intend to have these different resolutions called?


Actually I had intended to take the Excise Tax Act, but the chairman called the Excise Act first. Since he has called the Excise Act we will proceed with that; then the Excise Tax Act; then the tax on Braille watches and one thing and 
another; then the Dominion Succession Duty Act, the Income War Tax Act, and finally the Customs Tariff.


Resolution agreed to.
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Excise Tax Act and to provide, effective on and after May 19, 194&;
1.	That the sales tax on the following list of articles be repealed: (a) shortening, soups, rice, yeast, yogurt, barley, split peas, peanut butter, biscuits, cookies and similar articles, pastry, cake, biscuit and similar mixes, cereal breakfast foods not including beverages, foods prepared and sold exclusively for feeding infants, fruit, canned, frozen, dried or evaporated, fruit juices which consist of at least ninety-five per cent of pure juice of the fruit, jams, jellies, marmalades and preserves, corn syrup, table syrups and molasses, meats and poultry, cooked, canned, frozen, smoked or dried, canned fish, spaghetti, macaroni, and vermicelli, vegetables, canned, frozen or dehydrated, but not including pickles, relishes, catsup, sauces, olives, and similar goods, vegetable juices; and (b) hay presses and complete parts thereof; auxiliary internal combustion engines incorporated into agricultural implements or agricultural machinery, and complete parts thereof; crushed stone or crushed gravel; articles imported by or for public museums, public libraries, universities, colleges or schools, and which are to be placed in such institutions as exhibits; wheel chairs and complete parts thereof specially designed for the use of invalids;
2.	That the excise tax on the price of admission to places of amusement be repealed;
3.	That the excise tax on charges made in places of entertainment be repealed;
4.	That the excise tax on bets on horse racing be repealed;
5.	That the retail purchase tax on watches specially designed for use of the blind, alarm clocks selling to the user at not more than ten dollars each, and plated table knives, forks and spoons, be repealed;
6.	That the special excise tax of three per cent on goods imported into Canada from general tariff countries be repealed;
7.	That the rates of excise tax on matches be amended to provide for a proportionate rate of tax on packages of smaller sizes; and
8.	That the excise tax of 25 per cent be repealed on 16 mm. projectors for slides, films or pictures, and that the tax be extended to cover projector mechanisms, sound equipment, arc lamps, lenses, bases, and film magazines or reels for moving picture projectors.
Will the minister indicate to whait articles in the form of processed foods the sales tax is still applicable?


Broadly speaking, spices, pickles, relishes, mayonnaise and other specialty articles of the kind.


I wish to ask a question with regard to which I have had some correspondence with the Minister of National

Excise Tax Act
Revenue, who has probably discussed the matter with the Minister of Finance. I ask it for the purpose of clarification so that other concerns in a like position will know what the situation is.
I have been corresponding with a major producer of canned soups in my own riding, who has stated that while the sales tax had been removed from the final product, at the same time the tax had been imposed on ingredients of the final product. I understand that if the final product is produced under a sales tax, a licence number is given to the concern in question, and if that licence number is given, the component parts of the final product are tax free. When, however, the final product is tax free, these components are taxed. The concern I have in mind wished to announce reductions in the prices of certain products in order to pass on the savings to the consumer. This being so, I think the minister should make a statement on the matter.


I am familiar with the case which my hon. friend refers to. I am told that the great majority of the ingredients in the soup are exempt from sales tax. The container is of course exempt from sales tax, and the officials inform me that the content of these prepared soups which is subject to sales tax is relatively insignificant in value. I am told that in one way or another, under the licence system, or otherwise, certainly the major portion of the ingredients of these prepared soups is exempt from sales tax, as is the finished product and the container in which the product is put up.


The minister mentioned mayonnaise and other things. Are the artides that are subject to sales tax taxable because of United States content, or because they are considered a luxury item? For what reason are they taxed? It seems strange that any part of a food, even flavouring or spice, should be subject to sales tax.


Well, they are not exempt from the sales tax. They are looked upon as coming within the category of specialty goods or imported goods. A large number are imported; but it is fair to say that with the changes proposed here virtually all, and certainly all the staple food products, some of them even processed or manufactured, as in the case of breakfast foods, are exempt from sales tax.


I notice the list of articles on which the tax has been repealed includes canned vegetables and fruit juices, but the list does not include catsup and vegetable juices. Why should they not be placed in 5849-293
the same category as canned vegetables and fruit juices?


Vegetable juices are included.


Vegetable juices are in the same line, immediately under catsup.


It is a question of punctuation. The exclusions relate to vegetables, canned frozen or dehydrated, but not including pickles, relishes, catsup, sauces, olives and similar goods. Then there is a semicolon; and then come vegetable juices. It may not be entirely clear, but vegetable juices are exempt and the qualification relates to pickles, relishes, catsup, sauces, olives and similar goods.


When the minister was introducing his budget he said, at page 4068 of Hansard, that the exemptions which are the subject matter of the resolution now before the committee would result in a revenue loss for an entire year of about $20,000,000. No one in the house will object to these exemptions; the criticism has been that they do not go far enough. The concern of the public will be, I think, that the reductions in taxes levied in the first instance should be passed on to the consumers just as soon as possible. May I ask the minister if his department or the wartime prices and trade board is interesting itself in that question? There were a good many newspaper articles on that point just after the budget speech. In an article in the Globe and Mail I noticed this:	"Biscuit makers pass on tax cut.
Reduction of two to five cents on a package of biscuits made possible by the elimination of the eight per cent sales tax is being passed on to the consumer." That was an announcement made by the sales manager of McCormick's Limited. I think we all appreciate that it may take a while for some of these reductions in taxes to be translated into reductions in price to the consumer, as inventories move off the shelves. Has the minister any information to give the committee on that point?


That question received a great deal of consideration when thought was being given to the removal of this tax, because naturally we are all interested in seeing that the consumer should get the benefit of the tax relief; that it should not be absorbed in the prices or profit margins of manufacturers or distributors. The information I obtained convinced me the situation was such that in the great majority of these items the reduction would be reflected in the prices. Already it has been reflected in the prices of things like
Excise Tax Act

smoked meats. If hon. members or their wives have been purchasing these commodities they will have noticed a definite reduction. In cases where inventories were low, that reduction would be reflected quite promptly.
The big items in this $20,000,000 saving will be in the field of smoked meats, that is ham and bacon, and in the canned vegetables and fruits. Those are the items in which there is the large revenue loss; and I am informed that the competition feature there is such that the reduction would be reflected in the prices. I have made no purchases myself to. see if that is true, but I have every reason to believe that these savings will be passed on to the consumer.


I am sorry to have to differ from the minister, but out in our part of the country it is definitely conceded that there is practically no difference in price. I do not know about ham and bacon, but on ordinary items it is conceded that removal of the sales tax is making practically no difference, and people have written me to that effect.


It may be that the distributors have not yet got rid of their tax-paid inventory. We made no refunds.


There is also the matter of freight rates. The extra freight must have made some difference, but they say they cannot notice any difference in their family budgets. I think it only fair to report this situation.


That may be true, but general statements of that kind do not carry a great deal of conviction. The effect on a can of peas or corn or something like that should be two or three cents, and people might not notice it, but it is there just the same.


When you have the head of a great system of chain stores warning the people there will not be any reduction, I am afraid we have to take his word for it.


I should like to ask the minister how a consumer is to determine the amount of the reduction. Is the government taking responsibility for posting schedules or releasing information? If I go into a store to make certain purchases, how can I tell whether or not the entire reduction is being passed on?


So far as I know there is no way in which the individual can tell that, because there is no price control on the particular articles with which we are concerned here. I do not think that could be enforced

now. Therefore we must depend on the ordinary competition between stores. If the tax represented an additional amount of eight or ten cents a pound on ham or bacon, or whatever it may be, the normal forces of supply and demand will operate, I am sure, and the price will represent the cost to the merchant plus his margin of profit. Of course if he has to cut the price below that, he will go out of business. To answer my hon. friend's question directly, there is not, and there cannot be, any policing by the government on the individual grocer to see that he gives his customers the benefit of the lower cost made possible by the removal of the sales tax.


Then this is the list on which these cuts can be expected?


That is correct. There is a long list, but the main items are the cooked and prepared meats, a wide range of canned fruits and vegetables, and things like biscuits, to which the hon. member for Eglinton has referred1; macaroni, vermicelli, and so forth.


There is quite a difference between the articles the minister has just mentioned. I would like to draw attention to the fact that all canned goods are packed in the summer months. These canned goods are now in the hands of the dealers, not in the -hands of the producers. Consequently in the great majority of cases the government collected the sales tax on these goods quite some time ago. But that is not the question I rose to ask. This paragraph does not seem very clear to me as it is printed. Am I correct in understanding that the sales tax is now repealed on tomato juice and all vegetable juices?


That is correct.


I was going to ask the minister if he would mind restating, because I think he has answered the question in part, whether the articles mentioned in the two last lines of section- 1, subsection (a), are excluded from relief because during the war they were manufactured in Canada? I am referring to relishes and sauces, and I have in mind also mustard, which we formerly imported to a large extent from Britain. During the war these commodities were manufactured in Canada. Is the sales tax retained as a protective measure, or what is the reason for excluding these items from the relief which is given to other commodities?


Perhaps I did not make myself perfectly clear previously. The main consideration was that these are not looked upon as primary foods. They are manufac-

Excise Tax Act
tured articles. They are processed foods, somewhat in the nature of specialty or luxury products. It is proposed to remove the sales tax from all the staple foods, but it is felt that specialty products such as I have indicated contain a high value of processing cost and should remain subject to sales tax.


A moment ago an hon. member asked what happens to the merchant who has acquired these commodities and paid the sales tax on them. He could not very well charge it when he sells the article at retail. Is the tax exigible from the retail and final sale only, or is it exigible on the sale from the manufacturer to the jobber, from the jobber to the retailer, and from the retailer to the consumer?


The tax is imposed, as my hon. friend knows, at the manufacturer's or wholesale level. When the retailer buys his stock of vermicelli or breakfast food, or whatever it is, he buys it with the sales tax included. That represents his cost. No refunds are being made. I made that clear in my 'budget speech. The retailer will have an inventory on which he will have to get his costs, plus, I should hope, a reasonable margin. It is only after he has disposed of that inventory that he will, in fairness to himself, be in a position to pass on to the consumer the benefit derived from the removal of the sales tax. Business being what it is, some retailers may give the benefit right away. In getting a new stock they may average it out and give the benefit at once. In any event they will have a tax^paid inventory on which they can get no refund, and on which they will have to recoup themselves out of the prices of the goods.


It will effect only the current year's crop?


In respect of canned vegetables that is true, so far as they have passed out of the hands of the cannery into trade channels. But we are at a stage in the year when those stocks are approaching their lowest point; therefore, as my hon. friend says, on the new crop it will apply in its entirety.


The minister says that the tax was imposed on the manufacturer and wholesaler. It is only against the one, is it not?


I said it was at the manufacturing or wholesale level.


Why is there a difference between the manufacturing and the wholesale level? The manufacturing level would represent a lower price, would it not?
5849-293J


The difference between the two is that a licensed wholesaler who buys from a manufacturer can quote his licence number, but the tax is still computed on the manufacturer's price.


I see reference to breakfast cereals and breakfast foods, not including beverages. What beverages could be included? Does it refer to tomato juice?


It is to exclude such things as Ovaltine or Yi-Tone, if by any stretch of the imagination they could be interpreted as being breakfast foods.


Celery juice is not included.


I pointed out that it is exempt.


Is there any tax on spectacles? Is there a tax on hearing aids? I am not sure about that, but if there is, then there should not be.


I am informed that there is at the present time.


I notice that the tax is being taken off wheel chairs and complete parts thereof specially designed for the use of invalids. For the life of me I cannot see why people who are wholly or partly incapacitated should be charged for such things as hearing aids. They are expensive enough now. The average price is about $100, and then an additional $8 must be paid for the privilege of having that help, to say nothing of the duty on them when they come in.


The tax would be paid at the manufacturer's price.


I do not see why there should be any tax, especially on articles used by people who are incapacitated or who have not the full use of their faculties. Many persons have to wear glasses. Why should they have to pay an excise tax as well?


I have been follow