EDMOND CLOUTIER, C.M.G., B.A.. L.Ph., PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY CONTROLLER OF STATIONERY 1948
Tuesday, April 20, 1948
Mr. Speaker, there are a few words which I should like to say to the house. The Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) has today reached another milestone in his remarkable career, and I am sure that the house would wish to give some recognition to the occasion.
It is no small achievement to have held the high office of prime minister, not only longer than any former prime minister of Canada, but also longer than anyone has held the office of prime minister in any country of the British empire.
What the Prime Minister has attained is a world record as the elected leader of a free nation. That such an achievement has been possible is of course a proof of his rare and impressive personal qualities. But it is also an indication of the stability of our people and of the completeness with which they have adapted British institutions to Canadian conditions.
My remarks, I need hardly say, are in no sense intended as a party manifestation. I would hope that my sentiments would be shared by all members of the house. But speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister's political supporters in the house, and I think I can also speak for his political supporters throughout the country, I count it a privilege to extend to him on this occasion our sincere congratulations.


Mr. Speaker, there are indeed occasions when all partisanship can be laid to one side, and I think the present is an occasion on which we can all join in recognition of the very high distinction that has come to the right hon. the Prime Minister in the fact that he has held office as prime minister longer than any other prime minister in any of the British dominions or in the dear old motherland itself.
I understand that today the right hon. gentleman exceeds the long tenure of office of Sir Robert Walpole, whose portrait hangs among those of other famous men in the corridor leading to the restaurant on the sixth floor.
In my childhood we used to read a good deal about Sir Robert Walpole, and we were struck by the fact that he had held office for so long a time.
Today, Mr. Speaker, I feel very humble. My leader (Mr. Bracken) just a moment ago sent word asking me to speak after the right hon. the Minister of Justice. The Prime Minister and I have something in common, not shared by any others in this house. Our mothers were warm friends as girls in Toronto, and many a time I heard my own mother speak of the right hon. gentleman. It is therefore with great pleasure that I rise to voice the sentiments of this side of the house, in the official opposition, in congratulating the Prime Minister on the high distinction he has brought to Canada, in placing this country at the head of all other parts of the empire, including the old land itself, in his length of tenure of office as prime minister.
Personally I hope the Prime Minister will live for many years yet, and if he does retire, as he has intimated he will, I hope that in his days in private life he will be afforded the opportunity to write that which this country needs so much, his own memoirs; because, apart altogether from politics, those memoirs will cover a wide field and a long period, and will include those who went before the right hon. gentleman.
I felicitate the Prime Minister and wish him long life and good health.


Mr. Speaker, we of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation join in felicitation of the Prime Minister on this occasion. It is indeed a remarkable achievement to have been prime minister of this great country for approximately twenty-one years. It is just over two hundred years since Sir Robert Walpole relinquished the reins of office, having been in reality and in very truth the first prime minister of any country now included in this great commonwealth of nations which share a common democratic heritage and common parliamentary institutions.
Felicitations to Prime Minister

The Prime Minister has made a great contribution to the growing up, if I may put it that way, of this country; to the achievement of its maturity as a nation. Since the time he came into office at the end of the first world war, succeeding Sir Robert Borden, who had insisted on Canada signing the treaty of Versailles in its own right, he has witnessed and aided the growth of that nationhood of which we are all proud. While we remember Walpole as the first Prime Minister of Britain, the present Prime Minister of Canada will perhaps be remembered for many things, but one of them will be that, during his long term of office, Canada in very truth obtained recognition throughout the world as a sovereign nation.


It affords the members of the Social Credit group, Mr. Speaker, great pleasure to be able to join with the other members of the house in congratulating the Prime Minister on this day. We congratulate him on his achievements as Prime Minister. He has been called upon to stand at the head of affairs in this nation while we have been passing through trying times. What is yet ahead, no one can tell. He may yet be called upon to render great service to this nation. In case he should be, we wish him health, strength and good spirits, that he may be able to discharge any other responsibilities he may be called upon to assume.
( Translation):
Right Hon. L. S. ST. LAURENT (Secretary of State for External Affairs): Mr. Speaker, it will seem fitting, I am sure, that a Frenchspeaking voice should join with those we have just heard in extending to the Right Hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) a tribute of admiration, affection, gratitude and warm wishes on this day when his term of office as leader of one of the Commonwealth states equals that of the prime minister who, before him, had headed one of these states longer than anyone else.
It is a fact worth recording because it illustrates not only the continuity of our prime minister's services but also the ease with which we adapt ourselves to the parliamentary system modelled on the long experience of Westminster:
The fathers of confederation gave us a constitution basically similar to that of the United Kingdom and, though our parliament has not yet existed a full 81 years, already one of its leaders has served as prime minister as long as any other in the several centuries since the foundation of the institution upon which our own is patterned.

We have indeed cause to rejoice over such a fact just as we have cause to rejoice over the opportunity we are given today of extending our congratulations to the one who, more than anyone else in our nation, has contributed with such constancy in investing our parliament with the stamp of dignity, of stability, and with such substantial pledges for the future.
(Text):


As a former head of the city of Toronto, Mr. Speaker, I wish to add a word of tribute to what has already been so well said by the others who have spoken today.
I think I have known the Prime Minister longer than almost any other person here in the house. I have always had a great deal of admiration and respect for him. I knew his father, who was a beloved professor in the law school when I attended it. I knew his mother, his father and all his family. I have always had a high regard for him personally, because of his kindness of heart to all his friends. I will say this about him. He has given a long life of able and brilliant service to our country. I am one of those in the house who has never allowed religion or politics to mix up with friendship.
I will always remember what his distinguished parents have done for this country. His grandfather was the first mayor of our city, in 1834. I was in Toronto the other day, and I may say that a large tablet is erected there marking his grandfather's grave. One of my last acts as head of the city was, I think, in December 1921. I remember his brother, who was a great member of the medical profession. His body arrived at the Union station, and as head of the city I accompanied it for burial. I have always remembered the kindness of heart of the Prime Minister.
Mr. JEAN-FRANCOIS POULIOT (Temis-couata): It is refreshing, Mr. Speaker, to hear such speeches as these on an occasion like this. Mr. King has been my only leader for a long time, and perhaps he will be my only one; I do not know about that. He has been my leader most of the time, to the extent that my conscience permitted me to follow him.
There is one thing that I find quite unusual, and it lies in the calling to mind of the length of time a man has been in office; the time has seemed to be so short. Mr. King is still so youthful looking that it is hard to believe he has been here longer than Walpole-who has been dead for a long time-was prime minister of Britain. I do not think it is fair to compare

Felicitations to Prime Minister
a living man who is in good health with a dead one. It is unjust to do that. But it can be said that everybody meant well.
The cabinet ministers spoke well. My good friend the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNieol) made a moving speech. So did the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church); the leader of the C.C.E. party, and the member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) acting as leader of the Social Credit party, also spoke very well. I regret that we have not enough celebrations of this kind. We had one for Mr. King on the occasion of his birthday, and at the time of the unveiling of his picture in the House of Commons. On another occasion, when he left for a trip outside of Canada, we wished him godspeed; and on his return he was welcomed. But I think there should be celebrations like that for every member of the House of Commons. We have a gracious member amongst us, the hon. member for Qu'Appelle (Mrs. Strum). Why do we not join together in order to hold a celebration in her honour?
The spirit of the House of Commons is better today than it usually is. Why? Because politics have been forgotten for a time. That is a good thing. We are here together. We are in the same boat. I notice once more that Mr. King has some very good friends amongst his critics. Those who flatter him are not always his true friends. They may expect something, but he is too great a man to pay attention to flattery. I am sure that at times he appreciates criticism much more than flattery, because he must surely give the one who may criticize, the benefit of the doubt.
Now, sir, in the hope that you and all my colleagues will be honoured in turn on fine occasions like this, I offer my congratulations and good wishes to Mr. King, as this is a good precedent for other celebrations of the same kind to honour each one of our colleagues in turn.


Mr. Speaker, may I at once extend my good wishes to every hon. member of this house, and my warmest thanks for the generous expressions of good will to which I have listened this afternoon. I do not think I need say that it would be much easier and pleasanter for me to be extending congratulations tie hon. members in different parts of the house than to be attempting to acknowledge the kind words that have been extended to me. Nevertheless these occasions do come along. They have been coming much too rapidly of late; time has been flying by much too quickly. To have been able to retain over 5849-199J
many years the confidence and good will of those closest to one in public life is in itself something for which one should indeed be more than grateful. I should like hon. members to know that for their confidence, over so long period of time, I am indeed deeply grateful.
I thank very warmly my colleague the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley) and my colleague the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. St. Laurent) for what they have so kindly said on behalf of the members of the government, and the members of the party with which I have been associated during the greater part of my life. They need no words of acknowledgment, but rather would I express gratitude to them for what their lives and the lives of those on whose behalf they have spoken, have meant to mine; what the loyalty, the industry and the ability of those by whom, over the years, I have been surrounded in council has meant so far 'as my life is concerned in bringing this day to pass.
I thank most warmly all members of the Liberal party, those 'in this house and those outside it, who have given me their support, for having made possible the years of office it has been my privilege to enjoy.
Need I say, Mr. Speaker, that St has touched me not a little that words from hon. gentlemen of the official opposition should have come from two hon. members who have been not only close personal friends over many years, but who also have had close associations with those who have been nearest and dearest to me in my life. It has been, perhaps, a part of my misfortune that so much of my time in public life has been lived more or less alone. But that has only served to cause me to realize more deeply, than perhaps I otherwise would have, how much I owe in what there may have been by way of accomplishment to those whose example and whose lives have meant more than all else to mine. I thank the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. MacNieol) for his close friendship, and for his reference to the friendship of our mothers, before either of us was born. I also thank the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church), who has had close associations with members of our family in the past, for having spoken so generously of what that association has meant.
I need not say how deeply I appreciate the kindly sentiments expressed by my friend the leader of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (Mr. Coldwell) and those of my friend the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore), who has spoken on behalf of the leader of the Social Credit party. To both

Felicitations to Prime Minister
I am deeply indebted for what they have so kindly said, and to their followers for the cordial manner in which they have responded to their expressions of good will. In passing, 1 should like to say to the hon. member for Lethbridge how much I regret the absence from the house through illness of the leader of the Social Credit party. I hope the hon. gentleman will express to his leader my good wishes, and my hope that he may speedily return to this house in health and strength.
To my friend the hon. member for Temis-couata (Mr. Pouliot), I also feel indebted for what he, too, has said. I appreciate the friendship I have shared with him, as I do the loyalty and friendship I have had in such full measure from all hon. members on this side of the house.
Mr. Speaker, I had been told that something might be said this afternoon to which I would be expected to reply. Not being too sure, feeling as I have during the past few days, that I might not omit what I most wished to say, I wrote out a word or two this morning which with the permission of the house I should like to read. It expresses what I feel most deeply about this particular moment, in relation to our parliament. I hope hon. members will believe that I speak in an impersonal way in seeking to convey what I feel to be the significance of this occasion.
It is well, I think, we should all have in mind just what has occasioned today's congratulations. To do so, at all events, will make it a little easier for me fittingly to acknowledge what others have found it possible to say. It will make clear, too, that it is to others I owe whatever merit there may be in the long years of office I have been privileged to enjoy. This is what I have written.
It is with a record-a sort of long distance record-in the matter of the time of holding high office in the state that our thoughts and our words are concerned for a moment this afternoon. If records are to be related to countries, then I am indeed happy that it has been my good fortune to be the one to win a record-an unequalled record, I am proud to say-which redounds to the credit of Canada.
What pleases me in equal measure is that a record achieved in our country, and in Canada's parliament, under our system of free, representative, responsible government, should be of great significance to the world today in the struggle we are witnessing between totalitarianism and democracy. The struggle today in many lands, and indeed it has become a

world struggle, is again the age-long one between freedom and tyranny, between democracy and totalitarianism. Today's record makes clear that to gain and to retain power in a free country, to help shape the policies of its government, it is not necessary that the head of a political party or of an administration should be either a superman or a dictator.
It has been well said that the symbol of democracy is the secret ballot; that the symbol of totalitarianism is the secret police. The record of which mention is being made today is attributable to the protection afforded the majority, by the secret ballot. Nowhere about this record is there the sinister shadow of a secret police. It signifies the opportunities which democracies afford to a man of average industry, intelligence and integrity, who is prepared to give his time to public service. It speaks volumes for what, in a democracy, is possible for the individual.
Now let me return to the spoken word. I need not say how grateful I am to have been spared in health and strength to enjoy an honour I had never sought, and to the possibility of which, until obliged to do so by the all too rapid passing of time, I had never so much as given a thought.
I am particularly proud to possess this honour at the instance of the people of Canada. I cannot say how grateful I am to mjr fellow citizens who have given me their confidence over so long a period of time. Nor can I say how much I owe to the loyalty and ability of those of my party who surround me today, and to those who through my years of office- totalling twenty-one years within two months from today-have given me such unfailing and devoted support. I have, too, very much in mind how much I owe to the officials and other members of our public service, and to the many friends without whose help over the years I could not have begun to meet the least of the obligations of my present position.
It is with mixed feelings indeed that I express my gratitude for the many evidences of good will of which I have been the recipient today, from within and without these halls of parliament, from many other parts of our country, and from friends in countries other than our own. I should find much greater satisfaction in the occasion were its emphasis upon years of office to which I might still look forward in this period of transition in the world's history, rather than so exclusively upon years that have flown by so quickly and are gone forever.
To me personally, however, this day is one of thankfulness. I am particularly thankful

Industrial Defence Board
that I have been spared to participate during so many years in the public life of our country, and to see the high place Canada has come to hold in the regard of other nations. I am thankful, too, that having been in office for so long a time, I have so many-I might almost say "any"-friends left. This is the more surprising, and may I add the more pleasing, in that I have had, of recent years, so little opportunity to see anything at all of many of my fellow members, or to share with them, inside or outside these halls of parliament, the personal and social contacts which are so all-important and so enjoyable.
May I say in conclusion that I rejoice above all at the opportunity public life has afforded me to render some service to my fellowmen. This service I trust through years to come may be helpful to many.


Third report of the special committee on veterans affairs.-Mr. Mutch.
That the name of Mr. Halle be substituted for that of Mr. Baker on the special committee on veterans affairs.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. Yesterday I tabled orders and made a statement in the house to the effect that the interest rate on payments on government annuity contracts had been reduced from four to three per cent. I stated on that occasion:
These matters have effect as of the 19th day of April, 1948, but do not change existing contracts.
I notice in this morning's Globe and Mail of Toronto that, with respect to this matter, and referring to what I said, it states:
It would, he pointed out, affect contracts already in force.
This is entirely the opposite of what I did say; and I trust the Globe and Mail will make a correction for the benefit of its readers who have been purchasers of government annuities.
I am sorry also to have to refer to a report on this matter appearing in today's Montreal Gazette. This states that the change in interest
rates was forced by the representations of private business. That is not correct. I have not to my recollection met any of the business interests referred to in this matter-and I have been in the ministry for more than six and a half years.
The change was made, as I have stated, to bring the rate in line with that paid on government securities. The Gazette also reports alleged claims of private business that the government annuities scheme has been subsidized out of tax funds to the extent of $4,500,000 a year. This is a gross inaccuracy. The average annual mortality losses to the government in the past five years has been $400,000. The government pays the cost of administration of the annuities act. The average annual cost for the last five years was $437,000.


Mr. Speaker, I have to announce the establishment of the industrial defence board, made today, and I now table a copy of P.C. 1739 creating the board, also a copy of P.C. 1740 giving the names of the chairman, vice-chairman, and members of the board representing industry.
As set out in the terms of reference, the primary purpose of the board is

To advise the government of Canada and the Minister of National Defence on all matters relating to the industrial war potential of Canada.
The members of the board representing industry are all men who gave notable service in connection with industrial organization during the second world war. One of the objects of our setting up the board is to ensure that the experience they gained will not be lost and will be the basis for future developments.
Their names are Messrs. H. J. Carmichael, C.M.G., Chairman; J. Edouard Simard, ViceChairman; G. R. Donald, O.B.E.; William Knoll; J. G. Notman; Clarence Wallace and William A. Wecker.
In addition the members of the board will include the chairman of the defence research board; the president of Canadian Arsenals Limited; the three principal supply officers of the armed forces of Canada; the deputy minister of national defence and the deputy minister of trade and commerce.
In a letter to Mr. Carmichael this morning I set out some of the matters which I thought
Inquiries oj the Ministry

should be given immediate attention. I table a copy of this letter. These matters include:
Examination of the various agencies concerned in planning and initiating procurement and production of war equipment in Canada so as to recommend a division of responsibilities which will ensure that these responsibilities are effectively met without overlapping.
Consideration of requirements in the light of plans and possible programs of the armed forces and the assessment of the capacity to make available the materials, manpower and manufacturing facilities that may be required, with special recommendations regarding materials, industry or plants which are regarded as essential and for which some special provision, should be made.
To assist in the work of organization, I have designated Colonel W. G. Denny, O.B.E., as acting executive secretary. Colonel Denny has held positions in connection with ordnance work during the war in Europe, as well as at home and in the United States.
It will be seen that one of the major jobs of the board will be to ensure effective co-operation between the armed forces and the various agencies operating in this field. I refer particularly to the newly organized Canadian Ordnance Association, representing industry.
In the last war Canada became a great arsenal of democracy. Should an emergency ever arise again our expectation is that this board will assist us in being prepared to ensure that Canada will play its full and necessary part in the preservation of freedom and in the defence of our country.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Claxton), and offer it also for the edification of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Ilsley), in regard to a judgment handed down by Mr. Justice Angers. I would ask the Minister of National Defence whether, in view of the finding of the judge in this case that discretionary encroachment by certain ministers and deputy ministers will, if not curtailed, result in this country's being ruled by a dictatorial government, he will alter the order he made.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member did not give me notice of the question, and it is three years since I had anything to do with the case to which he has referred. I have a fairly clear recollection of it, however. and on the basis of that recollection

I should like to answer the hon. member's question and set him right about some of the assumptions he apparently has as the basis of his question.


I quoted from the judgment.


This case concerns a veteran, Paul Belleau, who suffered a disability resulting from tuberculosis contracted at the end of the first great war. As a veteran he received treatment from the department of pensions and national health for a long period. I think he first came before the narcotics division of that department some time in the nineteen twenties, and some time in the nineteen thirties it was found that he was receiving, through prescriptions from his own physicians, thirty grains of morphine per day which I am advised made him the largest known single user of the 4,000 known addicts in Canada at that time.
The narcotics division of the department of pensions and national health was headed by Colonel Sharman, a man having a widely known reputation throughout the world for having made a great contribution in that field. Being entrusted by the then Minister of Pensions and National Health with the responsibility of the administration of the narcotics act he caused inquiries to be made to see why this huge quantity of morphine was being prescribed for this man. In consequence, over a long period of time, I think stretching up to fifteen years, there were discussions between this man and his doctors and those representing the department as to what could be done. As I say, there is no case of any doctor being allowed to prescribe such a dosage for an addict, at least so far as my information goes.
The officers of the department co-operated with this man's own doctors in working out a plan for his treatment and cure by a reduction of the dosage. On a number of occasions the doctors of the department, or those appointed to represent the department, saw the man's own doctors to work out the details. However, it was found on repeated occasions that the man would not co-operate, and still his doctor and those representing him wanted to obtain these huge doses.
In these circumstances and in consequence of events which took place long before I came into the Department of National Health and Welfare, but for which I am glad to assume responsibility, it was decided on the advice of no less than six or seven doctors, most of whom I saw myself, and after I had examined the record repeatedly, that the requests made by this man through his own physician shall

Inquiries oj the Ministry
not be met and that the ten grains per day which he was then receiving and which is a very heavy amount, should not be increased, with the authority of the department. If it were increased it would be confirming the fact that this man was being given morphine by government permission just because he was an addict and for no other reasons.
In those circumstances I refused to authorize that this morphine be given to this addict. When I say "this morphine" I am referring to the colossal dosage. But the officers of the department did co-operate with his own doctor, and I think the dosage was gradually reduced to something in the nature of four grains, which when I last heard of the case he was still receiving. That was done on the advice of his own doctors and in accordance with the terms of the narcotics act and the regulations passed under it.
Then with regard to the question raised in the judgment, the hon. member has surely read the plaintiff's assertions and the claims referred to, possibly in the press and possibly in the judgment. The case did not come to trial on the facts. It was tried on what we in Quebec call a demurrer, a point of law, to see whether there was any case in law to go before the court. The court held that on that point of law the action must be dismissed. The facts have never been brought before the court except in so far as they are asserted in the plaintiff's claim.
The facts are substantially as stated by myself from my memory. Having been entrusted with the responsibility for the administration of the narcotics act, and having regard to the dangerous character of the drugs administered and the possibility of any drugs given in large quantities being used improperly, I believe hon. members would feel that any discretion reposing in the minister who administered that act had been exercised properly on this occasion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to direct a question to the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply (Mr. Mcllraith) ? I am not by-passing -the minister, but I have been dealing with the parliamentary assistant in connection with this matter. My question arises from a telegram received from the director of the steelworkers union. Has the parliamentary assistant or
the minister been advised -that the Canadian Car plant at Amherst, Nova Scotia, may close permanently because of their inability to secure scrap material? Secondly, can he advise the house why only 165 tons of scrap have been delivered out of the 500 tons promised that plant in February?


With the permission of the inquirer I refuse to be bypassed. The steel controller was no-t advised of any shortage of raw material at Amherst until after the plant had been closed down. Inquiries were then made as to why production was not coming from Amherst. We were then advised of a shortage of re-lay rails, which is the raw material for the plant.
Instructions were given that the first 500 tons of re-layers produced at Belleville were to be allocated to the Amherst plant and also that the first 500 tons of re-layers accumulated at Moncton were to be delivered to Amherst.
I might say that the Belleville re-layers ordinarily go to Burlington Steel Company but they are diverted to Amherst for the present.
Recent inquiries to the company indicate that while the plant has been closed extensive repairs have been made, and the management state that they have every intention of resuming operations. They report to us that they will in future be able -to operate on a more continuous basis -than has been the history of the plant previously.


The plant is actually closed for repairs and not for lack of material?


The fact that no complaint reached the steel controller about lack of raw materials until after the plant had closed down would indicate to me that the plant was probably closed for repairs, or perhaps rebuilding.


The company is kidding the ' employees.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. The first item on the order paper under government notices of motion has to do with schedule V to the general agreement of tariffs and trade. When the order paper is cleared of that item we have just one more under the same heading. In the meantime this item has been on the order paper for four and
Inquiries of the Ministry

a half months. I think the Minister of Finance should inform the house why this order, which bears date December 5, is still on the order paper under government notices of motion, and how long it will remain there.


Mr. Speaker, I cannot say just when it will be brought forward. I had not contemplated bringing it forward in any case until after the Geneva agreements, which are now before the banking and commerce committee, had proceeded further than they have so far done.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of our foreign exchange situation, can the minister tell the house what amounts of Canadian dollars are being converted into United States dollars by subsidiaries of United States corporations to meet their obligations in the United States?


That question, Mr. Speaker, I suggest is one which should be placed on the order paper, as it requires the obtaining of figures. My hon. friend was good enough to give me notice of it, and I have asked that the figures be prepared and hope to give him an answer tomorrow, but I cannot today.

REFERENCE TO PRESS REPORT AS TO PRODUCTION On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker. On April 9 the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply said that the production of nails was increasing month by month, but the Globe and Mail this morning in its Ottawa Briefs says:
Nail production in February dropped' to 5,670 tons-


Order: I understood the hon. member was going to put a question.


I am just going to put the question, Mr. Speaker, but will complete the quotation:
-compared with 6,854 the previous month.
I would ask the minister why there is a drop of 1,184 tons in the production of nails in February of this year as compared with
January, and what is the prospect of the production being increased. We cannot have houses built for veterans if nail production is dropping.


One reason for production in February being less than in January is that there are fewer working days in February.


Oh!


My hon. friends, if they will watch production in a 31-day month as against a 28-day month, will see that that is a fact.


There were twenty-nine days in February this year.


I know, but the short month is the principal reason for the drop in production. The production of nails is limited by the amount of rod that can be supplied from the steel companies. We are stepping up rod production as fast as we can consistent with other demands. Generally speaking there has been a very sharp increase in the output of nails, and generally speaking there is no great shortage of nails in this country, even though it has been found impossible to keep all hardware stores supplied with nails. That is the plain fact. The apparent shortage is a matter of distribution. I know of no project in the country that is being seriously held up for the lack of nails.


I do not agree with the minister's statement that fewer working days in February accounted for the drop in production.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, is the Prime Minister yet in a position to answer the question I asked him yesterday, of which I reminded him by notice this morning?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. My hon. friend's question was as to whether health legislation would be introduced at the present session. The question has been under consideration by the cabinet off and on at different times since the beginning of the session. When legislation will be introduced will depend on the progress we make with other legislation now before the house.

Freight Rates
INQUIRY OF THE MINISTRY On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, there is a gathering in the city of Ottawa of most distinguished gentlemen from across Canada and may I suggest that the members of the government, if they are sincere in their requests for forgiveness for the gross mismanagement of the country's affairs, might go down there and join that party.


The house resumed from Thursday, April 15, consideration of the motion of Mr. Abbott for committee of supply, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Coldwell, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Bracken.
Mr. Speaker, when this debate was adjourned last Thursday evening I was pointing out some of the reasons why the railway companies found it necessary to seek an increase in freight rates in this country. One of the reasons I gave was the overcapitalization of at least the Canadian National Railways, and I cited some very good authority to substantiate my statement. I have one more piece of evidence to offer to the house in further substantiation of my statement, and that is the news report in this morning's papers that the president of the Canadian National Railways said that the Canadian National is paying $44,000,000 in interest charges every year, which is three times the amount of interest charges that the Canadian Pacific has to meet. That in itself is a potent reason why the railways should be revalued, particularly the Canadian National Railways, and written down to their actual cost. Then, as I said before, if there is a debt still due to the bondholders which is properly theirs, let it be serviced and paid by all the people of Canada, not by just some sections of this country.
I also pointed out that-one of the results of the judgment of the board of transport commissioners was to increase freight rates not simply by 21 per cent but by over 100 per cent on many small shipments because of the board's ruling that the railways could charge a 75 cents minimum on all less than carload lot shipments of less than 100 pounds. I also pointed out that because of that fact many private concerns in this country were taking advantage of the increase in freight rates to
add, for their own profit and benefit, the increased rates to the price of their goods, thus making the order in effect retroactive even though the judgment by no means gave any authority of that kind.
Now I want to give another reason why I think the railways of this country felt called upon to ask for an increase in freight rates, and it is this. There is entirely too much influence on the Canadian freight rate structure by the railroads in the country to the south of us, by our friends of the United States. I think in this as well as in many other matters there is entirely too much influence by Washington and allied interests down there on our whole Canadian economy. These two particular faults that I have mentioned may be laid at the door of all past governments that Canada has had. They do not necessarily have to be laid at the door of the government which is at present in power, although this government must take its full share of the blame. There are others to blame also.
There is one reason, however, why this government should undoubtedly be censured right now for what has taken place. Nowhere in the judgment do I find it stipulated that any single part of the 21 per cent increase in rates was earmarked for an increase in the wages or salaries of workers. When therefore my friends opposite accuse us of trying to prevent the railway workers from getting an increase in wages, they are simply shedding crocodile tears and using specious arguments. Had there been one word in the judgment indicating that a part of the increase was to be used for the purpose I have mentioned, it might have been easier for us to feel kindly, at least to the extent that such an increase was to be given to the workers.
The third reason why it is asked for is something which is directly attributable to this government, and that is the failure of the government to listen to the advice of this party since 1945 when we demanded the continuance of price controls in Canada into the days of peace at the level that had obtained in the days of war. The government refused to follow that course. Three years ago we found they were beginning to release controls, aided and abetted by their common law wife in this house, the Progressive Conservative party, which supports them on all measures of this kind, in the interest and to the profit of their own particular friends throughout the country. The releasing of the controls began at that time, and its continuance up to the present day has been the greatest single factor causing the board of transport commissioners to justify the increase granted.
3136
Freight Rates

Had these controls not been released, I am convinced that what has happened would not have happened, or at least it would not have been necessary even from the point of view of the railways.
I am going to suggest that even at this late date, twelve days after the rate went into effect, the government should still reconsider its position and immediately disallow this increase in freight rates. I have much evidence to support my contention, and it should be convincing to the government.
I have here a letter from the Edmonton chamber of commerce. It is a long letter and I will not read it all, but I wish to put on the record one paragraph which sets out their position clearly. It is dated April 13, 1948, and reads in part:
The chamber has been advocating, and still advocates, the appointment of a commission of the prestige and influence of the Rowell-Sirois commission, because the chamber feels the question of freight rates is the single most important matter facing the Canadian economy at the present time.


They were reflecting on the transport board?


They say in this letter that they are not, and neither am I. I am reflecting on the government, which my hon. and independent friend the member for Comox-Alberni supports on nearly every occasion.


And this one.


Shame.


Yes, shame.


Just enjoy yourself.


I have made no reflection on the board. It is not very often that I support chambers of commerce, but in this matter the whole west, and I am speaking as a member from the west, no matter what the political, economic or social views of the people there may be, is in agreement that this increase was unnecessary and unfair. The people there ask, as I do, that a complete investigation be made into the whole matter. I have quoted that paragraph because I believe that a letter from a chamber of commerce has infinitely more effect on my Liberal and Tory friends than letters from any other source that I can think of-even an ecclesiastical source-because that is their greatest god.
I say therefore that the disallowance should be effective right now, even though twelve days have passed since the freight increase went into effect. Even though a good many months have gone by since the release of controls, I say that the government-and this, I assure you,

is not coming from any communist source- should immediately reimpose price controls as they have been asked to do so many times by members in this part of the house and by people in many parts of the counrty.
I suggest also, as the chamber of commerce does, a complete investigation into the whole capital structure of the railways until we find out exactly what they are worth intrinsically and what they should charge as capital and fixed charges. With the overcapitalization as it is-and this is backed up by the authorities I have given-who, I ask, can look at a railway statement and determine, for example, whether their depreciation reserves are the proper ones, until we know what the capital figures of these companies actually are? Who can tell whether any of the percentages of their earnings indicate their proper earnings when no one knows exactly what the institutions are worth?
For that reason, and in the interests of and fairness to the country, I believe the government should accept the three recommendations I have mentioned.
May I make one more reference to the Edmonton chamber of commerce. They say that they feel the question of freight rates is "the single most important matter facing the Canadian economy at the present time." I will not say I fully agree with the importance they attach to it as the greatest single factor in the national life of Canada, but it is a great factor and quite in line with the statement made by the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell), the leader of. this party, when he said that it would cause a strain on Canadian relationships if this freight increase went into effect.
The hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) went further and said the strain would be so great that it was possible it would cause a great rift in our Canadian national unity. The chamber of commerce apparently is rather of the same view. I suggest therefore that the words spoken by hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar and the hon. member for Lethbridge were not idle words. They sprang from the thoughts and the information which we find among the people in the country, who distrust actions of this kind.
If, as I said before, it is necessary for Canada to subsidize railways to some extent, then they should be written down to their proper capitalization, and the extra debt that is to be serviced should be paid back by all the people of Canada, including the two central provinces. It would strengthen the bonds of Canadian unity if such action were taken.

Freight Rates


Although I had something to say on the subject of freight rates after the Easter recess, in view of the fact that two want of confidence motions have since been brought before the house, and having regard to the speeches that have been made, I feel it incumbent upon me this afternoon to say something further.
I was a little amused at the remark of the hon. member for Swift Current (Mr. Bentley) when he talked about the common law marriage between Liberals and Conservatives.


It is legal out in British Columbia, I admit.


If it is a common law marriage, the offspring must be the members of that party to which the hon. gentleman belongs.


What has the hon. member been doing?


That is only by the way.


Oh, oh!


If the hon. member keeps interrupting I will wait until he stops. I did not interrupt him.


Have fun.


If one cannot be a gentleman, he should at least act like one.


Order.


First of all, I want to make a comment on the want of confidence motion introduced by the leader of the C.C.F. It is like a great many more of the theories propounded by that group. One has only to read the motion to realize that what I am about to say is correct. He says it may be a want of confidence motion, that it may defeat the government, and that if it does, the people of Canada should decide. WT11 any member of parliament tell me if there is any one particular subject which the people of Canada can decide? One can just imagine a general election on the freight rates issue.


It would be just too bad for you if you had it.


It is an issue which would principally affect the people of British Columbia, who would speak about it, and perhaps the people of the prairies. But when you came to the provinces of Ontario and Quebec, which have over sixty per cent of the "population of Canada, I greatly doubt if freight rates would be an issue at all. How then could the people of Canada settle it? I cannot see the people in Ontario and Quebec voting for the develop-5849-2004
ment of British Columbia and the prairies if it meant the moving of the industries from those provinces out to the west. Therefore, in my opinion, what is suggested by the leader of the C.C.F. would not work at all. It is just a lot of theory. It would never work out in practice, because every member of parliament knows that no one can tell exactly what one issue elects or defeats a member. There are so many issues involved in an election that no person can say that this, that or the next thing either elected or defeated him. So I say there is nothing to the contention that the people of Canada would decide the issue. I submit that they would do no such thing.
I am frank to admit- that the general freight rates issue-that is, the charges for freight between various provinces and for various distances-is a matter which is somewhat complicated for the House of Commons to decide. Any reasonable-minded member will readily admit that. But I well remember what happened when I brought the plain issue of grain rates before the house. For five years, standing over there in the opposition, I tried) to get some redress with regard to grain rates-which was just one issue-from the prairie provinces to British Columbia. I well remember the treatment I received. I was told plainly on every occasion: "Why do you bring this subject into the house?" I was told that by the Conservative government then in office. I was told to take it to the board of transport commissioners. They said, "Do not bring it up here." I was not arguing the general freight rates structure at all. I was arguing one issue and one issue only namely grain rates. I well remember how the vote went when I was voted down. Even the members from British Columbia on the Conservative side actually stood up in their places and voted against me in the year 1935, the vote on that occasion being 45 to 64.
May I also point out this to hon. members. All the decreases which have taken place since 1920 have taken place under a Liberal administration. The one increase, the great 40 per cent increase, took place under a Conservative administration in 1920. I doubt if many members in the central provinces, including even the minister who mentions the mountain differential, is cognizant of the fact that there is no such thing as a mountain differential so far as the Canadian National Railways are concerned. The mountain differential was instituted after the building of the Canadian Pacific into British Columbia.
If one looks into the history of it, he will find that actually a Conservative administration was 