for leave to introduce Bill No. 216, to encourage the construction and conversion of vessels in Canada.
He said: Mr. Speaker, the object of this bill is to encourage the construction and conversion of vessels in Canada. The assistance will take the form of accelerated depreciation. Owners who construct or convert vessels in Canadian yards will be entitled to write off their ships in three years if they so wish. The vessels to which the legislation will apply are those as defined in the Canada Shipping Act.


Is there to be legislation
providing aid to the shipping industry, as distinguished from the shipbuilding industry?


This legislation deals with ships as defined in the Canada Shipping Act, and applies to shipbuilding.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Has the government made any representations to the city of Ottawa with respect to the erection of bus shelters along the routes of its transportation system within the present city limits?
2.	If so, with what result?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	How many pipe lines are bringing oil and/or
gas from the United States into Canada at the present time?	,
2.	How long have they been in operation?
3.	How much oil or gas has entered Canada by these sources in that time and what is the estimated value?


1 and 2. (a) Two bringing oil: Montreal-Portland pipe line-1941.	The Transit and
Storage Co.-1912.	(b) Two bringing gas:
Dominion Natural Gas Co. (Buffalo)-1925. Union Gas Co. Windsor connection with Detroit-1947.
3.	Oil-Statistics are not compiled by separate means of transportation. All oil statistics are grouped together regardless of whether they are imported by a pipe line, tanker, tank car or truck.
Gas-Imports-Gas for cooking, heating or illuminating imported by pipe line from United States:
Calendar	Value
year	M. cu.ft.	$1948	
404,046	238,7421947	
432,530	252,7721946	
368,067	239,0811945	
345,983	233,3091944	
270,725	182,1391943	
232,106	157,8441942	
197,103	135,2561941	
172,552	117,4711940	
130,342	91,9761939	
114,396	75,3801938	
133,062	87,3111937	
114,275	74,7991936	
83,802	54,1121935	
78,213	51,5381934	
77,859	50,7651933	
75,895	54,2151932	
120,840	91,234


1.	What weekend excursion rates on Canadian railways will be available for the coming Christmas holidays?
2.	What will be the charges for berths, lower and upper, and other sleeper accommodation during the Christmas season?
3.	Will they be the same as other years?
4.	By whose authority have such rates been established?
5.	Has the board of transport commissioners approved of them? If so, when?


Questions


1.	How many prosecutions were taken, by provinces, since the first of January, 1949, for alleged neglect to take out radio licences by private persons?
2.	What is the average fine levied in each province?


1.	Prince Edward Island, 139; Nova Scotia, 578; New Brunswick, 199; Quebec, 1,137; Ontario, 4,238; Manitoba, 517; Saskatchewan, 255; Alberta, 363; British Columbia, 147.
2.	Prince Edward Island, $1.90; Nova Scotia, $3.30; New Brunswick, $4.80; Quebec, $2.45; Ontario, $2.70; Manitoba, $3.90; Saskatchewan, $4.65; Alberta, $4.15; British Columbia, $2.80.
Only cases for which complete reports have been received in the department are included in this return.


1.	Does the national film board collect any tax on their showing of pictures?
2.	Does the national board film pay any business or property tax to (a) the federal government; (b) the provincial governments?
3.	If so, what amount was received from this source during each of the years 1946, 1947 and 1948 by (a) the federal government; (b) the provincial governments?


1.	No.
2.	No.
3.	See answer to No. 2.


1.	Are the alterations for the Three Rivers, Quebec, post office being done on a cost plus arrangement or by contract?
2.	If by contract, who are the contractors?
3.	What is the amount of the contract?
4.	Were tenders invited for this work? If so, when?
5.	What are the names of those who tendered and what was the amount of each tender?
6.	When is this job to be completed?


1.	By contract.
2.	Romeo Martel, Three Rivers, Que.
3.	Amount of contract, $668,270. Additional work authorized, $4,160.
4.	(a) Yes, by public advertisement; (b) tenders due May 18, 1949.
5.	Romeo Martel, Three Rivers, Que., $668,270; L. Massicotte & Careau Limited, Cap de la Madeleine, Que., $679,850; Rosaire Dufresne, Three Rivers, Que., $735,188; Jos. Renaud, Limited, Three Rivers, Que., $737,-

312; Frs. Jobin Inc., Quebec, Que., $738,349; G. A. Gruninger & Fils, Three Rivers, Que., $748,261.
6.	Date of completion, December 2, 1950.


1.	Did the Indian affairs branch of the Department of Mines and Resources purchase a residence at St. Paul, Alberta, recently?
2.	If so, for what purpose?
3.	What was the price paid for that property, and to whom?
4.	Upon whose recommendation was this transaction made?


1.	Yes; in the year 1948.
2.	For use as a residence for the Indian superintendent of Saddle Lake agency.
3.	$7,500 to Mr. Wilfrid Aubin, St. Paul, Alberta.
4.	Purchase was made upon the recommendation of the regional supervisor of Indian agencies, Alberta, following a decision by responsible officers that the superintendent should reside in the town of St. Paul.


1.	On what date did the Right Hon. J. L. Ilsley cease to be minister of justice?
2.	Who was the minister of justice from the date noted in question 1 until the present Minister of Justice was sworn in?
3.	Who was the acting minister of justice from November 15, 1948, until January 31, 1949?


1.	June 30, 1948.
2.	Right Hon. Louis S. St. Laurent was appointed Acting Minister of Justice with effect from July 1, 1948. On September 10, 1948, he was appointed Minister of Justice.
3.	Hon. Joseph Jean.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called I rise on a question of privilege. Before I got down this morning, which was reasonably early, some very thoughtful persons placed upon my desk this miniature coffin, which bears the single word "Calgary." The only thing they omitted to inscribe was, "Not dead, but sleeping."
I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the Montreal club on their splendid win, and the people of Montreal on their fine

sportsmanship in connection with that event. In saying this, however, I exclude one person, the one who yanked my hat off my head and disappeared with it in the traffic. The hat is gone forever. I wish I could give this coffin to that man so that he could put the hat in it; for it is only the hat that is gone.


As a westerner, Mr. Speaker, I have an extremely unfortunate financial duty to perform. It arises as a result of Saturday's football game. I cannot see the member in the house to whom I owe the duty, so am I exempt from performing it?


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport arising out of an article in the New York Times, to the effect that a bill has been passed in the United States congress, known as the Magnuson bill, which bill was signed last week by President Truman, providing for the immediate location survey of a railroad route from Prince George, British Columbia, to Fairbanks, Alaska, and for early provision for the construction of that railroad, of which some eleven hundred miles will be on Canadian soil.
Is the minister in a position to say what negotiations have taken place with the United States government, and what is the present position of those negotiations?


This question, or one similar to it, was asked the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) on November 18, and he gave an extensive reply.


I am aware of what he said.


In the course of his reply he stated that no appropriation had been passed for this purpose by the United States government; that if and when such an appropriation was passed, and if and when that government made representations to the Canadian government, those representations would be carefully considered. To that statement I have nothing to add.


There have been no further negotiations?


None that I am aware of.


On the orders of the day:
Owing to the fact that in most parts of eastern Canada
Inquiries of the Ministry we are short of feed grain, could the Minister of Agriculture give us an assurance that sufficient supplies will be available at the lake ports so that the many farmers who have cattle and hogs on the feed lots will be able to have that livestock ready for market?


The only answer I can give is that every effort is being made to have sufficient feed grain available in eastern Canada. Whether it will be available at the lake ports or somewhere else, the hope is that grain will be available for the feeding of livestock.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. In view of the fact that the Canadian contract with Great Britain for supplying 80 million dozen grade A eggs expires in approximately four weeks, and that there are 580,000 poultry farmers in Canada who are concerned about future markets for eggs, will the minister make a statement as to the prospects for the renewal of at least part of this contract?


The hon. member was kind
enough to send me a copy of his question. It should be stated that the position in relation to the food contracts is about the same this year as it was at this time in each of the last two years. This is the third year in which discussions with Britain about food contracts have continued until about the middle of December; the understandings were reached about that time in the two preceding years. The position is exactly the same this year, in that we are still discussing contracts with Great Britain for eggs, bacon and cheese. We are not in a position to make any announcement as to the actual amount, or what arrangements may finally be made. We are hopeful that satisfactory arrangements will be made.
Canada's position with respect to fao plan FOR SURPLUSES
On the orders of the day:


Will the Minister of Agriculture make a statement about Canada's policy with regard to the FAO plan to take care of world food surpluses? Some disturbing press reports have been noticed concerning the minister's statement in Washington.

Trans-Canada Highway


I may say that the meeting of the FAO is still continuing. So far as I know, no decision has been reached as to the plans the nations represented are going to follow. So far as the position of the government and my own position is concerned, I made a complete statement last Thursday which, if the members of the house desired, could be placed in full on Hansard. It would, however, take a considerable portion of Hansard, because it was a thirty-minute speech. It could not be interpreted by the one or two sentences that have been published in the press, particularly since some of the papers left words out of the statement sent to them by the Canadian Press.


Could the minister table a copy of that speech, so that the members could have access to it?


That could be done.


the second reading of Bill No. 194, to encourage and to assist in the construction of a trans-Canada highway.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I should like to make a few comments in moving second reading of the bill entitled "An act to encourage and to assist in the construction of a trans-Canada highway".
Hon. members will understand that this legislation is enabling in character, in that it seeks authority for the federal government to enter into agreements with the provincial governments toward the construction of provincial highways which will join at various provincial boundaries to form a continuous road across Canada from one coast to the other and, as such, constitute a trans-Canada highway.
This project has been envisaged for many years, and it is considered that the time is now appropriate to proceed with it. When first contemplated it was conceived as a highway from Halifax to Vancouver, but it is now proposed that it shall extend from Victoria, on Vancouver island, to St. John's, Newfoundland, and also embrace Prince Edward Island.
The highway, when completed, will remain the property of the respective provincial governments, who will assume their normal highway responsibilities with respect to it, such as maintenance and snow removal. In effect, therefore, this legislation will enable the federal government to assist provinces in highway construction.

Nearly all provinces are already heavily engaged in highway programs, and it would be difficult for most of them to assume alone this additional work without some financial assistance. Moreover, the completed highway will have a national aspect in that it will serve to link all provinces, and will enable Canadians to travel from one end of Canada's mainland to the other on Canadian soil by hard-surfaced road. As such, it will play a part in the national economy. Under the circumstances it would appear justifiable for the federal government to contribute up to half the total cost, as the bill indicates.
It is considered, however, that the highway would not be national in scope unless all provinces participated, without which participation the federal government would not be justified in providing this measure of assistance. It was for this reason that we have felt obliged to inform the provinces that the federal government's contribution is being made by reason of the national aspect of the problem, and its participation is contingent upon all provinces entering into agreements with the federal government.
A dominion-provincial conference was held last December, under the chairmanship of the then minister of mines and resources, to discuss this project in a preliminary way; since that time a considerable amount of work has been done by way of working out details and arriving at general agreements with respect to broad principles. Since the project was transferred to the Department of Reconstruction and Supply in March, 1949, officials of the department have visited every province, including Newfoundland, and have had discussions with provincial officials concerned. Subsequently, in August and September, I visited the provinces and discussed policy aspects of the problem with provincial ministers in all provinces but Alberta, where the time at my disposal did not enable me to discuss this problem, but the points have been covered in an exchange of correspondence.
Out of these technical and policy discussions developed certain principles which it was considered might form the basis of ultimate agreements. Moreover, the officials of the department have had discussions with appropriate officials of the public roads administration of the United States, while I, as well as the department officials, have had discussions with the Canadian Construction Association, the Good Roads Association, and other interested organizations, all of whom have been most helpful.
Accordingly, early in September I was able to forward to each provincial government a document containing a number of points which had previously been discussed and

which I hoped might ultimately form the basis for agreements which would enable the project to proceed. Some of the suggested terms of agreement were as follows:
(a)	that the highway should be a modern, first-class, hard-surfaced road, following the shortest practicable east-west route consistent with the needs of the provinces and Canada as a whole;
(b)	that the provincial government would be responsible for the selection of a route in conformity with this definition;
(c)	that except in national parks, the province would arrange for the execution of the work;
(d)	that the highway, when completed, would remain in each province the property and responsibility of the province;
(e)	that the federal government's contribution would be in respect of a two-lane, modern highway;
(f)	that the federal government's contribution would be on the basis of fifty per cent of the cost to the province of completing the highway;
(g)	that an additional contribution would be made on a fifty-fifty basis of the costs to the province for those portions of already existing highway which would be included in the trans-Canada highway;
(h)	that the highway should be completed within a period of seven years;
(i)	that all ordinary maintenance costs during or after the period of construction would be the responsibility of the province;
(j)	that tenders and specifications for contracts would be subject to review by the federal government;
(k)	that inspection of the highway and audit of costs would be the privilege of the federal government.
Suggested standards were also placed before provincial governments, including a width of pavement of 22 or 24 feet, and a minimum right of way of 100 feet. It is recognized, however, that there will of necessity be variations to meet local conditions, and it is emphasized therefore that the various technical specifications were put forward only as suggestions. However, it is our opinion that wherever it is feasible and practicable, the width of the hard-surfaced portion of the road should be 24 feet. Intensive studies have been made, especially in the United States, which confirm what is almost self-evident, and that is that no features of a highway have a greater influence upon the safety and comfort of driving than the width and condition of the surface, especially if the volume of traffic is heavy and moves at a relatively
Trans-Canada Highway high rate of speed. Many authorities hold that to permit the desired clearance for commercial vehicles a 24 foot pavement is required.
However, all provinces have been building paved highways for many years and have developed standards which presumably meet their needs adequately, and no attempt will be made to impose upon them specifications which are unsuitable for their purposes.
Speaking generally, all the foregoing suggestions were well received by the provinces. There are certain points in which various provinces differ, and there are technical details still to be worked out. Moreover, there is the important matter of route. Some of the provinces have already defined their routes, in accordance with the general definition; but others have not, because of an expressed desire not to proceed to that stage until the federal government's legislation is approved. This seemed like a reasonable view, and we have therefore not been pressing for a decision. However, no province has indicated that it does not wish to proceed with its share of the project.
Hon. members will note that the bill incorporates most of the suggestions I have placed before the provinces; but I should like in particular to say a few words more about the financial aspects.
It is estimated that the total cost of the highway of approximately 5,000 miles will be of the order of $300 million, and the bill provides for the payment of the federal government's share up to a maximum of $150 million. This averages approximately $60,000 per mile for new construction as well as highway already built. Where the problem is one of new work, the approach is relatively simple, and the federal government will agree to pay one-half the total cost, on the basis set forth in the bill. Hon. members will see that where highway already constructed will form part of the trans-Canada highway, the federal government is seeking authority to pay to the provinces half the total cost to the province of the construction of that part of the highway. This will have the effect of making the federal government's contribution toward highway remaining to be completed considerably more than fifty per cent.
Let us take, for example, a province where $20 million would be needed to complete the highway, and where that province has already spent $8 million on portions of highway which will be part of the trans-Canada highway route. The federal government contribution to the new construction would be $10 million plus fifty per cent of costs previously incurred,

Trans-Canada Highway or $4 million, for a total contribution of $14 million. If the province applies this contribution of $4 million against the cost of completing the highway, federal money in the $20 million expenditure would amount to $14 million, or 70 per cent. On the other hand, the payment for roads already constructed may be applied elsewhere, as determined by the province, but it is my hope that the provincial governments will use it in such a way that the maximum amount of development and the maximum amount of employment will result.
It is natural to expect that the federal government's assistance to provincial governments with respect to this project will be compared to the federal government's assistance to highways in the United States. I would point out, therefore, Mr. Speaker, that there is no wide difference between the United States formula and that contemplated in the bill before the house. In the United States the federal government appropriates certain moneys for highways, and it is allocated to the various states in accordance with a formula which takes into account population, area, and total mileage; but once the allotment has been determined, it is required that the state match it dollar for dollar. The more money made available to any one state by this formula, the more of its own money that state is obliged to commit. Any unused portion of a state's yearly allocation does not accrue to the state but is returned to the federal treasury if not expended on a dollar for dollar basis during the year.
Some hon. members have a tendency to estimate how much money would have been advanced to the various provinces if the United States type of program had been adopted in Canada years ago. In almost the same breath they say that the provincial governments concerned will not possibly be able to meet the financial commitment required of them by this bill. These two views would appear to be contradictory and to overlook the fact that the provinces would have been obliged to match the federal advances dollar for dollar.
Furthermore, I have heard the criticism that a two-lane 24-foot highway is not adequate and that we should be guided by United States practices in this regard. I would point out that the 24-foot two-lane highway is accepted as adequate for most highways through rural areas, and it is noteworthy that in the United States 95 per cent of the rural highways are of the two-lane 24-foot type.
As I indicated previously, there are still some details to be worked out; but these, too,
[Mr. Winters.!
have been a matter of discussion with provincial governments, many of whom have felt that a number of points should be held in abeyance until the federal government has received legislative authority to proceed. It seemed desirable, therefore, that we should go ahead with the legislation and then invite provincial governments to attend a conference of officials and technicians for the purpose of discussing all matters of technical detail, with a view to resolving all such points to the mutual satisfaction of the provincial and federal governments. As I recall, this point has been put to all provinces, either verbally or in writing, and they have agreed; I therefore propose to proceed accordingly.
When the technical details have been resolved, I propose to ask the provincial governments to sign formal agreements with the federal government so that the project may go forward.
Most provinces have expressed a desire to proceed with the construction of the trans-Canada highway in 1950. I propose, therefore, to move forward with the remaining phases so that all outstanding matters may be resolved and agreements signed in order that provinces will be enabled to proceed with the work in the early spring.


Before we move forward this measure, Mr. Speaker, I would ask the minister if he can now lay on the table of the house the correspondence with the provinces of Nova Scotia, Manitoba and British Columbia. I do not think it will be possible for us to deal intelligently with this important matter, involving an expenditure of $300 million federally and provincially, unless we know under what conditions the different provinces will enter into the agreement. I would ask the minister to table this correspondence. If he is not in a position to table the correspondence with Nova Scotia-


Order. Perhaps I should remind the hon. member that if he is asking a question he should be brief. If he is speaking to the motion, of course he has forty minutes.


I want to get an answer from the minister, if I can.


A strict interpretation of the rules would of course mean that the hon. member had spoken to the motion, but I think he merely intended to ask a question.


The answer to the question is that I still have not received permission from these provinces to table the correspondence.


Has the minister a definite refusal?


If the hon. member for
Cumberland desires to speak now, I have no objection.


I want an answer.


Mr. Speaker, this bill is described as "An act to encourage and to assist in the construction of a trans-Canada highway." Everyone in the house is in favour of the construction of a trans-Canada highway, and no doubt everyone in the house also believes that the dominion government is the only authority that can take the lead in bringing about the construction of such a highway. But in the view of the official opposition this bill is very disappointing. I propose to outline some of the reasons why we are disappointed with the terms of the measure. Perhaps I can best begin to do so by dealing with the situation in the province of British Columbia.
We are remote from Ottawa; we are farther away than any inland province, and for many years we have been tremendously anxious to have a trans-Canada highway. As conditions are at the present time, most of our vehicular traffic goes north and south. If a person in British Columbia goes for a drive he goes down to the state of Washington or to the state of California. A very small percentage of our people drive east to Alberta. If they do drive to Alberta or to eastern Canada, the route followed is almost invariably first of all down to the United States, and then on one of the great United States highways until they are south of the destination, when they drive north into Canada.
For us the United States tourist is of great importance. The states to the south of us are wealthy, and a great many of their people like to drive north; therefore the highways in British Columbia mean a great deal to that province. Because of the mountainous nature of the province we have always been faced with high costs in building roads. The need for help finally became so great that in the early thirties, during the regime of the late Lord Bennett, assistance was given by the federal government for the building of a trans-Canada highway around what is known as the Big Bend of the Columbia river. Help was also given on the roads leading from the United States boundary up into the national parks. I believe the same sort of assistance was given to the province
Trans-Canada Highway of Alberta on the road leading into Waterton national park and through that park up to Banff.
There has been one bad feature about the roads in the national parks, which of course are the responsibility of the dominion government. Restrictions have been placed on the use of these park roads by trucks. I sometimes wonder whether these restrictions are not placed on the roads to help out the railways by preventing freight trucks from going from British Columbia to Alberta over park roads. Whether that is so or not, the fact is that traffic has been impeded by reason of federal regulations in respect to the park roads.
For many years in British Columbia we have believed that there should be a national highways system, not just one trans-Canada road, and that it should include feeder roads from the United States. We realize that such a system could not be completed in a day, but we contend there should be a master plan for a national highways system toward which the dominion and the provinces could be working. That, of course, is what is being done in the United States. The Minister of Reconstruction and Supply (Mr. Winters) intimated this morning that his new plan is the same as the United States plan; but I would point out that there is one great difference, namely, that in the United States they have a federal aid highways system- not just one road.
The minister said further that Canada's new road was to be as good as they have in the rural parts of the United States. I do not think that is good enough. I hold in my hand a statement made by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) in 1948, when he spoke at Kamloops, British Columbia. The quotation is taken from a newspaper dated September 10, 1948. The minister said:
I am going to keep on advocating the building of a great national system of highways which will make it possible for the Canadian people to travel from one end of this country to the other.
On September 11, 1948, at Nelson, British Columbia, the minister told five hundred people that Canada needs a national highway system and that it should be built and maintained by the federal government. He said further: "All Canadians must fight for such a system. You'll get a southern highway a lot faster if you ask to get all-a system of highways-built, than if you ask for one."
It is evident that the Minister of Agriculture has lost out in this decision. But he is not the only one who believes there should be a national system. That is the first reason for our being greatly disappointed by the present measure.

Trans-Canada Highway
Another disappointment is that the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply cannot tell us today where the route is to go. One would think that after all these months and years the government would have some idea as to what the route is to be. We are asked to pass the measure without having that information.
I have read the letters passing between the dominion and seven of the provinces, and from those letters it would appear that as yet there is no decision concerning Nova Scotia. We have not had the papers from Nova Scotia. It would appear that in New Brunswick the provincial government is advocating a route which would go to the city of Saint John, while the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply is telling them they cannot have one.


No; that is not correct.


Well, I suggest that hon. members read the correspondence for themselves. If the minister does not say in his letter that they cannot have one, he certainly gives a pretty broad hint that he is not going to help with a route to Saint John. Perhaps he has changed his mind in recent weeks, but the letters so indicate.
We do not know what the route is to be in the province of Quebec, nor do we know what it is to be in Ontario. Correspondence with Manitoba has not been produced, but judging from the letters from Ontario and Saskatchewan there is not much doubt as to where the route will be in Manitoba and Saskatchewan.


Would the hon. member work on Ontario to have the trans-Canada highway follow the Ottawa valley?


I am not in a position to decide where the road should run in Ontario; but were I the minister I hope I would not bring in a bill without knowing what the route was to be across Canada.


Get the province busy.


I did not hear that interjection.


I said the hon. member should get the province busy.


I cannot hear it even yet. Probably it does not amount to much.


The hon. member does not want to hear it.


From the correspondence with Alberta it would appear that in that province the road is to run from Walsh on the eastern boundary, and thence up through Calgary and Banff, including the national park at

Banff. Correspondence from Alberta indicates that there has been some tentative agreement between Saskatchewan and British Columbia to that effect. However, the correspondence with British Columbia has not been tabled, therefore one has no way of being sure. From the correspondence with Alberta it would appear that the route is to be as I have indicated. This would mean that it would follow the Big Bend from Golden, around to Revelstoke and Kamloops, and down the Fraser canyon to Vancouver.


Will the hon. member permit a question?


The minister nods his head; therefore I take it that is correct.


I presume the hon. member agrees as to the possibility of building a trans-Canada highway 24 feet wide; would he agree that it is possible to have a 26-inch pipe line through Canada?


The hon. member for Fraser Valley knows how I feel about pipe lines.


Yes; I do know, and I want others to know it; that is all.


No.


Ontario and Quebec have spent large sums on the highway, and they will be entitled to get back far more money than Saskatchewan and Alberta, and perhaps British Columbia.


No, no.


I cannot get the hon. member for Fraser Valley (Mr. Cruickshank) to agree with me all the time, but in any event that is my opinion.
To sum up, the bill is disappointing rather than encouraging, and this after a period of waiting of over fourteen years. I suggest that the reason the bill is in these terms is that the government is stalling on this matter of a trans-Canada highway. It is being used as

Trans-Canada Highway a project to provide for employment in hard times. I suggest that that is the reason why we have a bill of this kind. I can see the fine hand of the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) in nearly every line of this bill. When the minister was asked about the trans-Canada highway last year he made this reply, as reported on page 5497 of Hansard of June 19, 1948. The former member for Portage la Prairie asked the question:


Is there among the future unemployment relief projects or programs of the government any blueprint for the trans-Canada highway?


If we see any sign of widespread
unemployment we will proceed to make a blueprint. But at the present time we have not a blueprint and we do not think one is necessary.
On August 10, 1948, the then minister of mines and resources, Mr. MacKinnon, made a speech about the trans-Canada highway, and a press dispatch of that date is headed: "Trans-Canada highway years away: Mr. MacKinnon." Then there was the Liberal convention, and I understand a resolution concerning the trans-Canada highway was put through. The next step was a conference with the provinces which was called in December, 1948. I have here a dispatch from the Vancouver Sun describing the conclusion of the conference. It reads:
Ottawa, December 16-The dominion-provincial trans-Canada highway conference came to an abrupt and unexpected conclusion Wednesday night with provincial delegates experiencing a frustrated sense of little accomplishment.
And again:
The meetings were closed to the public, and the only official statement following it, from the chairman, Mines and Resources Minister J. A. MacKinnon, talked vaguely of "very satisfactory progress'' and hoped that "a start would be made in 1949" on a national highway system.
This airy optimism was at variance with the statements from provincial representatives, who blamed the federal government for coming into the conference with no proposals or program.
In March the then minister of mines and resources handed over the trans-Canada highway project to the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply. In the spring session we were told that there was to be a trans-Canada highway bill, but it did not appear on the order paper until more than two months after the house began its sittings, the date being April 8. Nothing was done at that session. Then during this session we heard a significant statement from the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott) when he delivered his budget speech and said that the magnitude and timing of the trans-Canada highway was to be given very careful consideration, intimating that the government was not in any great hurry about the highway.
The resolution preceding this bill appeared on the order paper two months ago, but was

not called until a week ago, and we are now considering the bill itself in the dying days of the session. This all reminds me of a moving picture of a horse race shown in slow motion. That is how the ministry have been moving with this highway program. They have effectively stalled it over the whole year, although no one in this house or in the country has stated opposition to the measure.
I repeat that all the time the Minister of Trade and Commerce has been in the background; he has had the idea that this should be an unemployment relief project. If the government does not change its tactics in regard to this measure, we may find that development of the trans-Canada highway will be dragged along as slowly as possible.
Even now the government is half-hearted about it and obviously ill prepared. I do not believe the minister has a suitable staff to supervise the construction of this highway; and expert supervision is required. Millions of dollars can be saved by way of specifications if the dominion government has an experienced staff checking on the construction of the highway. Now the departments are to be reorganized, and the next few weeks or months will be spent juggling around the branches, one of which will have to do with this trans-Canada highway. We have an item in the estimates-not in the main or supplementary estimates, but in the further supplementary estimates-for the trans-Canada highway; the only vote I can find. It is item 889, providing $25,000 for preliminary engineering work and studies in co-operation with the provinces concerned. This does not look like speedy action on the highway in the near future. Obviously there is no master plan, no blueprint. The minister does not even know where the road is to go, and no clear-cut policy is being presented to this house, even after all the delay.
The official opposition are disappointed in this measure. We will support it on the basis that half a loaf is better than no bread, but we shall not be content until there is a federal-aid highways system in Canada. This house and the people must not accept the measure which has been brought down today as the final word in the construction of a trans-Canada highways system. We urge that there be no more delay. It is a disgrace that Canadians should have had to wait until 1950 to get action on a trans-Canada highway. Great opportunities have been lost during the fourteen years this government has been in power-opportunities for Canadians to know their country and their countrymen in the other provinces; opportunities for developing Canada; opportunities for extending our means of carrying both goods and passengers.. Just think what would have been the effect

on transportation costs if years ago we had provided a trans-Canada highway-the effect not only on freight rates but also on passenger rates; great opportunities have been lost for expanding our tourist industry; all because this government would not take the lead.
In connection with this project for a trans-Canada highway system, vision is required. The people of Canada have the vision of a national system. What is required is vision here in the House of Commons. I believe we should have before us at all times the vision of Canada as one of the great nations of the world, with a population of fifty, seventy-five or a hundred million people. The bill we are considering today just does not fit in with that vision in any way at all.


Mr. Speaker, with the principle of this bill we are in agreement; but coming as I do from Nova Scotia I am not satisfied that any member from that province, with the exception of the minister, can say that he is prepared to have this bill pass in its present terms. I say that because negotiations for a trans-Canada highway have been going on in this country for a long time, and a great deal of work has been done on that highway in Nova Scotia. To what extent it is completed, or what work is still necessary there, we do not know; and until such time as the premier of Nova Scotia is prepared to make available to members of this house the correspondence between his government and the federal government I do not think any hon. member from that province-and there are ten of them on the other side of the house -is in a position to say that the arrangement set out in this bill is satisfactory to the people of Nova Scotia.
Why that correspondence should be considered secret is something I cannot understand. And when the federal government takes the attitude that it cannot make known to this house exactly what are the views of the provinces in this respect, I am led to believe that something is the matter. Why should British Columbia, Manitoba or Nova Scotia take that position? If their proposals are fair and reasonable, or if their objections to the action the federal government is taking have some basis in fact, why should they not be prepared to give that information to members of this house?
This is not a provincial project; whether the premiers of the provinces I have named like it or not, this is a national project. Most of the money will be made available by the federal government before we are finished with this highway, and already a great deal of money has been spent on it by the provinces. That money belonged to the taxpayers,
Trans-Canada Highway not to the premier of our province and his little cabinet. So before I come to a decision on this bill I want any information that may be in the hands of the minister on this matter, and the correspondence that has taken place between this government and the government of Nova Scotia.
I do not understand why the department should take the attitude that it should withhold the correspondence, because, as I pointed out on a previous occasion, there is no law compelling it to do so. There is a law or practice under which that is done with respect to correspondence between this government and a foreign government, but otherwise it is a question of courtesy on the part of the minister. There may be times when it is necessary to withhold correspondence; some premier may write a letter he would be ashamed to have tabled in the house, and under such circumstances perhaps it would be only fair that the minister should withhold it. But this is a straight business proposition; and before I commit the people of Nova Scotia to the payment of fifty per cent of the cost of this trans-Canada highway, 1 want to know what value there is in it. I want to know to what extent Nova Scotia is to be reimbursed for what it has spent already on what will be part of this trans-Canada highway-and a good deal of money has been spent there. Much of the highway construction has been completed in that province; but apparently we are not going to get that information.
The attitude of the government would lead us to believe that correspondence between this government and the provinces has not been tabled previously in this house. This is not so. Many times I have sat in my place here and heard a motion go through for the tabling of correspondence with the provincial governments on many matters. Just at random I picked out one. I wanted to get as close to the maritimes as I could, so I have one which had to do with correspondence with the province of New Brunswick- and on a much more ticklish subject, mind you, than the trans-Canada highway. It will be found at page 4492 of Hansard of June 23, 1947. It is a motion by the member for Victoria-Carleton (Mr. Hatfield), which reads as follows:
For a copy of a resolution moved by the minister of agriculture in the province of New Brunswick, and all correspondence which passed between the provincial minister and the federal Minister of Agriculture or the Department of Agriculture, regarding a fair price on potatoes under the Agricultural Prices Support Act, 1944.
That motion passed unanimously, and it has to do with prices. If the position had been taken that such a disclosure would

Trans-Canada Highway place the importer or exporter of potatoes in New Brunswick at a disadvantage with his competitors, there would have been some basis for the argument that the correspondence should be withheld. But the motion passed unanimously. Today, when something having to do with the future is brought forward, something which has to do with the spending of public funds in the provinces of Nova Scotia, Manitoba and British Columbia and is vital to the people of those provinces, we are told we cannot see the correspondence.
I am not blaming the minister; he is only a cog in the machine. All he can do is carry out his orders, but I do not think the members of this house should submit to it. I do not believe any member should sit here and say he is going to commit his province to an expenditure of fifty per cent of the cost of this trans-Canada highway, and to the maintenance of that highway, when someone behind the scenes has decided the route by correspondence. The member does not know whether, from a business standpoint, the route is suitable to the province.
I am opposed to this measure until such time as we have an opportunity of seeing the correspondence. I cannot see any reason for holding it back. I might agree with every word the correspondence contained, but I would have to look at it. The government of Nova Scotia is presided over by one man, and he has no right to take the position that the correspondence is not to be tabled. I believe every member from the province of Nova Scotia has a right to see that correspondence. While I approve the principle of the bill, I am going to vote against it until I have heard from the people of Nova Scotia with regard to the project.


This is the first opportunity I have had of speaking on this subject at this session. I have spoken on it on other occasions, but I believe I would be remiss in my duty if I did not say a few words about it today.
Let me say at once that I believe the minister deserves a great deal of credit for bringing the subject of the trans-Canada highway forward at this time. The question is not a new one in Canada; in fact I believe it has been discussed at every session since I came to this house in 1935.
One of the amazing things that I have noticed on my trips to Ottawa is the lack of a national highway. As I have travelled on the Canadian Pacific railway on my journey to Ottawa I have been amazed to see that sections of highway around the head of the lakes are practically completed. When I say practically completed I mean that there are

sections of five, ten, or fifteen miles that are completely graded and gravelled; yet there is no connecting link between those sections.


Oh, yes.


The bridges are not even completed.


I have been over it.


The hon. member must have had some wonderful means of transportation, or perhaps we are talking about different sections of this highway. I am talking about the sections that are built along the C.P.R. track in the province of Ontario, north of the great lakes. It seems to most people in Canada that this national highway would have been built long ago had it not been for the influence that the railways have been able to exert on those in high places. That should not be permitted, and work on the highway should be commenced as quickly as possible. Therefore I wish to congratulate the minister upon his doing the proper thing. The sooner the road is completed, the better pleased the people of Canada will be.
There is no question about it, sir; we need a trans-Canada highway. Possibly I have travelled the road between Ottawa and the west coast oftener than any other member of this house, with the exception of the member for Battle River (Mr. Fair). I have travelled the road between Ottawa and Alberta no less than fourteen times, and sections of it more often than that. I believe I have a knowledge of road conditions. It is extremely embarrassing for a Canadian, Mr. Speaker, who desires to go to Vancouver, Alberta, or Saskatchewan, to have to go through the United States and then back up into Alberta or wherever he is going. It is embarrassing to have the United States authorities say to you: "Well, why did you come this way?" You must tell them that Canada has not a proper road. Then they laugh, and rightly so, to think that a nation as great as Canada cannot afford a national highway. It is a national disgrace, and the minister deserves a great deal of credit for introducing the subject now.
Let me say, Mr. Speaker, that I am of the opinion we should have an all-weather, hardsurfaced highway across Canada. There are not many of the national highways in the United States that are four-lane highways. Most of them are two-lane highways, so I cannot criticize the government too strongly about that at the moment. I say "at the moment" advisedly. It is a good start; but when the government is negotiating with the provinces, provision should be made now for obtaining a right of way which would permit the construction of a four-lane highway. I do not believe it will

oe very long before sufficient traffic will be moving on the all-Canada route, particularly in certain sections of the country, to make it necessary to have a four-lane highway. Once the right of way is obtained, it is exceedingly difficult in many places to get a greater width. It would be more efficient and more businesslike to provide for a right of way sufficiently wide to take care of a four-lane highway, so that when the time arrives there will be no difficulty in widening the highway.
Every province is going to benefit by this highway across Canada. I am sure that the people of Alberta will benefit greatly by an east-west road. There is one road now running north and south across our province, and another road is under construction. Before very long we hope to have two complete high