Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege, and if I take longer than usual in stating my question I would ask your indulgence, sir.
I should like to tell the house very briefly a story of co-operation and courage that keeps alive one's faith in human nature.
Last Saturday at midnight a fire broke out in Brockville which at one time threatened the entire business section of the town, but, through superhuman effort, was confined to one city block. In spite of the heroic efforts of the Brockville Are department it was soon found that to control the fire was beyond the power of one department; therefore urgent appeals were made to other centres, whose response was immediate.
The first to arrive were the fire fighters from the Royal Canadian Regiment with army equipment. Almost immediately firemen and fire trucks from Prescott, Athens and Smiths Falls were on the scene, and, as soon as they could be ferried across the St. Lawrence river, a pumper, aerial ladder truck, crew and special police force from Ogdensburg, New York, arrived. Seamen from the Canadian navy sloop Oriol, which happened to be in port, joined forces with the firemen, soldiers and citizens, so the fire was ultimately brought under control by complete municipal and military aid and international co-operation.
Fire fighting is always hazardous, but with the temperature at almost zero it becomes an almost unbearable ordeal. Throughout the night a group of young women kept the fire fighters supplied with hot coffee and sandwiches, while others were on hand to crack ice off the fire fighters' coats, helmets, gloves and boots.
Fortunately no lives were lost and no serious injuries suffered, but nearly one hundred persons were made homeless.
On Sunday morning appeals for assistance were made from all the pulpits of the Brockville churches, and at one o'clock Mayor W. Fred Reynolds spoke over radio station CFJM to ask for money, clothing and other
necessities. By five o'clock on Sunday afternoon the receiving centre had been moved no less than three times in order to provide greater accommodation for the mass of goods that started to pour in, and by nine in the evening half the second floor of the city hall looked like a department store. In addition, the sum of $2,500 had been received in cash donations, and I am told the fund is now over $6,000. One farmer arrived with two dozen eggs, and emptied his purse, which contained $1.03. An elderly woman donated $1.85, and said that it was all she had at the moment, but that she would give more on Wednesday when her pay cheque arrived.
The generosity of the people of Brockville exceeds the bounds of any possible expectation; and what applies to Brockville extends to the entire district, which includes several communities in northern New York state. Truly the cardinal Christian principle, "love thy neighbour" knows no international boundary in North America.
A disaster such as Brockville has just experienced brings out, in no uncertain way, the best in all of us, regardless of race or creed, and serves to make us proud that we are Canadians and fortunate enough to live on the continent of North America.
I should like to thank the Prime Minister, the Acting Minister of National Defence, and the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of National Defence for the prompt and sympathetic attention given the request that certain huts at the Royal Canadian Regiment camp be made available to the municipal authorities at Brockville. I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, that these huts will serve a most useful and humane purpose in looking after the temporary housing needs of the hundred men, women and children who were made homeless as a result of the worst fire in the history of Brockville.


I should like to inform the hon. members that this is national honey week. In their offices they will find samples of honey supplied by the Canadian beekeepers' council. Owing to the loss of export markets, producers are facing difficult marketing conditions. If each
2388	HOUSE OF COMMONS
National Trade Mark
Canadian would consume a half pound more before commission I, the fifth session of honey per year, some of the marketing the FAO conference, at Washington, D.C., on problems would be solved.	November 24, 1949.


Mr. Speaker, in yesterday's Ottawa Citizen there is a report of a statement made by the general manager of the Ottawa board of trade which refers to my speech on the bill to establish a national trade mark. I am charged with being unfair to Ottawa merchants. The article states that I implied that there was a general practice among Ottawa merchants of misleading the public by using well-known containers to hold inferior products. Such a statement is incorrect.
I mentioned that stores on Elgin street used containers bearing the "O.K. brand" label to hold a local product of inferior quality. My contention is that a container bearing the name of a well-known brand should not be used for any other product. Even today those containers are still on display, filled with other than Okanagan produce. The article in question makes the statement that I said merchants filled containers with these products, and marked them as coming from the Okanagan valley. What I did say was that Okanagan valley containers were refilled with other, and in the case under review, inferior, quality produce. I shall be pleased to supply Mr. Cairns with the evidence if he so desires.
The other point with which I wish to deal is the charge that I was derelict in my duty in not bringing this matter to the attention of the house earlier in the session. May I point out that a perusal of Hansard will show that I dealt with this matter earlier in the session, but so far no action has been taken. I did not at any time, nor do I now, suggest that the practice is general among Ottawa merchants.
May I repeat that the principle involved in my speech is that containers marked with a well-known brand name should not be used again, once the original contents which fulfilled the specifications of that brand have been emptied out.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to lay on the table a copy of a speech which I delivered


I believe, Mr. Speaker, that the minister's speech, which has now been tabled, would be of great interest to the agricultural producers of this country, and I suggest to him that he request that it be printed as an appendix to Hansard.


Hear, hear.


I made the suggestion
yesterday that I was satisfied to have that done, but no one seemed to take me up on it.


Agreed.


Does the house now wish that the speech should be printed as an appendix to Hansard?


I did not quite hear the proposal, because someone was speaking to me at the moment. Is it that the minister's speech should be put on Hansard?


Yes.


May I say that while
members of the house might find it valuable to have the speech thus recorded, I do not like to see an expansion of Hansard to include speeches made outside the house. If that is done, we shall soon be in the position of the United States Congressional Record, which is full of that kind of thing.


I agree with that statement; and I will go a little bit further and say that I do not think it is proper to insist that speeches made by ministers outside the house be tabled in the house. But I am quite satisfied to have this one tabled.


It is for your own defence.


I wish to lay on the table the answers to certain questions asked by the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) in the debate on the Combines Investigation Act on November 25 last.


The house resumed, from Monday, November 28, consideration in committee of Bill No. 194, to encourage and to assist in the construction of a trans-Canada highway- Mr. Winters-Mr. Dion in the chair.

On section 1-Short title.
Apparently there has been an agreement with some of the provinces as to the route of the trans-Canada highway. Will the minister tell us what routes have been agreed on?


There has been no agreement on routes, and I am not in a position to say what routes have been defined by the provinces.


Can the minister not tell us that with respect to any of the provinces?


There have been routes under discussion, but there have been no agreements with respect to routes.


Section agreed to.
Section 2 agreed to.
On section 3-Agreements with provinces.
Can separate agreements be made with each province and separate amounts paid, or will each province get the same amount or percentage of what the road costs? It would appear from this section that a separate agreement could be made with each province and separate amounts paid to each province.


There will be separate agreements with each province, but the same formula will be used throughout.


According to the minister's statement, in the reference to the standards for certain provinces a stone base was called for, of a strict minimum of nine inches. Can the minister say whether or not he intends to follow this standard closely? In Saskatchewan, for example, it is almost impossible to find stone to crush for such a stone base; and even now we are facing a problem in getting adequate supplies of gravel. On the prairies would a gravel base not be suitable, rather than a stone base?


As I said in my statement, we shall not insist on any specification that is not acceptable or practicable in any one province. The specifications I mentioned were simply suggestions in order to provide the basis of an agreement.


Has the Department of National Defence made any recommendation as to the construction of the road so that it could be used for heavy military vehicles? It should be designed for that purpose, as well as for the handling of tourist traffic. In the case of war we would have to use it. That is why construction in the United States is uniform all the way through.
Trans-Canada Highway


The provisions with respect to construction and other such matters have been made with the full knowledge of the Department of National Defence.


I understand that this act calls for a two-lane highway. Will the foundation be laid for a four-lane highway? Have culverts been built for a four-lane highway?


This proposal contemplates a two-lane highway.


Has any consideration been given to police patrol of the highway, or allowing the provinces-


Oh, oh.


It is a matter that has to do with maintenance. Has anything been done in this regard? With the radio patrol, if anything happened-


Oh, oh.


Order.


Those who do not know anything about maintaining a highway would be wise to keep quiet. If there is an accident on the highways in Ontario, with the radio control from provincial police stations a car can be at the scene of the accident within a few minutes. Is something of the kind contemplated for this highway? It should be, because we shall have accidents on it, no matter what happens.


According to my understanding, the normal patrol arrangements on the provincial highways will prevail.


May I ask the minister whether it is the intention that the provinces will first complete their construction and that under the provision for acceptance by the minister, if it is found to conform to the standards laid down, the contribution of the dominion will then be paid? Or is it intended that the payments will be made as the construction progresses?


There have been no agreements reached, but we would hope that new work would go forward first.


May I ask whether the federal government fair wage provisions will apply to contracts in connection with the construction of the trans-Canada highway?


I think my hon. friend had better direct his question to the provincial governments.


Mr. Chairman-


Just sit down.


I was going to try to stop the minister from saying something worse.

Trans-Canada Highway


That may be true, too. My hon. friend clearly understands that jurisdiction in this matter rests with the provincial governments.


That is right.


And there are reasonable stipulations in regard to these matters. We have a federal fair wages policy which deals strictly with federal works. I think it would be far better if my hon. friend directed his question to the various provincial governments.


Mr. Chairman, I am not surprised at the answer given by the Minister of Labour. As a matter of fact there is some sense to it; but I have a case upstairs on which I am working; it has to do with a worker in Manitoba who is working on a contract which was let by the federal government. When he tried to get the vacation with pay stamps provided by provincial legislation in Manitoba, the contractor for whom he was working said: "This is a federal government contract, and provincial legislation does not apply." The case is, one might say, sub judice -I am still writing about it to the various authorities. But the fact of the matter is that that sort of thing does happen time and again. People fall between these two jurisdictions. From the way in which this clause is worded we may run into the same thing. We may have contractors not living up to the provincial labour requirements, and using as an excuse the argument that they are working on something that comes from the federal government.


Oh, no.


Hon. members on the other side say "Oh, no"; but that is the sort of thing that happens after these bills are passed. I do not blame the government for it, Mr. Chairman, but when we move an amendment the members of the government look at it with the most powerful microscope they can get, to see if they can discover some little flaw in it. But when we suggest there might be a flaw in the wording of their bills, they say, "Oh, no; it can't happen that way." I am telling the government that this sort of thing does happen. I should like to be sure that the work on this trans-Canada highway will be done under fair wage conditions, and that there will not be any passing the buck between federal and provincial authorities with respect to that phase of the matter.


I should like to put myself on record as supporting the point raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. I do not think this matter should be dealt with with the hilarity and lightness that is displayed by hon. gentlemen on the other side

of the house. It took us a long time to get a fair wage clause in government contracts. We should like the fair wage clause in government contracts to apply to all contracts. I do not know whether I am right or not, but my understanding is that the fair wage clause applies to all federal government contracts, or to any federal government assisted contract. If that is so, it should apply in this instance. If it does not apply to a contract in which the federal government assists, it should apply, because the federal government should not supply money that is to be used in construction or manufacturing where unfair working and wage conditions prevail. We should make it clear that when the federal government assists any project it does so on the understanding that fair wages and fair working conditions apply. These conditions are not particularly onerous, because they are the conditions that apply in the locality. They are not conditions arbitrarily imposed. There is a formula for working them out.
I suggest that hon. members on the opposite side, who appeal to workers for support at election time, take this matter seriously and see that these fair wage clauses are in the contracts.


Mr. Chairman, just to keep the record straight may I say this? The hon. member for Vancouver East said that it took a long time to establish the principle of fair wages and working conditions. Let me say to him that that took place before his time and mine. I think it was in the year 1900. The political party that laid down that principle was the Liberal party. My hon. friend knows that the wage structure across the nation is not the same in every province. In British Columbia they have a comparatively high wage structure, probably the highest in the dominion. I think people engaged in public works in that province would wish to see the prevailing conditions in Vancouver or in British Columbia generally adhered to. I feel certain that if we had a national approach to the problem we would object to the wage structures in some of the other provinces. My hon. friend can rest assured that the provincial people, who have jurisdiction in this matter will see to it that the legislation and regulations affecting fair wage conditions in effect in their respective provinces are adhered to.


I cannot agree with the minister when he says the Liberal government was the first government to recognize the principle of fair wage contracts in agreements. That is true in theory, but it was not until the war contracts of 1939 and 1940 were let that the government gave effect to the fair wage conditions so far as federal government

contracts were concerned. As the hon. member for Vancouver East pointed out a moment ago, some of us in the house were fighting for these things thirty years ago. It is true that we recognized the principle, but it was never put into effect. Unless we are prepared to follow out the mechanics laid down by the government in federal contracts during the war, we shall slowly get back to where we were when the matter was just a theory. It was put in the contracts during the war.
We are not asking that any of the wage schedules in the provinces be upset. All we are asking is that when the federal government lets a contract, the contractor be obliged to conform to the wages and conditions established by the provinces. It must be remembered that conditions are not the same from section to section in a province. There is a differential. If a contractor is putting the highway through a certain section of the province, and the provincial government has set out a fair wage schedule, the least the contractor should be obliged to do is to conform to the law applicable in that particular section.
The minister knows well that since the war there has been difficulty with federal contracts. I brought this matter to the attention of the Minister of Transport since the present session in regard to federal works projects in my own community, where there was no difficulty during the war, although a lot of construction work was carried on. The contractor got out from under, as the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre suggested, by saying that the provincial laws had nothing to do with it; that it was a federal contract. The Minister of Transport in this case stated clearly that once that contract is let, it is the responsibility of the contractors to establish the wages and conditions they see fit. A clause should be written into the contract providing that the contractor, in matters of labour, employment and wages should conform to the standards set up in that particular part of the country. Nothing would be upset at all; it would be simply writing something into the contract to avoid difficulties in the future.
I know that in the letting of federal contracts early in the war there was a complete upset right across the country. In my own section of Canada one of my main jobs was running from one works project to another in an effort to iron out difficulties with truck drivers and labourers as between federal contracts and provincial laws, and all that kind of thing. We do not want to get back to that. We are merely asking that the practical machinery established during the war-because once it was established it worked well-be used. These contracts are
Trans-Canada Highway not yet let. It is not necessary to have a special provision in the bill. But if the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply and the Minister of Labour could get together and have a little talk I am sure there would be no trouble in writing into the contracts a clause in which it would be asked that contractors conform to provincial laws in this regard.


We should have some understanding of the method of determining the amount of contribution. If the total amount is limited to $150 million for seven years, it means a little more than $20 million a year. There are ten provinces. With the federal contribution of fifty per cent, this allows for a yearly average of construction of roughly $40 million. Again on a straight numerical basis this is an average of about $4 million per year per province.
We know the difficulties of construction in some parts of Ontario, for instance, and British Columbia. It is possible that merely in carrying out their own highway program a province might wish to do more than $4 million worth of construction in any year. What is to be the position? Is there to be a limit placed on the construction that any one province may carry out in any one year? How is the apportionment among provinces to be made? Suppose one province, with this in mind, does a lot of construction early-let us say $20 million or $30 million in a year; then are not the other provinces in danger of having less of the share of the $150 million, if they do not get in at the start? Will that not be the position, unless they know there will be a basis of apportionment, and what that basis is to be? What has the minister in mind in that respect?


The money will be spent as the work is done. There will be no attempt to allot on an annual basis, or break it down by provinces in relation to the expenditures that we think should be incurred. Nor will there be any attempt to spread out the $150 million over seven years. The seven-year period provision was put in there largely at the request of certain provinces which felt that, having regard to their present heavy highways program, they could not take on the additional work of the trans-Canada highway and complete it in a shorter period of time. The federal government is prepared to go ahead as quickly as the provinces wish to do so, and the expenditures will be in direct relationship to the mileage of work completed.


On that basis it would be advantageous, would it not, for any province

Trans-Canada Highway to get as much done as it could, and as quickly as it could, in order to secure as large a slice as possible of the $150 million.


That is a matter for the provinces to decide. We are open-minded in our approach to the problem. I should think, though, that there would be no need for any province to try to do its work at once in order to receive payment from the federal government under the terms of this act.


I can understand the minister's hesitancy about finding a route for the trans-Canada highway. It is a ticklish problem, no doubt. I should imagine, for instance, that in Prince Edward Island the trans-Canada highway would run the whole length of the island; is that correct?


As I have said, the route is a matter to be determined by the provinces.


One would expect, from the fact that they can determine the route, that it would run the length of the island.


Perhaps I should say, to clarify the point, that we felt it necessary to state a definition suggesting the shortest practical east-west route consistent with the needs of the provinces and Canada as a whole.


I understand that. Of course when the minister mentions Victoria as the western terminus, I am sure he appreciates the fact that Victoria is the most easterly point of Vancouver island. I do not think I have to refer to the hon. member for Nanaimo to substantiate that fact. A substantial portion of the island lies to the west of Victoria. If the government of British Columbia defines a more westerly part of the island as the end of the trans-Canada highway, will the federal government be prepared to accept that?


I should think the hon. member would find the definition fairly comprehensive.


It would be wide enough, would it?


The question raised by the hon. member for Comox-Alberni indicates some of the problems which are bound to arise. I can understand his visualizing the possibility that the Malahat drive would be part of the trans-Canada highway-and certainly no one would appreciate more than I would the opportunity to go over that drive. It does, however, indicate the scope of the problem, because in each of the provinces questions arise as to the direction of the routes, north-south as well as east-west. In voting for this bill I wish to have it clearly understood that

I regard it as nothing more than a statutory declaration of intention. That is all it is. I hope no one will leave this chamber in the belief that simply by passing this bill, we have solved the problem of building a trans-Canada highway. The fact that this decision is put in statutory form expresses the wish of members of the house that the government proceed to confer with the provinces in order to determine how it is to be done. Unless that is kept clearly in mind, serious difficulties will arise, and they were emphasized by the remarks made a few moments ago by the hon. member for Comox-Alberni. Having had some background of experience in this respect, I strongly urge the minister that with the statutory declaration indicating that it is the wish of all members of parliament that a trans-Canada highway be proceeded with, any further attempt to deal with the matter by correspondence be abandoned until the provinces meet together and settle an over-all plan.
I would remind the minister that when attempts were made to make separate deals with the provinces in regard to tax arrangements, it brought anguished public statements from even provincial premiers who had most strongly supported the idea of entering into those agreements. If separate arrangements are made, based upon different standards and different widths and different procedure for determining the prior cost of segments of highway which were completed before the new arrangement was entered into, then the whole structure will be one which will proceed by progressive-and progressive is hardly the word-


No.


-by unsatisfactory piece-bypiece dealings instead of by a clear, bold plan which all accept as the one under which they are going to work. I want to emphasize the vital importance of bringing the provinces together once this act is passed so that round-the-table arrangements may be made to the end that the representatives of Newfoundland on the east and British Columbia on the west may be aware now, instead of at some later time, of variable factors which will apply in respect to the arrangements in any particular province. It will save the minister a lot of trouble, and it will assure the satisfactory development of this great project.


I think actually the leader of the opposition is convinced that this young minister is going to see this thing through. He can rest assured that the minister is not going to take a job like this and then throw it down.


Mr. Chairman, I should like to know if tentative arrangements have been made with regard to the route in Prince Edward Island. The starting point must be Tormentine in New Brunswick. The next link is the Abegweit, which crosses the Northumberland strait. When that is included in the highway we shall have the fulfilment of one of the terms of union of 1873. Then we reach Borden. It has been suggested by the minister that the highway should follow the shortest route to the capital; therefore the road would run from Borden through Victoria, to Crapaud, and then direct to Charlottetown, thereby saving fourteen miles as compared with the hard-surfaced road which is now in use. This route would necessitate a new bridge in order to cross the North river, because the old bridge farther down is not suitable for present day traffic. The North river bridge would be built at Brighton, and the road would then go directly into the heart of Charlottetown.
I understand that some leeway has been given the provincial government, because since I left in September they have opened up a highway from Brackley road to the lower North river with a hundred foot right of way-something new in our province. The rumour is that this highway is to be finished as part of the direct route from Borden. If the minister knows anything about these rumours, I should like him to tell us so we can give a little further consideration to this.


I know nothing about these rumours. In reply to the leader of the opposition, I would simply refer him to page 2330 of Hansard of November 28, 1949, where I am reported as having said:
It seemed desirable, therefore, that we should go ahead with the legislation and1 then invite provincial governments to attend a conference of officials and technicians for the purpose of discussing all matters of technical detail, with a view to resolving all such points to the mutual satisfaction of the provincial and federal governments.


The minister gave a clear answer to the question I asked; in which he said that there is no intention to limit the amount in any one year. I think this should receive further consideration. Carried to its logical or possible conclusion, it means that any province in a less fortunate financial position than the others, any province that is not able to start work as early or to pursue it as aggressively as other provinces, might in the end receive nothing, or virtually nothing, from this $150 million. I am almost certain that the minister will be asked to give some assurance at the proposed conference that this will not happen. While there is no provision in the bill to which I could suggest an amendment in this regard, the minister will I hope consider this point and, at the
Trans-Canada Highway conference he proposes to call, be ready to propose some safeguards against anything of the kind.


The reference the minister made yesterday was a conference of officials and technicians. Is it not the intention to call together the ministers from the different provinces? It would appear from the minister's statement that this is to be a technical rather than a policy conference.


A conference was held last December. When the provincial authorities assemble for a conference to discuss details, it will be the privilege of any provincial minister to attend if he wishes to discuss those details. I have no doubt that there are some who will wish to do this. The conference we envisage now will be one relating to matters of technical detail. I believe this has been brought out in the house, and it reflects the views of hon. members as to the next point of procedure. Following the conference we will determine what the next step will be toward implementation and the signing of agreements.


I had thought I had ended my remarks on this matter, but I am seriously alarmed by the statement just made by the minister. First of all, let me say most definitely that the conference last December was not a policy conference. No policy was decided upon; no policy was even considered. The fact is that the provincial representatives who met here last December all went away questioning the value of coming here when no real program had been put in front of them. They went away without any real knowledge of what was intended. Nothing was decided, from the policy point of view, which would make it possible to bring in the experts to work out the technical details which of necessity must be related to an integrated plan.
I urge upon the minister that he reconsider his statement that the conference he proposes to call will be one of technical experts. The first meeting should be one by governments, if this act is to be the basis of a successful development of this project. I repeat that the first step is for the governments to meet at the government level to determine the procedure by which an over-all plan may be arrived at. It is only then that the technical experts can usefully discuss what is to be done.


Mr. Chairman, after listening to the remarks made this morning I have come to the conclusion that it is about time the hatchet was buried by the different parties in this chamber and by the federal government and the governments of the

Trans-Canada Highway different provinces. Personally I feel that there is no cause for alarm. I consider that this highway project is the greatest project ever considered in the history of our dominion. It is something that has been awaited for many years. I have every confidence, that when the conference is held, any differences of opinion will be set aside, and that the individuals who will gather together to solve the problem and start the wheels moving will adopt principles of tolerance, sacrifice and responsibility, and get along with the job.


Mr. Chairman, I have a press dispatch here which appeared earlier this month in the Veterans Advocate. It reads in part as follows:
It had been planned to hold a dominion-provincial trans-Canada highway meeting in Ottawa, but that project has been abandoned in favour of individual meetings with the provinces.
Has it definitely been decided there will not be a meeting of representatives of the different governments in a nation-wide conference? I believe the minister of public works of British Columbia expects that there will be a further conference. Frankly I am surprised to learn today that the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply is planning to call in only technical officials from the provinces. I urge that he give consideration to having a meeting of the ministers of public works of the different provinces. There is time yet to change his plan in order to have such a meeting, and it seems to me a meeting of that kind would be much more likely to produce results. The technical men would also be present. I wonder whether the objective will be attained simply by calling in the technical men and leaving the ministers at home. They are not likely to come if they are not specially invited.


I do not think that this should be a point of contention at all. In my opinion the plan has developed as far as it has by a process of co-operation. I have talked or written to the representatives of every provincial government. I have spoken personally to all but one, as I said in my statement. In those conversations we decided what the best course of action should be. We felt the first stage should be to bring down the legislation, and then to get together and discuss matters of technical detail. That is a point on which there has been agreement between the provincial governments and ourselves on the ministerial level, if you wish to call it that. After that has been done, and all points have been resolved, we shall
have to decide what the next step should be towards the signing of agreements so that the work can be got under way.


Is it the thought that there may be a conference on the ministerial level after the meeting of the technical personnel has been held?


The invitation to provincial governments to attend a conference to discuss technical details will of course be directed through the provincial minister concerned. He will be invited to come himself or to send one of his officials to discuss technical points. The minister will be entirely free to come. For the information of hon. members I think I should say that so far no letter has gone out, but one is being prepared and will be sent in the near future. After that conference has been held, I am sure we shall be able to decide in a spirit of cooperation what the next step should be.


In the Vancouver papers which arrived yesterday there are two questions raised. One is as follows:
A stumbling block to be removed, however, on this route is the operation of commercial truck transports through the national park areas which the road traverses. So far the federal government has not permitted this.
I mentioned in my remarks yesterday that for many years there had been objection to trucks not being allowed to use freely the highways through the national parks. The article goes on:
Another point on which B.C. seeks clarification is construction of the highway through towns and cities. Present federal plans call for building the road only to municipal boundaries.
I do not believe that press statement is correct, but will the minister clarify these two points?


The matter of commercial traffic through public parks is an important point, and it is one that is under discussion. I have nothing further to add at this time, except to say that it is a good point.


Is that not entirely in the control of the dominion?


Yes, it is. As to the second point, concerning the arrangements through municipalities, we have told the provincial governments that the normal relationship between the provincial government and the municipality with respect to payment for highways will prevail, so far as that is possible.


What does the minister mean by that? In the terms which were sent out to the provincial governments the minister said that

the dominion government would not pay anything in excess of the cost of a two-lane highway. Does that also apply through towns and cities? In other words, if the street is 66 feet wide and the province is contributing to the construction and upkeep thereof in the municipality, will the position be that the dominion government will contribute only up to the width of a two-lane highway?


That is what is contemplated at the moment.


Can the minister give us an estimate as to how much of the $150 million will be required to reimburse the provinces for work that has already been completed on sections of the highway?


I do not think I could give anything that would be of any value, because the routes have not yet been determined.


I think section 4 is the most important one in the bill. It is the section concerning which a great deal of the discussion has already taken place. It is the provision whereby the federal government's contribution to the building of the trans-Canada highway will amount to no more than fifty per cent. I was particularly glad to see the stand taken by the leader of the opposition and the leader of the Social Credit party when they pointed out that a fifty per cent contribution is too low to assure the building of a trans-Canada highway within the seven-year period. If the highway is to be built within a reasonable time, the contribution of fifty per cent should be increased, so that there will be a greater incentive for each province to undertake construction within its own boundaries. The minister has said the building of the trans-Canada highway is contingent upon all provinces signing agreements. With a contribution of only fifty per cent I would say that the cost may be too high for some provinces to proceed.
I was greatly impressed by the speech of the leader of the Social Credit party. He pointed out that even for a province as wealthy as Alberta the contribution required from the province for the building of the highway within its boundaries will be a serious burden on the provincial treasury. If this is so in Alberta, certainly some of the maritime provinces, and likely the province of Saskatchewan, will have even greater difficulty in attempting to match the federal contribution dollar for dollar. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that the fifty per cent contribution be increased to seventy-five per cent. If the federal government's contribution is increased, I believe that each province will be able to go ahead with the construction of a trans-Canada highway in the near future.
Trans-Canada Highway
I should like, therefore, to move an amendment, Mr. Chairman, seconded by the member for Saskatoon. The amendment is as follows:
That clause 4, subclause (2), be amended by deleting therefrom the words "fifty per centum" and by substituting therefor the words "seventy-five per centum."
This amendment will in no way increase the expenditure made by the federal government under this act. The expenditure to be made under this act is covered by clause 7, which states that the aggregate of all expenditures shall not exceed $150 million. All this amendment would do is to change the formula, so that the provinces could undertake construction. I admit that it might mean a reduction in the standard of the highway; I do not know. It would at least assure the building of a trans-Canada highway, and it would establish the principle that the federal government should make a greater contribution.
The federal government has found that in many cases, such as old age pensions and housing, it must make a seventy-five per cent contribution to enable the provinces to fulfil their obligation. The same principle should be applied to the building of the trans-Canada highway. If the government really desires the highway it should be prepared to pay seventy-five per cent of the cost, while the provinces contribute twenty-five per cent.


Mr. Chairman, obviously the amendment is out of order, since it calls for an increase in the expenditure of public funds.


On the point of order, Mr. Chairman, I am sure that the Minister of Trade and Commerce, in his statement that the amendment is obviously out of order, has not taken even a moment to think about it. I ask you, sir, and members opposite to take their time in considering this matter. It is quite clear that the amendment is in order. May I remind you, sir, and all hon. members, of the statement my colleague the member for Assiniboia has just made, namely, that clause 7 of the bill sets a ceiling on the amount of money to be spent under this bill. If the bill is passed without this amendment, the total amount of money to be spent will be $150 million. If my colleague's amendment carries and the bill passes with the "seventy-five per centum" in clause 4, the total amount of money to be spent by this government will still be only $150 million. All this amendment does is to relax the terms upon which the federal government is making the money available.
If I may illustrate by using a figure, in order for a province to secure $3 of federal money now, it has to match it with another $3.

Trans-Canada Highway [f my colleague's amendment carries, in order for a province to get $3 of federal money, it would have to match it with only $1. As my colleague has stated, it might result in less money being spent on the highway, but at least it would make it possible for the highway to be started, and it would establish the principle of a three to one contribution.
On Saturday last the member for Rimouski, who is parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Finance, introduced a bill to amend the Industrial Development Bank Act. The amending bill was introduced without any prior resolution. In introducing it, the parliamentary assistant explained why there was no prior resolution. He said that it was not a money bill-that is did not involve expenditure. The member for Coast-Capilano is now nodding his head up and down. The member for Rimouski said that the Industrial Development Bank Act sets a ceiling of $25 million. All that his amendment did was to relax the terms on which a portion of that money is to be made available. He said that because it did not change the ceiling of $25 million, it did not involve an increase in expenditure. Mr. Chairman, the cases are completely analogous.
The bill before us sets a ceiling of $150 million, and the purpose of my colleague's amendment is to relax the terms on which that federal money is to be made available to the provinces. I submit that members opposite cannot claim one rule for the government on Saturday, and apply another rule to the opposition on Tuesday. If on Saturday it was in order for the member for Rimouski to say that his amendment did not involve an increase in expenditure, because it left the ceiling where it was and merely relaxed the terms on which that money was made available, I submit it is in order today for the member for Assiniboia to move an amendment that leaves the ceiling at $150 million, and merely relaxes the terms on which that money is to be made available.
I could go further, Mr. Chairman, and read from pages 510 and 511 of May, but I will simply paraphrase it. On those pages it says that once the resolution preceding a bill has been brought in with the royal recommendation, no amendments can be made that go beyond the terms of the resolution; in other words no amendment can exceed the scope of the royal recommendation. May I remind you, sir, that when the minister of reconstruction brought in the resolution preceding this bill, it did not specify any plan of contribution. There was no mention of a fifty-fifty basis. The rule is quite clear that when the house is in committee on a bill, any

amendment to the terms of the bill can be made, provided it does not go beyond the terms laid down in the resolution which was laid before the house with the royal recommendation.
I turn to the resolution, which is on page 2023 of Hansard. It reads:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to encourage and assist in the construction of a trans-Canada highway and to provide for this purpose that the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply may enter into agreements with any provinces providing for the payment by Canada to those provinces of contributions in respect of the cost of a trans-Canada highway; with provision also for the employment of temporary engineers, technical officers and other employees for the purpose of the act.
The proposal to which the governor general gave his approval-that is what counts in these matters-was a plan which involved contributions couched in general terms. When the royal recommendation was received, the resolution did not mention a fifty-fifty basis, or any other specific plan. So long as we stay within the terms of the resolution, we are in order, and that is precisely what this amendment does.
But I come back to what I said before, Mr. Chairman, that not only are we staying strictly within the terms of the resolution but we are at this point moving an amendment that does not involve an increased expenditure of money, any more than the amending bill did which the hon. member for Rimouski brought in on Saturday last. I submit that if the rule applies one way for the government on Saturday, it should apply in the same way for the opposition on Tuesday.


I am sure, Mr. Chairman, that no explanation of mine is really needed with regard to the specious argument of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


It is not specious at all, and the minister knows it.


May I point out that the purpose of this bill is to build a trans-Canada highway from coast to coast at an estimated cost for the project of $300 million. The appropriation made here is intended to cover the government's share of the project. It is obvious that if the government's contribution is raised from fifty per cent to seventy-five per cent, additional funds will be required. Whether they are appropriated in this bill or not is immaterial. The motion represents an additional drain on the treasury of Canada, and therefore it is clearly out of order.


On the point of order, Mr. Chairman, the Minister of Trade and Commerce said that this bill stipulated the building of a trans-Canada highway that would cost $300 million.


No, I did not.


There is no such stipulation in the bill. The stipulation in the bill is that the federal government will provide up to $150 million. It does not say that that is for completion of a highway, either. This amendment does not increase the amount that the government will spend. It may reduce the amount that the provincial governments may spend, but it certainly will not increase the amount that the federal government will spend. For that reason it is absolutely in order, as every hon. member of this committee should know from the clear explanation of the rules given by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


I should like to speak to the point of order. To begin with I support the contention of the Minister of Trade and Commerce that the purpose of this bill is not to grant $150 million to the provincial governments for road construction. The principle of this bill is to construct a trans-Canada highway to the specifications given by the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply in his speech on second reading. Section 4 and section 7 are of course related in that respect. Under section 7 and section 4, when taken together, the fifty per cent contribution of the federal government is estimated at $150 million, which means that the cost of the highway is $300 million. Therefore when the hon. member for Assiniboia raises the percentage provided in section 4 to seventy-five per cent, that means seventy-five per cent of $300 million.


No, it does not.


The result would be that section 7 would have to be amended to read $225 million.
As to the argument of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre that this is an exact analogue to the remarks of the hon. member for Rimouski on Saturday, I want to point out that there is a great difference. The Industrial Development Bank Act provided for an expenditure of $25 million, but that sum of $25 million could be available for loans for approved projects on which, incidentally, the government makes profits. In that bill there was the initial provision that for a certain period only $15 million should be available for these loans; and the bill proposed by my colleague was to provide that the remaining $10 million which had already been authorized by the first act should now be made available for these loans. There is no similarity whatsoever between what was moved by my colleague and what the hon. member for Assiniboia is now trying to do.
Trans-Canada Highway


Speaking to the point of order, it seems to me that the point just put forward by the parliamentary assistant, the hon. member for Coast-Capilano, is not well taken. Here we have a bill which authorizes the expenditure by the federal government of $150 million. That is all the bill does with respect to money.


It is a bill to build a trans-Canada highway.


The expenditure of $150 million is the only authoriza