Yesterday the hon. member for Broadview (Mr. Church) asked a question with reference to Christie Street hospital at Toronto. As has been known, arrangements have been under way for some time under which all veteran patients are being transferred from Christie Street hospital to Sunny-brook. This transfer is now rapidly being completed. As the transfer permits, the Christie Street hospital will be turned over to the city of Toronto.
LLater.l


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately the Minister of Veterans Affairs has just retired from the chamber. I had intended asking a question, but in view of his absence I ask that my question be accepted as notice. It has reference to the matter the minister mentioned a moment ago, namely the disposition of an asset at present vested in the Dominion of Canada, Christie Street hospital.
I am asking that in due course the minister, in this House of Commons rather than through the press or through some other body, give a full report with regard to the sale of Christie Street hospital. Perhaps he might go so far as to state the price, what the hospital is to be used for, when the terms of the contract will be made known and the transfer of the property made to the corporation of the city of Toronto. I repeat that information of this kind should emanate from this chamber rather than from the press or some other source.


Order.


Order. The hon. member knows the rule that he is not permitted to make a statement when asking a question, and that the question should be brief and to the point.


Mr. Speaker, I shall draw the hon. member's remarks to the attention of the minister. I am sure that within the next few days the minister will be able to give the information for which the hon. member has asked.


Mr. Speaker, as this transaction was handled by War Assets Corporation, for which I am responsible, perhaps I may answer the question now. The circumstances are that some time ago Chorley Park was sold to the city of Toronto, and payment of $100,000 was made to the crown. As the documents were being completed, circumstances compelled the Department of National Defence to ask that that sale be cancelled for the time being. This morning I had a conference with the mayor of Toronto, and we agreed that Christie Street hospital would be substituted for Chorley Park in the former transaction. The effect is that we have sold Christie Street hospital to the city of Toronto for $100,000. The sale includes certain beds and utensils which are not required for federal purposes. It is my understanding that the building will be used in part for a hospital and in part for a home for aged persons. Delivery will be made as quickly as final transfer of patients can be made by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


I thank the minister for the information.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply. When will he be in position to answer the questions I asked about two weeks ago with regard to housing? They were not long, and only brief answers would be required. I think the minister has the information right in his office in Ottawa.


I will take the hon. member's question as notice.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to table the report of the operations for the year 1948 under the Export and Import Permits Act. I wish to table also copies of order in council P.C. 570, dated February 8, 1949, consolidating all outstanding amendments to the list of items under export control, and at the same time removing from control a substantial number

Inquiries of the Ministry of new items. As a result, the number of articles for which export permit is required is reduced from 520 as of January 1, 1948, to 275.


the first reading of Bill No. 13 (from the Senate) respecting the appointment of auditors for national railways.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the order for motions: The Prime Minister-Motion for address to His Majesty the King respecting terms of union of Newfoundland with Canada.
I wish to ask that this motion be allowed to stand until Monday. It had been intended to deal with it immediately after the third reading of the Newfoundland bill, but some hon. members who are not here today have expressed the hope that they might have an opportunity, at the last stage of the proceedings necessary in this house to complete the union of Newfoundland with Canada, to make some remarks on the subject, and the consideration of this motion for an address to His Majesty will give them that opportunity.
Motion stands.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
I understand that the Prime Minister is to leave this afternoon for an important conference in Washington with the President of the United States. Before he goes perhaps I might take the opportunity of wishing him well on his journey and in his deliberations, and ask him to convey to the President of the United States not only the good will and warm wishes of the government and its supporters in parliament, but also of parliament as a whole and of the Canadian people. I would ask him also to indicate to the President, as no doubt he will, that the most treasured desire and central objective of the Canadian people and the Canadian parliament is that the dogs of war shall be chained once and for all, and that it will never be necessary to have another world casualty list; in other words, that this country wants a just, permanent and lasting peace.


think in this regard the hon. member for Peel speaks for everyone.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has a trade mission been sent to the state of Israel? If not, what are the government's plans in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, no trade
mission has been sent from Canada to the state of Israel. The hon. member will recall that de facto recognition by Canada of the state of Israel took place only a few weeks ago, in December. I think I should say, however, that since we recognized de facto the state of Israel the government has had conversations in Ottawa with the representative of that state in Washington looking to ways and means of extending and developing our trade and commercial relations with that country. These conversations have been most encouraging.


On the orders of the day:
should like to ask a question of the Minister of Finance with reference to the withdrawal of the Bank of Canada branch from Charlottetown. Will the minister consider the advisability of having proper accommodation arranged for the Bank of Canada branch when the new dominion building is being constructed in Charlottetown?


The hon. member was good enough to give me notice of his question. The situation in Charlottetown was this: The Bank of Canada was obliged to vacate the premises which it occupied, and was unable to find any other premises with suitable vault accommodation. Pending the obtaining of such premises the bank has made arrangements with the Eastern Trust Company of Charlottetown so that the people of that city and of Prince Edward Island as a whole will not be inconvenienced.
I understand my colleague the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Fournier), in the preparation of the plans for the new public building in Charlottetown, is taking into account the needs of the Bank of Canada at that point.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Rosedale (Mr. Jackman) asked whether in view of the approval by the international monetary fund of the sale by South Africa of newly-mined alloy gold to be used only for industrial or professional work at a premium of $6.50 a fine ounce over the fund's price of $35 a pure ounce, the government would extend the same right to Canadian gold producers. At that time I told him I had seen the press report but had no official information on the matter. I said I would make an inquiry. I have done so, and I find that the international monetary fund has not in fact approved any specific sale of gold at a premium by South Africa. Yesterday the international monetary fund issued a statement in that regard which, for the purpose of the record, I shall place on Hansard. That statement is as follows:
Following certain press reports about a gold sale at premium prices made by South Africa, the international monetary fund wishes to make it clear that it has not approved any specific gold sale at a premium price.
The fund was consulted four months ago by the South African government with regard to a proposed plan to sell semi-processed gold at premium prices for industrial, professional, or artistic purposes. The fund advised the South African government that it was "disturbed by the fear that the trade in semi-processed gold which is contemplated by the South African government would involve considerable sales of gold at premium prices for other than legitimate industrial, professional or artistic purposes. It felt that this would almost certainly be the consequence if the proposed transactions are to be on a scale sufficient to ensure an appreciable profit to . . . gold producers.
In these circumstances," the fund added, "the fund believes that South Africa should not engage in the proposed plan unless it is satisfied that it can take effective measures to ensure that gold sold under the plan will in fact be used for bona fide and customary industrial, professional or artistic purposes."
The South African government informed the fund over this past week end that it has agreed to sell a quantity of semi-processed gold at a premium price. However, in the light of the information submitted by South Africa, including the prices and quantities involved, the fund has found it necessary to get in touch with South Africa with a view particularly to determining whether the safeguards adopted are, in the fund's opinion, adequate to ensure that any gold sold will in fact be used for bona fide and customary industrial, professional and artistic purposes.


Following the answer given by the Minister of Finance, I should like to ask this question. If the Canadian gold industry observes the same restrictions as the South African industry in
Inquiries of the Ministry regard to newly-mined gold for industrial and professional purposes, will the Canadian industry be allowed to sell on the open market?


I do not care to answer a
hypothetical question. Gold has been sold by the Canadian Mint for industrial and commercial purposes, and permits have been given for the sale of semi-processed gold for those purposes. However, in each case the price has been related to $35 an ounce, which is the amount paid by the United States treasury.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Agriculture, of which I have already given notice. Is it the intention of the government to give a lead to western farmers as to what grains should be grown for 1949? If so, will the minister make a statement to the house in that regard?


As the hon. member has said, a copy of his question was sent to me this morning. The practice of the provincial and federal governments in the years preceding the war was that the provinces had the most to do with production. They gave more direction in that regard than did the federal department of agriculture. At the beginning of the war however it was thought advisable that considerable direction should be given by the Department of Agriculture in Ottawa. Therefore we held conferences annually, beginning in 1939, with the provincial authorities, farming organizations, the farm press and representatives of the federal Department of Agriculture, upon which occasions we discussed all questions relating to the necessity for greater production of one product as compared with another during the period of the war. That practice continued until two years ago, when we decided to hold conferences during the first week of December of each year and discuss the probable or possible program in connection with agricultural production for the succeeding year.
A conference was held on December 6, 7 and 8 last, at which the provinces and the farm organizations were fully represented. The agricultural press was represented, and for part of the time the daily press also. The question of the production of different farm products was fully discussed, and at the end of the meeting it was unanimously agreed that the direction that should go out from all sources should be to the effect that the acreage that had been utilized in the

Inquiries of the Ministry previous year lor the purposes of producing different crops, or in connection with livestock, would be suitable for the coming year.
But there was one possible change. Where western farmers had seeded a considerable acreage in flaxseed in the years during the war and up to last year, it was considered, in view of our experience, that it might be well for them not to seed so much flax; and to the extent that they desisted from seeding flax it might be wise to put their acreage into coarse grains which would be required in greater and greater volume in the years ahead.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to refer to a return which was tabled on February 9 in answer to a question I had asked about the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation staff in Toronto. The answer is insufficient. I notice that the Minister of National Revenue is not here; therefore I shall bring up this matter on the motion to set up the special committee, or on some other occasion when the minister is here.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Can the minister answer the question I asked on February 4 with regard to passports not being renewed after January 1 of this year?


I am grateful to the hon. member for the patience and the courtesy he has shown in waiting for this information. I am afraid I have not even now all the information I desire to have in order to give him a full reply. But with regard to the point he raised the other day I can say this. After the Canadian Citizenship Act came into force on January 1, 1947, a new form of Canadian passport was issued. Subsequently it was found that certain inconveniences arose in renewing old passports which had been issued before January 1, 1947, because the national status of Canadians was not accurately described therein. Persons holding such passports are being asked, when they apply for renewals, to replace them with new passports. The new passports are issued without delay;


they are valid for five years in the first instance, and may be renewed for a further period of five years.
The situation in regard to passports is now under review, particularly in relation to the practice being followed in other commonwealth countries where a similar problem has arisen. Full information is not yet available but I hope to be in position to make a further statement next week.


When Newfoundland comes into the union, will residents of Newfoundland have to send their application forms to Ottawa?


All I can say is that if and when Newfoundland comes into the union the citizens of that province will be issued passports in exactly the same way as they are issued to citizens of other parts of Canada.


Will Peterborough have to have a special passport?


Being the favoured county of Canada, it would be well if we did. I should like to direct another question to the minister. Has his department issued instructions to post offices, and other places where passport applications and renewals are issued, that passports cannot be renewed after January 1?


I am not sure that that has been done, but it is one of the points I shall deal with in the answer which I hope to give to the hon. member at the earliest possible day.


On the orders of the day:
I should like
to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Resources. Unfortunately I was able to send notice to him only at a late hour. Is consideration being given to liberalizing existing immigration regulations to permit the admission to Canada of displaced persons who belong to the professional groups?


I received a copy of the
question just before coming into the chamber. I think it is generally understood how difficult it is to act effectively, especially with regard to two of the classes which come within the category mentioned by the hon. member-dentists and doctors. Those professions largely control the naming of those who will be eligible to practise in Canada. A few such immigrants have been allowed to come to Canada as labourers, or, in other cases, as assistants to medical men. I may say, however, that the matter is being given serious consideration.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Some transfer of authority is taking place affecting the airport south of Portage la Prairie. I should like the minister to indicate what the plans of the government are with regard to this matter; in particular whether the airport will be reopened for training purposes, or whether other expansion is contemplated.


I shall be glad to look into the
matter and give my hon. friend an answer later.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce that Mr. Sam Carr is now in custody in Ottawa and will be brought before a magistrate in this city tomorrow. He will probably be remanded for one week. In anticipation of Mr. Carr's return we had retained Mr. John Cartwright, K.C., of Toronto to act as government counsel in this case. The charge with which we propose to proceed is that of conspiracy to commit forgery. This is under section 573 of the Criminal Code, and carries a maximum sentence of seven years. The alleged offence occurred in connection with the renewal of a Canadian passport issued to one Witczak and taken from him and used by an international spy posing under his name.


On the orders of the day:
desire to direct a question to the Minister of Health and Welfare. Has anything been done for the incapacitated people in Canada so as to give some relief and some social security to these unfortunate deserving people?


I think the hon. gentleman would be the first to admit the general character of his question. I cannot of course say what is being done, other than by the government of Canada, for the people concerned. I may say that much is being done for those who are incapacitated for one
Newfoundland
reason or another. I would call the attention of the hon. gentleman to the provisions that are made in the national health plan to cover tubercular patients, and persons suffering from cancer, arthritis, poliomyelitis, mental disease, and so on. I am sure the hon. member will appreciate the very wide scope of the services covered by these grants.


the third reading of Bill No. 11, to approve the terms of union of Newfoundland with Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I shall not delay for more than a few moments the passage of this important and historic bill. I am fairly familiar with that magnificent island which is to be our tenth province; yet I feel that I should speak very briefly. Newfoundland was represented at the Quebec conference of 1864, when the four provinces of Canada, Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick-decided to enter confederation. I often recall the words of Sir Ambrose Shea, who was one of the two Newfoundland representatives. So far as they were concerned they were satisfied with the proposals and would have joined the confederation, but did not have the authority to do so at that time. Ever since 1864, well-wishers of confederation, both in Newfoundland and in Canada, have looked forward to this day. I am sure we are all happy indeed at the prospect that lies before us. I will not repeat the exact words of Sir Ambrose Shea, but he said that, looking into the future, he could hardly describe the great vista that opened before him, in the realization of what confederation would mean to his province and to Canada.
Confederation has turned out to be something much greater than anything Sir Ambrose Shea could have visualized. At that time British Columbia was not a part of Canada, nor were the three western provinces. If Sir Ambrose could have foreseen the Canada of today, of which Newfoundland will be the tenth province, he would have seen that we have one river, the Mackenzie, with the largest basin, all in the same country, on the whole continent of North America. Some will say at once that I am forgetting the Mississippi, but the basin of the Mississippi is not all in the United States; part of it is in Alberta and part of it is in Saskatchewan. The Mackenzie river is wholly in Canada.
Canada also borders the largest lake in the world, although not all of it is in Canada. Eleven thousand square miles of the 31.000

Newfoundland
square miles of Lake Superior are in Canada. We also have exceptionally high mountains. At the time of Sir Ambrose Shea, the St. Elias group of mountains between Yukon and Alaska, which rises to a great height, were not known to be in Canada. The highest mountain in that range is Mount Logan, with a height of 19,850 feet. Canada has inexhaustible resources. What would Sir Ambrose Shea have seen? He would have seen that the Canada of today is one of the largest national areas in the world. I believe we are exceeded only by Russia, including Siberia, but we are larger than European Russia. Together with Newfoundland's 152,000 square miles, we shall now have approximately 3,750,000 square miles. Including Newfoundland and Labrador, the population of Canada will be very close to thirteen and a half million people.
We have grown to be a very great state both in area and in population. Our cousins to the south have a larger population, but continental United States is more than 750,000 square miles smaller than Canada. Including Alaska it is perhaps 150,000 square miles less. I do not know whether it is there now because the building may have been blown down in the late war, but I often think of the inscription on the money exchange building in London near the famous monument to the great fire. The inscription is: "The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof." When God made this part of the world he must have been thinking of the fulness of this country, because, interpreting fulness as material wealth, in many respects we surpass the whole world. For instance, there is nickel; in Canada we have approximately nine-tenths of all the nickel in the world.


Asbestos.


Asbestos is to be found in the eastern townships of Quebec; we have approximately eighty to ninety per cent of all the asbestos in the world. Our country is rich in all minerals. It is only a few years ago that Canada produced over $200 million worth of gold, and at the same time the production of all minerals in Canada exceeded $500 million.
In coming into confederation, therefore, Newfoundland is joining one of the great countries of the world, and with the new province we shall make a greater country still. To me it is a solemn occasion when I think that from 1864 to 1949, a period of over eighty years, many efforts have been made to make confederation complete. When this bill passes the house, as it will, confederation will be complete. As the years roll on, those who come after us will refer to that great year when the confederation of Canada was completed as the fathers of confederation visualized it in 1864 and 1867. We in this

house will be off the scene at that time, but we will be remembered for our humble parts in bringing to pass what the fathers of confederation sought to accomplish.
A short time ago I came across a few lines which seem to suit what is running through my mind at the moment. I will quote them:
For the structure that we raise Time is with materials filled.
Our todays and yesterdays Are the blocks with which we build.
The blocks with which this structure has been built are the men who carried on the negotiations for union from 1864 onward, the fathers of confederation of those days, representing Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario, and those who carried on the present negotiations. Down the years all these men were labouring to build this fine structure which has finally come to pass. Now we and our brothers in Newfoundland may look forward to the certainty of rising to even greater heights.
Today we add another 1,500 miles to our Atlantic front. A moment ago when the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon) was giving the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) some admonitions with respect to his trip to Washington, I thought of something else the Prime Minister might take up when he is in the United States. I hesitate to mention it, and I do not suppose he would have time to do it anyway, but on some future occasion he might consider negotiating with the United States in an endeavour to bring in the panhandle which cuts five hundred miles off our western coast. That is something for the future. If it should ever come to pass, what a majestic country we would have from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
As a humble Canadian, Mr. Speaker, I am proud and happy that the vision which these great men have had all down the years, and which our present leaders have worked so hard to fulfil, at last has become a reality.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.


that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a bill to amend the Agricultural Products Act to extend the operation of the act for a period of one year.


I take it the minister will want to introduce this resolution with a somewhat comprehensive statement, and I suggest that the appropriate time to do so would be before Mr. Speaker leaves the chair, having

in mind that this procedure has been generally followed so far this session.


The bill it is intended to introduce if the resolution is adopted is short and simple, providing that the provisions of the act concerning the sale and export of agricultural products shall be extended to cover an additional year. The provision made last session was to the effect that this bill was to cover the period to March 31, 1949. The new bill will provide that the period be extended to March 31, 1950.
The reason a bill of this kind is required is the fact that the activities with which it deals were carried on during the war under the War Measures Act. When the War Measures Act came to an end provision was made for some of the matters that had been dealt with under that legislation to be continued under the special measures act. A special measures act was introduced to deal with many of the matters that had been carried on by order in council under the War Measures Act, but so far as the sale of agricultural products by contract was concerned, a special act dealt with those, and it is a bill to extend that act with which we are dealing at the moment.
At this stage it might be advisable to point out that the bill itself defines the agricultural products which are covered by it, by saying:
"Agricultural product" means any product of agriculture, except wheat, and includes "feeding stuff" within the meaning of The Feeding Stuffs Act of 1937.
I quote that in order to point out that the wheat contract does not come under this bill. That contract has been dealt with under the wheat board act. In addition I think I should point out that section 3 of the bill provides:
Subject to any regulations that may be made by the governor in council, the minister may
(a)	sell or export agricultural products to the government of any country or any agency thereof pursuant to any agreement made by the government of Canada with the government of such country or with such agency and for these purposes may purchase agricultural products and make such arrangements for the purchase, sale or export of agricultural products as he considers necessary or desirable;
(b)	on behalf of the government of any country or any agency thereof purchase or negotiate contracts for the purchase of agricultural products;
(c)	by order require any person to give such information respecting his facilities for the storing or processing of agricultural products and at such times as the minister may designate in such order;
(d)	enter into contracts for the storing or processing of agricultural products.
I read those two sections in order to call attention to two facts. The first is that this covers all agricultural products other than wheat. The second is that the products other than wheat are limited to those for which we have agreements. At the present time we have agreements with Great Britain for the
Agricultural Products Act sale of bacon, cheese and eggs. The agreement with respect to bacon is carried out under the meat board. The agreement for the sale of cheese is carried out under the dairy products board. The agreement for the sale of eggs is carried out under the special products board. These are the three boards that were in existence during the war. Each is still carrying out a contract with respect to one important item; therefore it is necessary to continue in existence the three boards we had during the war period, and it is necessary to deal with matters having to do with bacon, eggs and cheese in any discussions we may have concerning what is to be done in the year 1949-50.


May I ask the minister if horse meat is considered an agricultural product now?


Well, I presume horse meat is considered an agricultural product, but we have not an agreement with any government concerning it, so it does not come under this act as it is now operating.


If I may ask a question, would apples or cheese-


Order. I do not object to hon. members asking questions, but I suggest that the proper time to do so is when the house is in committee. As hon. members know, when the Speaker is in the chair an hon. member may speak only once.


I was just going to say that I do not think it would be helpful for me to attempt at this stage to go into any details either with respect to the contracts we had in 1948 or the contracts we expect to carry through in 1949. As soon as the motion is carried and we go into committee I shall be glad to attempt to answer any questions anyone may care to ask; and I leave it to hon. members to determine whether they wish to go into committee at once in order that a discussion of that kind may take place, or whether they would rather proceed with the discussion for the time being with the Speaker in the chair. At some suitable time I hope we will get into committee, when I hope to be able to give any information that may be desired.


As the minister has said, this resolution to amend the Agricultural Products Act to extend the operation of the act for a period of one year is really a continuation of the War Measures Act for certain purposes.
Part of the preamble of that act, brought in in 1947, says:
-the government of Canada entered into agreements for the sale or export of food supplies to other gov-

Agricultural Products Act emments or agencies thereof, which agreements still continue in force; and whereas certain orders and regulations were made by the governor in council under the authority of the War Measures Act and the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945, for the purpose of enabling Canada to carry out the said agreements; and whereas the said orders and regulations will expire on the 31st day of March, 1947, and it is necessary by reason of the existing national emergency that parliament confer authority-
In another paragraph the act points out that,
"agricultural product" means any product of agriculture, except wheat, and includes "feeding stuff."
Another clause of the act reads:
-the minister may sell or export agricultural products to the government of any country-
The entire authority is vested in the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) under the act as passed in 1947.
As a companion to this act, there is an act known as the Agricultural Prices Support Act, 1944, which was merely a transitional measure to provide for the maintenance of price levels and by which a revolving fund of $200 million was established. This amounts to less than 10 per cent of the amount this government has prevented the agricultural producers of Canada from receiving by means of controls, embargoes and government marketing programs. In other words, since 1942, this government has caused the farmers to lose over $2,000 million, which cannot be easily recovered. This figure is over three times the total expenditure of the three prairie provincial governments during those same years. It is a sizeable sum of money which the farmers have contributed by marketing their goods through government agencies.
The Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture told the members of the house that, by taking less than the prevailing world price for bacon, wheat and dairy products, et cetera, the Canadian farmer would be assured of good overseas markets after the war. Mr. Speaker, today Britain is purchasing great quantities of bacon from Poland and Denmark, beef from the Argentine and wheat from Russia. The Canadian overseas market for apples, fruits and potatoes has been entirely lost. Beef on the hoof and certain other agricultural products in Canada have decreased in price during the past five months by over 20 per cent, yet the cost of living index has reached an all-time high and now stands at 159-6. I do not think the consumers can accuse the agricultural producer of responsibility for that situation.
With respect to the cost of living today, the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner), speak-

ing on December 11, 1947, as reported at page 215 of Hansard, said:
. . . we have continued our control on wheat by making a contract with Great Britain. . . . the price of feed grains to farmers in eastern Canada and in other parts of Canada has borne about the same relationship to wheat as the government would have been compelled to place upon oats and barley if they had followed the suggestion of the organized farmers . . .
On the same page, he said:
. . . the most effective control on feed grains is the fact that there is an established value for wheat.
The Minister of Agriculture, speaking on this Agricultural Products Act on December 19, 1947, said this at page 503 of Hansard:
There has always been the closest check made on the relationship between wheat and feed grains, and between feed grains and products fed from feed grains, when all these contracts were being negotiated.
At page 504 he said:
We have the No. 2 price, which is the price under which wheat is sold to countries outside Great Britain. The No. 2 price is one we are able to charge because of certain conditions, the first of which is that we have sold an average of 150 million bushels a year to Great Britain over a period of four years . . . That is the first factor which makes it possible for us to ask a price, rather than to go on the market and sell at a price which is offered.
The second reason is that we are able to say it has a higher intrinsic value;
I quote now from page 505 of Hansard:


Could the minister explain how the wheat committee of the cabinet arrived at this price for No. 2 wheat?


The committee arrived at the price of No. 2 wheat by taking the United States price; then adding to it something to cover the intrinsic value of the wheat as compared with United States wheat, and then adding to that an additional value because of the extra protein content. We thus arrived at a price at which the wheat could be sold, and that price is higher than the United States price.


By United States
price you mean the Chicago price?


The price which has been established from time to time in the United States.
At that time, Mr. Smith was referring to the Chicago grain exchange.
At page 509, the minister said, the British government-
-is prepared to give us in writing the undertaking which was given by word of mouth with regard to 1949, which will carry the food contracts in relation to these four commodities right through until close to the end of the wheat contract, with a position established where the amount which our farmers are receiving for wheat is similar to that which is being received in the other great exporting countries.
I believe the four commodities referred to, along with wheat, were bacon, beef, eggs and cheese. In fact, the minister spoke of those commodities this afternoon.


Not along with wheat, apart from wheat.


Apart from wheat; the point the minister was establishing was the fact that all these must bear some relationship to the basic price of wheat.
I have cited the authority of the special legislation for what the government had been doing under the War Measures Act. During 1946, the percentage of the total imports of Great Britain supplied by Canada for the various commodities is as follows: wheat flour 57 per cent; bacon, 38 per cent; carcass meat, which is chiefly beef, 7-6 per cent; eggs in the shell, 15 per cent; dried eggs, 15 per cent; cheese, 24-2 per cent and evaporated milk 10-5 per cent. It is recognized throughout this country that the government, year after year, neglected the United States market. They systematically refused to sell to those who wanted our foods and, at the same time, created a heavy deficit of United States dollars.
In 1946, during the discussions on the United Kingdom-Canada wheat agreement, this party stood alone in opposition to forcing the Canadian wheat producer to carry the entire financial burden. There were no ifs, so far as we were concerned. We predicted exactly what would happen, despite the protestations of the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) and of our socialist friends, the C.C.F.
If the terms of the United Kingdom-Canada wheat agreement had been carried out according to the adjustment clause, the price for the fourth year of the agreement would have been over $5 per bushel. However, it has now been arranged to ignore the terms of the contract and leave the final settlement until after the next Canadian general election. According to press reports Canada to date has received $640 million for offshore purchases under ECA. During the past twelve months, most of this money has come from Washington. Fifty per cent of the total of $322 million has been used to buy wheat, for the most part on British order.
I think that is proof of the serious situation facing the producers of this country. When wheat was selling on the world markets for $3.35 a bushel the United States farmer was receiving the full benefit, and the same thing applies to other agricultural products; while they bought their implements of production as cheap as, and in some cases cheaper than, the Canadian farmer. In this respect I wish to quote a letter which I have received-


Have you anybody else
to quote?


I have a lot more quoting to do. I want the hon. member to pay attention to what I am going to read
Agricultural Products Act now. I hold in my hand a registered letter from Morris, Manitoba. This is rather significant because a year ago the minister put on the record a letter which came from somewhere near that neighbourhood at a time when wheat was under discussion.


Mine was from Portage.


That is very close, but this one is different from the minister's correspondence. It reads:
After reading my Free Press tonight-
He is putting in a plug for the Free Press. -and your speech about the United Kingdom wheat agreement I cannot help but thank you personally. It is a pity that there are only so few like you that have enough guts when at Ottawa to fight for the right, and that is all that the western farmer wants.
I am just a young farmer who started farming in 1946, same time as the United Kingdom wheat agreement commenced; had to pay a very high price for all my farm machinery and high interest, which I still pay on $1,200, and then let Jimmie Gardiner sell our wheat for half price, and even then not pay us cash. What does he think we are? I happen to be one that took a wheat certificate for 1,000 bushels to the bank to borrow some money on it, and all I got was a big grin from the bank manager, and he said, "they are no good, young man." I am a true Canadian, and been a good Liberal all my life, but God forbid to ever again vote for a party that will let Jimmie Gardiner sell you down the river.
The minister put a letter on the record a year ago which came from Portage. It was addressed to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) and the writer said that he was going to trust in God and Gardiner and continue the production of hogs. The writer of the letter I have read apparently has not the same faith as the chap who wrote to the Minister of Agriculture.


They will balance out all right.


An editorial appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press of February 7, and the heading was: "Empty criticisms". It says: The Conservative party supported the wheat agreement when it was entered into in July, 1946. The Conservative party voted in parliament for the wheat agreement.
I have challenged the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) to show me any record in Hansard of 1946 where that vote took place. I cannot find it myself. I say it is an absolute misstatement of fact. The editorial goes on, but this is further proof of what the Free Press does have to say on some occasions.


If it was a unanimous vote, there would be no record in Hansard.


There was no vote.


It was unanimous.
476	HOUSE OF
Agricultural Products Act


The hon. member did not oppose it.


The hon. member should have voted against it if he opposed it.


We have the new Minister of Justice and the Minister of Agriculture going quite a long way together in the last few months. I shall have some reference to make to that in the future.


They will go a long way further together.


The first announcement of the United Kingdom-Canada wheat agreement was given by the then Minister of Trade and Commerce on July 25, 1946. The hon. member for Neepawa (Mr. Bracken) asked when we might discuss the policy, and the then Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. MacKinnon) said:
The estimates of my department will be before the house very soon, and we can then have full discussion.
These estimates were first introduced in the house on August 14, 1946, and my leader then, now the hon. member for Neepawa, and many others, spoke in opposition to that agreement as wholeheartedly as we could at that time. There never was any vote on the matter of the United Kingdom-Canada wheat agreement at all.


Why did you not call for a vote?


The Deputy Governor General in closing the 1946 session of parliament on August 31, 1946, said, among other things:
An agreement has been made with the United Kingdom for the marketing of our wheat. The wheat agreement, with agreements for the marketing of other foodstuffs already in operation, will greatly assist the government in its policy of maintaining stable prices for agricultural products.
There was no vote whatever in 1946. Hon. members will recall that there was a by-election in Portage la Prairie in October, 1946. The Minister of Agriculture has referred to Portage. He took up his residence there for a considerable period of time. I do not believe he addressed a meeting in that constituency in which the wheat contract was not discussed. It was an issue there. In that campaign the government was supported on the wheat deal by C.C.F. speakers. We opposed that agreement throughout the byelection and hon. members know the result.
I should now like to refer to the price of international farm implements. In the letter I read reference was made to that. In 1945, just prior to the wheat agreement, these implements were selling for the following


prices: the three plow tractor sold for $1,630.60; the combine for $3,150; the twelve foot swather for $394.60; the harrow plow for $401.75. In 1948, after the agreement the same three plow tractor sold for $2,179.75; the combine for $4,219.85; the twelve foot swather for $519 and the harrow plow for $488.
Of course today prices have gone considerably higher. I have comparisons as to the number of bushels of wheat the United States farmer has to produce to buy these same implements as compared with the Canadian farmer. To purchase in Canada a Farmall M tractor, international company tractor, required 1,225 bushels of wheat; in the United States, 710 bushels of wheat. To purchase a 3-furrow international tractor plow in Canada required 151 bushels of wheat; in the United States, 82 bushels. To purchase a 24-run international double disc seeder in Canada, required 270 bushels of wheat; in the United States, 146 bushels. To purchase a 10-foot international binder in Canada required 333 bushels of wheat; in the United States, 184 bushels. To purchase the same tractor in Canada would require slightly over the price of eleven finished 1,000-pound steers, while in the United States the same type of tractor would require the proceeds of only slightly over six such animals. It would require 46 select hogs weighing 210 pounds in Canada or 26 such hogs in the United States to purchase the same type of tractor. After all, what can be purchased with the goods that the farmer produces is what he is interested in.


Will the hon. member permit one question? Can he give us some of the prices of farm machinery across the line as compared with Canada? He is giving us the number of bushels of wheat to purchase the machine. My advice has always been that to compare machinery in one place with machinery in another you should have the prices, and my understanding is that the prices are cheaper in the United States than they are in Canada.


I have already made that statement in the remarks I have made. If the hon. member had been listening he would have heard me say that. I said that the farmers in the United States, while receiving all the benefits of high agricultural prices, were able to buy their farm implements cheaper than we could buy them in Canada.
With respect to federal taxes, direct and indirect taxes amounted per capita to $22.41 in 1913, and in 1939 the per capita had risen to $38.67. In 1947, the year just past, that per capita tax was $192.97. The tax has multiplied over five times since the beginning of the second world war, and it has greatly

added to the cost of production and the cost of living in Canada, a fact which government officials have ignored in compiling the cost of living index and of production for this nation.
I should like to say to the government backbenchers who are now making vehement speeches asking for the reduction of taxation that they had an opportunity a year ago to vote against the tax measures of this government. That was at a time when they were showing the largest surpluses in the history of this nation. They apparently think, along with their government, that they can bleed the people of this nation for four years and then play Santa Claus in the fifth year just prior to an election.
A year ago we proposed a motion giving hon. members an opportunity to vote against that if they had wished.
The Canadian federation of agriculture, in their brief of December 14, 1948, showed that the urban consumers have made great gains over the past fifty years in their food purchasing power per hour of work. Hourly wage rates last September could buy 60 per cent more food than in 1913 or 68 per cent more than in 1920. The farmer does not begrudge the gains of urban groups, provided these gains are not made at the food producers' expense, and provided these gains are in line with increases in productivity.


You are on the wrong page now.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, a moment ago the hon. member for Royal (Mr. Brooks) politely asked the minister if he could ask a question. There were cries of order from the government benches. The Speaker rose of his own volition; the question was never answered and the hon. member for Royal (Mr. Brooks) was asked to sit down. We on this side of the house expect the same courtesy and also the same ruling; and it about time these asinine interruptions from over there were stopped.


On a point of order, I will leave it to any member of the house from any party to say who interrupts more, when my leader, the Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. St. Laurent), is speaking, than the hon. member for Souris (Mr. Ross). Who interrupts more than the hon. member for Calgary West (Mr. Smith)?
Then, Mr. Speaker, on a further point of order, according to the rules of the house one is not allowed to read his speech; but the hon. member for Souris has read every word of what he has said this afternoon.


I must point out that hon. members who have the floor should not
Agricultural Products Act be interrupted, nor should questions be asked without permission.


And they should not read their speeches, Mr. Speaker.


Also in this instance I should add that the hon. member for Souris did provoke some of the interruptions by referring to certain backbenchers. I believe that is why the interruption was made.


I am no backbencher; but when it becomes a matter of listening to the reading of a speech-


In the ten sessions I have been here it has become quite apparent-this session is different and I am not sure whether it is the fault of the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, or the government whip-that they certainly have lost control of the house. That has not engendered respect for parliament throughout this nation, when people read Hansard and note the performance in the last two weeks of this session.


You have been the worst offender yourself.


The loss on the United Kingdom-Canada wheat agreement-


What are you reading from?


Order. I suggest the house should now allow the hon. member for Souris to continue without interruptions.


Make him stop reading.


I think the whip on the government side should 