Third and final report of special committee on radio broadcasting.-Mr. Maybank.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to table regulations made under the Old Age Pensions Act.


Will the minister say whether the regulations he has tabled deal with matters of substance, and whether they were approved by the interprovincial committee on old age pension regulations?


That depends upon what is regarded as a matter of substance. I think my hon. friend and I had better look at the regulations and refresh our memories in the matter.


The minister had better speak for himself.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	How many prosecutions, by provinces, of persons charged with operating motor vehicles while intoxicated, took place, and on what date, in each month since the 1st of June, 1949, and of these, how many convictions were registered?
2.	Of those who were convicted, how many received imprisonment of (a) seven days; (b) seven to fourteen days; (c) thirty days?
3.	In how many of such convictions were their drivers' licences suspended (a) temporarily; (b) for a period of three months or more?


The information asked for in this question is not available in the form in which it is asked for, but there is a considerable amount of related information available in a publication which I am sending to the hon. member. That will be supplemented by further information that may be available, but it is not possible to answer the question as it stands, and I suggest that it be dropped.


Is there any reason why parts 1 and 2 could not be answered? Those statistics should be available.


The statistics of convictions are kept on a yearly basis for the year ending September 30; the information is compiled for the year ended September 30, 1948. The publication I am sending the hon. member-


What is the title of the
publication?


"Statistics of Criminal and Other Offences for the Year Ended September 30,	1948." The information for the year
following has not yet been compiled, and in any event the information is not compiled in the way asked for in the question; it is compiled on the basis of the time of trial. As to the third question, the information as to suspension of licences is not available.
I might add that since nine o'clock this morning I tried to reach the hon. member a great many times and was not able to do so. The whole question of the form of preparing statistics on criminal offences is now being studied with a view to changing the method.


I would ask that the question be allowed to stand until I have an opportunity to discuss it.


Why does the year end on September 30?


Stand.


I notice this question was answered by the Department of Trade and Commerce. Would not that information be in the Department of Justice?


I would think not. The compilation of this information, which is taken from the records of the provincial attorneys general departments, is carried on by the bureau of statistics, as I understand it, which, as my hon. friend is aware, comes under the Department of Trade and Commerce.
"full employment"


1.	What is the government's definition of full employment?
2.	Has the government considered the setting of a specific target in terms of the number or percentage of the labour force unemployed, above which special action might be taken to increase employment?
3.	If so, what is the result of such consideration?
4114	HOUSE OF
Questions
Mi. Mcllrailh:
1.	The government has no rigid statistical definition of full employment. The term is to some extent elastic. In general, it reflects a condition in which all persons wishing to work are able to find jobs, but with reasonable allowance made for those who, for seasonal or other reasons, are in between or changing jobs.
2.	Yes,
3.	A rigid target in terms of a single objective is generally considered oversimplified and unrealistic, particularly for an economy like that of Canada. Any single national target might overlook the important problem of regional and local unemployment which may be considered serious even when the national average is low.
The government directs its over-all economic policy so as to create, as far as possible, an economic atmosphere favourable to the maintenance of high employment. In addition, in the event of dislocations of national consequence resulting from changing patterns of demand, the government would take special measures to ease the necessary adjustment.
The level of unemployment at which special measures should be adopted, and the extent and character of such measures, would depend on the nature of the unemployment problem and the general economic conditions prevailing at the time. The government feels that the complexity of the factors involved in maintaining a high level of employment in Canada calls for a flexible rather than a rigid or mechanical approach.


1.	When the Canadian National Railways or the government of Canada took over the assets and liabilities of the Canadian Northern Railway, did such assets include the oil and mineral rights of the said Canadian Northern Railway in the provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta?
2.	If not, in whom were the said rights vested at that time?


The Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
1.	Yes.
2.	See answer to No. 1.


1. How many persons are employed by the grain research laboratory, under the board of grain commissioners at Winnipeg, Manitoba?


2.	What are their names and respective salaries or wages?
3.	How much space is required for this service, and what is the rent paid for such space?


1.	35.
2.	See statement below.
3.	7,177 square feet; $13,239.60 per annum.
Board of Grain Commissioners for Canada Grain research laboratory staff
Annual salary
Name	rate
Anderson, Dr. John Ansel		$6,900
Hlynka, Dr. Isydore	 5,040
Meredith, Dr. William Ogilvie
Swinton	 4,740
Aitken, Thomas Robert	 4,440
Irvine, Dr. George Norman ....	3,480
Cunningham, Dr. David Kenneth 3,480
Levi, Iser	 3,480
Bass, Edwin Jerome	 2,580
Dempster, Cecil John	 2,580
Templin, Paul Rieff	 2,580
Pauli, Allan	 3,840
Hlynka, Kassian	 3,480
Fisher, Major Harry	 3,180
Martens, Victor	 2,880
Bettner, Robert Edward	 2,580
Capewell, Albert Thomas	 2,460
Ponting, Henry John	 2,340
Black, Hugh Campbell	 2,160
Reichert, Theodore Joseph	 2,160
Waugh, John	 2,340
Bradley, John William	 2,040
Cheale, Robert James	 2,160
Wilson, Lawrence Emerson		2,160
Le Seelleur, Gordon Cabot	 2,160
Rerie, Kenneth Jack	 1,860
Glenday, Donald Alexander

	1,680
Hill, Chester Ermon	 1,680
Keating, Ralph Patrick	 1,680
Dalik, Mrs. Dorothy Evelyn

	1,800
Kuzina, Fred Donald	 1,590
Kilborn, Reuben Henry	 1,800
Wagner, Herbert	 1,980
McLeod, Miss Edith Lavina

	2,220
Balban, Miss Mary	 1,680
Chrzanowski, Miss Lucy	 1,500
Total salaries: $94,710.


1.	Has the government taken any action designed to counteract the recurrence of seasonal and/or regional unemployment next winter?
2.	If so, what is the nature of such action?


The government does not
subscribe to the view that a precise program which would adequately deal with an unemployment situation can be formulated until

the nature and extent of the whole unemployment problem becomes apparent. The government is prepared at all times, so far as is consistent with other necessary objectives of efficiency and economy, to adjust its expenditure operations so as to counteract any significant increase in seasonal and regional unemployment.
Seasonal unemployment has always been a factor in the Canadian employment picture. Given the extremes of our climate and the buying habits of the Canadian public, some variation in activity from one season to another can scarcely be avoided in many industries. The extent of such seasonality in recent years has not been considered a serious threat to national well-being so long as the demand structure underlying our economy remains firm.
With respect to regional unemployment, conditions in all sections of Canada are kept under review so that the government may adapt its regular program, or take special measures when considered necessary in the national interest, to counteract unemployment. For example, projects have been authorized for the maritime region with a lower priority rating than elsewhere in Canada. Also, in making up their expenditure program, departments have been directed to bear in mind the recurrent unemployment problem in the maritimes.


1.	Has any department of the government or the Canadian National Railways made any purchases during the past three years from (a) the Northwest Brass Company: (b) the Dominion Wheel and Foundry Company; (c) T. McAvity and Sons; (d) the Montreal Locomotive Works; (e) the Canadian Locomotive Works; (f) the Canada Car and Foundry Company; (g) the Bird-Archer Company?
2.	If so, who are the principal stockholders and bondholders in each case?


Mr. Speaker, I would ask
that the first part of this question stand. I point out to the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre that the information asked for in the second part of the question is not within the records of government departments. Therefore I suggest that it be dropped.


Dropped.


The first part of the question stands, Mr. Speaker.


Let the whole question stand. You can make your reply to both parts of the question when you answer it.
Questions


It does not make any
difference.


Stand.


Mr. Speaker, I should like
to refer to a question asked by the hon. member for Melfort (Mr. Wright) which was answered on May 25. The answer given at that time is to be found at page 2827 of Hansard. It was incomplete, and I should like to table the answer now.


1.	What firms received contracts for aerial photography work in the three western provinces in 1949?
2.	What price was paid for the work done?
3.	Were these contracts let by tender?
4.	Have any contracts for aerial photography work been let in the province of Saskatchewan for 1950?
5.	If so, who are the contractors and what is the price to be paid for this work?
6.	Were tenders called for these contracts?


So far as the Department of Agriculture is concerned:
1.	In 1949 two air survey companies were given contracts for contour mapping. They were:
(1) Aero Surveys Limited, Vancouver, B.C.; (2) Photographic Surveys Corporation, Toronto, Ontario.
2.	Aero Surveys Limited
To supply maps on a scale of 200 feet to the inch with a contour interval of 3 feet: Photography, $0.08 per acre; Mapping, $0.85 per acre; Spot heights, $6.50 per 160 acres.
Photographic Survey Corporation
(a)	To supply maps on a scale of 200 feet to the inch and 3 foot contour interval: Photography, $0.05 per acre; Mapping, $1.09 per acre.
(b)	To supply maps on a scale of 200 feet to the inch and 5 foot contour interval: Photography, $0.05 per acre; Mapping, $0.86 per acre.
3.	Yes. The rates charged by each company are comparable because it was necessary for P.F.R.A. to supply considerably more ground control data to Aero Surveys Limited than to Photographic Surveys Corporation.
4.	No.
5.	See answer to No. 4.
6.	See answer to No. 4.
So far as the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys is concerned:
1. Survey Aircraft Limited, Vancouver; contract for approximately 12,212 square miles in Manitoba and Saskatchewan.

Inquiries of the Ministry
Arctic Air Lines Limited, Edmonton; contract for approximately 12,947 square miles in Saskatchewan and Alberta.
Air Surveys Limited, Edmonton; contract for approximately 10,740 square miles in Saskatchewan.
2.	Survey Aircraft Limited, $48,979.55; Arctic Air Lines Limited, $55,741.96; Air Surveys Limited, $48,067.87.
3.	Yes.
4.	Yes.
5.	Survey Aircraft Limited, Vancouver; approximately $15,093.60.
Air Surveys Limited, Edmonton; approximately $61,221.60.
6.	Yes.
So far as the Department of National Defence is concerned:
The Department of National Defence did not make any contracts for aerial photography work in the three western provinces in 1949.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the extremely serious situation which has developed over the week end in Korea, and the action of the security council of the United Nations, in which all of us are so deeply interested, will the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State for External Affairs inform the house as to any details which will be of assistance to us in appreciating the situation so far as Canada is concerned?


Mr. Speaker, I am not able to give a very full report on this matter at the present time. Information is continuing to come in. As hon. members know, we do not have our own representative in Korea; therefore for our information we rely on our representative at the United Nations, who is in close touch with the United Nations agencies concerned with this matter, and on friendly governments who are represented in Korea itself.
It appears, however, from the information which is now available that an unprovoked aggression has been committed by the forces of the government of North Korea, which we have not recognized, against the government of the republic of Korea. Information which would substantiate that statement has been

received by the United Nations secretary general from the United Nations commission stationed in Korea which has reported on this incident to Lake Success. As a result of that report, as hon. members know a meeting of the security council was called yesterday. At that meeting a resolution was passed by unanimous vote, nine to nothing, with Yugoslavia abstaining and the U.S.S.R. of course absent. Possibly I might put the resolution on record. It reads as follows:
The security council.
Recalling the finding of the general assembly in its resolution of 21st October, 1949, that the government of the Republic of Korea is a lawfully established government "having effective control and jurisdiction over that part of Korea where the United Nations temporary commission on Korea was able to observe and consult and in which the great majority of the people of Korea reside; and that this government is based on elections which were a valid expression of the free will of the electorate of that part of Korea and which were observed by the temporary commission; and that this is the only such government in Korea";
Mindful of the concern expressed by the general assembly in its resolutions of 12th December, 1948, and 21st October, 1949, of the consequences which might follow unless member states refrained from acts derogatory to the results sought to be achieved by the United Nations in bringing about the complete independence and unity of Korea; and the concern expressed that the situation described by the United Nations commission on Korea in its report menaces the safety and well-being of the Republic of Korea and of the people of Korea and1 might lead to open military conflict there;
Noting with grave concern the armed attack upon the Republic of Korea by forces from North Korea;
Determines that this action constitutes a breach of the peace,
I. Calls for the immediate cessation of hostilities; calls upon the authorities of North Korea to withdraw forthwith their armed forces to the thirty-eighth parallel;
n. Requests the United Nations commission on Korea
(a)	to communicate its fully considered recommendation on the situation with the least possible delay;
(b)	to observe the withdrawal of the North Korean forces to the thirty-eighth parallel;
(c)	to keep the security council informed on the execution of this resolution;
III Calls upon all members to render every assistance to the United Nations in the execution of this resolution and to refrain from giving assistance to the North Korean authorities.
That is the resolution passed by the security council yesterday. I feel certain that it will commend itself to all members of the house, and I hope that as a result of the intervention of the United Nations some effective action may be possible in this very difficult situation to restore peace to that area, having in view, as the security council itself has stated, that the action taken by the North Korean forces constitutes a breach of the peace, and in spite

of any reports we may receive to the contrary seems to have been an action of unprovoked aggression.


Are there Canadian missionaries and others in Korea? If so, is there anything the Canadian government can do to protect their interests or safety at this time?


We have been looking into that matter already to see what we can do to protect, if protection is needed, Canadian nationals in Korea. We have not exact information as to the number, or indeed whether there are any Canadians in the area affected, but as soon as we receive that information we will take whatever steps are open to us to safeguard them to the best of our ability.


Are there Canadians on the United Nations commission in Korea?


There are Canadian members of the secretariat of the United Nations commission on Korea. Those three Canadians are there now, and there is one Canadian married to a member of the secretariat. We have been in touch with the secretariat as to their welfare, and we have been told they are in no immediate danger.


If I may ask the minister another question, do these events alter the attitude of the government toward the setting up of a Pacific defence council?


No, Mr. Speaker. Nothing I have learned about this situation in the last forty-eight hours would alter any opinion I may have had previously about the desirability at this time of setting up a Pacific defence council along the same lines as the North Atlantic council.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Agriculture, arising out of the serious decline in the production of Cheddar cheese for export. The daily production of one factory alone decreased from 26 to 17-


Question.


You will get it. Will the government reconsider its requisition order and increase the price for export cheese to conform to the price for concentrated milk, in order to retain for Canada the export market in the United Kingdom?
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I am quite well aware of the situation to which the hon. member for Middlesex East has drawn my attention. I admit that in some districts of western Ontario the concentrated milk people are taking some of the milk that formerly went to cheese factories; but any change that might be made is a matter of policy which will be announced in due course.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice, following press notices to the effect that a commission is to be set up with a view to making recommendations concern-ings the Combines Investigation Act. I would ask the minister whether it is a fact that such a commission is to be set up.


It has been and still is my intention to make an announcement in this connection as soon as the personnel of the commission is completed. Three of the four we propose to appoint to the commission have already agreed to accept that appointment, and at the present time we are in communication with the fourth. As soon as the personnel is completed, an announcement will be made.


Then may I ask the
minister what the commission is to do?


It might be preferable for me to cover that question more fully in the announcement to be made in due course; but for the present I may say that after he had been in his position for some time the new commissioner under the act, Mr. MacDonald, represented that in view of the consideration that has been given this subject, particularly since the war, in other jurisdictions such as the United States, it would be desirable to appoint a commission to examine the act and see if it could be made more satisfactory and more workable than it is at present. I think my hon. friend is referring to the statement which appeared in the Montreal Gazette, and I should emphasize the fact that no specific proposals or ideas will be submitted to the commissioners. They will be perfectly free to consider in an objective manner whether they think anything can be done, and if so, to state what in their judgment should be done.


Inquiries of the Ministry
I think it is an excellent idea to appoint a commission to do exactly nothing; so far we have had every other kind.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Secretary of State whether any further representations have been received from organized groups in the civil service with respect to hours of work during the summer, and whether further consideration will be given the change which the civil servants have proposed.


So far as I am aware, no representations have been made since the order was issued. If any are made, presumably they will be considered when they are received.


On the orders of the day:
I had intended to direct this question to the Postmaster General, but perhaps in his absence it can be answered by the Minister of Justice. The question arises out of a dispatch appearing in the Toronto Daily Star of Saturday last, to the effect that all postal privileges of the Calgary Stampeders football club and T. L. Brook, as president, have been suspended until at least July 14. It also advises that the use of the mail for lottery purposes is contrary to postal regulations. Since it is a well-known fact that the Criminal Code of Canada provides ample machinery for the punishment of persons conducting lotteries, why has this bureaucratic, arbitrary, arrogant and stupid procedure been adopted?


Order.


Orders of the day.


Answer.


Mr. Speaker, I do not think that is a question that requires any answer in this house.


The Stampeders should have an answer.


If the Stampeders require an answer they should have their question put in more proper form.


On the orders of the day:
With the change-over to diesel engines on the island division of the Canadian National Railways, which includes Prince Edward Island, I would ask the Minister of Transport to keep in mind the understanding that there will be no layoff of men as a result.


I shall be glad to bring the matter to the attention of the Canadian National Railways.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Dion in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL DEFENCE Defence forces-
202. To provide for the defence forces of the navy, army and air services, and to authorize total commitments for this purpose of $579,301,670 including authority, notwithstanding section 29 of the Consolidated Revenue and Audit Act, to make commitments for the current year of $438,178,000 and commitments for future years of $141,123,670 against which commitments it is estimated that actual expenditures in 1950-51 will not exceed, $384,932,304.


Mr. Chairman, this covers the bulk of the items of the department. When it was last before the committee a number of questions were asked in regard to certain details. Some time has since elapsed, and in the intervening period events of considerable importance have emphasized the necessity of considering these estimates with due regard to their significance as related to our present situation in a very troubled world.
If there was any atmosphere of unreality surrounding the discussion of defence estimates up to this point, it- must have been removed by the events of the past forty-eight hours.
Mr. Chairman, I shall wait until the various conferences that are taking place in the chamber have resolved themselves to some conclusion.


Order.


We now have seen events take place which we hope will have a satisfactory solution. It must be the immediate hope of every member that the action of the United Nations, which has been taken so promptly, will result in the explosive conditions which developed in Korea being remedied, because on the one hand it would protect people who have been attacked without justification, and

on the other hand it would retain and strengthen public opinion behind the United Nations.
One of the things which has been emphasized with the greatest force in the sudden
developments of Saturday last is that those nations which hope to preserve their freedom must have defence forces in being, as was indicated only a few weeks ago by the Secretary of State for External Affairs. There is general agreement that the only hope of preserving peace is that the nations which are joined for the defence of freedom shall be able to act whenever freedom is threatened. Korea is not covered by the Atlantic pact; nevertheless Korea is a direct responsibility of the United Nations, within the framework of which the community of Atlantic nations has been carrying forward its efforts to preserve peace. Today there are no little nations far away. Today Korea is closer to us in terms of transportation time, in terms of information which can be flashed by wireless and by cable, and in terms of direct impact upon our own future, than was Poland in September, 1939. At that time there was no direct access to Poland by the western allies. There was little direct communication; there was in fact no way in which the western nations could exercise any direct and immediate influence upon the course of events in Poland in September, 1939.
Today it is impressed upon all of us that what we are considering when we examine the estimates of the Department of National Defence is survival in a world in which war is becoming a matter of obliteration. Therefore the first consideration that should be in our minds in examining these estimates is the results that are to be produced by these estimates in terms of armed forces in being, ready to go into action, should such a dreadful necessity arise. There is no reason why any hon. member of this house should back away from the recognition of the fact that the only way we can preserve peace, the only way we can prevent such occurrences as are taking place today in Korea and are taking place in so many other countries in the past few years, is for Canada and other nations in the Atlantic community to demonstrate clearly to the aggressors in the Kremlin that we are ready. We should demonstrate that any move on their part against us, or against any one of the member nations, can be dealt with by an armed force that is ready to be used. That is the test, and it is upon that basis that we have expressed our hope that peace can be preserved. The first question that we should ask ourselves in examining these estimates, which are lumped substantially in a single
Supply-National Defence
item, No. 202, is what armed forces in being are to result from the money that is to be spent.
We know that Russia, is working by every device in her power for revolution in countries that are believed to be ripe for revolution, and seeking to pave the way for revolution in countries where that might not seem an immediate prospect, as in Canada, but where it is believed that at some distant date it may become an immediate possibility. The Russians are also working for the destruction of our economic system by such trade arrangements as will undermine our trading arrangements; by the depression of prices which will interfere with the strength of our economy generally, and by the disruption of our economic structure internally through infiltration into particular fields of our economic and social life. We have been seeing a new kind of war. We talk of cold wars and hot wars, but they are all wars of aggression. The Russians have demonstrated that the first stage can be just as effective in reaching their objectives as the second stage. Undoubtedly they will delay the employment of any overt acts within that second stage as long as they are meeting with success in the first stage.
It would appear that the attack in Korea on Saturday does suggest the possibility that they are ready to contemplate entering the second stage. No thoughtful person can be in any doubt that the government of northern Korea did not launch that attack without the full authority of the Kremlin, without the advice of the Kremlin, and without military assistance from their general staff. Therefore we must examine these events, and the implication of the seriousness that they convey to us of possible changes in policy at the Kremlin. The year 1950 may well be the most significant and critical one in the history of modern man; it may well decide whether all the hopes of those who met at San Francisco five years ago this spring are to turn to ashes, or whether they are to reach vigorous and effective fulfilment as a result of action taken by the United Nations at this time.
The estimates before us cover 1950 and the first months of 1951. We therefore examine them in relation to these events and with the perspective which they give to everything that may result from the expenditure of the money we are now being asked to supply to the Department of National Defence. No one should hesitate to examine the present situation in terms of the most exact reality. No one should hesitate to examine our situation in this country, which is one of the

Supply-National Defence signatories to the Atlantic pact, in the perspective we now have as a result of these recent events. What is our position today? It is easy to be beguiled into a feeling of comfortable assurance by impressive demonstrations-and they are impressive-unless one examines them against the broad background of the reality with which we are confronted.
When we see the members of our armed forces, we have reason for pride in the evidence of training, of discipline and of spirit that is shown by every one of these young men and women in the navy, the army and the air force. When we see any of the naval, army or air demonstrations we can only be impressed by the skill, the evidence of training and the high measure of discipline with which the duties assigned to these services are carried out. Nevertheless we must examine each of these demonstrations in proportion to the task that lies before us. When we consider how many active service squadrons we have in being, ready to take their part, we can only form an impression of their ability to share in the joint responsibility which we all now share when we consider how many squadrons of different types there are in the Russian air force and in the air forces of the nations which serve the orders of the Kremlin. When we see displays of the forces of the army, the same question must present itself; and so it is when we see displays of our naval forces, no matter how impressive they must be.
In the very nature of the rigid secrecy which Russia seeks to place around her own country and around all the satellite nations, exact figures are difficult to obtain, even for those with access to all the most secret intelligence information. Nevertheless, in responsible publications there have appeared figures based upon information which can be obtained from time to time and which probably does bear some reasonable relationship to the.reality of the moment. From time to time Russians who have been in all the widely-separated, parts of Russia have found their way out of that country through Berlin, and on other frontiers, and their information does become available. Whether these figures are exact or not, there have been published recently in the United States statements to the effect that at the present time the Russian air force has in being squadrons with some
9.000	jet fighters alone; also squadrons with thousands of bombers, and squadrons with at least 10,000 transports, and probably a great many more. There are also reliable estimates that their production, at a minimum, is
10.000	planes a year and probably far beyond that, with all the satellite areas under their control.
From reliable information made public through the periodical magazines and the press, we have the fact that the Russian army is made up of forces in being with at least
2,600,000	men organized into 130 airborne and infantry divisions at least, and 30 armoured divisions at least. These 160 divisions are the Russian divisions alone. In addition to that are all the divisions organized in Poland, Roumania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, China, and the other satellite nations. As a result of the technical assistance, to say nothing of the capital plant which the Russians were able to obtain by their occupation of eastern Germany, we also know that their submarine production is at a high level; that they probably have at the moment at least 300 of the most modern submarines, and that their production is constantly being accelerated.
It is against the reality of figures such as these that we must consider what is happening here and what is happening in the other free nations. We have seen magnificent demonstrations of aerobatics, of formation flying, and of other air skill carried out with Vampires of the late war type. We have seen demonstrations carried out with other aircraft. But the question that presents itself to each one of us now is this: How many squadrons have we in being equipped with fighters of the most modern kind ready to go into action against any enemy which might present itself? We know the answer. We know that we are still preparing, and that the equipment of our squadrons with the most modern type of fighter aircraft is still some distance away.
Again, in the case of our naval forces, the Minister of National Defence has stated, and stated correctly, that at the present time they are nearer to being on an active service basis than any of our other forces. But again their strength and their capacity to assume our share of the responsibility under the Atlantic pact must be measured in proportion to figures of this kind.
The same is true of our army formations. We have one brigade group and other units of various kinds. Even there we must ask how fully that brigade group is armed to carry out its responsibility as an active force in being.
There can be no question about the training of the men, no question about their skill, no question about the spirit in which they carry out their tasks. The question is, have they the equipment that makes them, by the most modern standards, an active service force in being?
In all this I am not suggesting for one moment that Canada can or should at any

time contemplate the possibility that it alone can meet the onslaught of the one aggressor that threatens our freedom and the freedom of other nations. Nevertheless, under the broad terms of the joint responsibility which is implicit in the Atlantic pact, we must ask ourselves how close we are to having those forces in being which will take their share as part of one combined team whose strength will be such as to deter the Russian aggressors simply by evidence of immediate and effective strength.
We still can be greatly impressed by the efficiency with which these tasks are carried out. Last Thursday many hon. members had the opportunity to see the demonstration of fire power at Petawawa. Petawawa is one of the finest artillery camps in the whole world, if not the finest. In general layout, in area available, in facilities for fire training, it is probably not exceeded by any other artillery camp anywhere. Those who saw that demonstration of fire power saw highly efficient gunners under highly efficient officers showing what can be done with artillery weapons, both in accuracy and in massing of fire power. From speaking to those who saw that demonstration I know that it did convey an impression both of efficiency and of strength. It is certainly no reflection of any kind on the men who carried out those tasks so efficiently to recall that this was a relatively small demonstration with 1945 equipment, and this is 1950. We all know that the equipment of 1945 and the gunpower of 1945 were extremely effective at that time. But today we must examine any demonstration of this kind in terms of the most modern equipment, and we must seek to ascertain whether the very large appropriations we are making are providing our armed forces with the most advanced equipment, with the most advanced instruments, with the most advanced system of communication and air co-operation, so that the force in being is one which is established and equipped in terms of the world conditions and the world realities that we are called upon to face.
I repeat that from the estimates before us we do not know, and there is no way in which we can know, what part of this tremendous expenditure is being devoted to the acquisition of the most modern equipment, how much of it is going to produce armed forces in being on an active service basis with regard to the fact that we must not only be armed and equipped as well as the Russians, but, because of our smaller numbers, that our arms and equipment in every branch of the services must be far beyond theirs and in keeping with the superiority of our industrial technique and our industrial production.
Supply-National Defence
Let us see what we obtain from the estimates. We are dealing with a single item covering $384,932,304 out of a total of $425 million to be voted. A substantial part of that is for pay and allowances, civil salaries and wages, other fixed charges, and a number of details of a strictly administrative character; but the bulk of that figure is not made up of items of that kind. In what are described as details on page 168 of the estimates we find these bulked under such uninformative wording as, under the heading "Navy":
General-
Acquisition, construction, purchase, maintenance, repairs, rentals and operating expenses of properties.
We know of course that many of these properties are service properties which form an essential part of our actual service requirements. Then we have:
Personnel supplies and services; stores and equipment.
There are other general terms after "Stores and equipment." There are similar items under the heading "Army" and similar items under the heading "Air." Instead of giving the details, these items are worded in the most general terms to embrace practically the whole field of our defence requirements, outside of wages, salaries and other fixed charges. These amount to extremely large totals. In the case of the navy, the items under "General," which are described in such all-embracing terms as those which I have mentioned, amount to $58,265,022. The so-called details under the heading of "General" in the case of the army amount to a total of $59,183,144. The general items under air, again in the same broad and general terms, amount to $126,164,221. The total of these general items under the heading of navy, army and air is $243,612,387. That is a huge sum.
That amount will not be challenged by the people of Canada, nor do I think it will be challenged by any member of this house. But what should be sought by the members of this house and by the people of Canada is a great deal more information than they now have as to what lies behind these broad and general terms and what we may expect in the way of military forces being ready to play their part under the terms implicit in the Atlantic pact. We have been told by the Secretary of State for External Affairs, who was only repeating in this house what had been said by the representatives of other governments ocupying similar positions, that no longer can any nation which hopes to preserve its peace expect to be able to prepare behind the ramparts of sacrifices of some other nation.

Supply-National Defence
He was stating a clear and simple proposition that in the reality of warfare that we face today the only way we can hope to preserve the peace is to regard this situation with all the cold reality which it demands and to say to ourselves that we cannot hope to let nuclear forces be developed into larger forces behind the ramparts of the sacrifices of other nations which would bear the first impact of war of the modern type. When one examines the figures we have before us, which I am inclined to think the intelligence branch of the government will say are below rather than above the reality of the Russian strength, he must recognize our position when aircraft can fly thousands of miles and return to their bases after dropping their bomb loads, or, perhaps even more dangerous, dropping their loads of armed men.
I can only repeat the request I have made of the Minister of National Defence on the two earlier occasions when these estimates were before us, that he give us information and, through us, give the people of Canada information so that we may know what our position actually is. The people of this country will support this government in every effective step that is necessary to preserve the peace for which the people have paid so great a price. Having paid that price the people have the right to know, in much more detail than they know today, what armed forces in being will result from the expenditures that are to be made this year, and what we can actually expect our armed forces to be ready to do as one of the members of that great community organized together in the cause of peace, whose preparations are only for the purpose of preserving peace.
It is with that thought in mind, and only with that thought in mind, it is with the knowledge of the dreadful reality with which we are confronted today, that I repeat my request that the Minister of National Defence give us the kind of information that is available to the people of the United States, where secrecy is surely just as important as it is here; to give to us the kind of information which is available in other countries which have joined with us in the great work of preserving freedom for mankind.


Mr. Chairman, I am sure that hon. members will agree with a great part of what the leader of the opposition has said. If I may say so, he is going over familiar ground, because much of this has been said before in this house by himself and others, and by other leaders of the democratic countries. He has put fairly and squarely before the committee the great desirability of the North Atlantic treaty nations having the greatest possible
	.
forces in being with which to deter aggression, or, should an emergency arise and aggression take place, to defend themselves and defeat the aggressor. With that objective everyone in this house, and I am sure everyone in the country and all the people of the north Atlantic countries, are in agreement.
The defence ministries of the twelve countries are doing what they can with the resources put at their disposal to secure that result and to make as great progress as they can. But this is by no means an easy task. It is one which cannot be accomplished by means other than the resources which are made available out of the national production of each country and voted by parliament. In our case, as I have said, we are seeking $425 million for defence in the year 1950-51. I do not suggest that this sum will provide us with as much in the way of forces in being as we should like to have.
The question, as I have suggested on every occasion when these estimates have come up, is whether or not the money appropriated is being spent in the right way as between the navy, army, air force, and defence research, and whether or not it is being spent in the right proportions as between personnel, equipment and property. That is the problem of defence planning, and it is by no means an easy problem, here or anywhere else.
I appreciate the generous references made by the leader of the opposition to the officers and men of the armed forces. As he said, we have reason to be proud of them and to be impressed by their skill and the evidence of training and high level of discipline. I have probably seen more of our armed forces than anyone else in this country since the war, and I must say it has been impressive to see the progress that has been made in all directions since 1946.
The leader of the opposition asks whether that progress is being made along sound lines. I can only express my opinion based on information and advice I have, not only from the chiefs of staff and other advisers of the government, but also from my discussions with my opposite numbers in other countries, and with many of their chiefs of staff. It is my opinion that, given our geographical position, our role in defence and the resources put at our disposal, we are spending the money on sound lines.
If I may go over old ground again for a minute or two, I should like to refer to what the positions and roles of the services are. Taking the navy first, its role is obviously antisubmarine work-the protection of our coasts and shipping against submarines and mines. We have as large a number of vessels in commission as we can operate with the

$82 million made available for the navy, and at the same time do the essential work of constructing the nine new vessels which are now under way. There are 41-5 per cent of our naval personnel at sea. That is a very high proportion, higher than we had during wartime. I believe it is higher than any other country, and possibly it is too high because in a sense we may be too operational for the strength and resources of the navy. Nevertheless, because of the way in which the post-war organization of the navy has been proceeded with, we have managed to attain that result.
As evidence of what I have said, there is the fact that it is planned that six vessels are to take part in the largest peacetime cruise ever to be undertaken by the navy. The Canso, Sioux and Athabaskan will leave from Esquimalt on the 11th of July, 1950, and the Magnificent, Huron and Micmac from Halifax on the 23rd of August, 1950. They will first visit Londonderry, where they will engage in extensive antisubmarine and other operations in co-operation with ships and aircraft of the Royal Navy. In this voyage will be involved 195 officers and 1,875 men, and on the Magnificent there will be three squadrons of her aircraft. In the course of the voyage the ships will visit several of the North Atlantic treaty nations. The object of the voyage is first to obtain extensive training in an extended sea voyage; second, to familiarize officers and men with the waters and ports of the friendly nations with which we are co-operating; and third, to co-operate with the fleets and ships of several of these nations, including the United Kingdom particularly.
Therefore the exercise will be a marked demonstration of the capacity of the ships and men of the Royal Canadian Navy to operate under realistic conditions involving extensive operations of the type which they would have to undertake if there should be another emergency.
Again I join the leader of the opposition and the Secretary of State for External Affairs in emphasizing that our ships and other forces will never be used for any purpose other than to deter aggression and to defend ourselves and our allies.
If we are to have more ships operational, it can only be done by making more money available, and that can only be done by taking it from the air force, the army, what is allotted for defence research, or from other sources of revenue of the government as a whole. We do not know any other way of doing it. The same thing applies to the other services.
Turning to the air force, our object is to build towards an operational force of over
Supply-National Defence twenty active and auxiliary squadrons. As hon. members know, at the present time we have two squadrons equipped with Vampire Mark Ill's in the active force, and several in the auxiliary force. As the leader of the opposition quite properly points out, the Vampire Mark III is a very good operational aircraft of a type which came into active operation after the end of the second world war. They are still one of the best aircraft for army co-operation that there are anywhere, but they have not the speed and the armament of some later types. They are still front line service aircraft, however, in the countries which use them.
To supplement and replace them as they are used, we have been working on the production of the CF-100 and the F-86. Each of these is of its type the leading aircraft of any we know of having corresponding characteristics. We were not able to produce them before because they did not exist. We are pressing on with the production of the F-86, and with the development and production of the CF-100, as rapidly as that can be done. The primary role of our air force is to assist in the defence of North America. We believe our air force is adequate for that purpose at the present time, in co-operation with forces of the United States that would be properly employed in that task, particularly in Alaska in the northwest and in Newfoundland in the northeast. We do not suggest it will be adequate for that purpose if it remains at its present size. Therefore we are developing it as fast as we can to make it constantly more operational.
In this connection, as I have announced before, though I do not think I have mentioned it in the house, toward that end we expect to have a squadron of our air force undergoing operational training in the United Kingdom early in 1951, and further squadrons successively engaged in training there and possibly in other North Atlantic treaty nations in rotation for periods of several months at a time. That will be the supplement or complement of the training we provide on this side for North Atlantic treaty nations in aircrew and army. In our case, however, we shall be sending squadrons of officers and men, and probably ground crew as well as aircrew, who are fully trained operationally, and who will be sent over there for further training in larger formations, in working in co-operation with United Kingdom forces and in familiarization with the terrain on the other side of the Atlantic. We expect that as time goes on this will become a very important branch of our air force activity.

Supply-National Defence


Are these to be fighter squadrons exclusive