Mr. Speaker, as a matter of privilege, and in the public interest, I wish to make a statement regarding butter.
I issued a statement through the press yesterday which is a summary of what will be issued to the trade. I am sorry that the interpretation placed upon it by some reports was such as to render it misleading; therefore I wish to make the announcement to the house, where I probably should have made it in the first place.
The announcement given the press was as follows:
Ottawa, March 8, 1950.-Right Hon. James G. Gardiner announced today that it was not anticipated that there would be any change in the selling price of government-held butter before the end of March. Mr. Gardiner also announced that if the government did decide to change its selling price downward on butter, those who had purchased butter from the government would be protected against loss resulting from the change to the extent of the stocks on hand.
This is the announcement going to the trade, and it will be fully understood by those concerned. Anything added as though it came from the department could result in misunderstanding, and therefore I wish to make this statement at the moment.
For the benefit of hon. members I wish to state that the last ten-year average storage of butter, as of March 1, was, in round figures, 19 million pounds. The highest storages as of that date were 23 million pounds in 1940 and 24 million in 1947. The storage as of March 1, 1950, is 36 million. Of this amount the government had 25 million pounds.
The end of the dairy year is April 30. The last ten-year average storage as of May 1 was, in round figures, 10 million pounds. The highest during that period was, in round figures, 12,700,000 in 1945 and 13,500,000 in 1949. We bought butter last year so that we would have a carry-over sufficient to make distribution possible.
On the basis of these figures there would be about 25 million pounds of butter in addition to current production to market between 55946-38
March 1 and May 1 to leave the usual carryover at the end of the year. The government disposed of two and one-half million pounds last week.
It should be remembered that neither the producers of butter nor the government ever encourage the production of more butter than can be consumed in Canada. It is because of the adjustments which will be necessary to maintain this objective that the announcement made yesterday was thought advisable. I wanted to put these explanations on Hansard.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the minister's statement, and with your permission, I should like to ask him a question. What will be the position of small dairies throughout the country which have stocks of butter on hand as at April 1? Will they be protected in the same way as purchasers of butter from the government reserve?


They are protected by the fact that any time up to the dates referred to in this announcement they can deliver butter to the board itself.


Must that butter be in carload lots, or may it be in less than carload lots?


It has been customary to have it in carload lots. I do not know whether other arrangements can be made. That is a matter of arrangement with the trade.


I should like to ask a question arising out of the minister's statement. To whom and at what price was the butter sold last week?


It was sold to the ordinary dealers across Canada. I understand that three of the principal dealers telephoned this morning as a result of the announcement made yesterday, and their understanding is the same as the announcement conveyed. One of them said: "We will probably have three carloads of government butter at that date and one carload that we shall have obtained elsewhere; does that mean we will get a settlement on three-quarters of the butter?" His question was answered yes, and he said they fully understood the principles involved. The sales were all made last week to the Canadian trade.


At what price?


At 60J cents.


I should like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether any


Inquiries of the Ministry butter has been sold to the industry in recent weeks below the figure which he gave a moment ago.
I do not know of any butter that has been sold below the figure based on 60J cents up to date. That is the price at Montreal. There may be different prices in other parts of Canada.


I am not concerned about a cent or two. Will the minister make inquiries? To be perfectly frank,
I am thinking about soap.


We have not had any butter that we have been required to sell to the soap industry so far as I know. Sometimes that does develop.


On the orders of the day:
should like to address a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Are press dispatches correct in stating that radium needles representing thousands of dollars of taxpayers' property were stored in an unprotected shed at the rear of the national research building, instead of in a vault, as is the general custom, and that as a result these radium needles were stolen and now endanger the lives of any who may come in contact with them?


Mr. Speaker, I have not received a report on that subject as yet, although I have asked for it. I will answer the question tomorrow.


Thank you.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to deal with a question asked yesterday by the hon. member for Queens (Mr. McLure). It had to do with the supply of reefer cars, and part of it was to this effect:
Will the minister advise, instruct and demand that the Canadian National Railways provide reefer cars for the shipment of potatoes and turnips from Prince Edward Island? The shortage of reefer cars at the present time is the greatest they have experienced in years.
I promised the hon. member that I would get a report from the Canadian National Railways. I am advised by them today that


there are 454 reefer cars on hand or in transit for Prince Edward Island traffic. This total
is made up as follows:
Cars on P.E.1	 292
In transit at Cape Tormentine	 43
Moncton	  30
Truro	 22
Campbellton	  22
Monk	 45
Total	 454
Officers of the Canadian National Railways report that a satisfactory position as to reefer cars is considered to be around 300. When it exceeds this figure there is a danger of transportation difficulties arising in connection with the movement of the cars. Therefore my hon. friend can see that there is no shortage of cars. On the contrary, the situation is a good one.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for St. John's West (Mr. Browne) repeated his question about an accident which took place between two Canadian National Railway trains in the province of Quebec. I have a statement here which is not too lengthy, and I could either give it to the hon. member or put it on Hansard. It is a report of the accident. It is not a report following investigation, because investigation is not yet complete. It is the report which I was able to obtain from the officers of the Canadian National Railways. I think perhaps I had better send it to the hon. member.


Are we to understand that the report will be placed on Hansard?


Perhaps I had better read it to the house. It is a report concerning the accident on the Canadian National Railways at St. Cyrille, Quebec, on February 24, 1950.
At about 10.45 p.m., February 24, passenger train No. 60, the Scotian from Montreal to Halifax, collided head-on with passenger train No. 1, the Maritime Express from Halifax to Montreal, about two miles east of St. Cyrille station, some six miles east of Drummondville. Ninety-three passengers and twelve employees were injured, but none of these seriously.
A formal investigation will be made by the railway officers with regard to the accident, but from reports received it appears the accident was to some extent due to another accident which occurred twelve hours previously, when a train struck a truck at the public crossing at St. Cyrille, damaging the

central traffic control circuit between Drum-mondville and St. Cyrille so that trains had to run on train orders over this section.
Train order was given to train 60, at St. Hyacinthe, together with several others, to the effect that No. 1 was to run six hours late and that No. 60 was to run Drummond-ville east to St. Cyrille west. No. 60 should have stopped at the signal at St. Cyrille west, which was displaying "stop" indication, and contacted the train controller at Levis, who would have authorized it to proceed to St. Cyrille station, at which point a terminal clearance would have been issued. Instead, however, train 60 passed the signal at "stop" indication, failed to obtain the terminal clearance form, passed governing signal at east switch at St. Cyrille also displaying "stop" indication, and ran through the switch of siding which was set for No. 1 to enter, thus entering the central traffic control territory in face of No. 1.


On the orders of the day:
May
I ask the Minister of National Revenue if he is ready to answer the question I asked yesterday regarding the computation of depreciation on farm properties?


Mr. Speaker, the question which the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar asked yesterday has just been brought to my attention. He asked whether the minister would consider delaying the coming into effect of the depreciation rates that were provided for by order in council on January 31, and applied to the year 1949. The answer is that it would not be advisable to delay the coming into effect of these depreciation rates with reference to farmers, because of the fact that at the end of the year farmers file only interim returns. Like every other taxpayer, the farmer makes his final return on or before the 30th of April of the next succeeding year. Therefore he will have plenty of time to readjust it, and it is not an inconvenience to the farmer. There may be a little inconvenience in so far as administration is concerned, but we are prepared to take on that extra work.


May I say that I have a letter from an accountant who points out that over fifty of his clients have already made their returns, not knowing of these changes. Will the regulations be enforced, so far as those who have already made their final returns, on the basis of the old rates? Some of them have made their final returns.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Because of advertising
encouraging them to do so.


The new rates are of much greater advantage to the farmer. If he does not care to take advantage of the increased rate of depreciation, then he will be assessed upon the rate which he has used as the basis in filing his return.


It is a decrease in depreciation on farm machinery.


On the 1st of March I had a question answered pertaining to the same subject. I have studied the order in council, and I have had correspondence from farmers who have made out their returns. They find there are changes which are not as beneficial to the farmer as the former provision in that regard, and there will be much contention on that very point.


If I may ask a supplementary question, when the budget was being discussed last year did not the government give the farmers an undertaking that this change would not be made effective with respect to 1949 taxation?


The hon. gentleman will remember that objection was voiced in parliament, and it was urged that the new depreciation rates should not affect farmers and fishermen on the diminishing balance scheme; so the old rates still obtain for the farmers, as they were prior to these orders in council. As I say, it is a matter of administration. The farmer has the advantage in that he can write his losses backward and forward over a period of years, and it is only a matter of adjusting them through the administrative officers.


Am I wrong in my understanding that there has been a change under these orders in council reducing the depreciation on power equipment by five per cent? Of course there has.


I should like to have this made clear, because I have had correspondence with people who have automotive equipment. In past years they have been allowed to depreciate it at twenty per cent, but this order in council distinctly sets out a rate of fifteen per cent. Will they be allowed to depreciate at the rate of twenty per cent, or not?


There has been such a multiplicity of questions in reference to the matter of depreciation, some of which I did not get very clearly, that I shall have to prepare a statement on the matter, either for tomorrow or the next day.
588	HOUSE OF
The Address-Mr. Major SPEECH FROM THE THRONE


The house resumed, from Wednesday, March 8, consideration of the motion of Mr. F. H. Larson for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Drew, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Cold-well.
Mr. Speaker, it is a great privilege for me, as I rise for the first time to take part in the debate on the address in reply to the speech from the throne, to voice a word on behalf of those whom I have the honour to represent.
At the outset may I offer my congratulations to the mover (Mr. Larson) and the seconder (Mr. Dumas) of the motion we are now debating. I listened to the hon. member for Kindersley (Mr. Larson) with much interest, and I am sure the people of his constituency have justifiable reason to be proud of their representative.
(Translation):
As for my friend and deskmate, the hon. member for Villeneuve (Mr. Dumas), I congratulate him most heartily on the splendid manner in which he performed his task and particularly for the wonderful description he gave us of the Canadian shield which is so dear to his heart.
Mr. Speaker, I take this first opportunity to pay tribute to our leader, the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) for the great victory he won last year. He must surely be proud of the great confidence that has been placed in him by the Canadian people, so that he may keep on directing Canada's affairs with the same wisdom he has shown in the past.
(Text):
May I also join other hon. members in congratulating the hon. member for Grey-Bruce (Mr. Harris) on his appointment as Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.
During the last session of the house, while some hon. members constantly referred to the calmness of our new members, I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, that I followed the deliberations with great interest; and though I was at times inclined to retort, from my sixteen years of municipal experience I felt that this would not be the wisest course. I can also assure you that with the wisdom of your guidance, Mr. Speaker, together with my endeavour to observe the workings of parliament, I have gained much benefit both for myself and for my constituency.
If I may be permitted the latitude at this time since much has been said about national

unity, I would say that this is one of the greatest assets we have in the constituency I represent. Glengarry is the home of the loyal and brave highland Scots and United Empire Loyalists who first settled it. I need not try to tell you of their congeniality; their stalwart sons who have settled all over Canada have made this unnecessary for me. Glengarry being also the easternmost county of Ontario, and bordering on Quebec, it was to be expected that people with two great traditions, the French and the Scots, could not be neighbours without eventually having an influence on one another. Consequently neighbourly comradeship led to an intermingling of these two races, so that we now find in Glengarry as many of the Quebec neighbours as of the gallant first settlers. You need not be in Glengarry long to feel the perfect harmony and understanding which exist between them.
Most of the people of our county are dependent upon agriculture for their income, either directly or indirectly. Our towns with their growing industries are largely dependent on the farmers for business. The farm producer's income is derived from three main sources- dairying, hog producing and poultry farming, of which dairying is the largest. Since the greater part of the income from our dairies is derived from milk manufactured into cheese, you can readily understand the primary importance our producers attach to the sale of and the price realized from this product.
We have been enjoying also an excellent export market in the United States for our dairy cattle. Recently the sixth t.b. test has been completed in our county, and out of 34,690 cattle tested, only nine reactors were found. This indicates the healthy condition of the cattle, and should result in an increased sale of Glengarry cattle in the export market. It will be easy to understand, therefore, that the price received for these products has a great deal to do with the happiness and success of the producers.
One might better understand the exact position of our producers if I were to refer back to the thirties, when food prices were extremely low, and when the average earnings Erom the production of dairy and other food products was not sufficient to provide for the immediate necessities of the producer. You can readily understand to what extent the maintenance of farm buildings and machinery had to be neglected. The anticipation with which the producer was looking forward to the time when the prices of his products would be sufficient to allow him to put an end to the continued dilapidation of his property and the replenishing of his equipment can

easily be realized. The farmer was faced with the necessity of making immediate repairs to his buildings, which were so vital to economic production, and he realized also that he could not continually draw from the soil without making certain disbursements to add to its fertility.
Then came the war period with its restrictions. Prices began to adjust themselves, but in the adjustment heed was taken of the need to encourage the people of Great Britain in their war effort. Although higher prices could have been obtained, and although higher prices prevailed in the United States, our farmers accepted lower prices for the food they produced. The net margin obtained, however, was not sufficient to allow them to attend, as they would have liked, to the repair and upkeep of machinery and buildings, as well as the fertilization of the soil.
Unlike industrial production, which is timed and controlled by the will of men, farm production is more or less timed and controlled by nature. The farm producer, being conscious of the food requirements of his country, must always aim at a larger production than the immediate need, so that there may always be enough to meet requirements. I believe everyone will agree that the farm producer should receive sufficient for his food products to cover the cost of production, as well as the cost of maintenance. If the producer must produce a surplus in his endeavour to satisfy the requirements of his fellow citizens, then I would say that the disposal of the surplus food is the responsibility of all the citizens of the country. The producer should not be asked to accept a price lower than the cost of production, and thereby bear alone the full burden of cheaper food. This burden should be borne jointly by the producer and his fellow citizens.
As you know, the producer of mixed' food products must work strenuously for long hours. His is not a task involving an eight-hour day with paid vacations, but a task which usually extends from daylight to sunset, and for seven days a week. Stock must be cared for and cows milked, even on Sundays. It is no wonder, therefore, that the farmer's son is leaving this arduous toil, which brings little or no remuneration, for the less arduous job in which he can find time to enjoy himself before calling it a day. When the displaced persons first arrived, the farmers were of the opinion that to some extent the farm labour problem would be solved. It took only a short time, however, for these men to remind us that our day was too long, and our man-hour effort too strenuous, for the remuneration obtained. Long before their year's contract was up,
The Address-Mr. Major these displaced persons had made arrangements for employment which would bring them a higher take-home pay with fewer hours of work.
As long as the food producer can exchange" the value of a day of agricultural labour for the value of a day of industrial labour, he does not mind too much the hard work and long hours. If and when it happens that he has to give more than a day for a day's return, then his ambition is weakened and his purchasing power reduced. Care should always be taken to make sure that neither his ambition nor his purchasing power is reduced to the extent of jeopardizing the stability of our country. The old method of free markets, and allowing the law of supply and demand to function, might have served a purpose when labour was not a factor and when the producer could have leather tanned in his home village and his boots made by the local shoemaker at a nominal price. The fluctuation of prices may not have been felt as much at that time; but now that the farmer must equip himself with the most modern devices necessary to produce as successfully and economically as possible, both in quantity and in quality, the producer cannot afford to have trade set a lower price for his product than the cost of production. Not only could he not carry on, but the disappearance of farm purchasing power would have most serious repercussions on all other industries.
A vivid and glaring example of this was recently brought to light with the ending of the egg contract with Great Britain. At that time the handling of the product was placed at the mercy of the regular trading channels. It is true that for some time the trade had been requesting that it be allowed to handle the product without intervention. It is unfortunate that the trade had to prove its inability to cope with the marketing of the product and maintain a reasonable price. The sudden and drastic fall of egg prices has been the result. We have seen also the parade of poultry to a depressed market, and this would have continued but for the fact the government used its power under the Agricultural Prices Support Act and announced that the eggs in storage next fall would be bought at a fixed price. You may rest assured that the parade of poultry to market would have continued long enough to change the egg from a welcome food to a scarcity.
It may be said that the misfortune of the producer was the fortune of the consumer, who for a short time could obtain unreasonably cheap food. But, Mr. Speaker, this is mere illusion; because while the consumer
*590

The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker "was buying unreasonably cheap food for a fortnight, the producer was disposing of his producing stock at an unprofitable and discouraging price, with the result that he may replenish sparingly; and there is a strong probability that the egg market will be on the short side this fall. Thus it can be seen that by depressing a product beyond reason the ^producers must take a loss and the consumer is more likely to be called upon to make up more than the difference caused by the reaction in scarcity.
Fortunately for both the consumer and the producer, the government in its wisdom undertook to readjust the low egg price; and, by the price coming back to a reasonable level, the producer was given the necessary incentive needed to prevent the total disposal of his stock. He was also given encouragement to replenish his stock sufficiently to avoid unreasonably low production, so that the consumer may expect a reasonable quantity at a price fair both to himself and to the producer.
Remembering and reacting from the unfortunate and depressingly low prices they received in the thirties, and encouraged by their various farm organizations, together with their knowledge of the well-considered policy of our government, the morale of our farm producers at this time is higher than it has ever been before in the history of our country, and this is bound to have a strong reaction on our future prosperity.
It is also with deep interest that the farm producers welcome the announcement by the government that at this session a bill will be introduced to amend the Agricultural Prices Support Act to provide authority for continuing price support, and I wish to commend the government on the action it has taken. I am sure that this will be one of the means required to ensure a stable price adjustment and an ever-prosperous Canada.


May
I be permitted, Mr. Speaker, to extend my congratulations to the hon. member for Glengarry (Mr. Major) on his maiden speech in this house. As I do so I recognize that it is one of those amenities that bring together members in all parts of the chamber; for all of us realize that parliament can only fulfil its purpose of legislating so that Canada may achieve the destiny that all of us hope for when it can attract to the halls of the legislature young men of ability and capacity; there are far too many who regard public service as something worthy of ridicule.
In extending my congratulations to my hon. friend upon his ability to express himself in both languages, I am not discharging a perfunctory duty; it is a capacity envied by those


of us who are not possessed of it, and it is one that is of inestimable value in understanding the aspirations not only of the race to which I belong, but also of the French race whose contribution has meant so much to the building of our country. I wish I could express myself in French; although I understand the language, Mr. Speaker, I am afraid that if I tried to speak it the house would need a translator to translate my translation.
I was impressed by the speeches made by the mover (Mr. Larson) and the seconder (Mr. Dumas) of the address. The bringing into this House of Commons of young men of their ability and capacity makes for the continuance of the heritage that parliament has handed down to us, and which it is our responsibility to hand on to others.
Having said this, I feel impelled to make some comments on the address delivered yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner)-which was more important for what it did not say than for what it did say. Before doing so, however, I desire to bring before the house one or two suggestions that I believe will be non-controversial.
The first has to do with the examination of the accounts of parliament; and I have made this suggestion on previous occasions. If private enterprise is to be maintained in this country there must be a greater return to the individual; and there can only be a greater return to the individual if the national income is maintained and taxation is reduced. The federal government annually spends some $2,400 million as compared with $500 million before the second world war, and the municipalities are spending $1,300 million this year as against $600 million in the days of the war. The examination of expenditures is one of the major responsibilities of the House of Commons, and something should be done to improve our facilities in that connection. Canadians this year will spend over $400 million on defence-an increase of some $40 million over last year. In view of the world situation as portrayed by the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson), and by my own leader in his address the other evening-one of the most powerful ever delivered in this house on the international situation-the people are not averse to expending money on defence and the preservation of peace; but as with other expenditures, they have the right to know whether or not a maximum return is being secured for the expenditures made. I suggest that the public accounts committee of this house as now constituted is ineffectual; it is merely window-dressing. It scarcely ever meets, and when it does, it does not discharge its responsibilities.

In the British House of Commons there is a public accounts committee, a replica of which I should like to see established here. On that committee the majority are not members supporting the government, but they are opposition members. The chairman is not appointed by the government, but it is a member of an opposition party appointed by the members of the committee. Such a committee operates for the purpose of assuring that maximum results shall be secured for all expenditures made. I bring this to the attention of the government; for, sir, if expenditures are being made economically, and if there is nothing to hide, such a committee could not find any over- or mis-expenditure. I suggest that such a public accounts committee be convened. We cannot go on increasing expenditures year by year with parliament having merely a passing acquaintance with them and with no knowledge whatsoever as to whether or not economies are being practised.
I shall now touch on matters of particular interest to Saskatchewan and to the western provinces and of national importance as well. The new members from the province of Saskatchewan who have spoken so far have brought to the house a breadth of purpose that has appealed to all of us. Hon. members from that province are united on certain things. Mention was made before the orders of the day were called by you, Mr. Speaker, of the matter of depreciation for income tax purposes. I say to the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. McCann) that never before has that department been as efficient in the forcing of people to pay and in following them up as it is today. It has been so efficient that injustices have crept in; it has been so forceful that in a number of instances the actions taken have been hard to understand.
Recently a regulation as to maximum rates of depreciation allowable for income tax purposes was sent out by the department. I ask the minister, in the light of experience, to reconsider the rates. In considerable measure the farmers in my constituency are power farmers. They have written me about the rates of depreciation, which are as follows: combines, self-propelled, 15 per cent; combines, 10 per cent; sleighs, 15 per cent; swathers, 10 per cent; tillers, 10 per cent; tractors, trailers, trucks and wagons, 15 per cent. A number have suggested to me that the changes are almost incredibly stupid and the reasons for some rates are difficult to understand. Automobiles, self-propelled combines, tractors and trucks have been reduced from 20 per cent to la per cent. Sleighs, wagons and trailers have been raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. The maximum on swathers and one-way disc seeders is only 10 per cent. In
The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker view of the rapid rate of depreciation of this machinery and equipment, changes should be made in these rates in order to meet practical conditions. All hon. members from the western provinces will support this request, I trust, and we should be supported by hon. members from other provinces and wherever power machinery is used.


May I interject a remark? I ask the hon. member's pardon for doing so. We realize that the rates will have to be adjusted from time to time in the light of experience which we gain with reference to the life of these particular implements that are used.


I thank the von. gentleman. It is with the realization of that fact that I bring these matters to the attention of the house. I hope the minister will act soon, because there is a considerable amount of complaint that the present rates do not operate in justice to the farmer.
I wish to refer now to freight rates. Generally speaking, so far as the western members are concerned, there should be a request on their part that the increases recently allowed by the board of transport commissioners be held back by the cabinet until such time as the discrimination and discriminatory rates now in effect against western Canada and other parts of the country are removed. I do not suggest a permanent hold-up, because all of us realize that there must be an increase in freight rates to meet the added costs of operating railroads if that is established to the satisfaction of the commission. The recent increases if allowed will accentuate that discrimination that now prevails.
Another matter to which I wish to refer is the protection accorded to statutory freight rates under the Crowsnest pass rates. Attacks are being made on these rates. Without regard to party considerations, I feel that every western member should rise in his place in this house and demand that those rates be not interfered with. If they are interfered with; if they are raised, it will impose upon the western farmers a tremendous additional and a correspondingly large reduction in the amount of the farmer's income on his grain crops.
Under the Crowsnest pass rates the average freight rate in Saskatchewan is 13 cents a bushel. That rate would be approximately doubled. So far as the Saskatchewan wheat pool is concerned it would mean that the freight bill would be increased to approximately $41,236,000, or almost double what it was last year. The western farmers have a right to demand that these Crowsnest pass

The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker rates be not removed, and generally, so far as the freight rate structure is concerned, that the discrimination that prevails against western Canada and the maritime provinces shall be removed.
I wish to make some comments on another matter, to which I have referred on one or two previous occasions. Having regard to present conditions generally in the western provinces-and this is particularly true in the province of Saskatchewan, because we have had a crop failure there unequalled since the days of the thirties-our farmers remember that, during and prior to the election campaign, they were informed that there was sufficient money on hand to have paid not 20 cents a bushel in April last but from 33 cents to 35 cents a bushel from the money on hand. The Minister of Agriculture himself spoke on that question in the city of Moose Jaw in April last. He pointed out that the 20-cent payment made in the spring of 1949 was only a partial payment, and there was still to the credit of the farmers an amount of from 12 to 15 cents a bushel. Because of that statement the farmers throughout western Canada are asking why it is that any question has arisen as to why that payment of 20 cents a bushel resulted in an amount, greater than that to their credit, being disbursed by the wheat board. I make the appeal that I made on previous occasions in questions directed to the minister: That at the earliest possible moment the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) arrange to distribute to the western farmers whatever amount is to their credit, or at least that a substantial interim payment be made, to the end that they may be assisted in their spring work, particularly farmers in the areas where the crop last year as a result of drought conditions was a complete or partial failure.
To help meet the unemployment problem I ask the government to carry out the promise made by the Minister of Agriculture during the election campaign, particularly at Melville, Saskatchewan, on April 29, 1949, that this government would proceed with the South Saskatchewan river dam and irrigation project. I have the quotation here, as I have many other quotations. The heading of this particular article is: "Gardiner predicts 1950 start on dam."
The leader of the opposition (Mr. Drew), after studying the situation and determining the necessity of that development as a national project, gave an undertaking both before and during the campaign that it would be proceeded with as a national work. There was no question raised before the election that this dam was to be proceeded with only if the province made a contribution. But it is being


held up because of the federal demand that the government of the province of Saskatchewan must undertake to pay part of the expenditures in connection with irrigation. There never was any question of that, either during or before the election of 1949.


May I be permitted to say something? I have not had an opportunity of saying what I am going to say.


The minister-


I will ask Mr. Speaker to allow time to the hon. member, if he takes any in replying; but I just want to make a statement.


Mr. Speaker-


All right; if you don't want it, I shall make it later.


I only hope the minister does make it later, because that is what I want. Yesterday in a speech of one hour he devoted himself to reading a radio speech made in 1949.


The matter which I am going-


Order.


Just let me say this. This statement could not have been made yesterday; it could be made only today or later. If you want it, I shall give it to you; if you do not want it, go on and make your speech.


I think we should observe the rules of the house. The hon. member who is addressing the house should not be interrupted without his permission.


Yesterday I sat and listened to the minister; I am recorded as making one interruption, and I did not even do that. I just sat and listened and now I am going to refer to some of the things the minister did not deal with yesterday. This is one thing he should have dealt with in yesterday's speech.


What I am going to say could not have been said yesterday. It was only agreed to today.


Order.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I hear nothing but a continued mumble which cannot be recorded in Hansard. I listened carefully to the minister. He said many things, and many things he did not say, to both of which I am going to make reference this afternoon. If the minister wants to make another speech, he will have an opportunity later of doing so.

On behalf of the people of Saskatchewan I am asking that this project be proceeded with as a national undertaking, and that the promise recorded in the Regina Leader-Post of April 21, 1949, be carried into effect.
There is one other matter I should like to discuss which particularly affects western Canada; 1 refer to the Hudson Bay railway. Even when our farmers are not getting the highest prices for their product, they can get a greater return if the costs of production are kept down. 1 should like to see hon. members from Alberta and Manitoba join with us from Saskatchewan in demanding a greater utilization of this railroad and the facilities at Churchill. We from Saskatchewan want to build up a two-way traffic on the Hudson Bay route through Churchill, and we do not want to see it thwarted by any off-the-record policy of top-flight individuals in Ottawa, or by the Department of Trade and Commerce. We want to see an opportunity given to this railway and to the facilities at Churchill to assist the western farmer. This has been requested for many years. The facilities are there, but to all intents and purposes they are not used.
I now come to the speech delivered yesterday by the Minister of Agriculture. 1 have a few quotations here; indeed, if I were to gather them all up I would have an assortment of contradictory statements that would establish anything, any place, any time. Yesterday my right hon. friend spoke of the 1930's. That is the old stock argument of my hon. friends opposite. They talk about the 1930's and say that the Conservatives were responsible for the low agricultural prices. That is what they say, and my hon. friend was back at it yesterday. It is not long ago, to be exact on January 19, that the right hon. gentleman made a statement in Ottawa at a press conference. He was referring to the action of the United States in dumping farm products on the market, and 1 quote:
It certainly can affect the Canadian export market for farm products.
The United States policy is not new, it has been going on since the 1930's. In 1932, when the United States first started paying its producers higher prices than they could obtain on the market, the United States government started selling grains at below cost.
That's what caused our wheat to go down to 36 cents a bushel.


The Ottawa agreements were in effect in 1932.


We have that statement vouchsafed by the Minister of Agriculture.


They understood what 1 said.


That is true enough. We had a statement yesterday, and a different one
The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker on January 19. At that time the minister said that the cause of the fall in wheat prices during the thirties was the action of the United States-I think that bears repetition- when all through the years we in this party have been held responsible for the fall of wheat prices that had fallen all over the world.
When the minister spoke yesterday he drew a picture that was optimistic in the extreme. What are the facts? So far as the United Kingdom is concerned, sales to that country in January, 1950, which have fluctuated in recent months, fell by $7,205,000 to $48,608,000. The total value of exports to all commonwealth countries, including the United Kingdom, was $62,336,000 as against $88,706,000 a year ago, according to statistics issued by the Department of Trade and Commerce. That gives the picture.
As I listened yesterday to the minister I wondered if this was the same minister who during the campaign had drawn such optimistic pictures of trade. Yesterday the minister read from his radio address of May 28, 1949. It was a masterpiece. In order to keep the record clear I am going to refer to some of the other speeches made during that campaign. When speaking yesterday, why did he not tell the farmers what their markets will be after 1950, and in 1951 and 1952? Why did he not tell the Canadian people how much sale there will be for wheat outside of the international wheat agreement? Why did he not answer the question that has been asked him so often as to what he meant when he spoke in Brantford, Ontario, on December 6? In an address to the board of trade of that city on that date he is reported to have said:
There is a very decided official effort to drive wheat and several Canadian food products from the British market.
Why not tell who these people are? What officials in Great Britain are interfering, for that is what it amounts to, with commonwealth trade with that country whose market is of such great importance to Canada?


It does not mean that but I must not say anything.


The minister himself spoke of the British market when he addressed the food and agricultural organization in Washington.


It is not "officials"; it is "official".


At that time he said:
I hope that nothing in the report will suggest that the United States should not follow the conservation measures which have been outlined by the delegate from that country. That, together with the removal of the embargo on the export of wheat

The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker from Canada to the United States, would eliminate most of our difficulties and would go a long way to solving any international wheat problem with surplus wheat.
I ask, what has been done to remove the embargo?
Then he dealt with the British market and he said:
Canadian farmers, therefore, are still vitally concerned with world markets and are fearful lest monetary difficulties and other trade obstructions deny them entry to their natural market which is the market of Great Britain.
I ask him to tell the house what he meant at Brantford and what he meant on other occasions when he talked of obstruction in high places, or were they merely statements in a long series of statements in which at one time he said that there is not a surplus and the next day said that there is a surplus? Indeed when he spoke to the United Nations food and agricultural organization in Washington he pointed out that Canada was in grave danger from surpluses, and I should like to refer to what he said:
The report further points out that we may be threatened in the near future by "surpluses"-however artificial they may be from a world standpoint -in such commodities as bread grains, coarse grains, rice, sugar, fats and oils and fish. We have already been threatened in Canada by surpluses of most of the foods referred to, the exceptions being rice and sugar.
I ask the minister: what did he mean when he delivered that speech at Brantford in the fall of 1949? Who are the people in Great Britain who are interfering with our trade which, as the minister said in Washington, is so important? Surely the minister said either too little or too much. Indeed the Winnipeg Free Press of December 9, 1949, said:
According to the Canadian Press, Mr. Gardiner did not enlarge upon the source or the extent of the "official effort" and until evidence is forthcoming the existence of such a "drive" should: be discounted.


You will notice it is "official sffort", not "officials' effort".


Official effort. Let the minister tell the House of Commons exactly what official effort in Great Britain is denying to Canada her natural markets. Surely among the members of one's own family there should be the fullest degree of trade which, as the minister pointed out in his address in Washington, is the natural trade. Surely frankness should characterize every relationship between the governments of the commonwealth. Yesterday the minister talked about the absence of surpluses. Here is something interesting. On February 13, 1950, he said, when speaking at the opening session of the Canadian horticultural council:
Some people In the world are making it difficult for Canada to distribute food surpluses to areas
{Mr. Diefenbaker.]
where they are needed. Conditions are not yet normal and Canada is producing surplus foodstuffs which are needed somewhere.
That was on February 13. He was speaking to farmers who know what the situation is. If he had told them there were no surpluses they would have said, "No surpluses? Well, what is wrong?" Therefore when he spoke to them he said there were surpluses. Then in the Globe and Mail of October 1, 1949, there is a report of a statement as to markets made by the minister. On that date he was interviewed about Canada's foodstuff markets in the United Kingdom and he said this:
We are trying to maintain Canada's markets in Britain, but there is no certainty that we can do so.
Then, mark these words:
However, Canada was not being "hurt by anything that has happened in Britain up to date. We haven't lost any markets if we haven't got anything to put into them."
In one speech in January he said that there were surpluses and in another in October, after the harvest was over, he was advising that there were not any surpluses. I suggest that we find out once and for all which statement is correct. Is there a surplus or is there not? In view of his diversified statements the Minister of Agriculture finds himself on the horns of a dilemma.


Read the whole speech. They are all the same.


All right.


Order.


You know, Mr. Speaker, when I get reactions like that it indicates I am saying something that is not altogether agreeable.


It is not agreed with by anybody who was at the meeting.


I am not through reading yet. I cannot begin to cover all the diversified fiction that I have before me.


If you would finish reading, it would answer your own idea.


I am sure I have never seen my hon. friend so agitated before. I sit and listen to him as he fires brimstone on us but he cannot take it himself.


Order.


He says to producers that there are surpluses because he cannot tell them that there are not, and to others, in order to show why the situation is what it is, why trade is being lost and where our markets abroad have gone, that we have not any surpluses to sell anyway. To one he says we have plenty and to the other he says we have nothing. In a well-known song

there is the line, "I got plenty of nothing", which would combine both of my hon. friend's versions.


Is there anyone over there who could make a better job of it?


Stop that official effort over there.


Quack, quack.


We have a surplus of ducks in the house. Alone and by itself the radio speech which the minister placed on Hansard yesterday would feel almost like an orphan, and it must have companionship. I give it that companionship, with a number of speeches delivered by my right hon. friend during the election campaign. On May 12, speaking at Simpson, he said:
Market is safe, Gardiner says
Hitting out at political opponents who have been accusing the Liberal government of losing Canada's markets, agriculture minister Gardiner declared at a public meeting at Simpson Wednesday night there is no truth in such suggestions. "We could sell much more of most farm products if we had them in surplus supply," he said.
Then on June 11 I find this:
"We are not losing our overseas contracts," declared Mr. Gardiner. "All contracts automatically expire at the end of the year and are then renewed with amendments if need be. Canada has no surplus of goods and we are not losing our contracts."
On May 10, speaking at Regina, the minister is reported as follows:
"Wheat selling is not a problem. The problem facing Canadian agriculture was not the question of selling wheat to Britain but the question of finding additional markets for Canada's wheat surpluses," agriculture minister Gardiner said in Regina on Monday.
That is why, when the minister spoke yesterday, I expected him to tell us what is being done in this connection. He mentioned FAO and said they were going to buy some of our surpluses; but that is merely a temporary expedient.


Read the rest of those
speeches and you will find the answers.


That same report goes on to say:
Mr. Gardiner said there had never been any doubt of Britain's ability to buy wheat from Canada.
Then on June 24 he said:
There is no evidence to support the contention . . . that Canada is losing the British market for food-


You are not reading from that speech at all. Read the Simpson speech.


Well, Mr. Speaker, the minister wants to choose the speeches I am
9, 1950
The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker to read. I have been fairer than he asks; I have not indulged in any selectivity, but am reading the whole re