(Questions answered orally are indicated/ by an asterisk.)
1.	What is the site of the new post office in St. Thomas, Ontario?
2.	When will the work be started on same?
3.	What is the estimated cost?


1.	Southeast corner of Gas and Mondamin streets, St. Thomas.
2.	Not before 1951.
3.	Approximate estimated cost, $800,000.


What is the percentage of (a) increase:	(b)
decrease, in the price of the following items as of July, 1950, compared with July, 1946: namely, freight rates, passenger rates on railways and busses, lumber, 12-foot harvester combines, 3-4 plow tractors, 10-foot power binders, 8-foot horse drawn binders, 4-furrow plows, 5-foot mowers, wheat, hogs, builder's hardware, light fixtures, binder twine, gasoline, tractor fuel oil, cost of living, 7-foot tiller combine, hay baler?


Net increase July 1946 to July 1950, 41 -2 per cent applicable to standard freight rate tariffs, as well as special freight tariffs with the exception of certain items, as follows:
(1)	Coal and coke increased 40 cents per ton.
(2)	Crowsnest pass rates excluded.
(3)	Export grain and flour from prairies to west coast excluded.
(4)	Rates on grain and grain products for domestic consumption between points in western Canada and rates on feed grain.
(5)	Joint international rates.
(6)	Overhead or in transit rates.
(7)	Export and import rates on parity with rates to and from U.S. ports.
(8)	Agreed charges.
The only decrease was the removal of the mountain differential on the 25th of April, 1949 (previously one mile of mountain territory had equalled one and one-half miles of prairie territory for rate purposes).
Percentage
Increase
Combine, 6-foot	 40-1
Tractor, 4-cylinder, 4-ply	tires ...	44-7Grain binder, 8-foot,	4-horse ....	29-02-furrow plow	
36'8Mower, 5-foot	
22-4
Wheat, domestic, No. 1 Manitoba northern, Fort William and Port
Arthur	 64-8
Hogs, Winnipeg	 74-6
Binder twine	 135-8
Farm gasoline	 18-3
Electrical equipment and	fixtures	.	56-3
Hardware	 56-5
Urban cost of living		 33-9
10-foot power binder	 *
Tractor fuel oil	 *
7-foot tiller combine	 *
Hay baler	 *
*Not available.


1.	How many applicants, by recruiting districts, have there been for service in the Canadian force being organized for service in Korea?
2.	How many applicants have been rejected from June 23 to September 1, by recruiting districts?
3.	For what reasons have applicants been rejected, and how many were rejected for each of these reasons in each recruiting district?


1 and 2.


Applica- Reject- Enlist-
tions	ions	mentsNo.	1	PD	Halifax .	382	222	160No.	2	u	Frederic-	ton 	139	34	105No.	3	"	Quebec ..	139	64	75No.	4	u	Montreal .	333	167	166No.	5	(i	Kingston .	93	45	48No.	6	((	Toronto . .	277	150	127No.	7	((	London ..	232	120	112No.	8	"	Winnipeg .	97	29	68No.	9	((	Regina ..	52	16	36No.	10	<(	Calgary ..	96	14	82No.	11	(f	Vancouver	126	44	82No.	12	"	St. John's,	Nfld	30	19	11No.	1 A.A.U., Ottawa	208	120	88Total	2,204	1,044	1,160
Questions
1 and 2 (Con.)
Applica- Reject- Enlist-
tions	ions	mentsNo.	1	PD	Halifax . .	1,118	551	567No.	2	<<	Frederic-	ton 	933	317	616No.	3	((	Quebec ..	464	264	200No.	4	(<	Montreal .	2,717	945	1,772No.	5	it	Kingston .	509	203	306No.	6	a	Toronto . .	2,916	933	2,083No.	7	"	London ..	759	234	525No.	8	a	Winnipeg	456	108	348No.	9	u	Regina . .	346	134	212No.	10	u	Calgary ..	701	225	476No.	11	a	Vancouver	486	96	390No.	12	a	St. John's,	Nfld	365	167	198No.	1 A.A.U., Ottawa .	1,213	517	696Total	12,983	4,594	8,389
In addition to the above there were a very considerable number of inquiries relating to enlistment in the Canadian Army active force and Canadian Army special force which have not been included as they did not result in the individuals actually entering the recruiting process.
(3) The compilation of the data on reasons for rejection will be done at national defence headquarters as soon as the necessary information is received from the various recruiting centres.
'
1.	Was the united emergency fund for Britain authorized by any department of the federal government?
2.	If so, has an audit of receipts and expenditures been completed?
3.	What were the receipts and the expenses in connection therewith, and what amount was expended on British emergency relief?


Return tabled.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs-perhaps he can answer the question tomorrow-whether a

report has been received from the international joint commission with respect to possible ways and means of preventing any future floods in the Red river valley.


Mr. Speaker, I do not know of any report, but I shall look into the matter and give a more definite reply to my hon. friend tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Representations were made on June 24 by various provincial governments in opposition to an increase in freight rates, and an appeal was taken to the cabinet. Has any decision been reached in that regard?


The answer is no.


No answer?


No decision.


The house resumed, from Wednesday, September 6, consideration in committee of a resolution to grant to His Majesty certain sums of money for national defence and security-Mr. Abbott-Mr. Dion in the chair. (Translation):
Mr. Chairman, I have two suggestions to make: the first one is about an Irishman who is a great man. I am speaking of the governor general in his capacity as commander in chief of the Canadian forces. He is a renowned general and perhaps the most illustrious in the world at the present time, and I hope that, in view of present circumstances, the government will ask him to remain in Canada for many years to come.
My second suggestion has to do with lieutenant governors. Several years ago, I suggested that the positions of lieutenant governors be abolished and that each of the incumbents be replaced by the chief justice of each province. At. that time Mr. Woodsworth was leader of his party. He told me that it was an admirable suggestion and I received hundreds of letters of congratulation and en couragement.

If I did not continue advocating those ideas, it was precisely on account of a letter I had received from a friend of my family, Lieutenant Governor Henry G. Carroll, of Quebec; out of personal regard for him, I stopped talking about the matter. Since then there was Major General Fiset, whose family is very close to mine. He has represented the neighbouring constituency of Rimouski, was one of my personal friends and was lieutenant governor of the province of Quebec during ten years. His term of office will soon be over.
I had other personal friends among the lieutenant governors: Hon. W. G. Clark, of Fredericton, a past member of this house who sat on the civil service committee and rendered me many services; Hon. W. D. Ross, who was lieutenant governor of the province of Ontario, and also Hon. Mr. Bernard, lieutenant governor of Prince Edward Island, whose term of office is almost over.
It is impossible to be completely objective, because we are often bound by friendship and unable to express our personal feelings, our deepest convictions, precisely on account of the friendship by which we are linked to certain people.
We shall soon have new taxes; further war expenditures will be in order. We could practise economy and help the provinces to economize by abolishing the office of lieutenant governor and by replacing each incumbent by the chief justice of each province. Both the federal government and the provinces would thus be saving a great deal of money.
Lieutenant governorships are obsolete. We no longer need them and the splendid residences occupied by the lieutenant governors, such as Chorley Park and the castles at Regina and Edmonton, -could be used for social welfare, for veterans, crippled children and other social welfare institutions. I will deal with this subject again at the next session but I commend this suggestion right now to the earnest -consideration of my colleagues in the House of Commons.
I have been brief and I have listened with great interest to the many suggestions which members from all parts of the house have made in all sincerity since the beginning of this very important debate. Those speeches which I did not hear in the house, I read with interest and I wish to congratulate my colleagues. I will tell them, by way of conclusion, that I have faith in the collective wisdom of the government led by the present Prime Minister. For twenty-five years, I have wanted a leader to my liking. Only recently has my wish been granted and I am
Defence Appropriation Act satisfied. Should he abandon politics, I shall do as much myself, to finish writing the memoirs of the late Mackenzie King, whose career now belongs to history.
(Text):


Order. Was it understood when we adjourned yesterday that we would proceed to consider the resolution and the figures submitted paragraph by paragraph?


Mr. Chairman, before any decision is made in that regard, there are one or two observations I should like to make.
For several days now we have been discussing the question of our defences and the contributions that Canadians are to make or have made in fulfilment of our responsibilities as a member of the United Nations and under the North Atlantic pact. On this day, when it is expected, in the light of the remarks of various ministers, that material increases in taxation will be announced in order to meet the expenditures to be made, certain questions remain unanswered. All of us in the house, irrespective of party, have tremendous responsibilities in times such as these. We must mobilize not only the spiritual forces of the nation, but our material forces as well. Every day our ideals are being attacked by those who believe communism is the answer, and in the last few days we have perhaps come to have some realization of the responsibility that is upon parliament. Over the week end I had occasion to read once more the speeches of Sheridan and Fox during the Napoleonic days. One does not want to be pessimistic at a time like this, but when one remembers that, during the days of Napoleon, war and the threat of war continued for some twenty years, one wonders whether, with the onrush of communism in the world today, many of the children being born now may not find themselves in the armed services before the final meeting of the antagonistic forces of the two ideologies.
In connection with the mobilization of the spiritual forces of the nation I am reminded of what is being done in the United States. Day after day we are met with this communist propaganda for banning the bomb, for peace, and so on. We see advertisements inserted in our newspapers for the purpose of undermining our determination. Last evening I was impressed by the reports as to what is being done to meet that situation in the United States. There they are proceeding to oppose the soviet lie with truth, and no less a man than General Eisenhower has given his name


Mr. Chairman, the discussion on the motion before us has covered many aspects of the problem of national defence. As has been said by the member for Lake Centre, that does not relate to military preparations alone. It relates to the spiritual values. It relates to the internal strength of countries. It relates to the sum total of the will of those nations that wish to preserve their freedom to use for that purpose all the strength which they possess.
Last night we heard in this chamber a speech which placed before us in the clearest terms the necessity for widening our concept
384	HOUSE OF
Defence Appropriation Act of defence preparations so as to embrace civil defence as well. I do not intend to enlarge upon the excellent and comprehensive analysis of that subject that was then given. I wish to say only this. Here again we find the government making general statements with regard to civil defence and having nothing positive to show us as to one of the essential component factors in dealing with this over-all problem.
There is another aspect of this problem which I think has been brought home to many hon. members within less than the last twenty-four hours. In addition to the armed strength of communist Russia and the satellite nations, we have been subjected here in Canada and elsewhere-and I will admit to a greater extent elsewhere than here-to the steady pounding of propaganda designed to weaken the conviction of our own people that our cause is right. Yesterday afternoon many of the members of the House of Commons, if not all of them, received a perfect example of communist propaganda masquerading under a respected name. I am sure that copies of this publication were directed to all the members, whether they have yet had an opportunity to read it or not.
I have in my hand a publication called "The Protestant"; and in large capitals below that heading are the words: "Common Sense about Korea". The whole of this well-published and certainly not inexpensive booklet is barefaced communist propaganda from beginning to end. At the front we see the names of the editor, associate editors and editorial advisers. Amongst the editorial advisers is a long list of names with the word "Reverend' before them. We find here the name of Rev. Hewlett Johnson. There are those who think that nothing is gained by expressing indignation at the fact that a man who wears the clothing which distinguishes from the rest of our people those in holy orders should engage in activities of this kind, whether innocently or otherwise. I do not believe that saintly-looking man is engaged innocently in this activity. In making this comment 1 must say, as a member of the Church of England, that I for one can only express my regret that the authorities of that great church permit a man to occupy in that church a high office which enables him to continue propaganda of the kind that he is using.
There are other names, which I might mention, of people who have displayed a strange sympathy for the Russian point of view and a strange lack of sympathy for those who have done so much to preserve real freedom in the world. I see the name, in this case not


with the word "Reverend" before it, of Leslie Roberts. I wonder if that is the Leslie Roberts who writes in Canadian publications and others and who describes himself as a Canadian, It would be interesting to know. Nevertheless, whoever these people are, they are circulating the vilest type of communist propaganda because it pretends not to be communist propaganda.
I would suggest that those who have this book look at page 21. On that page they will see the subheading "Spiritual Maturity of the U.S.S.R." These reverend gentlemen whose names are given as associate editors, this Leslie Roberts whoever he is, and others, are asking us and other Canadians to believe in the spiritual maturity of the U.S.S.R. I am not going to read the whole of the section, but it bears reading, and it starts with this interesting paragraph:
Logically Jacob Malik should not have returned to the security council until it had stanched the wound from which it was bleeding to death. That mortal wound was its refusal to seat the Chinese delegation. Yet Malik did return. Why? The United States delegate Austin says that Malik returned to stall off further United Nations decisions on Korea. But the only reason to stall is to gain time. Yet it is not the U.S.S.R. that needs time. It is the west. It is Britain and France and the United States and western Germany, all of whom find that they are not ready to meet what they call the Russian onslaught. Canada needs six or eight months to prepare even her special brigade of 5,000 soldiers for Korea, not to speak of other joint preparations with the United States. But the west needs time not for Korea only, but to spend United States billions on all the things that go to make modern war.
Then it goes on to put forward the communist line, and it tells us further things:
To repeat, what cannot be too often repeated, just as in 1939 we hoped that the nazis would turn east and that Russia would stand and be gored by the nazis, so today in 1950 we hope Russia will stand and wait quietly while we get ready to gore her.
What a hope! What a statement, Mr. Chairman, by anybody who pretends to believe in freedom! What a line from people who pretend to speak the truth! Yet that is the kind of thing that is going on day by day and is being circulated amongst our people!
I just want to read the closing paragraph of that section to indicate the kind of thing that is being sent out to our people:
It is our view that in sending Malik back to the United Nations the U.S.S.R. has proved to history its sober responsibility, its maturity, its patience in the face of contumely, and its devotion to world peace based on justice.
That is what we are told by these people who have the effrontery to use the word "protestant" to describe propaganda of that kind! Peace, yes! Every human being wants

Defence Appropriation Act
peace, including the people of Russia. The simple people of Russia in their homes want peace as much as we do. When we talk about propaganda of this kind, financed from Russia, I think it is necessary for us to repeat over and over again, in the hope that it may reach the people there, that our fight is not against the simple people of Russia, but against communism and totalitarian slavery of that kind. As we make our stand against the beast of communism, we make it in the hope that we shall preserve freedom for ourselves, and that in the days ahead, by the strength of our position, we may give hope to the people of Russia that through their own effort they may throw off the yoke in time and gain that freedom which their sacrifice for their own homeland in a time of stress has justified in the face of all the world.
It is not a struggle against human beings. We have Russians here who have become absorbed in our free system and who believe in that system. We can only hope that what we are trying to do now will be as a beacon light to those who are under this cruel form of oppression.
Peace, yes! Everybody wants it, and it is because of that that we find the name being employed by those who sometimes innocently further that purpose, but unfortunately, in many cases, under the guidance of those who are seeking to further aggression. And today there are hon. members who have received messages from the Canadian peace congress, again repeating the despicable communist line. When I say that, I want to emphasize the fact that I believe many of those people who are in this building today circularizing hon. members and others with these damnable lies are entirely misguided. Many of them of course do not know what the conditions are in Russia. It is far enough away from them not to be able to understand, not to be able to understand the way Hewlett Johnson does. Many of these people have an earnest desire for peace, and are being made the innocent tools of those whose sinister purpose is the destruction of our system.
The very fact that we can see amongst these people those who obviously are not communists themselves is one reason why we cannot ignore the reality of this propaganda and the compelling effect of the continued use of the word "peace". On the second page of this circular, which is being distributed today, I find this:
We suggest that the only way to prevent the in volvement of Canada in heavier and more crushin military expenditures and in the end in militar-conflict is for the parliament of Canada to propos' to the security council of the United Nations:
(1)	The cessation of military hostilities in Kore; and the cessation of air raids on Korean civiliai populations.
(2)	Withdrawal of all foreign troops from Korea.
(3)	An immediate hearing in the security council of the United Nations of the two parties to the conflict in Korea.
(4)	The seating of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations and Canadian recognition of the People's Republic of China.
Is it not strange, Mr. Chairman, that these people should describe themselves as members of the Canadian peace congress and see those things only as they are seen through the eyes of the Kremlin, and that it should not occur to them to suggest for one moment that Russia might do well to stop the fighting in Korea by stopping the supplying of their puppets in northern Korea with tanks, aircraft, machine guns and all the weapons of war which are destroying the country? No, it is the straight communist line, and that brings us once again to something about which I know there is the most sincere difference of opinion.
I know that the difference of opinion is based upon different points of view as to how this can best be tackled. We have suggested that laws should be adopted which deal with the core of this treachery in our country. We have never asked, and never suggested, that laws should be passed which in any way would be directed against those innocent people who, in a misguided way, follow communist leadership of this kind. But we have expressed the opinion that through our courts, by our regular judicial processes, and in no case by arbitrary procedure, these traitors who are guiding this kind of thing should be dealt with under our laws.
There may be other effective ways to do it. It is proposed in the United States to make every communist organization, no matter what its name may be, register as the agent of a foreign power, under penalties for failure to do so; thus they will be able to deal with those who fail to disclose their treacherous associations.
After all, I recognize and have emphasized that the decision as to the way in which these things will be done must, as a matter of policy, be a decision of the government; but once again as we go into those very perilous days ahead, as we see the dramatic evidence of what propaganda of this kind does to disturb people's minds in other countries and in our own, I strongly urge that, as part of the effort to meet the threat of communism, laws be adopted in keeping with our traditional principles of justice, enforceable only by our courts, which will deal with the traitors themselves and not with their innocent and misguided followers.
I urge this because at a time when people's minds will be thinking of the very real contribution which they must make in one way or another, they are more susceptible to

Defence Appropriation Act propaganda of this kind. I have used these examples, which have been placed before us in the past twenty-four hours, merely to show what I believe to be the need for action. Having said that, Mr. Chairman, may I say also that this whole discussion may be regarded by some as the kind of discussion which would create the uncertainties which we wish to avoid.
I was greatly impressed, and I know many other hon. members of the house were, by the excellent speech delivered by the hon. member for Cape Breton South. He put in simple and clear terms what we have been trying to emphasize, that in the request for a secret session we are asking that we have a chance to discuss this subject in a way that will make it possible for every member, including the members of the government, to be completely frank, to gain a much better understanding of the problems before us, and to unite our ranks much more effectively in dealing with these measures than we can when information which we should have is not available. A secret session would not be a device by which we would seek to try to take away any responsibility from the government.
All we seek to do is to permit the government to take us into its confidence to the fullest extent, so that in these public debates which are reported throughout Canada we may deal with the various measures with fuller knowledge of what the facts are than we have at this moment. Unfortunately we still have not been given that opportunity, nor have we been given any assurance that a secret session will be held. It is for that reason that I must point out by specific example why we now have more reason than ever to have a secret session as a result of what purported to be explanations given by the Minister of National Defence.
Let me give one example. In the Ottawa Journal of yesterday afternoon there was a large headline stating that Canada was sending tanks to Korea. The hon. member for Lake Centre read from the dispatch, which reads:
Organization of one squadron of tanks to support the three infantry battalions of Canada's special UN force has been authorized by the government and is now proceeding at Camp Borden, the Journal learned today.
As I understand it, the Minister of National Defence gave the impression to the committee that there was no foundation for that report. I am convinced that there was foundation for the report. I am quite unable to understand why the minister should seek to convey the impression that it has no foundation. Whether the heading was wrong in its actual wording,


whether the word "tanks" was appropriate, whether the size of the tanks referred to in the article was accurate, may be something else. The principal question is whether or not there are at Camp Borden now, or were a few days ago, elements of the Strathconas and the Dragoons which were brought together in squadron formation as a unit of an armoured corps. If that is so, then the members of this committee have the right to know. While the story may have expanded the facts, at least it is related to something that has actually taken place. As I understand it, the minister suggested that there was nothing in the story. I am convinced that there is. I am convinced, because of the reliability of the reporter who submitted the story, that he had foundation for it.
I recognize that sometimes there are difficulties about these things. The Minister of National Defence has been pumping out so much publicity through the agents in his department that it is extremely difficult for him to keep track of what goes out to the public in regard to imaginary activities of some of our defence units. It may be that he had not put a "stop" sign on some of these officials in regard to this particular thing. This may have been part of a broader program that got out of hand because the session was called earlier than the first week in October, as was originally intended.
The Minister of National Defence has sought to convey the impression that a committee on national defence would be ineffective and not in keeping with the government's responsibility. He has sought also to convey the impression-or, if he has not sought to do that, his words have helped to convey the impression-that the committee on estimates in the House of Commons in Britain do not make any broad or important suggestions. As a matter of fact they do. I and other members of this house have pointed out that the subcommittee on national defence is only one of a number of subcommittees of the committee on estimates. Only a week ago Friday one of the subcommittees brought in an important report which was supported by members on both sides of the house; it indicated how effectively these committees can work on a non-political basis. I have in my hand the London Standard of Friday, August 25, and the heading on page 2 reads:
Cabinet told: Cut P.R.O.'s.
Are all your publications really necessary?
The article then goes on to explain that the day before, the committee on estimates had published a report which it had made

to the government and to members of parliament recommending drastic cuts in unnecessary publicity. The article continues:
Dealing with the war office and air ministry P.R.O. organization, the committee say serving officers are "more likely to inspire confidence in a potential recruit than a journalist whose acquaintance with service life in peace time may be superficial."
So it is suggested these two services should adopt admiralty practice and use officers for P.R.O. duties in the provinces and abroad. It is considered this would be cheaper and more effective.
That is only one of many recommendations that were made. I would point out that many of our public relations officers in our own organization are fine men with military service. This, however, goes to the core of the whole business of feeding out propaganda without a minister's name being attached to it so that responsibility can be denied. It creates in the public mind an impression that quite often is not in keeping with the actual facts of the case. I think this committee has demonstrated its usefulness, and I am quite certain that what has happened there would happen here if we had a committee which could go into the actual propaganda mechanism of the Department of National Defence which seeks to create an illusory impression of activity in many lines where there has been very little. With such a committee, members on both sides of the house can sit down together and come to agreement in regard to important matters. That is why we have been suggesting a committee on national defence.
When we see things of this kind coming out into the open, and when we know that there is support for such statements, we certainly believe that we should have a secret session to discuss all these matters. Then we could really take our hair down, as the expression goes, and get to the root of some of these matters by discussing the things we do know, not for the benefit of the communists of Canada, not for the benefit of the Kremlin, as is sometimes said, but for the people's representatives so that they can make decisions with full knowledge of the facts.
Another reason why we should have a secret session was demonstrated by the discussion yesterday. The suggestion was made that, with the increasing gravity of the situation throughout the world, we should at least have a division organized. Again undoubtedly that is a matter of opinion, and one on which conflicting opinions should be expressed in such a way as to be for the benefit of the -members themselves until they can clarify their thoughts with information they do not 69262-25-J
Defence Appropriation Act now possess, if the government is not prepared or does not think it should be given in open session. Again one sees how the indirect answers of the Minister of National Defence create inaccurate impressions. In reply to a statement that our active organization for the defence of Canada should at least be a division, the Minister of National Defence said that he did not believe we could maintain a division overseas. That was not suggested, but that is what the press quite naturally picked up as the statement of the Minister of National Defence.
We have been talking about the basic defence of Canada. We are greatly concerned about what is happening in Korea. We are greatly concerned about what we can do to fulfil any responsibility we may accept, but the more we hear in this house the more we are concerned about the basic defence of Canada. In answer to the statements that were made yesterday, the minister said it would not be satisfactory to train a division because if we had a division we would have to bring it together all in one place. Why? He has not given one reason why. You do not need it in one place, if the brigade group, about which he has been talking so much, is not in one place. He says it is being efficiently trained, although the three battalions are scattered all over Canada and have never been brought together in brigade formation for active training.
Every argument the minister has made with respect to the training of the brigade group is an argument which demonstrates why it would not be necessary to have the troops all in one place if you were to have an actual division in training in this country. The fact is that he knows, as so many of the other members of the house know who have had actual experience, that the brigade group is the basic group, and that if you have brigade groups organized and trained across Canada they can be brought together and given divisional training in a comparatively short time as long as their brigade training is efficient and effective and gives them proper knowledge of their wider responsibilities. Therefore the very evasion displayed by the minister in regard to this particular subject is another reason why we should have a secret session to be able to talk to the minister in definite and positive terms and not permit him to back away behind this veil of secrecy and the danger that we might inform the Kremlin.
There is another reason why we should have a secret session, and I think a quite important one. The minister has constantly

Defence Appropriation Act emphasized the fact that what he has done has been with the advice of the chiefs of staff. Unquestionably members of the house are impressed by the statement that the chiefs of staffs have come to certain conclusions. These highly trained officers, with long military experience in the different branches of the service, are men for whose opinions we have high regard, as we have for the officers under them. But has the Minister of National Defence followed the advice of the chiefs of staff? Has he? There is reason to believe he has not done so entirely, because I find, for instance, a press report in the Ottawa Journal of March 21, 1950, which is similar to press reports that were appearing all over Canada at the time people were speculating on the size of the Canadian budget. I shall simply read one paragraph. It is:
The total is big. yet such are defence costs today, it is no secret in Ottawa there was considerable slashing of the estimates of all three services before they were finally presented to the house.
In the Financial Post of March 4, 1950, there is an article by a man who has demonstrated his competence in many important reports that have been the basis of discussion in the house. I refer to Mr. Kenneth Wilson. He is dealing with the subject of national defence, and under a subheading in his article, [DOT]'Big Fight on Defence", there is the following:
The really big fight has been on the defence estimates. All services came up with big and potent arguments for higher spending in 1950-51. They supported these arguments with cash demands needed to pay for equipment already ordered and committed in previous years and which will be delivered in 1950-51. As well, there was submitted the growing demands of the cold war in terms of Canada's new North Atlantic pact commitments. What actually happened was a slashing of proposed defence plans . . .
These words of authoritative reporters have not been challenged. What were the reasons given in asking for higher commitments? That is something we should like to know. We should like to hear from the chiefs of staff whether they were pointing out that we did not have adequate forces for the defence of Canada, that we needed more money for that purpose, and that we needed to step up our training. Unless we hear their statements to the contrary, I think that is a logical conclusion from these reports.
The* minister may well say that twe were seeking economy. Yes, the people of Canada wanted economy, and there are scores of ways in which the government could have practised economy that would have saved millions more than were being asked for by the chiefs of staff for preparation for the defence of Canada. If the Minister of National Defence pitted his discretion against the

chiefs of staff on that occasion, how do we know he is not doing it now? How do we know that the recommendation that we satisfy ourselves with an airborne brigade, the complementary forces and the special force is their recommendation right now as being the immediate requirement for Canada? We do not know, and we cannot know, unless we have an opportunity to hear what they have to say.
They could be brought before us in a secret session. We could hear what they have to say. We could have their answers and know what the facts are. In what he has said, the Minister of National Defence has over and over again given the very best possible reasons why there should be a secret session and why there should be a committee on national defence. I hope no one will think that these are alternatives. They are both essential. We need a secret meeting now to inform us of the immediate requirement, and we need a defence committee sitting continuously from now on to examine the whole defence picture in order to satisfy men with service training on both sides of the house that things are being done as they should be done, and in keeping with the statements of policy by the government.
The Secretary of State for External Affairs has on a number of occasions used a very beguiling expression. He has spoken about that twilight zone between peace and war. Mr. Chairman, it is not a twilight zone he should be talking about; it is the twilight sleep under which they have been quietly resting. The only regrettable thing is that in this case there has not been the happy outcome which usually accompanies that condition.
This is a matter in which hon. members are anxious to co-operate. When the hon. member for Lake Centre said this morning that we were anxious to join hands to do the best we could for the welfare of Canada in preparing to meet this situation, I heard some suggestion, in comments that perhaps did not reach Hansard, that the criticisms we were offering did not indicate a desire of that kind. Our criticisms are directed to an examination of one of the most important subjects that will ever come before this house-the defence of our country and the survival of our freedom. So many glowing statements have been made that it is necessary to keep in perspective what we are talking about. Many Canadians do not know how large a brigade is. With all the propaganda that has been put out, some people may think a brigade is about half the size of the Russian army. The fact is that a brigade, no matter how efficient it may be, is a comparatively small military organization; and

the brigade group we are talking about so much would not comprise more than four thousand men ready for combat. That number of men must be balanced against the numbers of men in other countries with which we may be called upon to deal in various ways.
The Minister of National Defence on more than one occasion has used a very general expression; he has said we are doing as well as or better than many countries. He used that expression last evening. Well, we do not know what those many countries are. We do not know whether that statement includes Russia; for if it does, the basis of comparison becomes somewhat difficult. The fact is that on a comparative basis, in proportion to our population, if we were doing as much as Russia we would have fourteen divisions mobilized and ready to move, and fourteen more divisions ready to be mobilized and completely equipped in less than six months.
Let no one outside this chamber or in it suggest that I am putting forward any thought that we should be preparing on such a grandiose scale; but when the minister talks about a special force and a brigade group as being comparable with many other countries, at least we must recognize that he does not mean comparable with Russia, or any of her satellites, or any of the countries preparing on a scale of that kind. Certainly we must not think of becoming an armed camp on anything on that scale, but we must recognize that the only thing that will balance our strength against overwhelming manpower is to put into our industrial production and into the training of men we have under arms in the navy, the army and the air force a measure of skill that will be so superlatively greater than that of any potential enemy that we can make our smaller numbers effectively equal the numbers in uniform in other countries.
I have sought to give reasons why there should be a secret session. I brought forward the suggestion earlier so that the government might consider it before being asked to make a decision. The request has been repeated on a number of occasions, and has been denied. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I propose to put it to a vote by a rule which is provided for that purpose. This is one of those ancient and traditional rules coming from the time of Charles I; it has been referred to already by a brilliant student of parliamentary practice, the hon. member for Lake Centre. There is an expression that comes from those days, related to a time when it had a different purpose. It is a question to be put by the Chair; and I hope that when the ancient and strange-sounding words are used those in the gallery will not think we are under the impression that some of those
Defence Appropriation Act who, innocently or otherwise, have been distributing communist literature should not have the same right as others have to sit in the galleries of this chamber.
Before I use the words, I would refer you. Mr. Chairman, to page 3 of Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms, third edition, standing order 13, which reads:
If any member takes notice that strangers are present, Mr. Speaker or the Chairman (as the case may be) shall forthwith put the question that strangers be ordered to withdraw, without permitting any debate or amendment: provided that Mr. Speaker, or the Chairman, may, whenever he thinks proper, order the withdrawal of strangers.
I point out that this ancient formula is not directed to the strangers, but is an accepted procedure by which we can formally ask for a secret session. I would point out further as a matter of precedent that these words were used in the British House of Commons on July 27, 1950. On that occasion this ancient rule, which is the same as our own, was followed and a vote was taken on the question whether or not there should be a secret session, when Mr. Churchill used those words. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, under the same rule, following the same established practice and for the same purpose, I use the traditional words: "I spy strangers."


So that there may be no misunderstanding about this, Mr. Chairman, I gathered that the leader of the opposition wanted a vote on the declaration which requires strangers to be excluded from the house. Though the rule says the question may be put by the chairman of the committee, there is no opportunity in committee for a recorded vote. If it were desired to have this question dealt with in such a way that would be properly recorded, I suggest that the committee rise and report progress. Then, with the Speaker in the chair, the hon. gentleman could repeat his statement and have the matter dealt with so that it will appear in the regular way in the records of the house.


I concur in that suggestion, Mr. Chairman. Therefore I move that you do now leave the chair and that the committee report progress.


I should like to say a word on a point of privilege. The rule really requires the motion to be put forthwith, and I do not think that by an agreement of this kind we are following the rule. I may say this puts many hon. members in a dilemma. Those of us who are in favour of a secret session may not be altogether in favour of the manner in which this is being done. It puts many hon. members in a difficult position. I should like to discuss the point with
390	HOUSE OF
Withdrawal of Strangers my colleagues. I should like to point out that the rule is clear. It says that the motion shall be put forthwith.


I understood from the leader of the opposition that he did not object to a motion being put that the committee rise and report progress, and that he intended to state again the position he is taking so it could be dealt with from the chair.


Mr. Chairman, I do not want disagreement on a matter which is just an expression of opinion as to procedure. Strictly speaking I believe the motion must immediately be put, and if the leader of the C.C.F. group and the house are of the opinion that it should, I do not believe I have the right to press the other suggestion.


I should like the opportunity of discussing this motion with my colleagues; therefore I am not going to press it. I want to point out that the rule is clear.


Has the chairman the
unanimous consent of the committee to report progress and ask leave to sit again this day?


Agreed.
Progress reported.


Mr. Speaker, in accordance with the established practice, and under standing order 13, as set out on page 3 of Beauchesne's third edition, I shall repeat the words I used while we were in committee:	"I spy
strangers."


Order. Mr. Drew having taken notice that strangers are present, is it the wish of the house that strangers be ordered to withdraw? Those in favour will please say "Yea".


Yea.


Those opposed will please say "Nay".


Nay.


In my opinion the nays have it.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members.
And the members having been called in:


Order. I might say that this is the first time I have had to deal with this form of procedure, and I hope I shall carry it out correctly. It having been brought to my notice by the leader of the opposition (Mr. Drew) that strangers are present, the


question before the house is that strangers be ordered to withdraw. All those in favour of such an order being made will please rise.


Mr. Speaker, I was paired with the hon. member for Fraser Valley.


In accordance with the vote of the majority of this house I shall not make an order that strangers be required to withdraw.


The house resumed consideration in committee of a resolution to grant to His Majesty certain sums of money for national defence and security-Mr. Abbott-Mr. Dion in the chair.
Mr. Chairman, we can judge the seriousness of the proposal that has just been made and voted upon, and also of the proposal to have a committee on defence,


No.


-and a committee on defence in that respect. It also indicates, sir, exactly how far we get in giving information to the house; because I think I can say with confidence, and the record bears me out, that we have given fact after fact describing the situation, strength and program of the Canadian armed forces, just as fully as it could possibly be done. During this session there has been no single occasion on which I have referred to security or secrecy. I believe there has been no occasion on which it could be said that any question has been evaded. I have given answers as fully and as frankly as possible. If you read the record you will see that fact after fact of this kind which has been given is repeatedly ignored, and then we are told we have given no information.
392	HOUSE OF
Defence Appropriation Act


Mr. Chairman, on a question of privilege-


One o'clock.


Order.


On a question of privilege, the Minister of National Defence naturally is entirely in order in making any explanation he sees fit, tout it is difficult within parliamentary bounds to use appropriate language to describe what he has just said, when he told us that the seriousness of our proposal for a secret session, and the seriousness of the suggestion for a defence committee, could be gauged by this particular statement; and then left the impression that the statement had sought to mislead. That statement by the Minister of National Defence is exactly the thing that makes it necessary that we have a secret session, and that we have a committee on national defence.


What is your question of privilege?


The Minister of National Defence said yesterday, "There is nothing in the story." He has now demonstrated that there is something in the story. He has now demonstrated that these guilty men should no longer hide behind secrecy, tout Should tell us the facts.
At one o'clock the committee took recess.
The committee resumed at three o'clock.


Mr. Chairman, 1 did not have anything to say in the discussion this morning on the question of exclusion of strangers, and the matter is now closed, but I must say that we were placed on the horns of a dilemma, because at the last session some of the questions asked and the answers given in the committee almost transgressed security considerations. However, the matter has been decided; but there is something else I want to say.
In view of the delegation that is here circulating a "peace" petition, I think it would be well to read into the record a paragraph or two from the report of the Secretary General of the United Nations, which has just come to hand. I believe that Mr. Trygve Lie was nominated for his present position by the Soviet union, by Mr. Gromyko himself, and was warmly supported by the Soviet union delegates and their friends at the first assembly when that appointment was made. Mr. Trygve Lie's annual report is dated July 12, 1950, and I think if anyone wanted to bring a witness regarding the Korean situation one could not have a more substantial witness in 

that respect than the Secretary General of the United Nations, with his background as a socialist and foreign minister of Norway as well as the nominee of the Soviet union for the position he now holds. He says this:
The attack upon the republic of Korea by North Korean forces is the latest and worst of a series of dangerous crises which have arisen for the most part out of the failure to arrive at a settlement of post-war problems, and the consequent failure to establish a collective security system based on universal acceptance. The government of the republic of Korea was chosen on the basis of elections held in South Korea under United Nations auspices. It was declared by the general assembly at its third session to be the only lawful government in Korea, The general assembly on various occasions has also called upon member states and all Koreans to assist in every possible way the work of the United Nations commission on Korea, and to refrain from any acts derogatory to the purposes of the assembly's resolution, which were directed towards the peaceful reunification of Korea