Bill No. 136, for the relief of Ethel Bell Lifshitz.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 137, for the relief of Martin Matthew Waagemans.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 138, for the relief of Elaine Ruby Cooper Pierre.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 139, for the relief of Gertrude Toulch Standard.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 140, for the relief of Thomas Gordon Williams.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 141, for the relief of Ethel Lerner Baker.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 142, for the relief of Robert Earl Skinner.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 143, for the relief of Chasia Berger Wolf.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 144, for the relief of Henry William Askew.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 145, for the relief of Leman Makinson.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 146, for the relief of Rose Anna Levesque Kirkland.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 147, for the relief of Douglas Barrymore Stone.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 148, for the relief of Nancy Doria Evan-Wong Meade.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 149, for the relief of Louise Elizabeth Garner Mitchell.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 150, for the relief of Vivian Pearl McCrea Gunning.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 151, for the relief of George Bruce Lancaster.-Mr. Winkler.
Mr. Speaker-


Mr. Speaker-


Mr. Speaker-


The hon. member for
Provencher.


Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely the disastrous floods-


Order. This motion is moved under standing order 31, which reads as follows:
Leave to make a motion for the adjournment of the house (when made for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance) must be asked after the ordinary daily routine of business (standing order 15) has been concluded and before notices of motions or orders of the day are entered upon.
The request for leave appears to have been made at the proper time.
The second paragraph of standing order 31 reads as follows:
The member desiring to make such a motion rises in his place, asks leave to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, and states the matter.
The hon. member may proceed.


I wish to discuss the disastrous flood conditions in the province of Manitoba, covering the major part of the province and affecting the lives and livelihood of thousands and thousands of people.


The procedure is that the hon. member then hands a written statement of the matter he proposes to discuss to Mr. Speaker, who, if he thinks it in order and of urgent public importance, reads it out and asks whether the member has the leave of the house. I have read the written statement, and it appears to me to be in order and of urgent public importance. Accordingly, I shall read it out:
Mr. Jutras moves, seconded by Mr Viau, for leave to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, the disastrous flood conditions in the province of Manitoba, covering a major part of the province and affecting the lives and livelihood of thousands and thousands of people.


Agreed.


I thank you, Mr. Speaker, and the house for giving me this opportunity of discussing a matter of great importance, and of bringing it to the attention of this parliament. Within the last three days it has become a matter of grave personal concern, because this flood affects the major part of my constituency. At the moment the greater part of my constituency is under water, and as reports continue to be received the situation grows worse. As a matter of fact my own property is now in the midst of the dirty waters of the Red river, and the last word

Manitoba Flood
I had indicated that a canoe could be floated in my living room. Compared with the damage to surrounding properties, however, that is of little consequence. The people are helpless; there is nothing to stop the rolling flood water.
A few days ago a man whom I knew well, and who was well regarded in the community of St. Elizabeth, lost his life as a result of the flood. He was just in the prime of life, and leaves a family of seven children, ranging in age from fourteen years to a few weeks. I do want to express my deepest sympathy to Mrs. Sicotte, of St. Elizabeth, and the members of the family. We have every reason to be grateful that so far only one life has been lost. As the flood grows worse from hour to hour, the threat to life becomes greater and greater.
When the flood commenced my first impulse was to go immediately to my constituency to investigate the situation, and at the same time to protect my own property. After due consideration, however, I concluded that it was my duty to remain at my post, at least until such time as the likelihood of a major catastrophe requiring my services in Ottawa had passed. I have kept in close touch by telephone and telegraph with parties in that area ever since the beginning of the flood, and according to the latest report things seem to be fairly well under control. Yesterday I called the mayor of Emerson which was the first town to be inundated, and he told me that the conditions were grim and desolate, but that the people had food, shelter and some heat. It was evident that everything humanly possible had been done for the community, and they were fairly well taken care of. As I have said, every hour the picture changes.
This morning I had been led to believe that the condition has grown worse in Emerson than it was last night. Apparently rail communication has been cut, and the telephone switchboard has been abandoned because of the high water level. I believe the Royal Canadian Mounted Police radio station in the town is keeping in touch with the outside world. I have been told that Morris is facing the same difficulty. I do not know the situation in the town of Letellier, the second town going north, but concern was expressed over the 200-foot sandbag dike which had been erected to hold back the small tributary, the Marais river. The water was lapping over the dike, and I fear that this morning it must be well over it, if indeed the dike has not collapsed under the strain.
When I went home at Easter, there was no flood, but upon investigation there seemed to be every likelihood of one. The authorities

at Bismarck and Grand Forks in the United States advised us that there was a likelihood of a flood in the district; therefore some preparations were made. I know that I prepared my house for the flood, and I believe a good many people acted in a similar manner. We moved our stock and feed to the high ground which had remained dry during the 1948 flood. A good many people moved their personal belongings to these high spots. Unfortunately the Red river and its tributaries did not follow the 1948 pattern; consequently all those places that were left dry in the 1948 flood are now under two feet of water. This has made conditions worse than if the people had not moved their personal belongings at all.
Hon. members will no doubt recall from reading newspaper reports that there was a heavy snowfall in that area at Easter. This made it all the more difficult for the people to move feed and stock to higher ground. As a matter of fact, during the weeks that I was there it was utterly impossible to enter any yard of any farm; consequently they could not move anything out before getting a bulldozer, a tractor or a snowplow to clear a roadway into the farm land. Of course there was a terrific demand on all the equipment, and that caused some delay. It kept snowing and drifting all through, and this added to the difficulty of moving out to higher ground.
When I returned here, immediately after the reopening of the session after Easter, I checked with all the federal agencies concerned to see if they were alerted to the situation and were prepared for it. I found all that could be expected had been done, and that all precautions had been taken that could be taken at the time. I also notified the government, all other members for the province, and others, of the impending disaster. The government now, of course, has promised to look into the situation. As I said, it was not entirely unforeseen. We were prepared, but we were prepared for the 1948 level, not for this disastrous flood.
To establish any comparison with what has taken place at the present time in Manitoba one would have to go back at least a hundred and twenty-five years. In those days, of course, there were no records to show exactly how many inches of water there were. But from old records we know that there was a flood about that time somewhat similar to what we are having today.
From the start of the flood the Red Cross organization was put in charge of everything connected with relief; and I think it is proper at this time that I should pay a tribute to the Red Cross for the wonderful work they are doing in that area. I think it was helpful

-and it was possibly as a result of lessons that we learned in the flood of 1948-that everything in the way of demands and requests, and everything going out, was put into the hands of the Red Cross organization. They are now functioning most efficiently. All demands and everything connected with the work have been concentrated in their hands. The provincial government, the municipal government and governments at all levels co-operate with the Red Cross and send everything that can be sent to be helpful to the people through that organization. There has been a centralization of power that has contributed greatly to getting whatever was needed out to the people who needed it. Everybody has been careful not to interfere with the chain of command. Matters have been working smoothly. I hope that this effort will be kept up-and I am sure it will-until the danger is past and the water has started to recede.
I also want to say that the army has contributed greatly, particularly at Emerson, where there were two, three and four feet of water in the streets. Some people were left stranded out in the water. The army proved invaluable in getting those people back to higher ground. The army also provided water purifiers, something which is also of great importance at any time of flood. These purifiers could draw water from the wells, even in the flooded areas, and purify it for drinking purposes. This enabled the town to keep, until a further emergency, the drinking water which had been supplied by the health department of the province.
Another thing that was done by the health department was this: they spotted a tank car of drinking water on the railway, sealed up under the authority of the Red Cross officials at the spot, so that drinking water would be available when it was really required.
Speaking of the railways, I would say that they provided box cars for the storage of personal belongings. Many people are now living in tourist coaches. There are cook cars and various cars where people can at least have food and water. Furthermore mounted police at Emerson and Morris have been well prepared from the start. They have protected property and they have installed radio communications to meet this emergency, keeping contact with the outside world through their radio station. I was glad to hear on Sunday afternoon the R.C.M.P. operator, speaking from Emerson over the radio, saying that they had all that was required to take care of the situation at that time, and that they had no particular requests to make then.
This picture of the situation in Emerson will give you a picture of the disaster in the
Manitoba Flood
Red river valley. When you consider that at the present time there is water well over the windows of the houses, and that most of the people had to be evacuated from the town, you can well imagine the desolate picture now presented by the town, and the great loss that will be incurred in this town alone. As you move out to the United States boundary from Winnipeg, you go through the towns of Morris, St. Jean Baptiste, Ste. Agathe, and the same story repeats itself. Mr. L. Brown reported over the radio on Saturday afternoon, speaking in the streets at Emerson, and he reported again on his way driving back from Emerson to Winnipeg in an amphibious vehicle. The way he put it was this. All he could see was water on both sides of what was supposed to be the highway which he was following, and toppling buildings and desolate isolation. This is the picture of the entire Red river valley, which is practically the entire area from the city of Winnipeg to the border and practically to Bismarck, and in Manitoba extending west right up to the Pembina hills and to the sand hill to the east.
To make matters worse-that is, worse for the people in the district-the weather has been terribly cold. Since the flood I understand the highest temperature recorded has been 45 degrees above zero. Every'now and then they have had snow. They had snow in the early part of the week; they had snow in the middle of the week, and last night I understand they had snow again, or at least last night it was a little bit further south, in the United States. One can well imagine the misery of trying to hold up dikes, working in two or three feet of water, with the snow falling most of the time. Then we must remember that in most of the homes the basement and sometimes the first storey has been flooded; consequently their means of getting heat is restricted and in some cases completely cut off. It is very difficult to live without heat in such weather at the present time. In spite of the fact that this cold weather has probably helped the situation so far as Winnipeg is concerned, and may prevent that city from getting as high a flood as would be expected from all that water further south, it has made the conditions that much more difficult for the people in the district.
When this water recedes-I hope it will be before too long, although it will be some time yet, because it is still climbing, and if any snow falls again in the south or anywhere around, it will go up again-you can well imagine the tremendous loss that these raging waters will leave in their wake in that part of the province. Most of the public works

Manitoba Flood
of course will be washed away. There will be tremendous damage to real estate. As I explained previously, although we were prepared for the 1948 level, we were not prepared for this one. I know of one farmer who had moved his cattle, his grain and his feed to a high spot, or at least one that was a high spot and a dry spot in 1948. Shortly after moving his stock, his grain and his feed, the water came over it and he had to move a second time to higher ground. By that time of course he was worse off than if he had left his feed and livestock at home, because where he was there was very little accommodation, not nearly the accommodation he had had at home; he was completely surrounded by water by that time, and could not get out very easily. I have no doubt that that experience has been repeated in many parts of the district. We can expect that the losses in grain and feed, apart from livestock, will be very great indeed because of that fact.
I want to say here that this is not just another flood. I know that in a country the size of Canada there are floods every year in some parts of it; but this is a flood that has a peculiar aspect to it. As I said before, it covers practically all of the best farm lands of the province, extending even north of Winnipeg, and from Winnipeg right down to the boundary east and west. The most densely populated area of rural Manitoba is flooded.
What I suggest for consideration is that this area did have a serious flood in 1948; but now after a lapse of two years we are faced with a much worse flood than the one we had then. Everybody will realize, of course, what this means to the local residents of these farms. They had not completely recovered from their losses of 1948, and now they are faced with even greater losses financially and otherwise, which will work a terrific hardship on them.
There is another factor that enters into it. This is an international flood. It is not a flood that is confined to Canada. It originated further south in North Dakota and Minnesota, and came into Canada, with the result that this vast expanse of water is astride the international boundary. This is a recurrence of the flood of 1948. It is true there is quite a lapse of time between floods, but still this is a recurring problem; it is happening every now and again. As a matter of fact, I went back and checked up when floods of major importance had taken place in the Red river valley, and I found that they date back to 1776. Apparently there was a flood in 1776; there was another in 1790; the next one was in 1826; then there were floods in 1849, 1852, 1861, 1885, 1897,

1916, 1948 and 1950. Therefore the lapse of time between the various floods runs 24, 36, 23, 3, 9, 24, 12, 19, 32, and 2 years, making an average of 18 years.
It has to be noted that the source of the recurring floods is outside of our own country, and south of the border, and as a matter of fact we can do very little about it. In all fairness I want to say that our United States friends to the south have made some efforts to try to prevent those floods from occurring in their country and in ours. Actually they have impressive plans now before them. They have spent $1,500,000 to prevent floods, and there is now being spent $3,300,000. There is an authorization of $12,250,000, and there is up for review an amount of $353,000. That amounts to a total of $17 million. That is the amount they expect to spend to try to control floods in the Red river.
In spite of that, according to the best experts and engineers, there is every likelihood that, even with all these major projects and all this work being done to try to hold the water back, it will not be enough to control the floods. It might control them to a certain extent, but that is not a solution of the problem of these floods in the area. I ask the government to press the international joint commission to speed up its engineering report on the control of floods in the area, to try to get some action, and to explore further to see whether, if they cannot be wholly controlled, they may be partly controlled.
I take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act officials to this problem. For some time I have thought that an irrigation project could be set up at the foot of the Pembina hills. As a matter of fact I have consulted a competent engineer. I have a map which shows that there is a possibility-it has not been studied in detail -of holding at least the water coming from Pembina hills into the valley of the Red river, this eliminating some of the difficulty. I do not mean that this would prevent the floods, but it might alleviate the difficulty to some extent. The main thing to remember now is that even if it does not prevent the floods in the district, it might prevent them from rising the extra two or three feet, and if it did that it would pay for itself on the occasion of one flood. As we know, as the water rises higher and higher the damages mount in very much greater proportion. I would go so far as to say even that the last four or five feet of the flood will probably do more damage than the initial forty-foot rise. So, even if it is only a slight measure of control, it would be well worth while investigating.

I wish at this stage to draw the attention of the Canadian wheat board to a problem that will probably arise as soon as the waters recede. We must envisage now the possibility -perhaps even more than a possibility; it amounts almost to an assurance-that the entire southern part of the province will be unable to produce any wheat this year. We are now in the month of May, and the waters are still rising. By the time they recede and the land dries enough to permit cultivation, there is every likelihood that the time will have passed when the planting of wheat would be possible. We may envisage a situation in which no farmers in the district will be able to plant wheat.
This condition will naturally make a much greater demand on coarse grains seed for seeding purposes. I would expect that there would be some degree of scarcity of those grains at the present time, since much of the seed grain stored for planting purposes is probably under water today. As soon as the land dries out, undoubtedly all the farmers will rush to the wheat board or to the market to secure seed grains, and the board would be wise to prepare for that condition now. Naturally the demand will be most urgent. As soon as the land is ready, the people will want to get on it.
At this stage, of course, it is too early to assess damages. We know that in 1948 the damage ran into millions of dollars, and this time it will be well over that amount. I think it is only fair to say, therefore, that these people will need assistance. As I have indicated, everything for their immediate assistance has been channelled through the Red Cross. As the peak is passed, everything will be channelled back to the provincial government. No doubt some assistance will be given. Indeed, we have the assurance from the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent), and I am grateful to him for it, that the matter will be looked into, in conjunction with the province, to see what can be done.
At this time, therefore, I would request the government to send someone in authority out there to look over the situation, and to learn exactly what the story is in that part of the province.


Mr. Speaker-


I might say that before coming to the house the hon. member for Provencher (Mr. Jutras), the hon. member for Souris (Mr. Ross) and the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) all informed me that they proposed to make the motion that has been made this afternoon.
I intimated that in all probability I would see first the hon. member for Provencher,
Manitoba Flood
because he had intimated to me earlier than the other two members that he would make his motion. I had to find some reason for recognizing one of the hon. members.
In view of these circumstances I believe that perhaps I should call upon those hon. members in the order in which they had seen me prior to entering the chamber. Following that procedure, I would recognize next the hon. member for Souris, and then the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


Mr. Speaker, I entirely agree with the reasons you have just stated for calling on these hon. members in the order indicated. However, in view of the fact that there would seem to be a number of members wishing to take part in the debate, I am wondering if perhaps the house would be prepared to hear a statement from me concerning the communications I have had-


No.


-with the premier of Manitoba, which might shed some light upon the matter, and perhaps dispose of matters which would otherwise take a good deal of time in debate.


Mr. Speaker, in view of my experience with the Minister of Justice (Mr. Garson) when he was premier of Manitoba, and with the present premier of that province, I should like to speak at this time, if it is agreeable.
I had intended to ask leave, under standing order 31, to move the adjournment of the house to discuss a definite matter of urgent public importance, the flood conditions in southern Manitoba, which are causing loss of life, damage to property, and untold suffering.
I have followed closely the remarks of the hon. member for Provencher (Mr. Jutras), and I agree that most serious concern and damage is within his riding, while it does affect citizens in many other ridings in the thickly populated portion of Manitoba. There is one statement he made, however, with which I do not agree, and that is that at the present time the flood is fairly well under control.


I did not say that.


I stand corrected.


I am sure the hon. member wishes to be accurate. I did not say it was under control. As a matter of fact, I said it is worse than it was before.


I apologize to the hon. member, because I must say I could not understand his making that statement. I am sure I must have misunderstood, because
2030	HOUSE OF
Manitoba Flood
the report I received this morning is to the effect that it is worse than it was. The floods have not yet reached the peak. Therefore I am glad the hon. member and I agree upon that point.
I agree with him also in expressing my compliments and congratulations to those splendid citizens and officials who are doing such a magnificent job under very great difficulties out there at this time. I believe there is a real engineering problem in that area, and one which, if faced immediately, would lessen future costs. The best engineers in this country should be flown in there right away, and there should be immediate financial aid for those who are suffering undue hardship.
I cannot understand public officials adopting a wait-and-see attitude under circumstances of such great difficulty, because in the long run it will mean a heavy expenditure in dollars and cents. The greatest concern right now, however, is to relieve human suffering, and I know that in circumstances such as these there is much of it. I join sincerely with the hon. member in complimenting those people upon the splendid job they are doing under such great difficulties.
Dealing with this motion to adjourn, according to a Canadian Press dispatch of April 28, last Friday, provincial public works minister Hon. E. F. Willis has said that the Red river flood this year is far worse than the flood in 1948, when damage amounted to millions of dollars. The hon. member ftor Provencher has substantiated the fact that the damage is much greater today. Mr. Willis, who is acting premier in the absence of Hon. D. L. Campbell, said the deluge is in every sense a national emergency and should receive the immediate attention of the federal government. The floods are as national in character as those in British Columbia in 1948, and national assistance should be made available in the same way. On the same date a telegram was sent to the Prime Minister by Mr. Harry Shewman, member of the legislative assembly and mayor of Morris. The citizens of Morris are certainly undergoing great hardship-those of them who have not already been evacuated. His telegram reads:
I would like to ask your government to give aid to the flooded area of the Red river valley as this is a national emergency. This area flooded badly in 1948 and 1950. Many people have suffered great financial loss.
Would suggest that a royal commission be set up to investigate flood control, also income tax exemptions of the repairing of homes this year.
The Prime Minister stated that he had received this telegram and the matter would


be looked into, but not at the moment by a royal commission. He said:
We shall endeavour to ascertain what the situation is, and then determine what action, if any, should be taken.
On that same date the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) made a statement to the house. He said, as reported at page 1980 of Hansard:
As hon. members will recall, in a statement to the house on May 3, 1948, the then secretary of state for external affairs replied to a somewhat similar question asked by the hon. member. At that time the minister stated:
"Our information is that the present flood . . . did come principally from international waterways which flow from the state of North Dakota into the province of Manitoba. While to some extent it is a recurrent flood, it had caused no disaster of this magnitude since 1916."
That was in 1948.
"The reference to the international joint commission, dated January 12, 1948, covering waters from the eastern boundary of the Milk river drainage basin up to and including the drainage basin of the Red river, does allow the commission"- That is, the international joint commission.
-"to make recommendations with a view to preventing the recurrence of such floods."
I skip a portion and continue:
The United States government has made, and is making, large contributions to flood control in the Red river basin in that country. Storage dams have been built, channel enlargement has been made and confining dikes have been built. The dams tend to hold waters back from Manitoba, while the other two methods tend to send it down stream faster. Studies indicate, however, that the net effect of these measures on flood peaks in Manitoba is negligible.
Approximately ten miles down stream from Emerson, the Roseau river enters the Red with waters gathered in Manitoba and Minnesota, while at the city of Winnipeg, the Assiniboine river joins the Red, bringing with it the waters of the Souris river, which are also under investigation by the commission looking to complete utilization and control.
The various studies necessary to the comprehensive planning of all the phases of these investigations are involved and difficult. The engineers have, however, already gathered a great deal of data on which to base conclusions. These data are being analysed, and it is hoped that on completion of the studies the two nations will have plans which will include measures for the alleviation of flooding such as is being experienced at present.
I then asked the minister whether that report was up to date and he answered:
This report ... is up to date. The report of the engineers has not yet been submitted to the international joint commission, but that will be done shortly.
To people closely associated with southern Manitoba flooding problems past and present the report by the Secretary of State for External Affairs is not very satisfactory. May I say that so far as Canadian appointments to the international joint commission on water rights are concerned, many people consider this a lucrative pension scheme to certain people for past faithful service.

Personal friends of mine, who rendered spendid service for three score years and ten and were then in ill health, have been appointed to the commission. In the past they rendered splendid service to their communities and the country in general. There is great dissatisfaction in this regard among people well acquainted with these flood problems. In fact the engineers' association has publicly protested this method of appointment.
On the Red river watershed in the state of Minnesota, construction work on reservoirs and dams has recently been completed at a cost of $1,500,000, and further construction of projects of this kind has been authorized to commence at an early day in the state of Minnesota, the estimated cost of which is $4,376,000. On the Red and Souris river watersheds in the state of North Dakota, construction is now under way. amounting to $3,343,000, and further authorization to commence at an early day has been granted in the amount of $7,851,000, a total of over $17 million. Therefore it is obvious that the people of the United States are trying to do something about this recurring situation.
As the Secretary of State for External Affairs referred to the 1948 flooding of both the Red and Souris rivers, may I say that I have considerable knowledge of the flooding problems of the Souris river. In three successive years, 1947, 1948 and 1949, as a result of flooding, the use of many thousands of acres of the most productive and valuable land in that river area was entirely lost, and the various farm owners received no recompense whatever from either the provincial or the federal government. During the late thirties, following the drought period, I drove federal government officials up the bed of the Souris river in an automobile. It was entirely dry in many stretches. Following that, a series of dams were constructed in the river, and, while requesting these dams, I argued strenuously with the then responsible engirw eers against the proposed type of dams which they insisted upon constructing. I pointed out to the engineers what in my opinion might easily happen in the future. Many concrete pillars a few feet apart and higher than much of the level farm lands were constructed with stop logs rather than proper type of control gates. During the spring of 1948 particularly, much debris, et cetera, jammed from the bed of the river to the top of these pillars, piling up around them until the flood waters upstream were several feet higher than just below the dams. People have photographs of this condition and other genuine proof that many thousands of acres of land became flooded and could not be
Manitoba Flood
drained in 1948 for cropping, directly as a result of this type of construction. The proper authorities then realized the situation, and have since disposed of many of these pillars and have altered in some degree the construction of these dams.
Several of the farm owners of this flood area have been asking in vain both provincial and federal authorities that they be reimbursed to some extent for this very great loss. A number of these farmers have now gone together and placed their case in the hands of an able and prominent lawyer, but it is necessary to obtain a fiat or permission from both the provincial and the federal government in order to sue them. Surely that should not be necessary in such a case.
During the time of the 1948 floods in southern Manitoba I flew over a great part of the Red and Assiniboine flood areas, and following that devastation, later in the same summer, I motored through these same areas. I have lived most of my life along the banks of the Souris river. The southern Manitoba floods of 1948 caused a loss of millions of dollars. In my opinion, with respect to the 1948 flood problem or the present national emergency as a result of southern Manitoba flooding, while the Manitoba department of public works has done a very good job in either construction or repairing roads, bridges, et cetera, or in assisting municipalities to do so, as yet neither the provincial nor the federal authorities have faced their rightful responsibilities in this matter.
The 1950 Manitoba flood, which has became a national emergency, affects many citizens in at least eight federal constituencies, or one-half of the federal constituencies of the province of Manitoba. I am asking that the federal authorities, together with those of Manitoba, handle this situation on the same basis as in the case of the citizens of Fraser valley, British Columbia, in 1948. I am asking that a thorough study be conducted of Manitoba flood conditions during the past three or four years, and that a settlement be made on the same basis. In this respect I should like to quote what Mr. Mackenzie King, then prime minister, had to say on June 9, 1948, as reported at page 4937 of Hansard:
I should like to give the house the latest information as to the arrangements made between the government of British Columbia and our own government with respect to flood conditions in the Fraser valley.
Since his arrival in Ottawa, Hon. Byron I. Johnson. premier of British Columbia, has been conferring with the Minister of Finance and other members of the government, as well as myself, regarding arrangements for co-operation between the two governments in meeting the appalling situation in the Fraser valley, which the government has


Mr. Speaker, I am sure all hon. members are glad that you had no hesitation in permitting the hon. member for Provencher (Mr. Jutras) to put his motion for the adjournment of the house to discuss this question as a definite matter of urgent public importance. I suppose if there had been any doubt in your mind as to the urgency of the matter, that doubt was dispelled by the fact that you received notices from three of us from Manitoba as to our intention to move similar motions.
Since the member for Souris (Mr. Ross) has indicated what would have been the terms of his motion had he been permitted to make it, I might also be granted that privilege. The motion I sought to move reads as follows:
Mr. Speaker, I ask leave, seconded by the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Bryce), to move the adjournment of the house under standing order 31, for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, the disastrous flood situation in the Red river valley of Manitoba, and the need for an immediate statement by the federal government as to its readiness to provide financial assistance to aid those who have suffered serious losses as a result of this national disaster.
One of the reasons I wanted to read the terms of that motion at this point, Mr. Speaker, was that I felt I should like to emphasize the aspect of the problem referred to by the member for Souris in his concluding remarks. We all recognize that the government-like Canute-cannot push back the waves of water that are now flooding the province of Manitoba. I am going to say more about that later, especially with
Manitoba Flood
respect to what the international joint commission might be doing. At the moment, the flood is there. Even a debate in this house will not drive it back. But it would mean a great deal to the morale of the flood victims if a statement could be made today to the effect that financial assistance will be forthcoming. Quite frankly, Mr. Speaker, that is one of the reasons that some of us were not willing to give way to the Minister of Justice (Mr. Garson). If his statement does not include that assurance, we are now giving him time to make that alteration before he speaks in this debate.
I suppose one of the arguments the government will use for not making a definite statement at this time may be that it takes time to survey the extent of the damage; that it takes time to determine how much money would have to be appropriated; and that it might even take time to determine whether there is any federal responsibility in this matter. I do not think there can be any doubt about the federal responsibility. The situation is clearly a national disaster. The precedent established two years ago in British Columbia is well known, and has been spelled out by the member for Souris. It seems to me that even if it is not possible at this moment to state what amount of money will be made available, it is possible to give an assurance that an appropriation will be asked from parliament to assist those people who have suffered serious loss. I certainly hope that statement will be forthcoming from the Minister of Justice when he speaks. As I say, it will give a much needed boost to the morale of those people who are suffering these grievous losses.
It has already been pointed out that the mayor of one of the towns most seriously hit in the area between Winnipeg and the border, Major Harry Shewman, M.L.A., of Morris, has made representations to the Prime Minister. It is also known that the suburban municipalities around Winnipeg are requesting federal assistance. I understand that the Hon. Errick Willis, minister of public works in Manitoba and deputy premier in the coalition government, has declared that in his view the responsibility for aiding those people does rest on Ottawa. The only reference I have seen thus far to the premier of the province, the Hon. Douglas Campbell, is that he is waiting to see whether or not it is a national disaster, and whether or not the federal government should be called upon for assistance. The premier may be waiting to ascertain that fact, but the thousands of people to whom the member for

Manitoba Flood
Provencher (Mr. Jutras) has referred in his apt description of this situation do not need to wait; they know from hitter experience that it is a serious disaster. I certainly hope there will be the assurance of federal assistance without further delay.
The member for Souris has indicated the amount of money made available two years ago in votes Nos. 932 and 933 of the appropriations for the year 1948-49. Those votes amounted to $4,500,000 to assist in certain construction and diking work on the Fraser river, plus $5 million for what might be called direct relief. I am sure those who were in the house on that occasion will recall that the house voted that money gladly. There was a feeling on the part of the representatives from all over Canada that these were our fellow Canadians who were in distress, and that they certainly deserved the assistance voted to them. I am satisfied that the members for British Columbia will today support us in our request that similar assistance be given to the flood victims in the province of Manitoba.
I fully agree with the two previous speakers as to the urgency for more speedy action on the part of the international joint commission. I am sure that all of us who make this plea at this time feel that it is most unfortunate that we should be forced to discuss ways and means of preventing floods when the floods are upon us. I feel the government should have been embarrassed the other day when I put my question, which the member for Provencher also had in mind, to the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) as to what had been done since the matter of that commission doing something was raised in the house by the member for Provencher two years ago. When that question was asked the minister said that the member for Provencher had been speaking to him about it, but he had to look it up to see what had been done in those two years. Since it had been stated in the house two years ago that this question does come within the terms of reference of the international joint commission, it does seem to me that that commission should be made to realize that the time to act on the flood question is not when the floods come but before they come in an effort to prevent their recurrence.
It does seem to me, Mr. Speaker, that the ingenuity of the engineers of our day is sufficient to find some way in which to cope with this problem. The suggestion made by the member for Provencher seems to have considerable merit. I imagine that the difficulty is not one of engineering ingenuity, but the old problem of finding the money for necessary public works. If we were not

discussing the flood situation in Manitoba at this time, I believe the order paper is so laid out that we would have been discussing pipe lines. Incidentally, there seems to be plenty of money available for those pipe lines. If a small portion of the money that is being spent to pipe gas and oil out of Canada could be spent to pipe some of this water away from places where we have too much of it, I believe that would solve the problem quite easily.
I shall not make the mistake of going over the material that has been presented. The member for Provencher has given a complete description of the seriousness of the situation in a large area of Manitoba from Winnipeg right down to the border fanning out over a wide section of that part of the province. As some hon. members no doubt have heard, there is one point where the Red river is now fourteen miles wide. This means a great deal of devastation in that area. A great many of the constituencies covered by the flood waters are agricultural constituencies, but damage is being done to many residences in the suburbs of Winnipeg as well, such as St. Boniface, Norwood, St. Vital and in the Kildonans. The fact that three of us from Manitoba have sought to move motions with respect to the matter makes it clear that it is a serious situation, indeed that it is a national disaster.
If the Minister of Justice is now following me, I hope he will not make a long statement about dominion-provincial relationships, constitutional niceties or the difficulty in finding ways and means of voting the money. I hope he will make a clear-cut statement that the federal government does recognize its responsibility and is prepared to ask parliament to vote money to provide financial assistance to aid the victims of this serious flood.


The quality of the speeches we have heard, Mr. Speaker, is quite in accord with the seriousness of the subject with which we are dealing. I particularly want to congratulate the hon. member for Provencher (Mr. Jutras) on having introduced this motion this afternoon. Apart from any other purpose it may serve, it permits me, as a minister of the government, to make a somewhat more lengthy statement-and on that account, in some respects more satisfactory-than the short statement I might be able to make on the orders of the day.
Before I enter upon the body of my own remarks, which I shall try to keep as brief as possible, I should like to deal with some of the points which have been raised by the last two speakers. The hon. member for Souris (Mr. Ross) suggested that one of the

first steps we should take at the present time is to fly the best engineers in and look the situation over. As one who has great admiration for engineers, I suggest in all seriousness that there is little indeed that their examination of the present situation could do to solve the immediate problem. I suggest that what we have at the present time is not in any sense an engineering problem at all, but rather one of relief and of minimizing the loss of life and the loss of property.
Then the hon. member went on to imply that the government of Canada have been remiss in comparison with that of the United States, in that whereas the former had spent a small amount of money in, presumably, the alleviation of this flood-I presume that is what he meant-the United States government had spent large amounts of money south of the border; and therefore we were to be criticized.
I should like to tell him-and perhaps he knows it already-that this morning, upon coming back to Ottawa, we found a personal letter awaiting us in which there was quoted a report from a person some thirty-five miles or forty miles south of the border in the United States. In it this gentleman said that in his area, in spite of these works to which the hon. member for Souris has referred, the Red river at that point was sixteen miles wide and when the wind blew it had white-caps on it just like the ocean; and that the Tamarac river, a rather small tributary of the Red river coming in at or about that point, was about seven miles wide. I therefore think that what we are confronted with here, and what one ought in some intellectual honesty and political fairness to take into account-and which is also supported by the brief statement that was read by my colleague the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson)-is that we are, by the nature of the topography of this whole area, confronted with a flooding problem which engineering skill can alleviate but perhaps not entirely cure.
That was indicated, as a matter of fact, by one of the selections from the statement made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs which the hon. member for Souris was careful not to read. It reads in this way:
Control of these waters through construction of storage reservoirs in the United States has been the subject of study in that country-
-not by the international joint commission but by these engineers of the United States government, which is willing to spend these large amounts of money that my hon. friend wants us to spend in this country, and for 55946-130
Manitoba Flood
the protection of its own subjects. And what was their conclusion? It was this:
-"but it has been stated with authority that complete control by that method is not feasible."
I admit at once that if complete control is not feasible, that does not in any way detract from the validity of my hon. friend's argument. If complete control is not feasible, that is perhaps all the more reason why such control as is feasible should be provided.
In that connection I should like to say that this matter has been the subject of study, as we all know, for the past two years at least by the international joint commission, to whose practice I think I should perhaps make a reference or two in order that we may understand better the present engineering problem with which we are confronted.
When a reference is made by the United States and Canadian governments to the international joint commission of the type of this Red river problem, the commission usually establishes its own engineering board for the purpose of dealing with that reference. Having regard to the fact that it is an international joint commission, that engineering board is also international in character and is made up of the best top-grade engineers that it is possible to secure for that purpose on both sides of the boundary. This board, when it is made up, is a creature of the international joint commission, which international joint commission is responsible not to one government but to two governments. This board, as I understand, has already made some four interim reports to the international joint commission, but, without securing the approval of the commission itself and also that of the two governments involved, I think we could not make use of these interim reports for the purpose of the present discussion.
Two things, however, are clear from the statement made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs. The first of them is the one I have already mentioned, namely, that complete control of the type of flood problem that is encountered in the Red river valley is perhaps not feasible. The second is the point which I think the hon. member for Souris read in his own statement. That was to the effect that these works that have already been done in the United States, and to which he made reference, have a negligible effect upon the flood peaks effect of any waters that come over the international boundary into Canada. That was the part of the statement that my hon. friend read.
From this fact I think it will be seen that while the flying in of engineers to look over the situation at the present time might

Manitoba Flood
be a picturesque gesture, it might win some votes from people who were not too well informed; but