Mr. Speaker, I am sure all hon. members from Nova Scotia will tender their sympathy to my deskmate, the hon. member for Moose Jaw (Mr. Thatcher), to the hon. member for Souris (Mr. Ross) and to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner), as well as to all other ardent curlers in the house, on the fact that teams representing those various places in the Canadian championship bowed to the Nova Scotia team in Halifax on Saturday last.
I am sure, sir, that all of them will join with us from Nova Scotia in tendering our congratulations to the Kentville rink consisting of Wallace Knock, Fred Dyke, George Hansen and Donald Oyler, a very youthful and, from the national standpoint, inexperienced team. They not only won the dominion championship, but won it in such a way that their record can never be broken, and probably will never be equalled.


Mr. Speaker, may I say how pleased and happy the city of Halifax and the province of Nova Scotia were to entertain those who participated in the Dominion curling championship. The bonspiel was a model of good feeling and good sportsmanship; and while it was not the role of the perfect host to win the championship we could not help taking a great deal of pleasure from that fact as well.


British Columbia was second.


Bill No. 132, for the relief of Abraham Tar-ontchick, otherwise known as Abraham Turner.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 133, for the relief of Mabel Caroline Lay Redburn McCormick.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 134, for the relief of Jack Harold Frederick Grater.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 135, for the relief of Kathleen Merle McCullough McCallum.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 136, for the relief of Mary Margaret Urquhart Cuthbert Gilman.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 137, for the relief of Margaret Isabel Ward Green.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 138, for the relief of Rejeanne Laliberte Tinker.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 139, for the relief of Frederick John Pratt.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 140, for the relief of Arthur Frederick Albin Turner.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 141, for the relief of Maria Silvaggio Mazzalongo.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 142, for the relief of Jacqueline Yvonne Suzanne Stucker	Grant.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 143, for the relief of Ethelbert Deniston Joseph Bartholomew.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 144, for the relief of Ivy Elizabeth Whitehead Simpson.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 145, for the relief of Evelyn Elizabeth Hulbig Wilks.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 146, for the relief of Margaret Cameron Williams.-Mr. Winkler.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	How many retired employees of the Canadian National Railways are in receipt of pensions of less than $25 per month?
2.	How many are in receipt of only the basic pension of $25 per month?
3.	How many are in receipt of non-contributory service pensions (a) $25.01 to $29.99 per month; (b) $30 to $39.99 per month; (c) $40 to $49.99 per month; (d) $50 to $59.99 per month; (e) $60 to $69.99 per month; (f) $70 to $79.99 per month; (g) $80 to 89.99 per month; (h) $90 to $99.99 per month; (i) $100 to $125 per month; fj) over $125 per month?
4.	How many retired employees of the Canadian National Railways are in receipt of pensions in part basic and in part contributory (a) $25 to $29.99 per month; (b) $30 to $39.99 per month; (c) $40 to $49.99 per month; (d) $50 to $59.99 per month; (e) $60 to $69.99 per month; (f) $70 to $79.99 per month; (g) $80 to $89.99 per month; (h) $90 to $99.99 per month; (i) $100 to $125 per month; (j) over $125 per month?


The Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
1.	24 under C.N.R. prior plan.
2.	3,256.
3.	(a) $25.01 to $29.99 per month, 745; (b) $30.00 to $39.99 per month, 670; (c) $40.00 to $49.99 per month, 330; (d) $50.00 to $59.99 per month, 228; (e) $60.00 to $69.99 per month,

Questions
138; (f) $70.00 to $79.99 per month, 100; (g) $80.00 to $89.99 per month, 55; (h) $90.00 to $99.99 per month, 40; (i) $100.00 to $125.00 per month, 24; (j) over $125.00 per month, 80; total, 2,410.
4.	(a) $25,01 to $29.99 per month, 459; (b) $30.00 to $39.99 per month, 2,115; (c) $40.00 to $49.99 per month, 1,689; (d) $50.00 to $59.99 per month, 1,220; (e) $60.00 to $69.99 per month, 1,003; (f) $70.00 to $79.99 per month, 856; (g) $80.00 to $89.99 per month, 723; (h) $90.00 to $99.99 per month, 607; (i) $100.00 to $125.00 per month, 884; (j) over $125.00 per month, 1,177; total, 10,733.


The Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
1.	(a) $125.01 to $199.99 per month-74;
(b)	$200 to $299.99 per month-4;	(c)
$300 to $399.99 per month-1;	(d) $400
to $499.99 per month-nil; (e) $500 or over per month-1; total-80.
2.	(a) $125.01 to $199.99 per month-1,008; (b) $200 to $299.99 per month-122; (c) $300 to $399.99 per month-22; (d) $400 to $499.99 per month-9; (e) $500 or over per month-16; total-1,177.
3.	Apart from pension payments under pension fund regulations (but not additional or supplemental thereto), four retirement annuities are being paid to retired employees as under: (a) $125.01 to $199.99 per month- nil; (h) $200 to $299.99 per month-3; (c) $300 to $399.99 per month-nil; (d) $400 to $499.99 per month-1; (e) $500 or over per month-nil; total

4.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS- RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES Mr. Knowles:
1.	How many former employees or officials of the Canadian National Railways who, upon retirement, 
did not qualify for any pension under any established plan, are in receipt of retirement allowances?
2.	How many of these retirement allowances are $100 a month or over, how many are less than $100 a month, and what is the lowest amount of any such allowance?


1.	15.
2.	$100 a month or over-4; less than $100 a month-11; lowest amount of any such allowance-$25.


1.	What is the total number of persons employed by the Canadian National Railways?
2.	Of these, how many are eligible to contribute toward a supplemental pension in addition to the basic pension of $23 per month to which they will be entitled on retirement at age sixty-five?
3.	J5ow many are now contributing toward such a supplemental pension?
4.	How many Canadian National Railways employees, upon retirement, will qualify, according to their present status, for non-contributory service pensions?
5.	How many employees now working for the Canadian National Railways will be entitled on retirement, according to their present status, to only the basic pension of $25 per month?
6.	Is the basic pension of $25 per month available to all employees, and if so, on what conditions?


1.	On Canadian lines at December 31, 1950, 104,096.
2.	All except temporary employees and those who commenced after age fifty-five and those who are now contributing to other railway pension funds, viz.: 4,848 contributors to Intercolonial provident fund and 12 contributors to Grand Trunk Railway superannuation fund.
3.	Contributors to C.N.R. pension plan, 40,637; contributors to I.C.R. and P.E.I. provident fund, 4,848; contributors to G.T.R. superannuation, and provident fund association, 12.
4.	Service pensions are payable to employees who entered the service before attaining age fifty who at December 31, 1934, had at least ten years allowable service and at age sixty-five have at least fifteen years allowable service. It is not possible to say how many employees will meet these requirements.
5.	There is no record of the number of employees who on retirement will be entitled to only the basic pension of $25 per month. Approximately only 40 per cent of eligible employees are contributing to a supplementary pension.
6.	Basic pensions are payable to:

Questions


(a)	employees who entered the service before December 31, 1934, who had less than ten years allowable service at that date and who have at least fifteen years allowable service at age sixty-five.
(b)	employees who entered the service after December 31, 1934, at not over age forty-five and who at age sixty-five have at least twenty years allowable service.
What was the dollar value of defence contracts placed In (a) British Columbia; (b) Alberta; (c) Saskatchewan; (d) Manitoba; (e) Ontario; (f) Quebec; (g) New Brunswick; (h) Nova Scotia; (i) Prince Edward Island; (j) Newfoundland, during the tenth and eleventh months of the current fiscal year?


Mr. Speaker, a question very similar in form to this one was asked earlier this session, and the answer is to be found at page 452 of Hansard. It is not possible to get an accurate answer, by reason of the fact that in many cases orders for defence contracts are placed in one province and the address used by the firm contracting is in another. There are many examples of that sort of thing; I can give examples if the house wants them.
Another reason why it is not possible to get the information in accurate form is that it does not take any account of subcontracts. However full information is available about every contract over $5,000, and each two weeks a press release is issued giving a full list of such contracts. I suggest that that information is more useful and more accurate; it is readily available. Any answer that would be made to the question in its present form would be comparatively meaningless. I have arranged with the hon. member asking the question to have the copies of the public press releases sent to him. For that reason I ask that the question be dropped.


Dropped.


1.	What has been the total cost to date of the government printing bureau, Hull, Quebec?
2.	What is the estimated total cost?
3.	When will it be completed?


1.	$857,212.16.
2.	Estimates are being prepared.
3.	During the year 1953.


1.	Have negotiations been carried on between the federal government and the Nova Scotia provincial government for the construction of a bridge or causeway across Canso strait?
2.	If so, what is the present status of the project?


1.	Yes.
2.	Board of engineers has been reconvened.


1.	Since 1949, how many of each class of naval ships have been referred to the Canadian maritime commission for yard allocation in connection with (a) refits; (b) recommissioning; (c) new construction?
2.	In connection with such allocations, what yards in Nova Scotia have been considered, and for what class of ships?
3.	What yards are now engaged in such work?


1. (a) 6 destroyers, 3 frigates, 1 aircraft carrier, 1 Algerine minesweeper, 1 auxiliary vessel, 1 auxiliary tanker, 1 cruiser.
(b) None.
1949	1950 Total
(c) Anti-submarine escort
vessels	
3	4	7Influence type minesweepers	
4	10	14Gate vessels	
1	4	5Arctic patrol vessel...	1-12.	Halifax Shipyards Ltd., Halifax, N.S.; Halifax Shipyards Ltd., Dartmouth, N.S.; Pictou Foundry and Machine Co., Ltd., Pictou, N.S.; Thompson Bros. Machinery Co., Ltd., Liverpool, N.S. All classes listed above.3.	Refits-Yarrows Ltd., Esquimalt, B.C.; Halifax Shipyards Ltd., Halifax, N.S.; Halifax Shipyards Ltd., Dartmouth, N.S.; Saint John Drydock Co. Ltd., Saint John, N.B.
New Construction-Yarrows Ltd., Esquimalt, B.C.; Victoria Machinery Depot Co., Ltd., Victoria, B.C.; Burrard Drydock Co., Ltd., North Vancouver, B.C.; Port Arthur Shipbuilding Co., Ltd., Port Arthur, Ont.; Canadian Shipbuilding & Engineering Ltd., Kingston, Ont.; Canadian Vickers Ltd., Montreal, Que.; Marine Industries Ltd., Sorel, Que.; Davie Shipbuilding & Repairing Co., Ltd., Lauzon, Que.; Geo. T. Davie & Son Ltd., Lauzon, Que.; Halifax Shipyards Ltd., Halifax, N.S.; Pictou Foundry and Machine Co., Ltd., Pictou, N.S.; Saint John Drydock Co., Ltd., Saint John, N.B.

Questions


1.	Have any ships been ordered for construction by Halifax Shipyards Limited?
2.	If so (a) what type of ships; (b) on what dates were orders placed; (c) what period of time will be required for construction?
3.	Will steel be available?
4.	Has work been started on these ships?
5.	If not, when will construction begin?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Anti-submarine escort vessels; (b) May, 1950, and November, 1950; (c) not known.
3.	Yes.
4.	Yes.
5.	Answered by No. 4.


Who were, in chronological order (a) the acting (b) the joint (c) the associate ministers of justice for each separate period of office from October, 1935, until December 9, 1941, and what was the length of time of each such period of office?


Who were, in chronological order (a) the joint (b) the associate (c) the acting ministers of finance for each separate period of office since January 1, 1930, and what was the length of time of each such period of office?


Who were, in chronological order (a) the joint (b) the associate (c) the acting ministers of finance for each separate period of office since October 23, 1935, and what was the length of time of each such period of office?


What was the difference between the functions of (a) the joint (b) the acting (c) the associate ministers of national defence, during world war II?


Mr. Speaker, I should
like to deal with these four questions orally and then file more complete details.
There have never been any joint ministers in the departments in the periods referred to in the questions. The only department which had an associate minister was the Department of National Defence, and his functions are a matter of public record, as they appear in the Department of National Defence Act of 1940.
Acting ministers are appointed from time to time to act in the absence of the ministers. The names and duration of periods of office of the acting ministers of justice and finance for the dates referred to are as follows: Department of Justice-April 3, 1936, Hon P J A Cardin; November 11, 1941, Hon. A. L. Macdonald; November 26, 1941, Hon. J. E. Michaud.
Department of Finance-September 23, 1930, Hon. E. B. Ryckman; November 12, 1931, Hon. E. N. 
Rhodes; June 6, 1933, Right Hon. Sir George H. Perley; June 30, 1936, Hon. T. A. Crerar; April 19, 1937, Hon. J. L. Ilsley; August 8, 1940, Hon. J. L. Ralston; April 1, 1942, Hon. Colin Gibson in the absence of Hon. J. L. Ralston; September 10, 1942, Hon. Colin Gibson in the absence of Hon. J. L. Ralston; August 4, 1943, Hon. Colin Gibson in the absence of Hon. J. L. Ralston; December 27, 1944, Hon. L. S. St. Laurent; May 10, 1945, Hon. D. C. Abbott in the absence of Hon. L. S. St. Laurent; July 12, 1946, Hon D. C. Abbott; September 4, 1946, Hon. Colin Gibson in the absence of Hon. D. C. Abbott; December 13, 1946, Right Hon. L. S. St. Laurent; July 6, 1949, Right Hon. C. D. Howe; August 31, 1949, Hon. Stuart S. Garson; July 19, 1950, Hon. J. J. McCann in the absence of Hon. Stuart S. Garson.
Generally speaking, an acting minister holds that appointment until it is terminated by the government, usually through the naming of another minister to so act, or by his leaving the government.
However, the acting minister's term may be temporarily interrupted from time to time where, during his absences from Ottawa, the government deem it advisable to appoint another minister to so act in his place on a pro tem basis.


1.	What was the date of the royal assent to the national defence purchasing board act?
2. When was the personnel of that board appointed, and who were they?


1. The date of the royal assent to the Defence Purchases, Profits Control, and Financing Act, 1939, was June 3, 1939.
2.	Robert C. Vaughan, Esq., Montreal, chairman-appointed July 14, 1939; Clifton W. Sherman, Esq., Hamilton-appointed July 14, 1939; Charles E. Gravel, Esq., Montreal- appointed July 14, 1939; Howard B. Chase, Esq., Montreal-appointed July 14, 1939.


1.	Are there any entry ports in Canada where it is the practice to have only one officer interview entrants as to customs and immigration details?
2.	If so, at what ports, and when was this practice adopted in each case?


1.	How many radio sets were in operation in Canada during the year 1949-50?
2.	How many radio licences were issued during this period?
3.	What was the total income from radio licences for 1949-50?
4.	How many convictions were made for failure to secure licences in this period?
5.	What was the total cost of collecting radio licence fees for the year 1949-50?

6.	What was the total revenue collected from all operations of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for the year 1949-50?
7.	Was there a deficit in the operations of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for the year 1949-50? If so, in what amount?


1.	Has the Department of Transport been advised as to action by the commonwealth telecommunications board to restore the submarine cable between Halifax, Nova Scotia, Harbour Grace, Newfoundland and Cornwall, England?
2.	If so (a) when will work commence; (b) what is the estimated cost; (c) who will share the cost; (d) what proportion will be borne by Canada?
3.	Will the restoration of cable mean the reestablishment of cable offices and staffs in Halifax, Nova Scotia?


1.	Has any engineering firm been retained to prepare plans for a new reactor at Chalk River?
2.	If so, what firm?
3.	Upon what basis are fees payable to this firm?
4.	Will this firm also supervise construction?
5.	If so, on what basis?


1.	What was the total income earned by the farmers of (a) Alberta; (b) Saskatchewan; (c) Manitoba, in each of the years 1946, 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950?
2.	How many motor cars and trucks were purchased in each of these provinces during each of the above-mentioned years?
3.	What was the dollar value of farm implements sold in (a) Alberta; (b) Saskatchewan; (c) Manitoba, in each of the years 1946, 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950?
4.	What is the estimated number of farmers actually owning or renting farm property in (a) Alberta; (b) Saskatchewan; (c) Manitoba, in 1950?
5.	What is the estimated share of cost to the individual taxpayer in Canada in the payment of $65 million to the farmers of the three western provinces?


1.	How many persons were employed directly or indirectly by the dominion bureau of statistics in each of the years 1929, 1939, 1949, and 1951 to date?
2.	What was the total cost for (a) wages and salaries; (b) rent and capital cost, if any, for office space; (c) all other expenses during each of these same years?


1. What construction and repair work on wharves, slipways and breakwaters, in the province of New-
Orders for Returns
foundland, has been done during the period from
April 1, 1949, to date?
2.	At what locations was such work done, and what was the cost of each operation?
3.	At what points will such construction and repair work be done during the present year?


1.	What airports in (a) Nova Scotia; (b) Prince Edward Island; (c) New Brunswick; (d) Newfoundland, were used by Department of National Defence for training purposes and for operations during world war II?
2.	Which of the above airports are now in active use (a) by the Department of National Defence; (b) by the Department of Transport, for commercial purposes?


Mr. Cold well:
For a copy of all letters, telegrams, memoranda, or other documents between any minister, department, official, or the government of Canada and any minister, department, official or His Majesty's government of the United Kingdom, relating to the final settlement of the four-year agreement, 1946, for the sale and purchase of Canadian wheat, including correspondence, and other documents relating to the price agreed to be paid during the last two years of the agreement.
The hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Caldwell) knows that the government of the United Kingdom has been approached to see whether they have any objection to the publication of documents related to the discussions referred to in this motion. Of course hon. members realize that it is not usual to publish documents connected with negotiations between governments, but only to publish the agreed conclusions. Nevertheless we have asked the views of the United Kingdom government about this motion.
As a controversy has arisen in debate respecting the position taken by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) at London in May of 1950, and by the government since that time, I feel I should make the position clear at once.
The United Kingdom authorities took the position in May of 1950 "that all obligations under the 'have regard to' clause might be considered to have been taken care of." The Minister of Trade and Commerce said that this was a matter which could only be settled by the Canadian cabinet on his return to Ottawa. After discussion with his colleagues, the Minister of Trade and Commerce advised the chancellor of the exchequer of the United Kingdom that the Canadian government was in accord with the conclusions in the agreed record of the meeting held with the United Kingdom authorities while he was in London. That is one of

Motions for Papers
the documents for which their consent to table has been requested. In other words, the Canadian government accepted as the position of the United Kingdom that they had discharged their obligations under the agreement.
Subsequent representations to the United Kingdom government were as I stated in the House of Commons on March 8 in reply to a question by the hon, member for Assiniboia (Mr. Argue), and that reply is at page 1023 of Hansard of 8th of March.	>


Is the motion dropped?


No; it stands. We have not yet received the reply from the United Kingdom.


The reply has not been received, so the motion stands?


Yes.


Motion stands.


For a copy of all correspondence exchanged between the government of Manitoba or any minister or department thereof and the federal government or any minister or department thereof, in reference to the question of federal aid to education, dated at any time since January 1, 1947.


This is subject to the usual reservation in connection with getting the consent of the government of Manitoba.


Carried, subject to the usual reservation regarding provincial consent.


For a copy of all schedules of postal rates issued from year to year from 1914, to date, also for a statement showing profit or loss yearly on the handling of second-class mail since and including the year 1939.


Right Hon. L. S. St. Laurent (Prime
Minister): May I give an answer to a question submitted on March 6 by the hon. member for Yale (Mr. Jones)? The question was:
Did the government of British Columbia make representations in regard to the fruit growers, and if so, did they receive that answer?
That was in reference to the answer that had been given just before the hon. member had put his question. I told him I would have to look at the correspondence; that I knew members of the British Columbia legislature were concerned but I did not want to

make a positive statement about the government of British Columbia without looking at the correspondence. I am now given the following answer.
The government of British Columbia did make representations in regard to the fruit growers who suffered losses in the winter of 1949-50. We considered the matter and came to the conclusion that as the loss was not beyond the capacity of the provincial government to handle, and as there was no precedent for the provision of federal assistance in similar cases, assistance could not be provided by the federal government for the rehabilitation of damaged orchards; and the government of British Columbia was so informed.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to provide elected representation in the territorial government for the population of the northwest territories, and to give the governor in council power to appoint judicial officers for the said territories.
He said: Mr. Speaker, His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs, based upon press reports appearing today with respect to the arrest of Canadian citizens and other repressive treatment which seems to have been accorded citizens of this country in Red China? Can the minister tell us whether he has any late reports dealing with the subject of Canadian citizens still in Red China, and whether it is possible for Canadian citizens to leave that country freely for Canada if they so desire?


We have had information in my department through the United Kingdom authorities in Peking, which information has been transmitted to us through London,

and also information from other sources, that certain Canadians have been detained by the government in Peking. We have asked the United Kingdom authorities in China to look into the cases that have been brought to our attention and to do everything they can to afford those Canadians protection. Since we ourselves have no diplomatic representation in China, on this occasion we are dependent upon the good offices of-the United Kingdom diplomatic service; and, as always, they are only too anxious to help, as I hope we would help if the circumstances were reversed.
On the general question of the position of Canadians in China, I would not like to say anything at this moment without more consideration; but I can tell the hon. member for Peel that Canadians are leaving China at the present time. Delays have been put in their way but of those who wish to return to Canada some are getting out of China. I may be able to give him more particulars on that aspect of the matter shortly.


On the orders of the day:
Since butter has increased in price by 17 cents a pound in the last two weeks and is now selling for 80 cents a pound in western Canada, will the Minister of Agriculture say how much butter has been imported into Canada recently, and by whom; what is the basis of the distribution of government stocks of butter, and what is the present situation with respect to butter?


Order. I think this question is one that should be placed on the order paper. The latter part of the question might be permitted now, but the portion having to do with statistical information should be on the order paper.


I would prefer to have the whole question stand as notice, and the question can be answered tomorrow.


I have given the minister notice, and his suggestion is quite satisfactory.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of Transport if he can do anything to expedite the production of the papers covered by a motion adopted on February 26, which appears at page 667 of Hansard? Can he do anything to hurry these papers along before the recess?
Inquiries of the Ministry Hon. Lionel Chevrier (Minister of Transport): I shall be glad to look into the resolution to which my hon. friend refers. What was the motion about? I do not have it in mind at the moment.


I asked for the production of any correspondence there might be between the federal government and the government of Nova Scotia in the matter of the Canso bridge.


I remember it now. I do not think the correspondence can be tabled until the permission of the provincial government has been obtained. That permission has been requested, and as soon as it is forthcoming the papers will be tabled.


On the orders of the day:
In
view of the urgent necessity of co-operative organization among the fishermen of Newfoundland, I should like to ask the Minister of Fisheries whether any steps have been taken recently to bring about this result.


At the moment I cannot recall any instance in which we have given different treatment to the co-operatives from that accorded to other _ agencies, but I shall make a further examination and see what has been done.


INQUIRY AS TO PROBABLE DATE OF PRESENTATION On the orders of the day:
Is the
Minister of Finance yet in a position to tell us whether he will be able to bring down the budget before the Easter recess?


Yes, I am. I shall not be able to bring it down before Easter.


REDUCTION IN URBAN MAIL DELIVERIES__
On the orders of the day:
should like to direct two questions to the Postmaster General. Can the minister tell us what adjustments, if any, are being made in the mail delivery service in Toronto as a result of the work of his investigators there last week? Second, is the department considering paying the postmen overtime rates

Foreign Exchange Control Act for the extra hours of work rendered necessary by the change from two deliveries to one delivery a day?


I wish to thank the hon. member for giving me notice of these two questions. As to the first, a check is being made of all these walks, but it has not been completed. We expect the first week's check to be back tomorrow or the day after, and any necessary adjustments will be made. As to the second question, no consideration is being given at the present time to the matter the hon. gentleman has mentioned.


in 1953
that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to provide for the continuance in force of the Foreign Exchange Control Act until sixty days after the commencement of the first session of parliament commencing in the year 1953.
He said: Mr. Speaker, this resolution seeks leave to introduce a bill providing for the extension of the Foreign Exchange Control Act for a further two-year period. The original measure, enacted by parliament in 1947, provided that the act should lapse sixty days after the commencement of the first session of parliament in 1949. On March 17, 1949, I introduced a resolution, which was subsequently embodied in legislation approved by parliament, providing for the continuance in force of the act until sixty days after the commencement of the first session of parliament in 1951. The effect of the present bill, when it is enacted, will be to postpone the termination date for a period expiring sixty days after the commencement of the first session of parliament in 1953.
When I introduced a similar resolution two years ago, I described the Foreign Exchange Control Act as a measure of national defence. The developments of the past two years, and particularly of the past six months, have, I think, illustrated the correctness of this description, as well, of course, as the continued need for the measure itself. It is because the government believes that this measure of national defence continues to be necessary that we are asking the house to agree to retain it for another two years. We all wish that the state of the world were such that there were no longer any need to retain the powers provided in this act. It is no affection for controls as

such which moves us to seek a prolongation. On the contrary, as I shall show the house in some detail, we have progressively reduced the extent of the control which is in fact exercised under the act, and we hope to continue in this direction as long as we are able. When, however, we are confronted with the question, as we are at this time, whether we are prepared to abandon the machinery itself by allowing the act to expire, then we feel that only one answer is possible.
There is no need for me, after the discussion which has already taken place in the house since the commencement of this session, to elaborate on the unsettled state of the world. Nor is there, I believe, any need to introduce any elaborate arguments to establish that one aspect, and a very important one, of our economic preparedness must be the control over our foreign exchange resources. I am not able to relate in detail to the house, because I do not know, what foreign exchange pressures we may be under as we and our allies step up the pace of our military preparedness. But I feel that members on all sides of the house will agree that we shall be better able to cope with the pressures that do arise if we retain this instrument of control than if we abandon it.
Even without the pressures of war and near war, the foreign exchange situation of Canada tends to be an extremely variable one. This is illustrated in the wide swings to which our foreign exchange reserves have been subjected since the end of the war. In this connection may I express my personal regret that the 1950 report of the foreign exchange control board, which will include the detailed relevant statistics for the last calendar year, is not yet available. I had hoped that it would be ready in time for this debate, but I am now advised that it will be another three or four weeks before some of the figures can toe finalized and the report printed and tabled. Some of the figures which I shall use in this statement therefore will necessarily be very preliminary and tentative. However, hon. members are already aware from published reports that our official reserves in gold and U.S. dollars, which amounted to approximately $1,500 million at the end of 1945, fell during 1946 by approximately $250 million and in 1947 by nearly $750 million. In 1948, on the other hand, they rose by nearly $500 million, in 1949 by $120 million and in 1950 by $625 million. These are very formidable changes from year to year and they illustrate better than words the size of the external pressures to which our economy is subject. These

pressures arise partly as a result of the importance of external transactions in our economy-


Will the
minister permit a question?


Yes.


Could the
minister indicate, up to whatever date it is possible, what change has taken place since the tenth of September last?


Yes. I believe the last
quarterly figures have been published. Our reserves at the end of September-I am speaking from memory now-were approximately $1,800 million U.S. dollars, and they were about the same at the end of the year. Those figures were available early in January.
As I was saying, these pressures arise partly as a result of the importance of external transactions in our economy, partly as a result of the nature of our trading relationships with the two economic areas of major importance to us, the United States and the sterling area; partly as a result of our proximity to the United States and the large volume of U.S. capital investment in Canada. Whatever the causes may be, it is the case that throughout the post-war period our foreign exchange situation has shown itself to be capable of very rapid change from year to year. The existence of exchange control has been helpful in coping with these changes and in moderating their effects, though it cannot, of course, be claimed that this control by itself provides any guarantee of stability. It is essentially a defensive instrument.
It may be of value to the house if I review now the highlights of our foreign exchange experience during the past two years,-that is, since the act was last extended.
I must begin by recalling the foreign exchange difficulties which arose in 1947 and which resulted in the loss, by the end of that year, of nearly two-thirds of the reserves with which we emerged from the war. In tackling these difficulties we were obliged temporarily to do a number of unpleasant and unpopular things, such as restrict imports and ration pleasure travel involving U.S. dollar outlays. We substantially reduced the rate of our own foreign lending and we borrowed some capital in the United States. However, we placed the greatest emphasis on a positive approach. We sought to achieve a closer approach to equilibrium in our bilateral balance of payments with the United States and the sterling area by developing our exports to the United States and by encouraging imports into Canada from the United Kingdom and other parts of the sterling area.
12, 1951
Foreign Exchange Control Act
This program, which was supported by the general fiscal and economic policies of the government, was successful in improving our balance of payments and stemming the loss of reserves. In the course of 1948, as I have noted, we added nearly $500 million to our official holdings, of which $150 million was borrowed. Our over-all balance of payments in that year showed a current account surplus of over $450 million; our current account deficit with the United States alone was reduced from over $1,100 million to less than $400 million.
In 1949 we continued to add to our reserves, though at the more moderate rate of $120 million. Our over-all current account surplus was reduced to $180 million, the change as compared with the previous year occurring mainly in our transactions with the United States, and reflecting mainly increased imports into Canada and increased travel expenditures and dividend payments involving U.S. dollar outlays.
The most significant development in the foreign exchange field in 1949 was of course the change in the international exchange rate structure which was inaugurated by the thirty per cent devaluation of sterling in September of that year. This action by the United Kingdom was followed by similar action by all other sterling area countries with the exception of Pakistan; and most western European countries immediately depreciated their exchange rate to the same or a lesser degree. As a result of these changes a new and very drastic exchange rate structure emerged and a completely new situation was created for the Canadian dollar. In appraising the new situation the government came to the conclusion that the Canadian interest would best be served by reducing the value of the Canadian dollar in terms of U.S. dollars by approximately nine per cent. We felt, in the face of the very large depreciation in the value of sterling and most other currencies, that some change must be made in the value of the Canadian dollar. Our competitive position at home and abroad was strong, but we did not feel that Canadian producers should be subjected to the full strain of a thirty per cent reduction in the exchange value of the currencies of some of our principal competitors in the home and foreign markets. On the other hand, the devaluation of sterling and other currencies represented, in part, an effort on the part of the countries concerned to use the price system to redress the great unbalance that still persisted in their trade with the dollar countries. This effort would have been nullified, so far as Canada was concerned, had we not allowed some appreciation of the Canadian dollar in relation to these currencies. Out of
1138	HOUSE OF
Foreign Exchange Control Act these conflicting considerations we reached the decision of September 1949 to reduce the exchange value of the Canadian dollar by about nine per cent, which involved an appreciation of our currency in relation to sterling of approximately twenty-five per cent.
In the latter part of 1949, and in the course of 1950, important new factors emerged affecting in an important way our foreign exchange position. One of these was a very sharp drop in our exports to the United Kingdom and other sterling area countries. Members of the house will recall that at the commonwealth ministers of finance meeting which took place in London in July, 1949, to consider the problem raised by the very sharp decline in the sterling area's gold and dollar reserves, the sterling area countries agreed to reduce their dollar drawings on the sterling area dollar pool in respect of dollar imports by an amount equivalent to twenty-five per cent of 1948 imports. It is, of course, impossible to say to what extent the decline in sterling area purchases in Canada which occurred in 1950 was due to the tightening of import restrictions consequent upon this decision, to what extent it was due to normal economic forces set in train by the exchange devaluations of September 1949, and to what extent it was due to the continued recovery of production in the non-dollar world and consequent availability of supplies on economic terms for payment other than in dollars. Whatever may have been the factors operating, our exports to the United Kingdom fell from $710 million in 1949 to $470 million in 1950, and our exports to the rest of the sterling area from $300 million in 1949 to $200 million in 1950-an aggregate decline of over $300 million, or thirty per cent, in our exports to the sterling area in one year. Before the war, nearly half our exports went to the sterling area; by 1949 this had been reduced to a third; and in 1950 the proportion going there was substantially less than one quarter.
On the other hand, in recent years, the total value of our imports from these countries has increased very considerably, percentagewise, though even now the sterling area supplies us with only slightly more than twenty per cent of our total imports compared with nearly thirty per cent before the war. The United Kingdom, which had already succeeded in increasing its exports to Canada from less than $150 million in 1946 to $300 million in 1949, increased them still further to just over $400 million in 1950. Other sterling area countries increased their exports to us from $190 million in 1949 to $240 million in 1950. This increase in imports from the sterling area, helping as it has done to redress the


balance of payments between this part of the world and Canada, has been a most welcome development, and I should like to express the satisfaction of the government at the success which has attended British efforts in this direction. The development of exports to Canada is the course of action which I strongly urged on my colleagues, the ministers of finance of the sterling area countries, at the commonwealth gathering of ministers of finance in July 1949, to which I referred a moment ago. We in Canada believe-and I am sure that all members of the house will agree-that it is in the interests of all concerned that any necessary correction of the unbalance in accounts between Canada and the sterling area should be achieved through an expansion in our imports rather than through a contraction in our exports.
Primarily as a result of the developments I have mentioned affecting our import and export trade with the sterling area, our current account surplus with this part of the world, which was $578 million in 1949, virtually disappeared in 1950 according to the preliminary estimates. After taking all capital items-including our extensions of credit- into consideration, the sterling area made net payments, mainly in U.S. dollars, of nearly $500 million to Canada in 1949. In 1950, on the other hand, the balance has so far been redressed that there was in the year apparently only a very small net transfer of gold and U.S. dollars between Canada and the countries of the sterling area.
The improvement in the sterling area's balance of payments with Canada is, of course, only one aspect of the very remarkable and welcomed improvement which has occurred in the over-all dollar position of that area since the devaluation of sterling. This improvement is reflected in the gold and dollar reserves of the United Kingdom which have risen from $1,425 million at the end of September 1949-and an even lower figure immediately before devaluation-to $3,300 million at the end of 1950. Some part of this increase is of course attributable to ECA and other external assistance, but during the past year the sterling area as a whole has been earning a substantial surplus in its dollar transactions.
In the light of this improved position, it is the earnest hope of the Canadian government that the governments of the United Kingdom and other sterling area countries will give earnest consideration to the possibility of relaxing the present severe import restrictions, particularly those of a discriminatory character, on imports from Canada. We recognize of course that there are a number of uncertainties and unfavourable elements in

the British situation which justify a certain degree of caution. The dollar surplus, particularly that which has occurred since Korea, has been achieved in part by a very sharp increase in the prices of the primary products exported from sterling area countries other than the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has had to give up a much larger volume of exports to obtain the same volume of imports from other sterling area countries, and this has absorbed a large part of the increase in output of the United Kingdom during the past year. Even so, the balances held in London by other sterling area countries-the counterpart, in some measure, of their surplus dollar earnings transferred to the United Kingdom-have risen very substantially, and they constitute a claim on British productive capacity. Moreover, the rearmament effort of the United Kingdom will absorb an increasing share of British resources, and particularly perhaps in those fields in which the dollar export drive has been most successful.
For these reasons we can appreciate why the British chancellor of the exchequer has pointed to the necessity of some degree of caution in appraising the outlook for the dollar position of the United Kingdom. At the same time we feel justified, for our part, in expressing the strong hope that the caution will not be excessive. Some of the sterling area countries have already taken steps to reduce their restrictions on dollar imports, and it is to be hoped that others, including the United Kingdom, will take advantage of their present opportunities to do likewise. In the present circumstances we urge this course not so much because of any desire to widen the markets for Canadian products-which, with very few exceptions, are finding a ready enough sale at the present time-but rather on account of our desire to see competitive conditions re-established over as wide an area of trade as possible and concrete evidence given of the determination of all our trading partners to move as rapidly as they can towards the achievement of those principles of non-discrimination and liberalism which are the declared policy of the government in international trade.
1 revert now to the main developments in our foreign exchange position during the past two years. The first, as I have pointed out, has been the virtual elimination of the surplus in our balance of payments with the sterling area. Our exports to western European countries have also been substantially reduced-by about one-third- while our imports have increased somewhat, though they remain disappointingly small. In consequence our current account surplus
Foreign Exchange Control Act with that part of the world is substantially less than it was a few years ago.
In some ways the most striking development in our exchange position during the past few years has been the great expansion in our exports to the United States. Those rose from $1,000 million in 1947 to $1,500 million in 1949 and to over $2,000 million in 1950. The high level of economic activity prevailing in the United States, combined with the enterprise of Canadians in producing the right goods at the right prices and taking advantage of their opportunities and seeking out new markets, plus the more favourable conditions of entry for certain important products arranged in tariff negotiations with the United States-these were among the factors responsible for this remarkable increase in our exports to the United States. It had been our hope, when we got into exchange difficulties in 1947, that once the emergency, which required us to impose restrictive measures on imports and travel, had been overcome, we would be able to achieve the necessary correction in our position through an expansion of exports. These hopes have, as the house is aware, been realized, and, in line with the policy announced at the time the restrictions were first imposed, they have been progressively reduced as our exchange position has improved. At the beginning of this year the last of the import restrictions imposed' under the Emergency Exchange Conservation Act was eliminated, and that act itself has in consequence lapsed. So far as travel is concerned, we are again in the happy position where Canadians can obtain U.S. funds to cover all travel requirements without being subject to any ration.	.
The current account deficit in our transactions with the United States was reduced from the very large figure of $1,100 million in 1947 to an amount of the order of $400 million in 1950. It will be apparent from what I have said that this improvement is mainly due to the increase in our exports; the value of our imports was not substantially different, though rising rather rapidly in the latter months of 1950. Increased gold production also played its part in reducing our current deficit with the United States. On the other hand, interest and dividend payments have risen very markedly in recent years.
The reduction in the current account deficit with the United States in recent years, though very substantial, has fallen short of the reduction in our surplus with the sterling area and other countries. In consequence, our over-all current account surplus, which reached the very high figure of $450 million in 1948, was reduced to $180 million in 1949 and gave way to a deficit of the order of $300 million in 1950.

Foreign Exchange Control Act
The developments in our current account position ill 1950, though important, were overshadowed by those relating to capital transactions. In each year since the end of the war, quite substantial sums of capital have come to this country from abroad, particularly from the United States, for direct investment in Canadian industry and to participate in the development of our natural resources. The consequence and the counterpart of this capital inflow has, of course, been a deepening of our economic structure and a growth in our output and our economic capacity which enables us to assume the additional foreign exchange charges resulting from the capital inflow. In the course of 1950, and particularly after the outbreak of hostilities in Korea, a massive inflow of capital of quite a different type developed. This consisted in the purchase by United States investors of marketable Canadian securities, particularly government of Canada obligations. The scale of the capital inflow is reflected in the increase of nearly $600 million in our reserves of gold and U.S. dollars which occurred between June 30 and September 30.
The ardent desire on the