On the orders of the day:
Mr. J, G. Diefenbaker (Lake Centre): I
should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister regarding a newspaper report respecting General Kurt Meyer. In so far as his incarceration is concerned, was he released or transferred under an order in council, and has there been any communication to the effect that he will now take his place in any army being formed in western Germany?
I am sorry that neither the Minister of Justice (Mr. Garson) nor the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Claxton) is in his place. I am sure that they could give a more detailed statement. In the meantime I can only say that Kurt Meyer is merely being transferred from one custody to another. There is no question of release. However, I will call the question to the attention of the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) and endeavour to have an answer for my hon. friend on Monday.


Perhaps the minister
would say whether or not this was done under order in council, as there seems to be quite a bit of secrecy about the matter.


I am told that it was done under order in council-I did not happen to be in council the day the order was passed, but I think it Was yesterday.


Was any request received from any other government for such order in council?


I am sorry, I am not in a position to answer this question. This is not a matter that is related in any way to my department, but I will endeavour to have all these questions answered on Monday by the appropriate minister.


Because of the importance of the matter, will the minister say whether he is still under the control and the jurisdiction of Canada or whether his incarceration has been transferred to the jurisdiction of another country?


I will call that question to the attention of the government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Monday last I directed a question to the Minister of Finance concerning a recent decision of the income tax appeal board to the effect that expenses of lawyers attending conventions of the Canadian Bar Association are deductible for income tax purposes. At that time I asked the minister if steps had been taken to extend the same privilege to members of trade unions and other comparable groups. The minister said that he would answer the question later.


I had forgotten to answer the hon. member's question. Of course it is one of law. I have not examined the decision of the income tax appeal board; but I assume the board must have decided that the lawyer in question incurred these expenses as necessary expenses in earning his income. If a member of a trade union is in the same position in deducting expenses, and if he can say that his attendance at a trade union convention was necessary, incidental to the earning of his income, then I assume that as a matter of law the court would hold the same thing. However, it is purely a question of law.


May I ask this supplementary question: Does not the minister feel that the law should be changed so as to make sure that all these different groups are treated alike?


No, I think it is strictly a question for the courts.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Prime Minister indicated that I would make a short statement on the developments

Inquiries of the Ministry in Egypt, and I am very glad to do so now. It was also suggested yesterday by the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Green) that there had been some strange delay in dealing with this matter, in so far as bringing it before the House of Commons is concerned. I do not think there has been any undue delay, as the chronology of events will indicate.
On October 15, Monday of this week, the United Kingdom High Commissioner saw officials of my department and brought them up to date on the events which had transpired in Egypt over the week end. Unfortunately, on that day I was absent, in Kapuskasing, returning from there the next day at noon. Upon arrival in the House of Commons at 1.30 I found a question from an hon. member which I felt I could not deal with appropriately at that time.
Then on the next day, Wednesday, after we received further information from the United Kingdom government, the questions was discussed in cabinet. We also had an exchange of views with regard to it with Washington.
On Thursday, October 18, the views of the Canadian government in respect of this matter were transmitted to the United Kingdom government and also to the government of the United States. On that occasion- yesterday-I was in a position to make a Short statement; but in view of observations then made it was felt that possibly the very short statement I had in mind should be elaborated somewhat. That longer statement I shall make today.
I believe, if hon. members wish to understand the complete significance of what has been transpiring in Egypt, it might be desirable to give very briefly a short historical background. It must be remembered in the first instance that even when the protectorate in Egypt was terminated in 1922 and Egyptian independence was proclaimed, the questions of the Sudan and British defence interests in Egypt remained unsolved issues, and were the subject of differences between the two governments until 1935, when the invasion of Ethiopia brought war to the very borders of Egypt and led directly to the signing of the 1936 Anglo-Egyptian treaty.
This treaty, which was to run until 1956, was designed to put an end to the military occupation of Egypt, and to replace it with a permanent alliance for mutual assistance both in times of peace and war between the United Kingdom and Egypt. That treaty also authorized the maintenance of United Kingdom troops in the Suez canal zone-and I quote these words "until such time as the parties agree that the Egyptian army is in a position to ensure, by its own resources, the liberty and entire security of navigation

of the canal." That treaty, the 1936 treaty, also continued the administration of the Sudan under the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium Agreement of 1899.
During the war years-that is the years of world war II-the treaty, through the facilities in Egypt which it placed at the disposal of the allies, played a very important role in the attainment of ultimate victory over the axis powers. As the tide of war receded from Egypt, however, the popular Egyptian demand for the removal of all remaining limitations on independence was revived and led to an inconclusive reference of this matter to the United Nations security council by Egypt early in 1947.
With the return of the Wafd government to power in Egypt in 1950, it became the declared objective of Egypt to achieve the complete evacuation of United Kingdom troops from the canal zone and the unification of the Nile valley, including the Sudan, under the crown of Egypt. Rejecting a revision of the treaty with the United Kingdom, and finally rejecting more recently a place of equality in a system of collective defence for the whole Middle East area, the Egyptian government has pursued its national aims to the point reached a few days ago, when it abrogated its treaties with the United Kingdom.
It was implicit, in the recent decision taken in Ottawa a few weeks ago to invite Greece and Turkey to accede to the North Atlantic treaty, that the defence of the Middle East is vital to the successful defence of Europe and the north Atlantic area, as was clearly shown during world war II. It was for the same reason that it was also decided to establish a separate command in the Middle East which, through the peacetime co-operation of the states in the area and those states directly concerned in the defence of that area, could make adequate preparation for its successful defence in time of war.
Those states directly concerned, and which were invited to participate in the Middle East command, included Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. These proposals, which were submitted to the Egyptian government before the denunciation of the treaty, would have superseded the treaty and would have terminated the present United Kingdom regime, under which it had responsibility for the security of the canal zone. These proposals were rejected by the Egyptian government, and that rejection was followed very shortly by the action taken last week.
So far as the Canadian government is concerned, it regrets exceedingly the action taken by the Egyptian government to repudiate the Anglo-Egyptian treaty of 1936-action

all the more regrettable in view of the tact that alternative arrangements were under discussion with the Egyptian government at the time the repudiation took place.
The Secretary of State of the United States has already characterized this repudiation and, indeed, also that of the agreements of 1899, regarding the Sudan, as without validity. We agree with that view.
The situation which has developed in the Suez canal zone is highly inflammable and can become dangerous to general peace. For that reason the Canadian government joins other governments in expressing the earnest hope that every effort will be made to avoid any breach of the peace and to achieve a satisfactory arrangement for the security of the area.
The government has welcomed the assurances which we have received from the United Kingdom that, as we would naturally expect, they are doing their best and will continue to do their best to avoid incidents and violence. The Canadian government considers it of major importance for the security of the free world, indeed for the maintenance of peace itself, that no action should be taken to alter by force the present regime of responsibility of the United Kingdom for the defence of the Suez canal zone. These views have already been communicated to the United Kingdom government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, earlier in this session I replied to inquiries in connection with an increase in the basic rate of disability pensions paid to veterans under the Pension Act by stating that the government had had the matter under consideration and that an announcement would be made on the subject at an early date.
In accordance with the recommendation of the last special committee on veterans affairs the government has given further consideration to increasing the basic rate of pensions for pensioners under the Pension Act. I now wish to inform the house that it is the intention of the government to introduce at this session legislation dealing with this matter.
Consideration has also been given to the War Veterans Allowance Act, in particular to its relationship with the new social security legislation to be introduced by my colleague, the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Martin). The government has come to the conclusion that it is advisable to have this legislation studied by a special committee on
Inquiries of the Ministry veterans affairs before submitting it to the house. Accordingly it is intended that such a committee will be set up as early as possible after the regular 1952 session opens in order to deal with the War Veterans Allowance Act. I may say that changes to the War Veterans Allowance Act subsequently enacted could be made retroactive to the first of January 1952, which is the general date for the putting into effect of the provisions of the new old age security legislation and Old Age Assistance Act.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the
members of the house will welcome the fact that the government has on further consideration decided to deal with this subject. I notice that the minister said that legislation will be introduced during the present session to deal with the matter, but he has not indicated the nature of the steps that are to be taken. It certainly would avoid unnecessary discussion on this subject if the minister would indicate that a decision has been taken to deal with this matter on the basis of an over-all increase in the basic rate which has been pressed for by hon. members for some days.


Whatever legislation is to be brought in will be made known to the leader of the opposition and other hon. members at the time. I do not think that it is necessary for me to go further into the matter. Any debate on this particular phase of the matter should take place at that time.


May
I ask a supplementary question. In view of the fact that the new social security legislation will have some effect upon war veterans allowances, why is this committee not being set up at this session so that it could study the new social security legislation?


For one reason, the new old age security legislation has not yet been introduced. Until that legislation is before the house it would not be in order to consider changes in any other act administered by my department. As the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott) points out, that legislation would have to be disposed of first. I might say that in considering this question the government was of the opinion that the work performed by the parliamentary committee which sat during the last sessioh covered adequately the question of an increase in the basic rates of pension. It was thought desirable during this short session that some positive steps be taken following the sittings of the committee. I might say that the various veterans organizations have indicated to me that they share this view.

The Address-Mr. Campney


I wonder if the minister could tell us at this time the proposed percentage of increase?


Wait and see.


That will be a question of government policy which my hon. friend will learn about in due time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare, consequent upon the statement just made by the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Lapointe). Is it his advice that every veteran 70 years and over presently receiving a war veterans allowance should make an immediate application for old age pension? Should they put in those applications now instead of waiting?


I am hoping that I shall have an early opportunity to introduce the new old age security legislation and I feel that that would be the proper time for my hon. friend to pose his question.


May I ask unanimous consent to revert to motions in order that I may table a list, in English and in French, of diplomatic instruments completed in 1951.


The house resumed, from Thursday, October 18, consideration of the motion of Mr. Robert Cauchon for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Drew, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Coldwell.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to make a few remarks regarding the somewhat extended comments which the leader of the opposition (Mr. Drew) made on Monday last with respect to the Department of National Defence, with which I am associated as parliamentary assistant to the minister. Before dealing with that 1 should like to deal with two or three points


astonishing change. Strength has increased, squadron formation has accelerated, training capacity has multiplied, equipment delivery has been expedited. The old peacetime concept of a nucleus air force has completely vanished. Already the framework of the 1953 striking force is well advanced. Like the other armed forces, the R.C.A.F-swept into the world's armament race with little forewarning.
I do not know whether anything further is necessary with respect to Mr. Hornick's unchallengeable article. I guess you pay your money and take your choice.


Mr. Speaker, I am following
this with great interest. It might help if the hon. member would explain in what way those two statements differ. There is a vast difference between a framework and squadrons in action.


I think the difference
between those two statements is this. As I read the series of statements, which I have not quoted in full by any means, it strikes me that if the situation in the Royal Canadian Air Force was as Mr. Hornick stated it was on April 25 in the Globe and Mail-and as everybody knows it has been making steady progress since that time-then the remarks he made as late as October cannot be in accordance with the facts, which as I have stated they were not.
Coming to the question of the information that can be made available, as I say, every government must take the responsibility as to what degree of information should be given in the public interest. If we look at the statements that the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) has made in this house, at the many statements that the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Claxton) has made in this house, in great detail, and at the white papers that have been tabled-during the last session and brought up to date recently-and the many, many hours that we spent on defence estimates, I think that hon. members will agree that this house does not lack information.
However, information must be kept up to date and I have attempted to select some figures in order to give a statement of fact which it seems to me might be helpful in bringing the situation up to date for the members of the house with regard to what is going on in the department.
During the two and a half years since April 1, 1949, the strength of the Canadian forces-including the three branches-has more than doubled. In other words, it has risen from something like 41,500 to something over 84,000. Of those 84,000, over 35,000 have joined the services since the Korean war began in June, 1950. While these

figures certainly form no basis for complacency, as many more men are needed, I believe they show, in a general way, continued and steady progress. But doubling the strength of the armed forces requires much more than just doubling the payroll. It means the reconditioning of training establishments, married quarters and other accommodation which was used in the last war. It means expanding a good deal of that accommodation, and it means the acquisition of new property and the construction of entirely new accommodation. These things take time.
In that connection it might be of interest to the members of this house if I told them that, in addition to the repair and the reconditioning of this existing accommodation, the construction of over 8,600 units of permanent married quarters at a cost of approximately $10,500 per unit has been entered upon; and of these 5,100 have been completed to date and 3,500 are in various stages of construction. As to airfields, it has meant the acquisition and expansion at considerable expense -because they are expensive; the cost runs into many millions of dollars in each case- of 20 airfields and airtraining schools to take care of the influx of troops, bringing to a total of 66 the number of airfields and aircrew schools in operation. It has meant the expansion or reopening of 12 army camps to accommodate army recruits and new formations, raising the total number now in operation to 22. In the navy it has meant the expansion of five existing shore establishments and the construction of two entirely new ones, additional to those put back into use of the existing ones, so that there is now a total of 35 naval establishments on shore.
I mention all these items-and there are many others-because it seems to me that we had to start at the beginning, and the beginning was to establish a plan. You cannot turn out trained, fighting sailors, soldiers or airmen without having sound training plans. It is not exactly a parallel analogy but it is somewhat analogous to the construction by the aluminum company in British Columbia of a plant which would cost something like half a billion dollars, most of which will have to be spent before they can turn out a block of aluminum. We have to have all these things done first, and I am giving these figures to show that they have been done or are being done very quickly.
I should like to go a little further. I should like to take the three services and put on Hansard for the benefit of hon. members a few facts with regard to them. In the last two and a half years the army has increased from approximately 19,000 to about 45,000. Out of this increase of 26,000 the
The Address-Mr. Campney 25th Canadian infantry brigade now fighting under the flag of the United Nations in Korea and its replacements have required 10,000; the 27th brigade which, subject to the approval of this house-and with regard to which the order in council was tabled yesterday seeking that-will shortly proceed to Europe, will, with its replacements require 8,000; and the remainder of these 26,000 have reinforced the ranks of the other training and administrative units required to serve the increased fighting formations and as the organizational basis for mobilization in an all-out emergency.
Here I should like to correct the leader of the opposition in another particular when he states, as he did, as reported at page 25 of Hansard:
. . . The airborne brigade is being sent out of Canada with no trained airborne brigade to take its place. If the explanation for not sending the airborne brigade was valid in the first place, what is the reason that we do not need a trained airborne brigade at this time?
In this connection, I am informed that the original mobile striking force to which the hon. leader of the opposition referred was especially trained for the territorial defence of Canada. It has not been sent, and it is not intended that it will be sent out of Canada. The facts are these: A number of trained men from this force are being sent to Korea for battle experience. These are, in turn, being replaced by battle-experienced veterans from Korea in such a way that the number of trained paratroopers in Canada shall not at any time fall below an acceptable level. This has been made possible by the fact that since the outbreak of hostilities in Korea the program has been steadily producing trained paratroopers. The arrangement now in effect in no way weakens our own defence but rather toughens it by incorporating some elements of battle-hardened troops from Korea.
May I now turn to some statistics with regard to the navy. On April 1, 1949, the navy had a total strength of approximately 8,000. Today that strength has risen to roughly 12,000. On April 1, 1949, the navy had about 15 ships in commission. Today there are in commission 28 ships, together with 28 other vessels ranging from auxiliary tankers to harbour vessels which are not commissioned ships. In addition, there are 24 other ships under construction at the present time, 7 of which are escort vessels. Furthermore, the contracts for another 7 escort vessels and 10 smaller craft have been let. A large program is already in progress looking to the rearmament and refitting of existing Royal Canadian Navy ships in strategic reserve. In this connection more than 34 frigates and minesweepers have been brought
PROVINCIAL LIBRARY, VICTORIA. B. a

The Address-Mr. Campney out of reserve and at present are being reconditioned. As you know, since June, 1950, five destroyers have been employed in Korean waters. Of these, three have been at all times on duty there.
Turning for a moment to the Royal Canadian Air Force, may I say that in 1949 there were 14,500 men in that force. Today, we have 27,500. Major projects in the earlier stages, of course, have been the reactivation of the airfields, provision of accommodation and the creation of training facilities, and all other incidentals necessary to and attendant upon the expansion of this service. On the training side, the objective is to train each year a total of 1,400 aircrew from other countries in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. We are now training men from Belgium, France, Holland, Italy and Norway as well as the United Kingdom. In addition, the desire is to train 1,900 men for Canada.
It may be of interest to the house if I tell hon. members that between 600 and 700 pilots, navigators and wireless operators, which constitute aircrew, and over 4,000 ground crew have thus far been trained in Canada by the Air Force. In addition it has trained or is training approximately 250 aircrew for NATO countries. It will be readily appreciated that a tremendous expansion in training facilities and aircraft procurement has been necessary to achieve this end, as well as the provision of adequate airfields.
But the Royal Canadian Air Force has advanced in quality as well as in quantity. This has meant the spending of a considerable amount of money for the development and production of the most advanced types of aircraft. Every member of the house will know and appreciate that that involves a long period of time and- large expenditures before returns become definitely and consecutively available.
It seems to me that the two principal objectives of the Air Force should be, and I believe they are, first to train aircrew for new squadrons to be equipped with the latest and most modern fighting equipment; secondly, to provide such modern aircraft in substantial numbers as quickly as may be possible. To provide for the training of these pilots, wireless operators and navigators, Canada has purchased Mitchells and Mustangs, as well as other types of aircraft, which, although they are not the latest types of aircraft, are particularly valuable and more economical for the operational training of fighter pilots. Against the time when new planes are available in greater quantity, they serve an extremely useful purpose.
To meet the requirement for short-range defensive fighting aircraft Canada has, as hon. members know, adopted the F-86E, which is

making a name for itself in Korea. Apart from the United States, Canada is the only country in the world producing this aircraft. They are being produced at a rate which is limited only by the supply of equipment manufactured in the United States. As regards the production of the second type of plane, the long range all-weather fighter, the CF-100, progress has been somewhat slower. I understand, but I am not sure, that further information on this particular subject may be available later in the day. As I understand it, the development stage has been passed and I think the hon. member for Port Arthur (Mr. Howe) received the first service CF-100 with an Orenda engine a couple of days ago. It is expected that from now on deliveries will be continually increasing.
In his remarks on Monday, the leader of the opposition stated, as reported on page 25 of Hansard:
Canadians have been told that we have developed the finest anti-tank gun in the world, that we have the world's most advanced anti-submarine vessels, that we have the world's most powerful jet engine, that we have the world's best all-weather fighter.
I made a search but I was unable to find- if I am wrong I can be corrected-any record or indication, either in Hansard or in the department, of any such statement as that having been made by the minister or any official of the department. I ask you to note this, because the statement covers a wide field. By chance it did happen that in trying to find some source for this statement I perused an article by Mr. Hornick in the Toronto Globe and Mail of October 8, just a week before the leader of the opposition delivered his speech. In that article I found this quotation:
. . . the vague boasts that since the war this country has developed the world's finest anti-tank gun, the world's most advanced anti-submarine ship, the world's most powerful jet engine, the world's best all-weather fighter.
The only difference between the two statements is that the boasts had become less vague within the week which elapsed between the delivery of the speech by the leader of the opposition and the appearance of this article by Mr. Hornick in the Globe and Mail. The vagueness has gone, and it is now an unequivocal statement. Incidentally, the similarity between the statements raises a train of thought as to whether the hon. leader of the opposition finds Mr. Hornick inspiring or whether Mr. Hornick finds the leader of the opposition inspiring. Perhaps they are both inspired by some superior medium acting through two media, the press and parliament.


It may be a pen name.


Well, I do not wish to indulge in any vain boasting. I think I can say in fairness and in honesty that the Department of National Defence is developing excellent equipment in all these fields. That is not peculiar to the Department of National Defence of Canada; I think it is true of all-it ought to be-government departments which are carrying on the rearming of the different countries of the world.
The department is using its utmost endeavours-and I believe with considerable success-to maintain the position of Canada, and if possible to assume leadership in many of these fields. I do not think we should boast about it, but I think we have a splendid record. If the record does become known, and it should become known, it will abundantly demonstrate that. To the extent that we succeed I think the department deserves the gratitude of Canada, and to the extent that it tries it certainly has the support of every hon. member. I know there are going to be disappointments; there have been; but in the main, from such knowledge as I have of the department, I feel we are progressing better in that direction than a good many other countries.
It was my privilege last month to attend the meeting of the North Atlantic treaty council here in Ottawa. I should like to interject here that the delegates to this treaty council ranged all the way from ranking ministers and in some cases prime ministers of the North Atlantic treaty countries. The appointments and the arrangements for this conference apparently were most impressive to all the delegates attending. Our own Department of National Defence fittingly provided a system of instantaneous translation, which was used throughout the conference, and which I think had not been used heretofore at NATO council meetings.
While the proceedings of the conference were secret, yet I think I may say that the attitude of the delegates of other countries indicated that they at least were most appreciative of the efforts that Canada is making in regard to this undertaking, and they felt that we are making a great contribution to the common cause on which all of our freedoms depend.
In these circumstances it seems to me that the Department of National Defence, under the very able and industrious leadership of the minister, ought to have the sympathetic consideration and the support of this house, and that the department should be able to rely on that and not have to feel that any person or element of people is unreasonably critical; critical if you like, but not unreason-94699-14{
The Address-Mr. Campney ably critical of the very honest effort that is being made in the face of many difficulties to meet the existing situation which grows more perilous every day. That is why I do not think, in fairness to the house or to the Department of National Defence, a statement such as the leader of the opposition made in his remarks of Monday last, as reported at page 25 of Hansard, should be made. There, after having paid his tribute to Canadians in both world wars, he said:
It is unworthy of their great achievements and their valour, to say nothing of their sacrifice, that the people of Canada should at any time be lulled into a state of complacent optimism by boastful statements unrelated to the facts.
I submit in all fairness that that statement is completely unrelated to the facts.
Lastly, in dealing with the observations of the leader of the opposition, I should like to make a brief reference to his request that the government should appoint a committee on defence expenditures.
The type of committee, if any, that this house may appoint is a matter of policy, and I do not propose to comment on it one way or the other; but I should like to observe, Mr. Speaker, that we did have a committee last session, a committee on public accounts, which, as we know, is a committee set up by this house to examine into expenditures. That committee sat last session, and in accordance with the wishes of the opposition groups, it spent the greater part of its time investigating the affairs of the Department of National Defence for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1950. Well, that was an early stage of the defence preparation. There was before that committee however over $380 million worth of defence expenditures, and I think that is about equal to the ordinary expenditures of Canada before the war. These accounts, contracts and all the details were included in 65 pages of the public accounts. I know a little bit about the committee because I happened to be a member of it. The leader of the opposition was a member of it.


He never attended it.


So far as I am aware, and I was there for most of the meetings, he was not present. The committee met first on March 1, and concluded its sittings almost four months later, on June 28. During the intervening period it held 27 meetings, of which 19 meetings were entirely devoted to the examination of the activities of the Department of National Defence.
The deputy minister of that department was under continuous examination throughout twelve consecutive sittings, and other officials of the department, as well as the manager of the Canadian Commercial Corporation,

The Address-Mr. Campney were also examined. At the request of the committee the Minister of Defence Production (Mr. Howe) appeared before the committee. Altogether, over 600 pages of evidence were given, and over a hundred pages of tables and documents were produced, and filed as appendices to the proceedings, of which over 90 pages represented material prepared by the Department of National Defence.
A great deal of interesting information was obtained by the committee, and so far as I know none was improperly withheld. In fact, in its report to the house, at page 693, the committee said:
All witnesses asked for have been heard, all documents requested were produced, and no trouble was spared by Messrs. Drury, Low and Ross to satisfy committee members with detailed answers to their questions.
As matter of fact, and as perhaps a pertinent comment on the real interest of the official opposition in actually inquiring into and studying defence expenditures, it should be stated that the committee was forced to adjourn on four occasions for lack of a quorum, and in fairness I may say that the poorest record by far was that of the members of the official opposition.
Actually, on June 21 when an adjournment for lack of a quorum became necessary, it was noted that at the time of the adjournment those present consisted of 17 Liberals, 1 C.C.F., 1 Independent, and not a single Progressive Conservative. The Progressive Conservatives were evidently taking their cue from their leader, who didn't come at all.
In any event, it was a good thing to have had the committee, as it afforded an opportunity to inquire into and investigate over $380 million worth of expenditures, the methods that were followed in making these expenditures and the efficiency of the departmental officials.
It is also noteworthy that as a result of the four-month sessions of the committee, no irregularities were disclosed or found-in fact, none were alleged. No waste of public moneys was established and no economies or changes in procedure were recommended.
I think the house should be made aware of what went on in that committee and the time that was spent in the investigation. I am speaking only for myself, but it seems to me that any government must take responsibility for policy in respect to defence as in anything else, but the expenditures and the propriety of these expenditures, the honesty with which they are made, are subjects of parliamentary inquiry at any time, and were all through last session in this very house.
I have endeavoured to show that this most important matter of national defence is

important to all of us; it is important to every citizen of this country, and probably will become increasingly so. This department, with which I have the honour to be associated in a minor capacity, is, under the excellent leadership of its minister, and under very difficult and changing conditions, doing a sound job for the people of Canada, and a job which I believe merits the respect and the support not only of every member of the House of Commons but of all the people of Canada as well.


Has the hon. member a report with respect to the reserves of the three forces?


I am sorry that I have not those figures here at the moment.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to add my heartiest congratulations to the mover (Mr. Cauchon) and the seconder (Mr. Simmons) of the address in reply. The evidently careful preparation of their speeches and the able manner in which they delivered them is but further indication of the excellent way in which they continue to represent their respective and important constituencies.
Like other hon. members who have preceded me in the debate, I should like to express a word of appreciation of the gracious manner in which Their Royal Highnesses The Princess Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh have consented to visit my riding. The people there, in common with those throughout New Brunswick, are looking forward with keen anticipation to the visit to take place on November 6. I know local committees are expending great efforts in their endeavour to ensure that as many as possible of the children in the different cities in which visits will be made and as many as possible of the veterans and of the people generally will have a chance to catch at least a glimpse of the royal couple.
I feel that those in Ottawa who are in charge of arrangements, those who perhaps are guiding the tour, should co-operate in every possible way, always having due regard to the health of our royal visitors, so as to ensure that the efforts of those committees in trying to give as many as possible a glimpse of the royal couple will be successful.
I was pleased today to hear the announcement by the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Lapointe) because, in common with most members in the House of Commons who are conscious of the deep debt we owe to our veterans, I have been urging that something be done to increase the basic rate of pension. I am confident that if and when an increase in the basic rate is put through it will be as generous as have been increases

In the past. There have been graduated increases from the time when pensions were instituted in 1914, and I hope the increase now proposed will be in line with what has taken place in the past.
There are many matters of varying degrees of urgency I should like to draw to the attention of the house, and it is with deep regret I realize that the limited time allowed during this debate will not permit me to deal with them as effectively as I would have liked.
As a citizen of the Atlantic provinces, born in one, educated and settled in another, and ever keenly conscious of the many problems confronting all of them, I cannot help being alive to that part of the speech from the throne dealing with the great lakes-St. Lawrence deep waterways project. There seems to be a feeling abroad that violent opposition will be offered to the legislation instituting this project by many of the maritime members, when such legislation is brought before the house. There seems to be keen interest in the corridors of the parliament buildings and in the various offices of government, as well as a great deal of conjecture as to what attitude will be taken by maritimers toward the proposed St. Lawrence deep waterways project. As a member representing the largest single maritime constituency, in terms of population, let me make myself abundantly clear at the outset that I am not opposed in principle, but that I heartily approve in principle the St. Lawrence seaway project, as well as the hydroelectric development project which will no doubt be connected with it. I could scarcely reconcile any other attitude with the precepts of liberalism to which I have adhered very closely, precepts which have long guided my political conscience in determining what is best for the nation and its people.
When I say I agree in principle with the idea of the seaway, I am compelled to add that there are many aspects of it which must be carefully analysed and examined, and weighed most judiciously, before we proceed. At the risk of boring the membership of the house I should like to refer back to a speech I made at the last session of parliament, in the course of which I expressed interest in a more even development in Canada, a subject which was introduced at the last dominion-provincial conference held here in Ottawa in January of the present year.
It was stated there that large concentrations of industry in particular parts of Ontario, with little industry elsewhere in Ontario, created grave problems, and that a
The Address-Mr. Riley development of Canada with large concentrations of industry in some provinces, but with correspondingly small concentration in others, created an equally grave problem.
As part of its program the conference was requested to study ways and means whereby it could be provided that the country could proceed in a more even fashion, and that industry and natural resources could be developed more evenly. This expression of what seemed to be real concern for a more even development of our country came, not as one might expect from a maritimer, or from a citizen in a western province, but rather from the premier of Ontario. I was heartened by his words, and by what appeared to be his sincere regard for those sections of the country which were not as extensively populated or as highly industrialized as his central area. Having this in mind I feel certain that the proposals which I intend to put before this house today will have the support and approval of the premier of Ontario.
The events leading up to the Canadian decision to launch on its own, in the event that the United States government does not deem it advisable to proceed at this time, the seaway project remind me that these events followed closely upon the events leading up to the bogging down of the Passamaquoddy tidal power project. I was pleased that the hon. member for Royal (Mr. Brooks) and the junior hon. member for Queens (Mr. MacLean) both made mention of Quoddy, as we have come to call it in a popular fashion in the New England states and the eastern provinces of Canada. It proves that they also, even though belonging to another political party, are fully conscious of the great problems confronting the maritime provinces and see the relative importance which this bears to the St. Lawrence seaway project.
I should like to congratulate the junior member for Queens upon his maiden speech. We were both born in the area surrounding Charlottetown and I do not think he need yield place to anybody in having made his maiden speech. Although I do not agree with everything he said, and I know he would not expect me to, I believe in giving credit where credit is due.
For those who are not familiar with the background of Quoddy I shall endeavour to outline briefly its history, having in mind that the rules might prevent me from doing this in a thorough fashion when the proposed seaway legislation is being debated. In 1926 the Dexter P. Cooper Company was formed with the objects of constructing dams across the Cobscook bay in the state of Maine and Passamaquoddy bay to. impound the waters

The Address-Mr. Riley touching the shores of the state of Maine and the province of New Brunswick. This company was incorporated in both the United States and Canada. While wide powers were granted to the company, under the Canadian legislation there were provisions which stated that the construction of the dams must be commenced within the next three years and that the plans must first be submitted to certain ministers of the crown for their examination and approval.
At the time the government of this country was naturally concerned with the possible effect of the building of the dams on the New Brunswick fisheries. The adjacent waters, including those in the constituency of the hon. member for Charlotte (Mr. Stuart), contained the greatest concentration of young herring to be found anywhere on this continent or, as he has often stated, probably anywhere in the world. These are the fish that are processed into herrings. Those fisheries give employment to thousands of people and the net annual returns run into millions of dollars.
An international commission was set up but it had only a limited time at its disposal to determine what effects the proposed dams would have.
They found that the weir fisheries for young herrings inside the confines of Passamaquoddy bay and Cobscook bay would be greatly reduced but these fisheries represented only 2-5 per cent of the annual catch of the whole area. They went on to say that without further investigation they were not in position under the existing circumstances to indicate the extent of the effect upon the fisheries outside the bay of the construction of the dams. They stated that this could not be foretold. However, they did state that there was little probability of there being any serious effect upon the fisheries along the coast of Maine or surrounding Grand Manan island, which is a large island in the bay of Fundy the inhabitants of which are almost totally dependent upon the fishing industry.
The original plans for Quoddy were conceived by an outstanding engineer, Dexter
P.	Cooper. This gentleman lived on Cam-pobello island upon which the late President Roosevelt had his summer home. This island is at the mouth of Passamaquoddy bay. It was he who first studied the possibility of harnessing the great tides of the bay of Fundy in that area. His plans were drawn up with skill and imagination, they were tremendous in scope, and were designed to use a series of island barriers to control the mighty flood of water and to put to work one of the largest single undeveloped areas of power existing on the North American continent.

Lying behind these dams would be two large basins of water, one having an area of about one hundred square miles in Passamaquoddy bay and the other approximately thirty square miles in Cobscook bay. The difference in the water levels between these two basins would average nineteen feet and power would be generated by turbines in a large dam between the two basins. The flow of water would be continuous and unfailing. The controlled operation of the tidal gates would maintain a continuous although somewhat varying difference in the water level for twenty-four hours a day. When completed the project would have a theoretical capacity of twenty billion kilowatt hours per year. Latest estimates show that the capacity would actually be three billion kilowatt hours per year, which would result in there being made available one million horsepower per year.
Having this in mind, is it any wonder that the power-starved people of the maritime provinces look with somewhat dim approval upon the launching of the seaway project before effective steps are taken to determine the feasibility of Quoddy and other proposed power projects in the eastern provinces which would tend to increase our productive capacity, develop our home markets and largely eliminate the necessity of our having to appear before transportation bodies with our hats in hand asking for preferential freight rates?
The late President Roosevelt, who spent his summers on Campobello island in the province of New Brunswick, was also struck by the immense potentialities of Quoddy. He thought it could provide New England and the maritime provinces with a never failing source of cheap power. Here let me again point out the parallel. Strenuous efforts were made to interest the Canadian government in the development of this international project which, if feasible, would obviously accrue to the benefit of both countries, but at the time, just as is happening now in reverse the Canadian government did not see fit to provide funds sufficient to enable the project to get started.
To continue with this parallel, the United States government then decided to embark on another but all-American and smaller project. President Roosevelt felt that if they could get the project under way in this manner-and mark again the parallel-the Canadian government could more easily be persuaded to take part. The all-American project was admittedly less feasible, less practical from an engineering standpoint and with less power potential, but it was so laid out-and mark once more the parallel-that it could be readily adapted to an international

project, an international plan for joint development, should the Canadian people decide to share in it.
In 1935 the war department of the United States of America, under the federal emergency relief appropriation act, made available a certain amount of money to commence the project, and work was carried on under the guidance of the United States army through 1935 and well into 1936. Unfortunately since that time no further funds have been available and the project has lain dormant. But the village of Quoddy, situated on the shores of the state of Maine overlooking our Canadian bay of Fundy, stands out as a grim reminder to the people of the New England states and the maritime provinces that here, but for the lack of a display of interest by the Canadian government, was the commencement of a great international power project that could have improved the economic status of millions of people on either side of the border.
President Truman himself has constantly stated his complete approval of the international Quoddy project. I note that the other day our own Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) discussed with him the possibility of a joint venture on the seaway project, and I am wondering if