Mr. J. A. Bradetle (Cochrane) presented the first report of the standing committee on external affairs, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. David A. Croll (Spadina) presented the first report of the special committee on defence expenditures, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Third report of special committee on the Dominion Elections Act, 1938, and amendments thereto.-Mr. Fulford.
That the name of Mr. Low be substituted for that of Mr. Johnston on the select standing committee on public accounts.
That the name of Mr. Wylie be substituted for that of Mr. Johnston on the select standing committee on industrial relations.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to amend the Dominion Elections Act to implement the recommendations of the special committee appointed to study the Dominion Elections Act, 1938, embodied in the draft bill prepared by the said committee and inter alia to make provision for: (a) a greater number of advance polls: and (b) the Canadian prisoners of war voting regulations, 1951.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to amend the Civil Service Act in respect of the tenure of office and salaries of the commissioners.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to amend the Supreme Court Act to provide an increase in the maximum salary of the registrar from eight thousand to eight thousand five hundred dollars.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to present a measure to amend the Exchequer Court Act to provide an increase in the maximum salary of the registrar from six thousand five hundred to seven thousand five hundred dollars.
He said: His Excellency the Governor General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.


Motion agreed to.
1428	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry METEOROLOGICAL SERVICES
On the orders of the day:
Has the minister given consideration to the establishment of a weather station at or near the city of London and, if not, will he do so?


I thank the hon. member for having sent me notice of his question. The Department of Transport already has a fully-equipped weather observation station at the London airport which takes weather observations each hour. The department has no plans for the establishment of any additional weather observation facilities at London.


On the orders of the day:
Will the Minister of National Health and Welfare make available through the post offices a supply of the forms necessary to institute a search of census records by applicants for old age pensions?


My hon. friend will appreciate that the matter of census is not within the jurisdiction of the Minister of National Health and Welfare and consequently the question will be referred to the Department of Trade and Commerce and the Post Office Department. Possibly my hon. friend is under a slight misconception. The census is only one of the many ways of proving age. It is by no means an absolute method of proof, as we are finding out. However, the problem is not as considerable as the hon. member may possibly think because the number of applicants still to make application is remarkably low and the processing of applications is being done with remarkable speed.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. I have not been able to give notice and therefore he may take it as notice. Are new regulations under the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act under consideration and will they likely be introduced this session?


No new plans have yet been discussed but it is expected that by the end of the year there will be an announcement of government policy.


On the orders of the day:
When will the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of National Defence make a statement concerning Surgeon Lieutenant Joseph C. Cyr which he promised to make two days ago.


I feel quite certain that a statement will be made tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar asked the following question:
Is the report correct that the government has ordered two jet-powered Comet airliners from the de Havilland company of England? If so, why was this aircraft preferred over the Avro jetliner developed by A. V. Roe Canada Limited with substantial government assistance? Have any orders been received for this Avro jetliner?
The answer to the first part of the question is "yes". In reply to the second part may I say that the Comet is the only jet transport in production and service at this time anywhere in the world. The purchase of these airliners will bring to Canada the latest developments in jet transport aircraft, as the Comet has been under development and test in service for the past five years. The answer to the third part of the question is "no."


In
view of the large expenditures that have been made by the Canadian company when is it expected that craft will be coming from that company?


There seems to be a little misunderstanding. The Canadian jetliner is a prototype and could not be put into service until it has been further developed. The two types of jetliners are not comparable. The one is a transport jetliner with a long range while the other is a short-range aircraft.
[Mr. Garson.l


INQUIRY AS TO TREATMENT OF RETURNING VETERANS ON TROOPSHIP "j. P. MARTINEZ"
On the orders of the day:


On
Tuesday the hon. member for Peterborough West (Mr. Fraser) asked the following question:
Has the Department of National Defence investigated the charge appearing in the press of yesterday that Canadian veterans of the Korean war returning to Canada on the troopship J. P. Martinez were allowed only two meals a day-very small ones at that-and were also made to paint the ship?
I took that question as notice and upon making inquiry I find that a party of Canadian soldiers were returned from Korea on the United States army troopship J. P. Martinez along with a larger number of United States troops. There were approximately 1,700 troops on board which rather taxed the messing capacity. Upon a few occasions the midday meal was not served and upon other occasions it was only a light lunch. The ship was travelling under service conditions and at all times there was adequate food of first-class quality and everybody was well fed. None of the troops was made to paint the ship, but investigation indicates that a few of the men who wanted something to do volunteered to do some painting.


The house resumed, from Tuesday, November 27, consideration in committee of Bill No. 12, to amend the Railway Act-Mr. Chevrier-Mr. Dion in the chair.
On section 1-Reappointment.
I should like to answer the questions asked the other evening by the hon. member for Royal concerning the appointment of the various members of the board of transport commissioners. The chief commissioner, Hon. Mr. Justice Kearney, was appointed on November 1, 1951. The assistant chief commissioner, Mr. Hugh Wardrope, was appointed on November 8, 1948. That was a reappointment. The deputy chief commissioner, Mr. Armand Sylvestre, was appointed on April 18, 1945. Mr. Commissioner MacPherson was reappointed on the 21st of September, 1949, and Mr. Howard B. Chase was appointed on July 28, 1948.


I want to say a word on clause 1. When the special
Railway Act
committee on railway legislation met the other day, counsel for the two railways appeared before it but counsel for the Canadian National when called upon spoke in part as follows:
According to my instructions I am to say that in principle the Canadian National Railways have no objection to these bills, and have no representations to make with respect to them at this point.
I think it is correct to say that that attitude was persisted in throughout. The point I want to raise is that in the Canadian National we have a great public corporation. We are told, and I think we accept the statement, that it is allowed to run its own operations, and that it is an independent corporation in a very real sense of the term. We know that government ownership has certain implications but nevertheless the other situation is very real. Questions are asked in the house, the minister very properly says those are questions for the railway, and we accept that. It seems to me a very strange thing that in a matter of this kind, which surely is one of the most important things facing the management of that railway, when the railway comes before the special committee which is dealing with a question of great difficulty and complexity concerning which the committee certainly needs all the assistance it can get, then, as they call it in the army, we have a nil return from counsel for the railway.
I should like to point out that after all this railway is presided over by a man greatly esteemed in this country for his ability. He has held public positions before, and certainly no matter what other comments were made of him at that time it was never a point of criticism that he did not have his own views and could not express them. Now, however, the railway says nothing. I point out that what that really means is that the senior officials and management of over 100,000 men who are employees of this railway-I think that is the correct number-had nothing to say at all on this tremendously important question when it was before the special committee. That does not seem to me in accordance with my understanding of what should be the situation on the Canadian National Railways. I understand it is a practice that has been followed in the past and maybe it has been sanctioned to whatever extent sanction comes through practice. However, I raise the matter now very earnestly. I should like to quote one or two comments from a previous debate to show the views of two distinguished parliamentarians of that time. I refer to 1927 when I believe the Canadian National Railways Act was passed. Mr. Dunning was then minister

Railway Act
of railways, and I should like to quote a short sentence from his remarks merely to show the relationship between him as minister and the then president of the railways, Sir Henry Thornton. I quote it merely to show the relationship of independence together with mutual co-operation. At page 193 of Hansard for February 10, 1927, he said, speaking of Sir Henry Thornton:
As minister and president of the system, respectively, we often have very wide differences of opinion on matters which it is Sir Henry's business to place before me at times.
I only read that to show that at that time the president of the railway had a very independent position which was recognized by the minister in the frank manner of the passage I have just read. I should like to read from the same page a statement made by Mr. R. B. Bennett, as he was then, speaking about the directorate of the railway. He said:
They should be businessmen of capacity, able and willing to assist the president of the system in the conduct of its operations.
I do not need to labour the point further. I think I have made the point I want to make. It seems to me that we can only draw one inference. What is the situation? We have a man well known to be a man of ability and energy at the head of this great enterprise. We have this enterprise concerned in a discussion regarding freight rates than which there can be nothing more important for them. Their whole life blood depends on it. Nevertheless the representative of the railway stands up and says: "According to my instructions I am to say that in principle the Canadian National Railways have no objection". The inference there is-and if I am wrong I shall of course be corrected-that, however free the railway may be in other matters to carry on their business, and I think they are largely free, in this matter of great importance they really are in the position expressed by the words of their counsel. He of course is speaking for the management of the railway but I suggest that the words he used are really words which we must assume the president himself would have had to use if he had been present. In other words, I think we must assume that the railway was not free in this matter. I submit that is a great disadvantage. It means, apart from anything else, that these tens of thousands of men who work for the railway are deprived of the expression of their views through their senior officials, and it means that the committee, when dealing with a matter of infinite complexity and importance, was deprived of the assistance of these able men.


I should like to be allowed to reply to the suggestion of the hon. member for Greenwood. The inference he draws from

the statement made by counsel for the Canadian National Railways before the committee is that there may have been some dictation on the part of the minister or the government with reference to the conduct of the Canadian National Railways. I want to assure him at once that there was no interference or dictation either by the minister or by the government in so far as the attitude of the Canadian National Railways is concerned, and for more than one reason there need be no surprise at the attitude of that railway. The first is that under the practice which has arisen before the board of transport commissioners it is the Canadian Pacific that is the yardstick for the fixing of rates, and therefore it was only natural that they who bear the brunt of presenting evidence before the board of transport commissioners should also be responsible in large part for submitting evidence to the committee. I think that is clearly established by the practice before the board of transport commissioners itself.
Let me assure my hon. friend on another point. After the report of the royal commission had been handed down and the president of the Canadian National Railways had had an opportunity to give it some study, he came to see me and discussed it with me. He told me frankly then that he was in full agreement with the substance and the principles of the legislation as it was then envisaged. Therefore there should be no surprise when counsel for the Canadian National Railways declares that in principle he is in favour of this legislation.


I want to make only one comment, if I may. I am aware of what the minister said about the Canadian Pacific Railway being the yardstick, but that does not seem to answer the point. Even if the Canadian Pacific Railway is the yardstick, it is very unfortunate that no assistance whatever came from the Canadian National, but I am not going to pursue the matter further.


Since I was a member of the committee I feel it is my duty to say a few words on this first section. I might say that on the question of freight rates I went into the committee in much the same state of mind as the average member of that committee, namely, pretty well confused and mixed up on the whole question. I wish to say that I had my mind clarified on many things that had been rather mysterious to me previously, particularly the language used when discussing the whole problem of freight rates. I wish to say also that it was one of the best committees I have sat on since I came to this house. It was an education to me at least. I say it was a good

committee for three reasons. I think the people who serve on other committees should insist on the same kind of administration as far as their committees are concerned. In the first place, there was the patience of the chairman. I have never seen a chairman with more patience.


I wish that applied to the minister.


I will say something in a minute about him. In the second place, there was the calibre of the witnesses who came before the committee. Every witness on behalf of the provinces and the Canadian Pacific Railway knew exactly what he wanted. They were clear and explicit about it. If you had any doubt in your mind that you were trying to resolve they certainly cleared it up for you. All the witnesses who appeared before the committee were very able people. They gave us a valuable education in the mysteries of rate-making as it exists across the country, and the importance of the board of transport commissioners. The patience of the chairman, the ability of the witnesses and the flexibility of the minister were outstanding.


You asked for it.


Any time a matter came up that was not strictly in accordance with the bill, if there was any suggestion that there was something wrong with it or that it created a hardship, the minister was very flexible. He took it under consideration. The fact that the bill was amended in about six different places shows that he was not stuck on a sentence. The committee was fortunate in the calibre of the people it had to handle the problem and present it to us.
The members of the committee were conscientious. I would like to pay tribute to the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra. While we may not agree with him in everything, nobody can doubt his sincerity, honesty and tenacity of purpose. He took a beating in the committee, and he is taking a beating in the house. But my sympathies are with him. I think that any person who is trying to do something honestly deserves the commendation of his fellow men.
Now, in regard to what was accomplished. It is not hard to rise in the house and criticize, and I am very good at that myself. This whole question of freight rates was handled by a royal commission. That royal commission dealt with the whole question for around eighteen months. A witness for the Canadian Pacific Railway said that he made 105 appearances before the commission. After hearing all the evidence and giving everybody across the country an opportunity
Railway Act
to present their case, the royal commission sifted the mass of evidence, and this bill was the result. This bill is intended to implement the recommendations made by the different provinces and the railways and put it on the statute books. I myself think that a good job was done on it in many respects.
As far as the maritimes are concerned, they did not get under this bill, but they did get a guarantee that they were not going to lose anything. The historic position of the maritimes was guaranteed. While some of us had some doubts whether it was sufficiently guaranteed in the bill, the minister, again in his own flexible way, said: We will write something in that gives you a second guarantee. So far as the historic position is concerned, we are guaranteed we are not going to lose anything. The rebate of 20 per cent is guaranteed to the maritime provinces.
I want to say on behalf of the end of the country that I come from: Thanks to the other provinces. From British Columbia to Newfoundland they all agreed that that particular right guaranteed to the maritimes should be maintained. It was a very generous gesture on their part, in view of the very many complex problems they have in their own provinces in this matter of freight rates.
Another reason why the maritimes were treated fairly was the fact that the presentation on behalf of the maritimes was a united [DOT]one. The whole four provinces were represented in the maritime commission, with capable people at the head of it. Their job is continuously to sift rates, groupings and what have you, and to represent the maritimes before the board of transport commissioners. In my opinion they did a good job, and it is a demonstration of united action. We are grateful that while we did not get anything, we did not lose anything. The bill does not prevent us from getting redress from any inequities that we think still exist.
So far as the maritimes are concerned, I want to say that as a member of the committee I was quite satisfied, and the maritime representatives had their own commission acquiesce in the amendments in the bill, and they felt they had sufficient guarantees.
On the question of equalization, I am convinced that equalization of freight rates in this country is a dream. What the bill intends to do, rather than equalize in the strict sense of the word, is to remove discriminations where they exist, and to bring about equality in so far as it is practicable in this country. The bill has laid a good base for that. There are sections of the country

Railway Act
that still have a complaint, but I do not think there is anything in the bill that prevents a redress of any wrong that may exist now if it has not been taken care of completely in the bill.
There was one place where I was disappointed. A few moments ago the hon. member for Greenwood said he did not think the Canadian National Railways took the proper position. I think they did, in that the Canadian Pacific Railway has always been recognized as the rate-making section for the railways in Canada, as the minister stated, and whatever yardstick is laid down for them in so far as rates are concerned is applicable to the whole system. The Canadian Pacific Railway representative is a very able person. He was very vocal in the committee. There was never any doubt in anybody's mind as to what he thought on any particular section of the bill.
In this respect I think the railways took a position that any sensible organization would take, recognizing that the fellow with the big stick is in there, and if he can get a good job done it is applicable to me.
Therefore, why should I send a lot of representatives in there? The point I was disappointed in is this. The legislation does not recognize at all the representation of the Canadian National Railways to the commission on the proposition of a revision of the capital structure of that railway.
I am concerned about the employees of that road, just as the hon. member for Greenwood has indicated he is. I believe the largest single factor preventing the employees of the Canadian National from getting proper redress in the matter of wages and conditions is the capital structure of the railway itself. As the hon. member knows, that railway is carrying an interest debt of around $45 million a year on fixed capital which produces nothing. Many years ago this capital should have been put into bankruptcy. The president of the Canadian National recommended that that capital should be either written off or written into the balance sheets as equity capital and not interest bearing. There is $45 million a year which goes to maintain the national railway which should not be there. We should have done something at this session about this interest debt which is carried year by year.
I did not intend to make a lengthy speech. I happened to be a member of the committee representing a part of the country that I think got a fair deal, and I was there to

protect the interests of that part of the country. I thought I should say these few words to express my appreciation.


I was a member of the committee until the last few days of the sittings. At that time I had to be away, and my place was taken by another member. As a member of the committee, I believe I should say a few words in connection with this bill, and especially since I come from a province that for many years has been attempting to get just such an arrangement as has been presented in the bill. We want it understood, Mr. Chairman, that on the whole we think the members of the committee have been very fair. Like the hon. member who has just spoken, we appreciate the attitude of the chairman of the committee, and the minister. We feel they both did a very fine job in that they did not allow themselves or the committee to be swerved from the terms of reference. All the members of the committee settled down to their task with commendable studiousness and energy. While we disagreed in some measure with some of the members of the committee, we appreciated the view that they took.
I should like to say a word about the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra. No one appreciates his good qualities more than I do. I believe he is a very courageous man, and he has shown that on numerous occasions in this house and on other committees. We differ in our opinions, certainly, but I can quite understand why he took the position he did, especially on section 332B which I think was the subject of most of his attention during part of the sittings. I quite understand that if the west coast really were in danger of losing the transcontinental rates, the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra was quite justified in putting up a fight. I would not like to see that happen. In fact I would feel towards the possible loss of the transcontinental rates for the west coast as I felt when British Columbia made an application for the removal of the mountain differential. At that time we in Alberta recognized that the removal of the mountain differential might throw some additional burden upon the freight payers in the province of Alberta. We felt, however, that British Columbia was completely justified in requesting the removal, so we did not fight against it. However that may be, I just wanted it known that we appreciate the position of the British Columbia members too. I believe it was the hon. member for Vancouver South who spoke the other day, and took a sound position so far

as his point of view was concerned. He took a well-balanced and very fair position, and I want to pay that tribute to him.
We in the province of Alberta did not get everything for which we asked, but under the circumstances I believe we -are justified in saying that we are fortunate in what we did get. I want that known, because we feel quite thankful for what we believe the bill provides. Personally, I cannot feel very critioal about it at all. I should like to see the bill given every chance to show what it can do for all the provinces. Certainly I believe the minister, if the experience over the next three or four years proved there are deficiencies in the bill, would be the first to recommend that -changes be made in order to ensure fairness for all parts of this country. Certainly the equalization principle established in the bill is something for which we can all be thankful.
The provinces of Ontario and Quebec have not shown too much concern about the matter, which I interpret to mean they are prepared to take their chances with the rest of Canada. If they had fought section 331 in committee, perhaps I might not have the same opinion. They did not, however, and one has to interpret these things pretty much on the attitude of the members in committee. I would say that they took -a fair stand in committee, and they are not fighting it in the house today. They are not fighting the equalization principle nor are they fighting section 332B, which sets out the one and one-third formula. This seems to be evidence that they are prepared to go along without making an issue of something that will probably be of benefit to the whole of Canada; that is the only way I can interpret it. I am quite prepared, Mr. Chairman, to attribute that attitude to them on the basis of what I have seen and heard.
As the days go by I believe the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra and perhaps some others from British Columbia will find their fears were not justified. A careful study of the evidence and statements presented in the committee, especially by Mr. Knowles who was the adviser to the committee, will indicate that the transcontinental rates are not maintained so much on the basis of water competition today as they are on the basis of United States railway competition. That being the case, I doubt very much whether the railways will, in your time or mine, consider taking off those transcontinental rates. I cannot bring myself to believe there is any danger of that at all. If there is, then of course Alberta stands to lose some of the benefits that -are contained in section 332B,
Railway Act
because if the basis of the one and one-third formula is raised then of course it will result in higher rates. My own feeling is that the evidence clearly shows there is little if any danger the railways will abolish those rates.
I do not want to make a lengthy speech. I merely want to express our appreciation of the very fair way the committee was conducted. To the railways I should like to say this. We thought, at times, the Canadian Pacific Railway spokesman was vigorous, but that is wh-at he was there for. He submitted himself to cross-questioning quite -amiably and tried to give, to the best of his ability, answers to the questions that were asked of him. On behalf of the people of the province of Alberta, Mr. Chairman, I want to say how much we appreciate the effort that is now being m-ade to remove what we have thought have been historic injustices and to bring relief from the terribly heavy burden of freight costs under which those people have suffered for so many years.


I have little to say, Mr. Chairman. As a matter of fact, I did not intend to say anything but I feel that I should, in a way, rather second the remarks which have been made by the hon. member for Cape Breton South. Like him, I appreciate greatly the situation as far as the maritimes are concerned. I also realize how little we know about freight rates. The hon. member said that he had learned a great deal. I feel that I learned much as well. I also feel that even yet I know little about freight rates across Canada, and I doubt whether anyone can say that he knows the whole story.


To do that would take us many years.


I think so, when it is
remembered that freight rates are based on so many factors such as geography, competition with trucks, and competition with canals; we also speak about ocean competition; and there are statutes such as the Maritimes Freight Rates Act, the Crowsnest Pass agreement, the mountain differential, and United States freight rates. All of these things which have to be taken into consideration impressed us with the great difficulty of fixing freight rates on our transportation system in Canada.
We in the maritimes were greatly concerned as to what would happen to us when this bill was passed. I was not in the house when the resolution wa-s before it, but my good friends the hon. member for Cumberland and the hon. member for Annapolis-Kings expressed doubts at that time as to whether our interests were safeguarded. I think their fears were justified because when the representatives from the maritimes,

Railway Act
representing the maritime transport commission, appeared before the committee they emphasized the dangers there were in passing the bill as it was presented to the committee. I was pleased indeed that, while the minister did not entirely agree with them, he was nevertheless far enough convinced to allow an amendment to go through. I feel that that amendment has cleared the air. As I say, it has justified the fears which were expressed in this chamber by the hon. member for Cumberland and the hon. member for Anna-polis-Kings. As my good friend the hon. member for Cape Breton South has said, we appreciate the support which was received from all parts of Canada. I might also say that we in the maritimes greatly appreciate the efforts of Mr. Rand Matheson and Mr. Frank Smith, the men who appeared before the committee for the maritime board of trade and commission. They presented our case in a splendid manner, so that when representatives of other parts of Canada came to express their views on the requests that we were making, it was found that they felt that our views were entirely justified, and that the stand that the maritime provinces were taking was entirely justified. Along with the hon. member who spoke a few moments ago, 1 wish to thank the other sections of Canada who realized so well the position of the maritime provinces. I think it is a great indication of the solidarity of this country in certain matters and also of a true Canadian spirit from one end of Canada to the other.
The other night the hon. member for Bow River-and 1 may say that I think perhaps he was not altogether serious-accused our party of taking sides in the committee between different provinces. That is absolutely incorrect, as I am sure was proven to him. I for one had an open mind. As I stated then, while I was in sympathy with my good friend the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra personally, nevertheless I was not entirely in sympathy with his arguments. My sympathies were more or less with the province of Alberta. The hon. member for Bow River thought that possibly I should have taken more part in the debate in defence of Alberta's attitude. But with the hon. member for Peace River and the hon. member for Bow River being on that committee, upholding the rights of the province of Alberta, I felt-as I am sure did every other member of the committee-that there was no necessity for anybody else to put in his oar.


We liked your attitude.


I am sure you did. I have nothing further to say at this time, Mr. Chairman. X hope that this bill will be a

success. I hope that it will be fair to the railways and to every section of Canada.


The bill has been carefully worked out and is worthy of all the praise which has been given it. At the same time, coming as I do from a certain part of Canada where railway service is not adequately given to the people, I am sure that my community would be unhappy if I did not say at this time that, now that this great national plan has been worked out, we hope that the Canadian National Railways and the Canadian Pacific Railway, which jointly own the Northern Alberta railways up in my part of the country, will at an early date be instructed to proceed with the extension of certain rail construction in that area.
When the royal commission on transportation met I was authorized by the boards of trade .and chambers of commerce of the district, along with Senator Gray Turgeon, to appear before it and to present the claims for the Peace River block of British Columbia and that part of the hinterland of Vancouver north of Prince George, for adequate railway service. In the report of the royal commission, at page 20, it is noted that we duly appeared before the commission and that a brief of many pages was submitted.


Order. I am sorry to
interrupt the hon. member but its seems to me that he is not quite in order in discussing that matter at the present time.


Mr. Chairman, I
sought to approach the question of freight rates in that particular province in which, I think any expert will agree, they are higher than they are elsewhere in Canada, simply because 10,000 people in that area are removed from rail service. The hon. member for Peace River was quite right in the position that he took. But as my neighbour out there, he knows that there are at least 30,000 people out there whose natural outlet is the port of Vancouver but who are not enabled to ship their material to the port of Vancouver and who must ship it 500 miles to Edmonton, and around back from Calgary or elsewhere, in order to reach the port of Vancouver. If I am out of order in referring to that matter, I hope that at an early date I may be given the opportunity of referring to what is a national problem in our country, and particularly in the city of Vancouver which is today deprived of direct access to its natural farm hinterland.
Freight rates on grain have been fixed from Dawson Creek to the head of the lakes and to the port of Vancouver, and certain concessions have been made. Nevertheless the merchants and manufacturers of British

Columbia are interested in a cheaper schedule of rates from the great industrial centres to that particular area. That is something which probably breaks the harmony of the occasion. But, as I say, a very extensive brief was placed before the royal commission. Pages 130 and 131 of that document are devoted to the proposed railway expansion, and matters incidental thereto, and to the economic position of the Peace river and Pacific regions.
I shall not read from the report at this time. It is a matter of record, and the material may at a later time be brought before the proper authorities. In urging these remedies for that area, I think it is only good business for all concerned, because in extending the rail services there it must be kept in mind that a very large tonnage already exists. It is urgent that the matter should be considered at this time, because that country is going to come into its own as a highly productive country. With coal, oil, lumber, agricultural products and the like, the matter of freight costs is of paramount importance and a public issue of first magnitude.


Mr. Chairman, as I have watched developments since the setting up of the royal commission in 1948, I have found much cause for happiness. It seemed to me like the realization of a dream.
In 1937, the second year in which I was in the House of Commons, I made a number of remarks bearing upon the inequities suffered at that time by the prairie provinces. Among others, I referred to the railway freight rates situation, and used the following words recorded on pages 52 and 53 of Hansard of that year:
Now there is another injustice of which I believe a good many people are not aware. I am going to speak for a minute or two directly for my own province, not mentioning the others. There is in the Dominion of Canada a freight rate structure that makes Alberta pay both going and coming. She is being discriminated against as is no other province in this dominion.
And at a later point in the same speech:
I wager that if the people of some of these eastern provinces were suffering as much as Alberta is they would not be as calm as Alberta has been. The thing we want to do is to find what is the cause of all this, and to remove that cause as far as is humanly possible. Surely there is something that can be done. I read this from an editorial in a western paper, and not a Social Credit paper:
"This province (Alberta) as a matter of fact is at the apex of the general freight rate structure of Canada."
I have not time to go into details, but they bear tremendously on the relief problem in those provinces. Someone is suffering for all that. And it does not matter how desirous they are of working or how careful they are in their living or how economical they are or how anxious to keep off relief, they are in the grip of circumstances which are an absolute disgrace to this dominion.
There are some other things which I wish to consider. I will not now spend any more time on 94699-92
Railway Act
the discrimination; I may at another time say something further on that for the enlightenment of the house. I fancy the reason these things are tolerated is only that we do not know about them. I did not know about these things until I looked-them up, and I cannot blame people who have never had them brought to their attention. It is our business to bring them to the attention of hon. members, and we do so in a spirit of good fellowship and straightforward honesty, asking that redress be given to us so that we may live. That is all. You see why I said a moment ago that the matter is exceedingly serious.
From that time forward, until the appointment of the commission, I missed no suitable opportunity to bring to the attention of other members of the house and of other provinces of the dominion the outrageously unjust position in which Alberta was placed by the freight rate situation.
I rejoice in the finding of the commission; I rejoice in the bill that has been brought down; I rejoice in hearing about the way the minister deported himself all through the sittings of the committee, and about the way the different committee members deported themselves.
I should like to make a few observations on the whole situation. One of the bright lights, in my judgment, is the provision of the $7 million subsidy to take care of the millstone about the neck of Canada in the form of that wilderness of rocks which separates Ontario from the prairie provinces. I do not know why it was that something like that $7 million was not provided many, many years ago. I do not see how it could be that men, around the year 1900, and from there on, failed to realize that calling upon the prairie provinces and upon British Columbia to bear the full burden of the futile daily haul across those thousands of miles was an outrage not to be contemplated with equanimity by members of parliament and by the provinces. Nevertheless that outrage has been contemplated and has been inflicted upon those four western provinces every year since the railways were built.
I believe other things are being overlooked, just as were those thousands of miles of rock. Until we give cognizance to those other things we shall never place Canada in a position where she can accomplish her maximum by way of well-being for Canadians.
I should like to commend the hon. member for Vancouver South for the views he expressed the other evening. In my opinion they were genuinely statesmanlike. His general attitude was that we should approach this whole matter with calmness and a realization of the facts, and that we should try to do something about it that would be an honour to us in our generation. I believe I have correctly summarized what the hon.

Railway Act
member said, but if he feels I have been unjust, then he may make the correction.
But, applying that general principle, let me draw to the attention of hon. members once again the fact mentioned by the hon. member for Vancouver South. Trucks and busses are now cutting into a great deal of the most profitable business of the railroads, and that is entirely as it should be. What is the use of living in an age in which we have wonderful machines, if the people cannot obtain benefit from those machines?
In addition to that, the top layer of business of the railways is being taken off by the aeroplanes. Our own Trans-Canada Air Lines, as well as other air transportation companies, are doing the job-and rightly so. Once again, why in an age of splendid machines should we not profit through the use of those machines? While we recognize that those particular machines at both ends of the business are taking off the cream of the transportation business, we expect the railroads to be able to make a success of their undertaking with what is left. We expect those people who must use the railroads to bear the whole brunt of their maintenance. How can men in this House of Commons be more neglectful of their duty than to disregard that important fact?
There are those in the dominion who believe that trucks and busses should be brought under central control and forced to discontinue competition with the railroads. Could there be a more fantastic attitude to take toward machines than to put them in a position where they cannot fulfil their purpose? If we had tried back in the horse and wagon days when busses and trucks began to come into use to bring them under control and make them unable to compete successfully with the wagons and horses-, what a nonsensical situation that would have been! No one would fail to recognize the tragic absurdity of such a position. Yet the like of that is practically what we are meditating when we entertain the notion of limiting truck and bus competition with railroads.
Our whole idea seems to be that come what will these railroads must be able to raise enough money from the traffic they carry to discharge their responsibilities and commitments and make a go of their organizations. We simply must once more recognize, as we have now done in the case of the wilderness of rocks, that with this rapid development of impinging transport industries a factor is brought into being which must be provided for, not by the poor unfortunate people who still have to use the railroads but by the whole Dominion of Canada.

We must have the railroads and they must be in the best of condition when we need them sorely -as in time of war or when our crops must be moved to the sea. But that does not mean that the people using the railroads should have to pay the whole shot. It is a national advantage and a national necessity that these railroads be in perfect running order, adequately equipped with personnel and rolling stock so that they will be able to serve us in time of need. Why should we as a nation not pay for that great facility just as we pay for the construction of airports or for military preparedness? It is just part of the cost of keeping ourselves able to meet the exigencies of the future.
I feel almost certain that before too long men will recognize that the only way of meeting this equalization problem and at the same time enabling the railroads to carry on is an adequate subsidy paid out of the consolidated revenue fund by all the people of Canada. I sympathize intensely with the people of British Columbia. I quite understand the attitude of the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra and I honour him for the courage that he has manifested. He feels that British Columbia is in danger of losing the few crumbs of advantage she already has. I know something about the disadvantages under which British Columbia is labouring. Life is not all meadows and sunshine there, not by any means. She is enduring a freight rates structure which is almost as unhappy for her as is the freight rates structure which the maritimes must still endure, even with the bit of patching done to their situation.
If we want Canada to make her fitting contribution to the well-being of the world we simply must not put parts of Canada in a position where they are burdened down and prevented from making their contribution Everywhere we are having impressed upon us at the present time the tremendous need of increasing the production of food for the world. If I am correctly informed, only yesterday Dr. Barton gave a talk over the air from Rome in which he pointed out the tremendous need of increasing food production.
Let it be borne in mind that one of the greatest potential areas on the face of the earth for the production of food is Canada. Let it be borne in mind that if we inflict upon our people a burden of freight rates so great that they are unable to produce fully and profitably and market their products we shall be preventing Canada from doing the thing which perhaps is the most important for her to do in this critical time of world history. Each and every freight rates increase

which has occurred in the last few years has made it more difficult to produce and market butter and all kinds of dairy products, all kinds of poultry and meat products, and practically every product produced in Canada. It has made it more difficult to have a farm which is near submarginal and make it pay.
If we are worthy of the position we occupy in this house we will take cognizance of that fact and adopt every measure to see to it that every possible producer in Canada is, as far as is practicable, put in the position where he can do the best he is capable of doing to build up the productive capacity of Canada to the optimum degree.
Let me say once more that a subsidy to be paid out of the consolidated revenue fund will have to be resorted to if we are going to have fair rates, or I would say tolerable rates, in this nation. I shall close by once more congratulating the minister upon the position he has taken in the committee and elsewhere in respect to this bill. I think that is an achievement which will redound to his credit all through future times and I do not think I am speaking extravagantly when I say that.
Before I resume my seat however let me say that we must not assume that the railroad fixture we have planned for today is our ultimate goal. We have merely won one or two trenches and everybody must start immediately to determine how we are going to win the next trench and consolidate those we have won already. I think it was the hon. member for Vancouver South who pointed out that in five years we shall probably have to have a new set-up. I think that is true. We cannot have that set-up by just letting the railroads and their employees struggle along until they get to the point where they feel that they simply must have additional freight rates, then to continue with the hit and miss, chaotic system of the past for the next ten or fifteen years until another royal commission will have to be appointed. We must go at this matter in a sensible way, appreciating the difficulties with which these people are confronted, and making provision for the remedying of the difficulties before they become acute.


As one of
the members who served on the special committee on railway legislation, I feel that at this stage I should make a few observations. Like other members who served on the committee 1 should like to state that I never served on a more interesting committee, or one before which more qualified witnesses appeared or where the chairman gave more 94699-925
Railway Act
consideration to everyone concerned in studying the legislation. I believe that the railways of Canada are perhaps more important than those of any other nation, for without rail