Mr. David A. Croll (Spadina) presented the first report of the special committee on defence expenditure, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. H. B. McCulloch (Pictou) presented the second report of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to suggest to the hon. member that he consider allowing this motion to stand until Monday. As I listened to the presentation of the report the only recommendation heard was that leave be granted to the committee to sit while the house is sitting. I may be wrong, but I was under impression that we were also to ask for leave to authorize the chairman to have as many copies of our proceedings printed as he might determine from time to time. I did not hear any reference to that in the report which he presented.
I think it is important that we should get on with the printing of the proceedings of the committee. I have some misgivings as to concurrence at this stage in a report which recommends only that the committee be permitted to sit while the house is sitting. Would the hon. member consider withholding the motion for concurrence until tomorrow or a week from Monday next so that the question of printing may be further examined?


It was decided this morning that we would not meet until April 22. I think everyone was in agreement with that.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Do I understand from the hon. gentleman that he is withholding the motion for concurrence until Tuesday, April 22? I am sorry, but I could not hear what he said.


No.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


I am not certain, but I gathered from what has been said that the hon. gentleman is not disposed to accept my suggestion. Under the circumstances I do not agree to the motion to concur in the report.


It has
just been stated by the chairman of the committee that the committee will not meet again until April 22 at eleven o'clock in the morning. I see no reason why this motion should not pass.


There is nothing in this report apart from asking for permission to sit while the house is sitting. Surely that is not controversial.


Carried.


I have raised a question with regard to another decision which the committee made this morning and which I understood was to be reported to the house this afternoon but has not been reported. I think it should be included in the committee's report. Under the circumstances I cannot agree to concurrence in the report this afternoon, because I think it is an incomplete report.


It would require unanimous consent to have the report concurred in this afternoon, Probably the matter can stand until tomorrow.


Agreed.
Motion stands.


I would like to advise the house of the decision of the government in regard to initial prices for western wheat, oats and barley for the crop year commencing August 1, 1952.
As members of the house know, the Canadian wheat board is in the midst of a very large and difficult operation this year. In spite of unfavourable harvesting conditions last fall, and in spite of the fact that there is considerable threshing to be completed in the prairie provinces, the outturn from 1951 grain crops in the west is still very large.

Grain
It is likely that total grain deliveries by western producers in the present crop year will be in the neighbourhood of 700 million bushels, which is the largest delivery of grain in any single crop year in the history of the west.
The difficulties of the present crop year have not arisen from the quantity of grain which will be delivered to the board. The difficulties arise from the lateness of the 1951 harvest, the unprecedented quantity of out-of-condition grain threshed by producers, and the general quality of the grain harvested. In spite of these difficulties, good progress has been made in disposing of deliveries from the 1951 crop. The large crop in 1951 was accompanied by a good demand for grain, and this fact will be reflected in the operating results attained by the board during the crop year, in spite of all the difficulties arising from the lateness of the crop, delayed harvesting, and the fact that at least 250 million bushels of grain will be received from producers in a tough or damp condition.
So far as wheat is concerned, the major part of producers' deliveries during the crop year 1951-52 will be disposed of within the crop year. However, with the prospect of substantial marketings by producers in the final months of the crop year, some increase in the wheat carry-over can be expected' on July 31 next.
On the basis of progress to date in disposing of the 1951 wheat crop, and the prospect for a continuation of a broad demand for wheat, the government is establishing the initial price for wheat for 1952-53 at the same level as at the start of the present crop year, namely, $1.40 per bushel basis No. 1 northern wheat in store at Fort William-Port Arthur or Vancouver.
In general, the position in respect to oats and barley parallels that of wheat. While very large deliveries of both grains are expected during the present crop year, demand has been satisfactory. There will be some increase in year-end stocks of both grains, due to the lateness of the 1951 harvest, the volume of grain still to be threshed this spring and the necessity of conditioning large quantities of oats and barley prior to sale. However, the outlook is such that the government feels justified in establishing initial prices for both oats and barley at the same level as at the start of the present crop year. These initial prices are 65 cents per bushel basis No. 2 C. W. oats in store Fort William-Port Arthur, and 96 cents per bushel basis No. 3 C. W. 6-row barley in store Fort William-Port Arthur.
As I have mentioned on other occasions, these are initial prices, and it is always the

hope of the government that pooling operations conducted by the wheat board will result in surpluses which will permit either increases in the initial prices during the crop year, or final payments to producers after the close of the crop year, or both.


Would the minister care to make a statement with regard to feed grain in Ontario? He has said that the price is to be 65 cents at Fort William, but it costs us in Ontario about 95 cents per bushel.


My hon. friend is referring to the initial price at Fort William. Beyond the initial price there is the participation certificate. The price in Ontario is based on the final price rather than the initial price.


On the orders of the day:
I did not
send notice of this question because it has been inspired by the statement of the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I should like to ask him under what authority diversion charges are made against wheat going through the port of Churchill, and if the government will not take into consideration the abolishing of this unearned levy-because that is what it is.


The wheat is delivered by the producer to a private elevator company, and it is necessary to divert the wheat from the usual outlet of the private elevator company to a government terminal elevator. There is always a diversion charge in that connection. If my hon. friend would like a more comprehensive statement I should be glad to obtain such a statement from the wheat board and give it to the house later on.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Is it the intention of the government to continue its present policy of making cheap bread available to the people of Canada at the expense of the wheat growers of the prairie provinces?


It is the policy of the government of Canada to sell wheat to the Canadian consumer at the same price as to the consumer in Britain, the consumer in Egypt, the consumer in Germany and to other consumers throughout the world.


I have the honour to lay on the table a report of the civil service commission respecting certain employees of the House of Commons.
Recently I assured the house that the matter of increases in the salaries of our temporary employees was receiving my attention and that of the officials of the house, and that a report would be made as soon as possible.
I now desire to inform the house that salary increases in line with those recently granted to other employees of the public service have been granted to the temporary employees of the house, retroactive to December 1, 1951, for the continuous employees, and from the commencement of the session for our sessional staff.
I might perhaps add that in order to help make Easter more pleasant to the staff of the house, the cheques covering these increases, as well as the salaries for the first half of this month, will be issued on Thursday morning.


that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Aeronautics Act to provide that the governor in council may make regulations for the zoning of airports and also to provide for the payment of compensation in respect of any property injuriously affected by the application of the said regulations.
He said:	His Excellency the Governor
General, having been made acquainted with the subject matter of this resolution, recommends it to the consideration of the house.


Motion agreed to.
On the order for government notices of motions:
April 3-The Prime Minister-Resolved, that a select committee be appointed to consider the results of the census of 1951 and the readjustment of the representation in the House of Commons necessitated thereby, with power to consider whether the said readjustment should be made in strict accord with the rules presently set out in the British North America Acts 1867 to 1951, and the other statutes in that behalf, or whether it is desirable to provide that there should be no reduction of
Business of the House
more than fifteen per cent at any one time in the number of members assigned to any province and that there should be assigned separately two members instead of one to the Yukon and the Northwest Territories or any part thereof and that the total number of members should be increased accordingly; with instructions to prepare a bill or bills with schedules to give effect to its findings and conclusions and to contain and describe the several electoral divisions entitled to return members to this House of Commons; with power to send for persons, papers and records and to examine witnesses, and to report from time to time; and that notwithstanding standing order 65, the committee shall consist of thirty-seven members to be designated by the house at a later date.
When the notice of motion concerning the resolution to set up a select committee on redistribution was referred to at the close of last evening's sitting I intimated that I might find it desirable to ask that this notice be dropped so that I might substitute one in somewhat different language which would make it less difficult for the house, without infringing any of the rules, to consider all the various aspects of this problem. I now find that that is so, and I should like to ask that this notice of motion be dropped.
I shall immediately hand the Clerk for inclusion in the Votes and Proceedings of today another notice of motion in a somewhat different form. Of course the result will be that the new notice will not appear on the order paper for tomorrow, but it will be on Votes and Proceedings. Now, should there be time to consider it tomorrow, and should it be the desire of the house to have it taken up, I would be quite prepared to submit the motion tomorrow, although it will still be only on the Votes and Proceedings as a notice.
Order withdrawn.
SUSPENSION OF STANDING ORDER 15 FOR THIS day's SITTING


That standing order 15 in relation to the consideration of private and public bills on Tuesdays be suspended for the sitting of Tuesday, April 8, 1952, so that the order for the house to resolve itself again into committee of ways and means (budget) may be proceeded with at 8 o'clock, p.m.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour, and I apologize for not having given notice. The minister no doubt is aware of the serious situation that exists in the mining town of Inverness. Six

Inquiries of the Ministry months ago the mine was closed down, and since that time three or four hundred employees have been out of employment. In most cases their unemployment insurance has run out. I ask the minister to consider the possibility of doing something outside the act for these people until something else can be done for their rehabilitation.


I know something about the situation referred to by the hon. member for Inverness-Richmond. While it will be impossible for the unemployment insurance commission to continue the supplementary benefits which expired a week ago today, nevertheless I will ask the commission to have someone look into the matter referred to and see whether they can assist in finding employment either there or elsewhere.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Labour arising out of an answer he gave me yesterday with respect to unemployment insurance for fishermen. In the report of the unemployment insurance commission survey of 1951, paragraph 279, appear the words, "Some form of unemployment assistance should be provided by the proper authorities". Would the minister clarify these words?


I think what is meant is that since the conclusion was reached by the commission as I announced yesterday in the house, that for the time being at least fishermen could not come under the Unemployment Insurance Act, any cases of need among fishermen would have to be taken care of by local programs of unemployment assistance or relief.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. In view of the payment of old age security commencing at age 70, has consideration been given to permitting the modification of existing contracts for deferred annuities so as to pay a greater annuity up to age 70 which would be reduced by $40 a month after age 70?


Yes, this is one phase of the question of annuities that is being studied by our officials.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Would the minister make a statement on the report from Buffalo that immigrants to Canada, or aliens, are being smuggled across the border? Has he any record of any of these people having had their passage from Europe paid by Canada?


I read the report in the newspaper, and that is the only notice I have had of the alleged action on the other side of the border. I think it ought to be made clear that our immigration policy is designed to admit to Canada persons who intend to reside here permanently and ultimately, we hope, take out Canadian citizenship. We have no knowledge of any large-scale smuggling of aliens such as was indicated in the newspaper report. If we do get evidence of it I shall bring it to the attention of the house.


Is there any check on the Canadian side of the river to prevent these people from crossing there?


We have our usual officers on the Canadian side. I think my hon. friend's purpose would be served by my saying that if anyone is caught and returned of whom we have a record we would then consider whether he ought to be deported from this country.


Is there any compulsion on an immigrant or displaced person who comes to Canada to remain in Peterborough and not move to British Columbia?


They would never move from Peterborough to British Columbia.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare, arising out of a return tabled yesterday in response to a question of mine of a few days ago. Will he consider tabling in the house the health survey reports that have been received thus far from several of the provinces, and the others as they come along?


The hon. member did not give me notice of his question.


Surely you do not need notice for this question.


I usually want to give his questions the greatest consideration. Characteristically I will give this matter my very serious consideration.


On the orders of the day:
1 wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Is the minister prepared to give details with regard to the proposed expenditure of $500,000 for the St. John's harbour defences?


The hon. member asked a similar question on March 10. I said that a contract had been let, and I was then prevented from giving further details because the Speaker said the question should go on the order paper. I still have the same information. A contract was let on February 20 for a wharf, a slab and some other works. The amount of the contract is $543,450. It was let to the Diamond Construction Company.


The house resumed, from Friday, April 4, consideration of the motion of Mr. Claxton for committee of supply.
Mr. Speaker, when the house adjourned on Friday last I had just read the motion moved by the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) on Monday, October 22, 1951. This is one of the most important motions that has ever been passed by the house in peacetime, and for the sake of continuity I am going to read it again. It is as follows:
That this house approves the continuation of Canada's participation in the efforts being made through the United Nations to establish international peace, and in particular to defeat aggression and restore peace in Korea, and by the North Atlantic treaty nations to deter aggression and promote stability and well-being in the north Atlantic area.
I do not say that in assenting to this motion opposition members agreed with everything that the government or the services had done in connection with Korea and the North Atlantic treaty. I do say, however, that there was a wide opportunity, indeed an invitation, for anyone who did not agree 55704-78
National Defence
with everything that had been done, to say so. The hon. member for Nanaimo (Mr. Pearkes) did not say so. He said so just six months later, long after the brigade had arrived in Europe as announced, arranged and carried out. The military expert of the opposition said nothing about armour.
You know, Mr. Speaker, it is sometimes not a bad thing to go back and look at what has been said previously, in order to get our perspective right. When we were raising the 25th brigade to go to Korea we did not get much in the way of support or assistance from the Conservative opposition. This is what the hon. member for Nanaimo said in the house about the 25th brigade on September 1, 1950, at page 131 of Hansard:
The appeal was made to the young men of Canada. That appeal has been magnificently responded to. But what have we got? A conglomeration of men bearing the proud names of great units, unknown to their own special unit commanders, their officers, their N.C.O.'s. Any man who has had any experience in the service will tell you that it takes a long time to weld such groups of men together in order that they become a fighting team, because it is team work that counts, not merely the individual skill of an individual soldier to handle his weapon.
Then on page 133 the hon. member also said:
I fear that the brigade now in training will be ready either too late or just in time to take part in the victory parade.
That is the brigade which everyone who has seen it says is the finest fighting formation ever fielded by this country. So much has been said about this excellent brigade that there is no need of repeating it here. We are proud of them, and they are perpetuating the famous records of Canadian soldiers who have preceded them in other wars. I wonder what they think now of the remarks made about them by the hon. member for Nanaimo.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I repeat that the hon. member for Kootenay West (Mr. Herridge) was not doing a service to the reserve forces when, by inference, he tagged them as he did. One or two isolated cases of personnel joining up only to participate in athletics does not mean that other units allow this sort of thing. I hope he has done as he suggested he would-that is, given the information to the minister. I do not mean that when conditions exist which are contrary to the rules and regulations and/or not in the public interest, they should not be exposed. Far from it; I am sure every citizen has an obligation in this regard, and especially members of parliament. When any of these cases come to light hon. members should report them immediately to the

National Defence
authorities or to the minister, instead of waiting for an opportune time to arrive to air the matter on the floor of the house.


It was reported immediately.


That is not what you said in the house. Adverse publicity such as this is detrimental to recruiting for the reserve army and tends to lower the morale of those at present on strength.
We are also proud of the 27th brigade; and speaking of this brigade Waldo Frank in the Los Angeles Times, as reported in the Montreal Gazette of February 6, 1952, stated it was-
-the most cheering sight in the otherwise drab picture of western defence along the Ehine-Alps line.
Further in the same article he said:
. . . although the Canadians have been in Germany only since December, they already present a better picture of a battle-ready fighting team than any other allied combat unit in Europe with two exceptions-the U.S. 1st infantry division and the two brigades of the U.S. armoured cavalry.
A little further on he says:
Everybody in the brigade is a volunteer, with full understanding of why he is here and how long he will stay in Germany. Finally, all hands in the brigade are well clothed, well fed and well paid.
Canada has only fourteen million people, but the opposition experts talk as if we should supply the military components which would normally be supplied by a country with ten to fifteen times our population. We must continue to play our part in preserving peace, and there must be visible proof of our intentions. The peoples of Europe have been liberated once and they are not interested in having it done again. We must stop communist aggression where it is. Canada has provided the troops as agreed under NATO. They asked for and got infantry. Being a member of the armoured corps I am not talking against armour. I am simply insisting that armour must be properly supplied and used. Otherwise the results are disastrous.
All the opposition theories in favour of an armoured brigade group being sent to Germany instead of the infantry brigade group we did send are another example of the opposition's apparent non-constructive attitude toward most government legislation and policies.


Mr. Speaker, it is difficult to debate Canada's national defence policy as it now exists and as it is forecast for 1952-1953, because it is difficult to grasp anything clearly from the statement made by the minister in introducing this debate on Thursday of last week. I do not mean it was difficult to understand what the

minister said; he did give us some background in connection with defence, but it was extremely difficult to get from his statement any clear picture of the present position of our defence forces, exactly what we have in the way of forces in being today to meet aggression, and what exactly we may have in the way of forces in being at the end of this fiscal year as a result of the money we are being asked to spend.
I can only say that in reading over the speech carefully with a view to getting something from it which one might criticize sensibly and constructively, there seemed to be in it a complete sense of unreality. You cannot take that speech and analyse it, and say that for this expenditure of $2,100 million we are getting so many tanks, we are going to have so many guns, we shall have so many operational squadrons at the end of the year equipped with so many aircraft of such and such a type. That sort of break-down is impossible, however carefully you examine the minister's statement. It is impossible to take from his remarks anything more than a general statement of objectives for the end of 1954.
It is true the speech was lengthy. That was quite proper, because he was introducing an important subject, having to do with an expenditure of over $2 billion. The minister did give us the background of some of the decisions that have been taken as to the raising of our forces and the objective proposed for the end of the three-year program on which we have now embarked. He gave us some lengthy quotations from the statement by General Eisenhower, which already had received ample publicity in the press and over the radio. He then gave us a definition of "infrastructure", and referred to the word as having been drawn from a French word having to do with railways.
He went on to tell us that the word was first used in the western union countries, and he referred to all the uncertainty that surrounded it, until I began to wonder whether he was going to end up by suggesting that this subject be referred to the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines rather than the committee on defence. For all we got out of the minister's speech in the way of facts upon which we might build a constructive debate, he might almost as well have been speaking about something to do with railways, canals and telegraph lines. When he referred to the western union, the threatened strike in the Western Union Company in the United States made me wonder whether we were not going to bog down to an equal extent in the creation of a defence effort in Canada.

The lack of reality in the minister's approach to this subject, and his reluctance to give us a clear statement of what we are to get for the money we are spending, is I believe typical of the situation we find when we look into the actual structure of our defence program. I can find it nowhere better illustrated than by an experience I had last year during a long week end-while the house was adjourned, not one of the Thursday to Tuesday variety-while driving back to Ottawa from Windsor. En route I gave a lift to a soldier who was wearing the shoulder flashes of the Royal Canadian Regiment. I asked him whether he had yet been with his battalion, and he told me he had been posted to the battalion shortly after joining up and had then been sent to an army cooking school. I thought that was interesting, because here was a soldier who was a member of a parachute battalion, one of the units of the airborne brigade, and I wondered what kind of cooking equipment they used. I asked him what kind of stoves they used, and said I wondered whether they were anything like the company cookers which we used in the field in the last war.	[DOT]
The soldier asked me what kind of outfit we had used, and I described to him as best I could what we called the hay-burner with the series of stands on which the containers were placed in which the food was cooked for the company. I said I did not believe that would be a suitable thing for packing and dropping from a parachute, and he said, "No, we do not have anything like that; we were not trained on that." I thought they were probably trained on something much more up to date and realistic, so I asked what kind of equipment they were trained to use. He said, "We have the most wonderful up to date sitoves in the world, a most magnificent set of gleaming Moffat electric ranges." I thought that was typical-to train a cook who is going to cook for a parachute regiment on a Moffat electric range. I did not like to ask the soldier, but I think I should like to hear from the minister what arrangements are being made for the soldier-cook to plug his stove in when he drops by parachute from an aircraft. Well, of course the illustration can be strained, but it indicates the sense of unreality pervading the whole defence structure in which we are trying to carry on this debate today.
The task is made much more difficult by the fact that the minister sought in advance, during the course of his introductory speech, to frighten us from criticizing the way in which his department is carrying out its responsibilities. He sought to do that by suggesting that for us to say that things should 55704-78J
National Defence
be done differently would in some way be disloyal and would tend to weaken the defence effort. He sought to discourage us from criticizing by saying-if you suggest something should be done differently you will only be displaying hindsight. I shall have more to say a little later about this outrageous suggestion, which I regard as indicative of a perverted attitude to parliament and to the responsibilities and functions of the Minister of National Defence in his relationship to parliament and the country. At the moment I think it must be said that the minister's attitude is typical of the means by which he seeks to distort the true picture of our defence effort and to throw a cloak of secrecy over the clear deficiencies that exist. Notwithstanding the minister's effort, I intend to refer to some of those deficiencies and shortcomings in the course of my remarks this afternoon.
The first general observation I wish to make by way of criticism is that to total up the amounts we have spent in the last two years, and add to that the amount we are being asked to authorize for this year, gives a total which is quite unjustified in terms of any concrete achievements which have been laid before us. If you compare the total spending with the figures of results which were given, it presents a clear indication of inefficiency and waste in our defence effort.
Some of the figures, Mr. Speaker, are interesting, if not alarming. In the fiscal year
1950-	51 the total spending for all defence purposes was $784 million; in the fiscal year
1951-	52 it was $1,944 million, making a total for those two years of $2,728 million, to which we are being asked to add this year authority for the further expenditure of $2,109 million. By the end of the fiscal year in March, 1953, therefore, we shall have spent in those three years alone a total of $4,837 million-just under $5 billion.
The question which must be asked-and which should be answered-is this: What shall we have by the end of the fiscal year 1953 to show for the expenditure of this staggering sum? It is there that the shortcomings and deficiencies in the minister's statement become obvious. When you try to see what you can find in the way of details concerning what we shall have in existence at the end of that time you find that, looking first at the navy, there is no clear picture of what will be operational.
I have the minister's statement before me, and here is what he had to say about the navy, as reported at page 1088 of Hansard for April 3, 1952:
By way of summary, Mr. Speaker, in the twenty months since Korea the navy has commissioned nine ships and launched six others. It has twenty-seven more on order, with forty awaiting refitting.

National Defence
It is operating sixteen schools. In Korean waters alone it has sailed over 450,000 miles.
When you try to find out exactly what will be in existence in the way of anti-sub; marine task forces, which we have been
*	told is the prime role of the Canadian navy : in the future, there emerges nothing. This
general statement does not tell us whether s we shall have one task force, or two, or only part of one. How many of those nine i ships which were commissioned are now operational? How many of those that have .been commissioned are at sea? What about 'those ships that have been launched? In what state of readiness are they? What about the [DOT]twenty-seven ships on order and the forty
[DOT]	awaiting refitting?
' The vague statement made by the minister : is useless so far as giving this house and this country any clear picture of naval defence preparedness is concerned. It makes it impossible to carry on any constructive
[DOT]	criticism of the government's policy. But what we do know with respect to the navy-[DOT] although we are not told this; we have to dig
*	it out of the mass of facts and obscurities which /surround it-is that we have virtually noth-ling now capable of discharging Canada's main s naval role which, as we have been repeat-'edly told, is to place in service, primarily in the Atlantic, an anti-submarine task force.
When we turn to the army to see what we shall have there, what do vve find? Well, we find that we have some specific information, but the information we have in this case /gives rise to no feeling of security but rather [DOT]to one of deep disturbance. We find that by [DOT].the end of 1952 we shall have in the field three isolated infantry brigades with not a vestige or a scrap of armour, not an operational tank; and of these three infantry .brigades themselves, only one of them, namely, the brigade in Korea, will be operational-ready to take the field and fight, that is-by the end of 1952. We have not the forces to form one complete division. We have no formation of divisional size. Most serious of all, perhaps, is the fact that we have no reserve capable of immediate mobilization.
With respect to the Royal Canadian Air Force, from the minister's statement it is again uncertain just what we shall have by way of squadrons in being and operational by the end of the fiscal year 1952-53. One looks in vain for this information in the minister's speech. But from a study of the minister's speech and the most recent white paper on defence-that which was tabled in June of 1951-we can guess that we shall have not more than a total of thirty R.C.A.F. squadrons in any shape or form by the end of that fiscal year; and of that thirty, there will be a maximum of twelve active air force
IMr. Fulton.]
squadrons. We are not told in what state of readiness or partial readiness or partial equipment and manning with respect to aircraft they will be; but it appears that that is the limit-that the very maximum we shall have in any state of operational readiness will be twelve squadrons of the Royal Canadian Air Force.
When we turn to the subject of equipment, what do we find? There have been so many boasts about the money we are spending- boasts completely unmatched by equal figures of what we are getting-that it is definitely disturbing to see how little we have actually secured to date in the way of equipment. In this matter I believe the Minister of Defence Production (Mr. Howe) has to take an equal share of responsibility with the Minister of National Defence. It must be admitted that in this regard we have been, to some extent, bedevilled by difficulties over the question of standardization; but I believe that our difficulties-big enough as they were in that field-were increased by a mistaken and too early decision to standardize on American patterns. The decision to standardize on American patterns-and we must be clear on this matter-did not refer only to certain specific and individual types which we felt, in the individual case, were the most desirable on which we could standardize. The decision went much further than that. It went most of the way, if not all the way, to a decision to standardize the equipment of whole divisions on the American pattern. As authority for that conclusion I refer to the statements of the Minister of Defence Production himself, in his report to the house given in February of last year, commencing at page 179 of Hansard, and the white paper on defence to which I have already made reference and in which you find such passages as this one on page 26, where, referring to the shipment to Europe of the arms for a complete division, it says:
This procedure was the only practical way for Canada to standardize on U.S. patterns.
Throughout the white paper and throughout the speeches of the Minister of Defence Production and of the Minister of National Defence over the past year, up until the present time, there have been repeated references to this decision to standardize on the American pattern. One result of this decision-which, as I have said, was an early and mistaken one-is -that we in Canada completely lack any adequate armoured formation. Recently we have received, I understand, a few tanks of the British Centurion type for training purposes. We are not in any position-and we are not beginning to approach the position-where we could equip and field an armoured regiment, let alone a brigade with tanks.

I believe that this lack of armaments is one of the most serious criticisms of the defence preparedness of the Canadian army today. It is now apparent that not only members of the opposition but sometimes even members of the government and ministers of the crown are wiser in their hindsight than they were in their foresight. We are now told that the Centurion tank has been recognized and approved as the most suitable tank in existence, in production at the present time, for modern warfare. The Minister of Defence Production has always resolutely set his face against the proposal that Canada build tanks. It is difficult to compete with the minister in a field of this type. He makes these statements-and they are accepted as gospel- that it is not logical for Canada to build operational combat tanks. But I cannot see why-


Will my hon. friend permit a question? Is he aware that Canada has built over 1,000 tanks comparable to the United States Mark IV?


I am not talking about the Mark IV. Is the Mark IV the same as the Centurion?


No. The Mark IV is the
American type.


I was not referring to that type of tank. Actually, I was not aware that we have produced 1,000 of those, but if we have, I would ask the minister and the Minister of National Defence to tell us where those tanks are? They are certainly not of the best fighting type and are not in the hands of any fighting Canadian formation today. We are given to understand that the decision has now been made to standardize on Centurion tanks. The question that we should have answered is why Canada had not made arrangements previously to build this tank in Canada under licence from the British authorities. I understand that the difficulty is that we cannot get them in quantity from British production now because the British themselves are short of them as a result of their production difficulties. I fail to see, however, why we could not have made arrangements earlier to standardize on this type of tank, which is now agreed to be the most suitable combat type, and why we could not have got busy with building some of them for ourselves and our allies.
There apparently have been mistakes of equal magnitude in connection with the production of the all-Canadian jet fighter, the CF-100. After all the boasts that were made as to the imminence of production so that Canadian squadrons might be completely equipped with an all-Canadian fighter, this
National Defence
aircraft is still not in production or anything approaching it. After the spending of many: millions of dollars, there is only one proto-, type of this fighter in existence. Compare this record of performance, after the spending of all that money, with the boastful statement made at page 27 of the white paper last June, 1951:	[DOT]
Delivery will soon begin of CF-100 Canucks from the A. V. Roe factory in Toronto.	'
It is disturbing-indeed, it is desperate-' when one views the situation in terms of the amount of money which is being spent, tO' see how far short performance falls of the promises which have been made with such' profusion. But the most serious indictment with respect to our equipment shortages and' deficiencies is the fact that the equipment, we do have in the hands of our troops who' are fighting is in many respects obsolete or. obsolescent. Here I should like to refer to what was said by Dr. Gordon M. Shrum, of the university of British Columbia. The Vancouver Daily Province of April 4 reports an address he made to the association of professional engineers in Stanley Park pavilion last Thursday evening. Dr. Shrum, by the way, is a member of the national defence board and of the national research council.. The newspaper article contains this report, of what.he had to say with regard to some, of the weapons with which we are fighting, and the deficiencies and shortcomings of the weapons being used in Korea:
"You'd be fed up if you were over there. We alii heard of push-button warfare, but there they are, using weapons, and even aircraft, of the last war. We have been spending money on research, but we haven't the equipment."	i
Jet planes, travelling at 700 miles an hour, are . using obsolete machine guns. "They might as well be shooting at each other with pea shooters." The, allies, he said, would be unwilling to "trot out our best things for Russian observers."
"However, we don't have these things anyway."
I well know it has been suggested previously in the house that the jet aircraft' manufactured in Montreal are being equipped' with a type of armament which to all intents and purposes is obsolete. We are spending something like $400,000 per aircraft, and turning them out with a type of armament comparable, as Dr. Shrum has said, to a pea-shooter. That is not hindsight. That is criticism that has been made in the house' and, I know, made privately to the minister as well. But in its all-pervading wisdom the government continues to produce this type o|i aircraft, with this basic type of armament. Then the Minister of National Defence in his speech in the house tells us that we must not dare to criticize the defence effort of the gov-' ernment because to do so would be to detract' from that defence effort.	i

National Defence
Another example of serious deficiency in equipment, in spite of the expenditure of nearly five billions of dollars which we will have made by the end of this fiscal year, is in the lack of an up-to-date aircraft carrier. It was suggested, not just recently but some time ago, that the carrier was then obsolescent, and it is suggested that it is now obsolete. One cannot talk carelessly about replacing an aircraft carrier as though it were something that could be done overnight or even in a year. But we have not been told of any steps being taken to replace [DOT]-not just to overhaul-the Magnificent, and to have an aircraft carrier capable of handling jet aircraft, which surely must be the minimum if we are to assume the antisubmarine role which has been assigned to us.
I turn now to the question of our reserve force. It is most regrettable that there was nowhere in the minister's statement any mention worthy of the name of Canada's reserve forces. Perhaps that is not as strange as it might seem at first sight, because it is my belief, after consultation with officers in the reserve army, and after reading some of the statements made by the defence association, that so far as the preparedness of our reserve force is concerned, so far as their readiness for mobilization is concerned, it is a matter of shame and regret and not one of pride. I use those words deliberately, and I want to make it clear that it is not the fault of the officers and men of the reserve forces, but rather the fault of the system under which they are compelled to work.
This deficiency with respect to our reserve force carries more significance and more cause for alarm and disturbance when we read the minister's statement made in the house on February 5 of last year when he was referring to the general subject of defence. Speaking in the' house on that occasion the minister, describing Canada's role and obligation to contribute forces to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, said, as reported at page 95 of Hansard:
In addition to whatever army forces we have in Europe-
And that is of course the 27th brigade now over there.
-our army role in NATO is to provide a strategic reserve.
As has been pointed out, a strategic reserve in that sense does not mean anything like the reserve forces we have in Canada. A strategic reserve must be a reserve available to be placed in the field immediately as and when strategic reserves are needed- not a reserve which can be called up by a leisurely process of mobilization such as we knew in Canada when, at the time of the last
IMr. Fulton.]
war-and we were working under the same system then-it took us four years to mobilize five divisions. It is not that type of reserve at all, not a lengthy and leisurely mobilization of non-permanent forces until they are ready for the field. This type of strategic reserve refers to quite another concept of reserve forces.
Not only is the department to be criticized because we are not remotely prepared to discharge that type of obligation, in view of the sad state of Canada's reserve force, but it is imperative that we be informed by the minister what has happened to change the picture to such an extent that we have the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) declaring recently in the house that Canada has no commitments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization beyond the one brigade now in Europe, and that that is the limit of our commitments up to 1954. That was the very clear statement made in the house a couple of weeks ago by the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
I should like to know how that statement is to be understood when it is read in conjunction with the earlier policy statement of the Minister of National Defence, that one of Canada's roles in NATO is to provide a strategic reserve.
In dealing with this subject of our reserve force, mention must be made of the Canadian rangers. When one talks to men out in British Columbia who had experience with the Pacific coast militia rangers during the last war, one realizes that there is obviously a tragic waste of the services of these men who are able and willing to make a most valuable contribution to the defence effort of this country. I should like to put in a word with the minister for the organization of the Canadian rangers, if that is what they are to be called-instead of the Pacific coast militia rangers-that at least in British Columbia he should let them be organized on a basis which has some semblance of reality. There are men out there who know how this should and could be done. Yet, so far as I am able to learn, their advice has been completely disregarded, with the result that the organizational structure of the Canadian rangers in British Columbia is completely unworkable.
What has happened? Apparently someone sat down in Ottawa and drew a series of lines on the map, dividing the province into zones and allocating one unit to a zone. In some cases these zone boundaries follow the lines of rivers. The result is that communities which have a complete identity of interest with other communities in the area find themselves on the other side of the line on the map, and thus in another zone, and

not placed with a community just across the river, or perhaps up the stream a little way on the other side of the river-they find that they are not placed with communities with which they have constantly and normally worked in matters of this kind.
This is just one further example of the state of unreality in our defence planning. It would seem that someone sits down and draws a line on a map, without consulting anyone who has had experience as to what would be the best way of organizing the Canadian rangers in British Columbia, either with reference to the proper boundaries of a zone, or the size and type of unit to be organized in a zone.
All this adds up to a situation which is desperate-and this applies to all aspects of defence preparedness, navy, army and air force, the state of equipment and the state of reserves, with which I include the Canadian rangers, formerly known as the Pacific coast militia rangers in British Columbia-all this indicates a situation that is desperate when viewed in terms of the money we have spent already and the money we are being asked to authorize this year.
Although we will have spent just under $5,000 million on defence by the end of this fiscal year, a careful review of what we have been told, read in the light of what we have not been told but should have been told, produces the numbing realization that those who are planning our defence and its integration with our North Atlantic allies are moving in a sphere as far removed from reality as it is possible to be.
What do we have? We have a navy stated to be primarily a submarine hunting force but with only one obsolescent carrier and so far as can be ascertained no additional or new carriers called for. Let me just refer to what the white paper on defence said with regard to the navy, as is found on page 7 of that document, as follows:
It has been demonstrated in the past that carriers and their aircraft are essential to the successful execution of naval action; especially is this so in the case of anti-submarine warfare which is expected to be a vital commitment of the Royal Canadian Navy in the event of another war.
We have a navy with only one obsolescent carrier and no plans made for additional or new carriers.
We have an army of three isolated and independent brigades, not trained to operate together and totally without armour. The brigade in Europe is virtually an orphan. There is no complete picture as to what operational role that brigade will be called upon to fill, under whose command it will be and with what formation it will serve. We
National Defence
have an army of 49,000 men without even a formation of division size, completely without reserves and with no reserve unit capable of immediate mobilization. We have an army where it is typical for cooks for a parachute b