Mr. Speaker, before you take up the orders of the day there are three or four matters which according to the rules and practice are required to be dealt with at this time.
First of all, I should like to announce officially for the record that the Hon. G. Edouard Rinfret resigned as Postmaster General on February 13, 1952, and that Mr. Alcide Cote, member for St. Jean-Iberville-Napierville, was appointed Postmaster General on the same day. I should like to table the order in council making the appointment.
I should like to announce for the record that Mr. G. J. Mcllraith resigned as parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Defence Production on February 5, 1952, and that Mr. John Horace Dickey, senior member for Halifax, was appointed parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Defence Production on February 12, 1952. I now table the appropriate orders in council.


Right	Hon.	L.	S.	St.	Laurent	(Prime
Minister) moved:
That a special committee be appointed to prepare and report, with all convenient speed, lists of members to compose the standing committees of this house under standing order 63, said committee to be composed of Messrs. Fournier (Hull), Harris (Grey-Bruce), Casselman, Shaw and Weir.
Motion agreed to.
Right	Hon.	L.	S.	St.	Laurent	(Prime
Minister) presented the following message from His Excellency the Governor General:
The governor general transmits to the House of Commons a certified copy of an approved minute of council appointing the Hon. Alphonse Fournier, Minister of Public Works, the Hon. Douglas Abbott, Minister of Finance, the Hon. J. J. McCann, Minister of National Revenue and the Hon. F. G. Bradley, Secretary of State of Canada, to act with the Speaker of the House of Commons as commissioners for the purposes and under the provisions
of chapter 145 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, intituled: An act respecting the House of Commons.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to move, seconded by the Minister of Defence Production (Mr. Howe):
That Louis Rene Beaudoin, Esquire, member for the electoral district of Vaudreuil-Soulanges, Quebec, be appointed deputy chairman of committees of the whole house.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, since the last session of parliament two of the members of this house have passed away. I refer of course to the former members for Victoria-Carleton and Brome-Missisquoi.
It was with deep regret, shared by all of us, that we learned of the death of Mr. Heber H. Hatfield following a lengthy period of ill health. Born in 1885 at Middle Simonds, New Brunswick, and educated there, it was not long before Mr. Hatfield moved to Hart-land where he was to become prominent as a large scale producer of and dealer in potatoes and potato products. Following several years of service in the municipal field, Mr. Hatfield was elected to parliament for the electoral district of Victoria-Carleton in. the general election of 1940, and re-elected in 1945 and 1949.
Though giving close attention always to all the work of parliament, he was constant and firm in his efforts to interest Canada and, indeed, other parts of the world in the products of his native province. As a result he did much to increase the prosperity of many New Brunswickers and to enhance the name of Canada as a source of choice seed potatoes. Mr. Hatfield will be missed by his constituents, by his business associates, by the potato growers of all the maritime region, and by those, not only of his own party, with whom he was so closely associated as a member of parliament. He will be remembered
10	HOUSE OF
Tributes to Deceased Members both in the business world and in parliament not only for his successful career but also for his unquestioned integrity and his fairness.
To Mrs. Hatfield and her family the sincere sympathy of all of the members of this house goes out in full measure.
(Translation):
Mr. Speaker, the death of Mr. Henri A. Gosselin has been a shock to his numerous friends who had believed him to be in fairly good health.
Mr. Gosselin was bom in Lee, Massachusetts, in 1887. His parents were French-Canadian. A few years later, his family returned to Canada and he was educated in Sherbrooke.
In 1914 he joined the Canadian Pacific Railway. While working as a train dispatcher, in Farnham, he spent a great deal of time in agricultural pursuits.
For a great many years, Mr. Gosselin was an active participant in the political life of his community, of his province and of his country. From 1928 to 1938, he was mayor of Farnham; from 1939 to 1948, he sat for Missisquoi in the Quebec legislature; and in 1949, he was elected federal member for the constituency of Brome-Missisquoi.
On the floor of this house he spoke calmly and easily, with sobriety and sureness of judgment, in either of our two official languages.
During the relatively short time he sat here, Mr. Gosselin acquired our respect and friendship. I am therefore confident that you will join me in extending to his widow and to his family our most sincere sympathy.
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, I wish to join with the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) in expressing the regret which we all feel in the loss of two of the members of this house, Mr. Heber Hatfield and Mr. Henri Gosselin.
Mr. Hatfield, as every member will so well recall, was an example of the well-informed specialist in a subject close to Ills heart. He contributed greatly to the work of the house by being able to speak not only about the development of the potato industry and potato products but also about his own county and province in a way that helped that province and advanced the general interests of the country, as the Prime Minister has already said.
Mr. Hatfield was associated with many activities in addition to those about which we heard frequently in the house. In fact it seemed that he was associated with most of the worth-while activities in the town of


Hantland, and he had a privilege that most of us do not share. In addition to being in public life, he was also interested in a newspaper, and thus was able to express many of his thoughts through channels not available to most other members- He was an indefatigable worker on behalf of the constituents whom he served. I am sure the ministers of the crown can certify best of all that, regardless of the political views of those who came to him, he was a persistent representative in their departments and served his constituents well in seeking to have those things done which they believed could be done by the departments of the government.
As happens in so many cases, Mr. Hatfield had extended municipal experience, as warden of his county, as mayor of Hartland and through his association with the many voluntary organizations upon which our social life so largely depends. He showed great courage, more than the courage called for by the ordinary daily responsibilities. I think most hon. members are aware that for some considerable time it took courage of a very high order to appear in this chamber and carry on his work in the cheerful and friendly way that he did.
In extending to Mrs. Hatfield and the members of the family the sympathy which has been expressed by the Prime Minister on behalf of all members of the house, may I say that Mrs. Hatfield herself deserves that recognition to which so many of the wives of the members of parliament are entitled. She deserves our respect particularly for the way in which she sustained and cheered him during a considerable period when she knew much better than he that his days were numbered.
I therefore join with the Prime Minister, as I am sure every other member does, in extending sympathy to the members of the family and expressing the earnest hope that the knowledge that his associates in the House of Commons are thinking of them at this time may bring some measure of comfort at a time when doubtless their thoughts will be here in Ottawa and they will be recalling the occasions on which he and his family attended the opening of parliament.
I also wish to join with the Prime Minister in his words of sympathy to the family of Mr. Gosselin. He was a man who had won many friends here, and he will be greatly missed. He had served his community well, as Mr. Hatfield did, and this indicates the extent to which municipal experience frequently paves the way to representation of the wider field. He had served his own community well, not only as a councillor and as mayor, but also in the

legislature of Quebec. As a result of that combined experience he was able to bring good judgment to his consideration of the subjects that came before .him in the House of Commons. All the members of this house will join in expressing regret that this faithful servant of his own community should have been taken from us.


Mr. Speaker, we too join in extending sympathy to the families of the two members who have left us and passed to the great beyond. We are reminded of the transitory nature of life when invariably at the opening of a session we have to mourn the loss of some of our colleagues. The tributes that have been paid in this instance I think have expressed what we all feel in regard to the deceased members and their work in this parliament.
Mr. Hatfield was a member for some years, and sat very near the place from which I am speaking this afternoon. I came to know him rather well and to appreciate the interest he took in the work of the house, especially in the field in which he was particularly qualified. I knew of his assiduous efforts on behalf of the people he represented.
Mr. Gosselin was a newer member, but he had also made some impression upon the house. We appreciated the fact that he took a great interest in the ordinary workers of his constituency, at one time having been, as the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) has said, an employee of one of our great railway systems.
We join in expressing our sympathy to the bereaved families; and may I also express our sympathy to the Prime Minister and the leader of the official opposition (Mr. Drew) on each having lost one of his colleagues in this house.


Mr. Speaker, the members of my group have asked me to say a few words on this sad occasion in appreciation of these two fine men. I had the opportunity of rather close association with Mr. Hatfield, as he and I had offices in the same corridor, and once in a while exchanged views.
In a conspicuous place on the front page of the Hartland Observer of New Bruns-.wick, under date of January 10, 1952, an article appeared entitled "Impressive final tribute paid H. H. Hatfield, M.P., Sunday." In it I find these words:
A man who loved his community and its people, and who served them well, rests today in the quiet country graveyard nestled in the windswept hills of the little Saint John river valley town of Hartland.
55704-2J
Tributes to Deceased Members As the shadows of a wintry day swept silently over the hillside, all that was mortal of Heber Harold Hatfield, the town's first citizen, was tenderly laid to rest while relatives and friends stood with bowed heads.
An hour before the service the United Baptist church was filled to capacity, and hundreds were unable to gain admittance.
I thought those comments, coming from the people who knew Mr. Hatfield best, might appropriately be mentioned here.
The provincial leader of the opposition in New Brunswick used some words concerning Mr. Hatfield with which I am sure the members of this house will agree. He referred to "his great capacity for action" and "his ability to create confidence"; to his "honesty", "kindness" and "tolerance". I believe generally speaking all the members of this house were impressed by Mr. Hatfield in just that way.
I shall not repeat what has already been said about our departed member by the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) and the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew). We desire to join in extending heartfelt sympathy to Mrs. Hatfield and all others bereaved by the loss of this fine man, as we also extend sympathy to the leader of the opposition on the loss of a valuable supporter.
With respect to Mr. Gosselin, we did not have much opportunity to get to know him. When men come and sit with us for a short time we do not really get to know them very well; but I did gain the impression that this man was courageous, conscientious and high-minded. We desire to extend sympathy to all those bereaved by his passing, and we sympathize with the Prime Minister in the loss of this good supporter.


Mr. Speaker, I thought that at the very beginning of the session I should make a statement to the house about the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease among cattle in the Regina district.
This is the first outbreak of this disease in Canada within the memory of living men. While nearly every other country in the world, including the United States, has had some cases, and in several countries the disease is endemic, until now Canada has managed, by reason of careful precautionary measures, to maintain a clean bill of health. I think this remarkable record is a tribute to the zeal and care of those charged with the responsibility of administering the regulations.

Foot-and-mouth disease
At an appropriate time I will deal at length with the discovery and detection of the disease in the Regina district. At the moment I only wish to say that as soon as there was any suspicion that the vesicular malady discovered in that area might be foot-and-mouth disease, an area sufficiently large to take in all known cases was quarantined by the veterinary director general under the authority of the Animal Contagious Diseases Act, and every recent movement of cattle out of the area has been traced.
At this point I would like to emphasize the fact that this area is very small, only fifty miles square, constituting about one-fiftieth of the settled portion of the province of Saskatchewan. I wanted to emphasize that because while this disease requires that sufficient publicity be given to it, I am afraid the publicity in this instance has been such as to give the impression that the disease is much more widespread in Canada than the facts known up to the moment would indicate. There are about twenty-three cases of the disease which have been established. They are all within an area fifty miles square surrounding the city of Regina, which is at about the centre of the area. It has been rumoured that the disease has been found in other parts of the country. We have checked all those rumours, and up to the present have found no cases outside that area. I am very glad to be able to say that so far the disease does not seem to have spread outside the quarantine area, and that within the area itself there have been no new cases for several days. Every rumour of an outbreak outside the area is at once checked and a quarantine imposed if there is suspicion.
As soon as the existence of foot-and-mouth disease was suspected, the government also notified the United States authorities and a United States veterinarian was on location immediately. Not only did we wish to have the advantage of the skilled assistance of the United States bureau of animal industry, which has had long experience in Mexico where there have been serious outbreaks in recent years, but we also wished to assure the United States government that everything possible was being done to stamp out the disease, if indeed it proved to be the foot-and-mouth variety.
On Sunday last our laboratories at Hull notified us that the vesicular malady was definitely foot-and-mouth disease, and on the following day a public announcement was made to that effect.	It was also
announced that the infected animals and those which might have been in contact with

the disease were being destroyed, the farmers compensated, and the affected farms disinfected. These operations are now under way.	.
Meanwhile, as we knew would happen, the United States government imposed an embargo on the shipment from Canada of live cattle, sheep and swine, and fresh killed or frozen meat from these animals. The shipment of hay and straw, and of certain animal products, is also made subject to certain restrictions. The details of these regulations are available, and I shall not attempt to elaborate them at this time. The United States government made it clear, however, that the embargo does not apply to grains.
This embargo and these other restrictions have been imposed under mandatory United States legislation, which has been in effect for many years.
As far as the United States administration is concerned, there is no discretion to restrict the embargo to areas or regions, that is the act does not provide them with discretion to pick out certain areas. The embargo must apply to the whole country. Under the United States law the embargo cannot be lifted until the Secretary of Agriculture gives notice that the disease no longer exists in the foreign country. We have also been advised that, under the order issued by the United States bureau of animal industry applying to Canada, the embargo cannot be lifted for a period of sixty days after Canada has been declared free of foot-and-mouth disease.
I think I should say that ever since the outbreak of the disease was suspected the United States authorities have been most sympathetic and helpful, and I am convinced that they are as anxious as we are to bring this scourge under control and to see normal trade resumed with a minimum of delay.
While I am hopeful that the action taken will be fully successful, there is no doubt that some losses will be incurred before the disease is eliminated and the embargo on movement to the United States removed. Farmers whose livestock have to be destroyed will, as I have already said, be compensated. In addition, the government is not unmindful of the serious losses that may result from the interference in the sale of livestock and animal products to the United States.
The situation is being watched carefully and as further measures to protect the interests of producers are required these will be brought into effect. What form these measures should take, if they prove to be required, has been inquired into.

At this point I should like to tell the house that the government will find it most difficult to be regulated in their actions by the usual practice of bringing every action which we may contemplate before this house before action is taken. I believe that can be quite well understood. For example, we are meeting today and will not meet again until Monday. Matters which are most important may come up in the meantime, and we may find it necessary to proceed without waiting to make an announcement on the floor of the house. All these matters have been considered as fully as possible under the circumstances, and we are prepared to take action when the necessity arises. We do not think it wise to be making announcements of action which it may not be necessary to take.
Farmers would be well advised to refrain from panic selling of their stock at this time, as the government does not intend to let this important part of the Canadian livestock industry bear the whole brunt of this unfortunate development. We fare actively investigating alternative outlets for our livestock and animal products. Until the picture becomes clearer, farmers should limit deliveries of livestock, in so far as this is practicable. It should be apparent, and I consider this important, that stock delivered before ready for slaughter cannot be returned for further feeding. In other words, the farmers would be well advised to keep on their farms livestock which is not prepared for slaughter until further notice, as I believe it will be absolutely necessary to slaughter all animals which do come to plants in certain areas whether or not they are ready for slaughter. This can only result in lower returns to those who deliver animals in that condition.
Perhaps I should also add a word about internal measures to prevent the spread of the disease within Canada. It is the view of the government that quarantine arrangements can best be established by the federal authorities. We have legislation now which provides for that, and we have always acted under it. Every action which can be taken to take care of our responsibility in that regard has been taken, and we feel that it would be best if the matter of quarantine were dealt with by the federal authorities.


Mr. Speaker, may I be allowed to ask a question at this time? The minister stated that the farmers whose cattle were destroyed, that is those actively infected or those in association with cattle that were found to be suffering from the disease, would be compensated. I have received a number of telegrams from farmers in the infected area, and they want to know what the nature of the compensation will be. They particularly want
Foot-and-mouth disease to know whether the government will give consideration to allowing special compensation in addition to commercial value in respect of purebred dairy cattle or purebred show cattle. Unless some compensation along that line is granted by the department, the loss in the area will be very large because the herds are, in the main, purebred.
When the minister is replying, there is one other point I believe he should clarify. The press in Saskatchewan has stated that it was in November that the existence of this disease was first suspected and the question submitted to veterinarians with a view to ascertaining whether it was in fact hoof-and-mouth disease. Will the minister state whether or not that is correct, and what took place between November and February, or give reasons for the delay in not acting sooner to preserve the country as a whole from the catastrophe that now faces it in so far as the livestock industry is concerned?


Before the minister rises may I ask a supplementary question which bears directly on this matter. I have also been approached with regard to compensation. In the newspapers we were told that the packing house or houses affected would be compensated. Is that so? If it is, will the workers in the packing houses that are affected receive some consideration, since the loss of employment is as grave to them as is the loss of business to the packing houses? I am asking these questions because they have been put to me.


In reply to the first question, Mr. Speaker, I would only say that it is the intention of the government to introduce legislation. We realize that the present legislation was not drafted with the intention of dealing with a situation of this kind. At the moment I am not in a position to say any more than that it is the intention of the government to introduce legislation. The fact that we are intending to introduce legislation should, I think, deal with the matter for the moment. That is one of the things I had in mind at the time that I said that we did not wish to be bound by the usual practice of giving notice here in the house before we take any action in the matter. We may have to make some pronouncements which have not yet been dealt with definitely by the house. Because of the remarks that have just now been made-and similar remarks would be made by others if there was the opportunity-we have reason to believe that it is the opinion of the house that certain things ought to be done. That in itself indicates that we are not satisfied with the provision that is now made and that something different will have to be done.

Foot-and-mouth disease


It is certainly inadequate.


Then as to the other question about the time, this is one of those diseases which, as has been indicated in the statement, we have never had in Canada before. But on previous occasions we have had the other malady which is not so serious; that is, on different occasions we have had the disease known as stomatitis and it has been dealt with without any difficult results arising. The first diagnosis of the disease in Saskatchewan was that it was stomatitis. It takes some time to deal with a situation of that kind. Right up until last week the chief authority in the province of Saskatchewan was maintaining that that is what the disease really was. That was the situation even a week ago. I think that gives some reason for believing that the veterinarians, whether they were government veterinarians or practitioners in the area, could not be expected to have arrived at a different conclusion.


Who made the final decision?


The final decision was made at our plant in Hull.


Who is the chief authority in Saskatchewan?


It is the veterinarian who is at Saskatoon in connection with the university. I am not just certain as to which one it was who made the pronouncement. I think it was Dr. Fulton, but I would have to check that. I received the announcement when I was in Vancouver, and it made me feel a little bit better to read it in the newspaper.


That announcement was from your department?


No; it was from the university authority at Saskatoon where the virus is sent to be checked by those authorities who are in a position to check it and who have the facilities to do so. Most of our checking in Saskatchewan is done at the university, I think, at the farm there. This checking was done in connection with these cases. When it comes to dealing with the matter finally in order to determine whether it is foot-and-mouth disease, there is only one way in which it can be finally determined, as I understand it. We have international regulations which provide that certain serums are developed in certain places only, because the indiscriminate utilization of them will sometimes do more harm than good. My understanding is that the serum which makes the blood test possible is provided in Great Britain. When, in the minds of those who were investigating the matter,

it was thought possible that this might be foot-and-mouth disease, they at once went to the area and obtained samples of the virus, brought it back here and at the same time sent to Great Britain for the serum.


When was that?


That was last week. As I understand the process, the virus is injected into the animals, then the serum is also injected, and it is the bringing together of the two in the same animal which proves definitely whether or not the malady is foot-and-mouth disease. That process all had to be gone through before a definite statement could be made, and it was made last Sunday as a result of what took place on Saturday. That is the reason for any delay that took place.


When was the first suspicion entertained that something untoward had occurred?


The first time that the disease known as stomatitis was discovered was, I think, on November 26; and it was constantly dealt with from that time right on.


Might I be permitted to ask the Minister of Agriculture a rather different supplementary question? I believe that one of the things about which cattle producers are most concerned now is the fluctuating market as a result of the disease and the banning of exports of cattle to the United States. Are the minister and the government watching the situation so that, under the emergency powers legislation, steps might be taken to stabilize both cattle and meat prices if this situation continues?


The government is checking every possible development in connection with the whole matter, and is considering it in relation to what is being done elsewhere which affects our markets here.


Will the minister tell me when the federal investigation of this disease was first made? Something was discovered on November 26. But when was the suspicion aroused and action taken to investigate whether this virus was of the foot-and-mouth type or not?


I understand that when the disease developed on his place Mr. Waas reported it to his own veterinarian. His own veterinarian was sick at the time and prescribed only over the telephone. My understanding is that the animals reacted to the treatment as though it had been stomatitis and that it cleaned up very much more quickly than they thought would have been the possibility with foot-and-mouth disease. As the result of that they were rather

encouraged in the idea that that was what it was, and that it was not foot-and-mouth disease. But he went in and made a report at Regina to the authorities, which may have been the federal authorities there, and then they checked his farm and that checking has been going on since then.


I should like to ask another supplementary question as a result of the minister's statement. He stated that the matter of quarantine should be left with the federal authorities. Many breeders of purebred stock are much concerned over the fact that exhibitions of purebred stock and public sales are billed to take place within the next few weeks at such centres as Brandon, Regina, Calgary and others in the prairies. Would the minister or his officials say that those should be cancelled now? The breeders are really in quite a quandary. Many of them made these entries months ago, but they do not want to deliver their stock under these circumstances and they think that some leadership should be given to them by the federal department as to whether these organizations should proceed with these exhibitions and sales which are billed to commence within a few weeks or whether they should be cancelled.


That is one of the reasons Why we are suggesting that matters such as quarantine might be left to the federal authorities. If the disease is confined to a small area-and after all, only twenty-three head of cattle in that area were affected-I think one would find it a little bit difficult to feel otherwise than that it is looking for trouble where trouble might not exist if you start to do something 2,000 miles away from there.


It is a few miles from Regina.


Yes, but it is 2,000 miles from where one of these fairs may be held in some part of eastern Canada. I would hesitate to say that everyone who is conducting a fair should close it; but at the same time they may think in Ontario that some animals have been brought into the district that may have carried the disease, and that they would be better without the fair. Where they have that feeling I would not like to say anything that would discourage them from closing up the fair, but at the same time I do not think we should take the responsibility for saying that all these fairs ought to be closed. If you were out in Moose Jaw, say, in the middle of the area, I think my hon. friend agrees as to what he would do, and I know what I would do. We would not be at the show; and if nobody is
Foot-and-mouth disease at the show there will not be one, no matter what action they take. I think they will deal with that locally without any difficulty. I think that covers the point.


Has the minister looked into it or had determined the constitutionality of the action of some of the provinces in putting an embargo on all livestock and dressed meats from the three prairie provinces, and can he make any statement in regard to that phase of the situation?


Yes, the government has looked into it, and we have had opinions. Unfortunately it is quite difficult to get a definite opinion on a general statement of the position. The general position is that in connection with agriculture and immigration, as is known in this house, both authorities have the right to legislate. But the general interpretation is that, where both have legislated, our legislation overrides the provincial legislation. Both have legislated with regard to this matter in some provinces. When we say ours overrides the other, we have followed in the past the practice of taking under consideration the circumstances surrounding the matter before we would interfere with what the province does. A province may do something which applies only to itself, and which affects only itself and does not affect people elsewhere. We have been inclined not to criticize them for that, or take any action which would void what they jure doing. In this case all I would say is that we have given every possible consideration to it. We think we have a way of dealing with it which will be effective and at the same time will not interfere with reasonable actions taken by provinces. I hope that we shall be in a position to make some announcement about that.


So far as the powers of embargo of the provinces are concerned, is there any distinction between livestock and dressed meats?


I should not like to give a legal opinion on that, but there is a distinction between the ways in which we have dealt with it up to date. A suggestion has gone out that Ontario asked us to do certain things and we did certain things. Well, Ontario did ask us to do certain things, but all we have done was done before that request was made. What we had done was to agree to people delivering livestock into the stockyards of Winnipeg and into the packing plants of Winnipeg, but we did not agree to any livestock being shipped out of those yards. That simply means in effect that the animal must be killed and turned into beef. But we did not prevent the shipment of beef out of the
16	HOUSE OF
Foot-and-mouth disease yards so that the actual result of that is that no livestock comes from Winnipeg into Ontario at the present moment, but that beef does come from Winnipeg into Ontario.


What about the British Columbia situation?


Well, the British Columbia situation is the same in effect except that British Columbia has gone a little farther. British Columbia has taken authority, although I do not know that they have acted on it, to eliminate beef as well as cattle. However, I am not so sure that they will make that active. They can do so under their legislation, if their legislation is constitutional.


May I ask a supplementary question? If British Columbia desires to take that action, will any objection be put in their way by the federal authority?


No, Mr. Speaker; if we follow the plan that we have in mind at the moment it will not require that we take any action.


Can the minister say when actual quarantine proceedings were taken in that district first?


A week ago last Wednesday.


It had gone all the way from November 26 to ,a week ago Wednesday.


Order.


It would have gone all the way until next Christmas at least if we had not had proof that warranted us in thinking it was foot-and-mouth disease.


In view of the loss of a herd in western Ontario through a tropical disease, will compensation be paid to that owner the same as with foot-and-mouth disease?


The disease in Oxford county which I think affected the herd of one individual, whose animals were destroyed and buried yesterday, puts him in this position. It is intended to so draft legislation, which will be brought before the house, as to make it possible to take care of this case along with the others.


I have one other question on this matter. The minister said-


Order. I did not want to curtail the asking of questions on this matter, because it is an important one. At this time I do not think questions should be asked which are not very important. I understand the hon. member for Calgary East (Mr. 

Harkness) and the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell) want to ask a question. I hope the questioning will have been completed by that time.


My question is this. The minister said that the United States had not put an embargo on grain going into that country. However, I understand from the newspapers that they have stopped the shipment of grain. What I want to know is: in actual fact, are they now allowing grain to go in there, or are they actually stopping it, as has been reported?


My understanding is that they are allowing it to come in; that there has not been any order put out in the United States to stop grain. There may be some people at the boundary line who have misunderstood the order, and have stopped some shipments, but outside of that I do not know of any being stopped.


I rise simply to remind the minister that I asked him a supplementary question: was any consideration being given to compensating the packing plants, as was suggested in the newspapers? Is any consideration being given to compensating the packing house workers for the loss of wages?


Consideration is being given as to how the packing plants are to be advised to operate both inside and outside the quarantine area; but until that consideration is given I would not like to say anything further.


I have a supplementary question. I think this is as important a question as any we shall have before the house at this session, if not more important than any other legislation. If the agricultural authorities and the legal authorities in my province of British Columbia take the stand that they do not want the importation of cattle or killed beef from Alberta and Saskatchewan, will any steps be taken to prohibit an excessive rise in prices? It may be that the Minister of Agriculture is not the minister to answer this question. I should like to direct it to whoever is responsible. It has been suggested that if the province of British Columbia does what has been mentioned, namely, prohibit the importation of cattle and beef from those areas affected into British Columbia, there may be a rise in the price of beef. Will steps be taken to see that an ample supply of beef in the hands of the packing companies now is not sold at an excessive price, thereby exploiting the public, and using as an excuse the shortage of beef because of the prohibition of imports from Alberta and Saskatchewan? I am surprised that the Minister of Fisheries

(Mr. Mayhew) has not risen in his place and said that we have the finest fisheries in British Columbia.


Order.


I would like that question answered.


Order. The hon. member has asked his question, and the minister may reply if he wishes.


I would just say, with regard to what has been said, that this government has not asked British Columbia to take any action whatsoever in connection with the matter. Therefore any responsibility that exists anywhere for what has been done exists with those who took the action.


No, not in price fixing.


Report of the proceedings of tha commissioners of internal economy of the House of Commons for the period October 9 to December 31, 1951.-Mr. Speaker.
Report of the joint librarians of parliament. -Mr. Speaker.
Report of the chief electoral officer for the year 1951.-Mr. Speaker.
(For complete list of departmental and other reports tabled, see Votes and Proceedings, No. 2, of February 29, 1952.)
Mr. Speaker, I wish to table P.C. 1084, an order in council authorizing the Minister of Public Works to enter into an agreement with Tannoy Rentals Limited, of London, England, and Cossor (Canada) Limited, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, in the terms and conditions embodied in the draft thereto attached, for supplying the installation and operation of a sound-reinforcement system in the House of Commons chamber.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works, of which I have given notice. Is he in a position to
Inquiries of the Ministry report to the house in regard to the collapse of part of the new printing bureau building over in Hull on Wednesday night?


Mr. Speaker, in his usual courteous fashion the leader of the opposition gave me notice that he would ask me if I were in a position to make a statement on that event in my home town. I am pleased to see that he has brought the question up, which shows that he will join with me in the concern we have over the accident.
This accident resulted in the death of a respected citizen of my home town. I wish to extend to the members of the deceased's family my most sincere condolences, and I can assure them that the population of Hull joins me in expressing sympathy to those unfortunate people as well as to the other victims who were injured, some seriously and others slightly.
After the occurrence I instructed the officials of my department to investigate and to report as to the causes of the accident. This investigation has been proceeding ever since Wednesday evening. As a man was killed in the accident, according to law a coroner's inquest will be held and witnesses will be heard in the open to find the causes of the accident, the responsibility if any, and, especially, if such exists, the criminal responsibility. This inquiry will be held, I believe, within a few days.
I have instructed the officials of my department associated with this work to give all possible help to the provincial court in this inquiry. If criminal responsibility is established, the ordinary course provided by criminal law will be followed and the responsible parties indicted and tried. If there is no criminal responsibility, the question of establishing any responsibility for damage will still be under provincial jurisdiction in the civil courts.
At this stage I would hesitate to take action in connection with anything coming under provincial jurisdiction. This is the course followed where death is a result of an accident. It does not mean that the department will stop its investigation and not report to the minister as to the competence of those who are executing the contract. Any report received from my officials following that investigation will be brought before the house because I am as anxious as any hon. member to have all the facts brought out.
The leader of the opposition (Mr. Drew) probably has read the press and knows that the architect who undertook the designing of this building is one of the outstanding
18	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry architects, not only in the province oi Quebec but in the whole dominion. He is known by reputation even outside our boundaries. Mr. Cormier of Montreal drew the plans for the supreme court building, and he was also the architect for the Montreal university buildings. I understand he has just completed the plans for two large buildings in Toronto. He is so well known that when the United Nations decided to put up their building in New York he was appointed one of the consultant architects.
The contractor is Concrete Construction Limited of Montreal. The first instance that I recall when that company did work in this vicinity was in 1930 when they constructed the Confederation building on Wellington street. They also erected the buildings of the Ste. Anne de Bellevue hospital. They are a well-known and reputable firm in this country, especially in connection with concrete work.
The firm that tested all the materials going into the construction of this building was the Canadian Inspection and Testing Company Limited of Montreal. I am told that the accident could not have been caused by faulty design or faulty materials. I am sure that the results of the coroner's inquiry will be to establish full responsibility and later on I may make another report to the house.


I appreciate the information
given by the minister, who naturally is greatly concerned even outside the duties of his department. But I would point out that my question was prompted by difficulty which had been encountered in obtaining information. I can understand that now, in the light of the circumstances to which he has referred in connection with the activities of the coroner. May I urge that, quite independently of any finding by the coroner, at least a public statement be given to this house so that we may be reassured that all difficulties will be overcome before the construction of this building is proceeded with.


That will be a pleasure.
I will follow this up and give all the information the hon. gentleman wishes. I should like to place on the record one clause in the contract for the construction of this building. Clause 23 reads:
The contractor, his agents and all workmen and persons employed by him or under his control, shall use due care that no person nor property is injured and that no rights are infringed in the prosecution of the work, and the contractor shall be solely responsible for all damages, by whomsoever claimable, in respect of any injury to persons or to lands, buildings, structures, fences,-


The clause concludes with the following words:
-and the contractor shall indemnify and save harmless His Majesty from and against all claims and demands, loss, costs, damages, actions, suits or other proceedings by whomsoever made, brought or prosecuted in any manner based upon, occasioned by, or attributable to any such damage, injury or infringement.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare? Will the special parliamentary committee on health insurance, which the minister on June 21 last said he hoped to set up at this session, be established at an early date?


My hon. friend did not give me the usual notice, and possibly on that account my answer will not be as complete as it otherwise would be.


The minister has had eight months to consider it.


I did say, as my hon. friend said in part, that the government would give consideration to the setting up of such a committee. The hon. member did not use those words when he put his question to me. The government has given careful consideration to this matter and has come to the conclusion not to set up such a committee at this time.
I may say in passing that the health survey reports which have been undertaken by the ten provinces at federal expense have not all been filed with the government. Four provinces have yet to file their reports. There has not been a complete assessment at all the senior levels of government of any of those reports. I might inform my hon. friend also that the sickness survey to which I made some reference on the same occasion likewise is not yet completed.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct to the Minister of Trade and Commerce a question of which he has not had notice? What is being done to provide further drying facilities for damp and tough wheat on the prairies and to ensure

that the line elevators, which today have a great deal of damp and tough wheat in storage, will have that removed in order to make way for the harvesting which under present conditions should get under way within the next three or four weeks?


Additional drying capacity is being installed at the head of the lakes, and I believe at Vancouver. Unfortunately time will not permit much help from that source for this year. Arrangements have been made to ship ten million bushels of damp wheat from the prairies to Duluth to take advantage of drying capacity there. At the opening of navigation another quantity of damp wheat will be moved to Buffalo to take advantage of drying capacity at that port.


How much?


A very considerable amount. I could not say just what the drying capacity is at Buffalo, but we will move down sufficient grain to make use of all that is available. Early in the season it seemed impossible that we could salvage all the wet grain that was being delivered, but I now believe that we can do so. I am hopeful that there will be no spoilage. However, I cannot give chapter and verse as to how damp grain will be handled. It is most difficult to give exact figures, but I do think that the situation is in hand.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce, of which I have given him notice. Can the Minister of Trade and Commerce say whether the report on the radio this morning emanating, I believe, from Geneva, is correct, namely, that Canada is placing an embargo on the importation of certain agricultural products from the United States because of United States restrictions on the export of certain dairy products to that country?


I wish to thank the hon. member for Melfort for giving me notice of his question. Because the question involved is a delicate one, I have read with much concern the newspaper dispatches from Geneva and have listened to radio reports based thereon to which he referred. Because of the government's concern for the welfare of our dairy industry, the United States import restrictions on certain dairy products have of course been under continuous review.
Inquiries of the Ministry Among the products affected, skimmed milk products and cheddar cheese are of particular interest to Canada. In the present circumstances, however, it has been decided not to resort to measures of commercial retaliation against the United States. As a matter of fact the government has not authorized any new statement of policy to be made on this subject. The situation has not developed to the point where retaliatory measures would be either appropriate or effective. I should like to assure hon. members therefore that the dispatch in question is erroneous and does not reflect the views of the Canadian government.
Legislation is now pending in the United States to amend the Defence Production Act by repealing section 104, commonly known as the Andresen amendment. This is the section which provides for import controls on certain fats, oils and dairy products. The banking and currency committee of the United States senate gave further consideration to the remedial legislation this week. It is understood that the committee renewed its favourable support for the bill in question. In referring the bill back to the United States senate the committee did not consider it necessary to arrange any further public hearings. This is a very encouraging development.
These import restrictions on the part of the United States government have given rise to problems for Canada. The Canadian government deplores the fact that, by introducing these new import controls, the United States government has taken action in direct contravention of her trade agreement with Canada. The trade agreement provides clearly that quantitative import restrictions of this kind shall not be imposed. Through these controls upon imports, f