On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Could the minister make a statement on the signing of the agreements concerning Germany yesterday and today, and how it affects Canada-if Canada is affected. I regret that I have given the minister only short notice.


Mr. Speaker, I shall be glad to make a short statement on this important question of the signature of certain documents in Bonn yesterday and in Paris today, and their effect upon this country.
Today in Paris members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization signed a protocol to extend the guarantees under article 5 of the treaty to the European defence community. The protocol was signed on behalf of Canada by Mr. A. D. P. Heeney, the permanent representative of Canada on the North Atlantic council.
Hon. members will recall that on March 21, when reporting on the Lisbon meeting of the North Atlantic council, I mentioned the approval in principle by the council of this extension of security guarantees, which means in fact that, if the international undertakings are all ratified, our guarantees will cover the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and the forces of the Federal Republic serving in the European army when in the area covered by the North Atlantic treaty. The European defence community, for its part, gives a reciprocal guarantee to NATO. In other words, the European army, of which German forces will form a part, will be available for NATO defence in western Europe and, in fact, will come under NATO command.
The exchange of guarantees will be brought about by the ratification of a series of agreements. If hon. members will permit, I should like to mention the various related agreements, for although Canada is a party to only one of them, all these undertakings bear on the final result.
The first group of documents are commonly known as the contractual arrangements, and consist of agreements between the three occupying powers-France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, on the one hand, and the Federal Republic of Germany, on the other. They are designed to replace the occupation statute because Russian tactics in the four power conferences have prevented agreement on a formal German peace treaty. The effect of these peace contracts, which were signed in Bonn yesterday, will be to restore West Germany's autonomy except in certain limited spheres which are reserved to the former occupying powers.
Today the second series of documents, the European defence treaty and its related protocols, have been signed in Paris by representatives of France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, and the Federal Republic of Germany. The main purpose of this treaty is to establish the European army, to which each of the signatory powers will contribute forces. Canada is not, Mr. Speaker, a party to the European defence treaty and our forces in Europe will not form part of the European army. One of the protocols to the European defence treaty, however, extends the security guarantees of the treaty to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, of which we are a member.
Also today in Paris, as I have just indicated, NATO members have signed the NATO protocol to reciprocate this guarantee. This is the only document in this rather complex series of international undertakings to which Canada is formally a party. If hon. members are agreeable, I would suggest that the text of this protocol, which is quite short but which is very important, be printed as an appendix to Hansard. These international undertakings are, as I have said already, subject to ratification and in due course, before ratification by Canada, indeed I hope during the present session, parliament will be given the opportunity for a full discussion of this NATO-European defence community protocol.
Hon. members may wish when we are discussing the NATO protocol to discuss the other related documents which I have mentioned. Of course, they will not be before the house for approval. Nevertheless, as they have an important bearing on our commitments under the NATO protocol, I shall

Excise Tax Act
arrange for copies to be available to hon. members as soon as they can be obtained for distribution.


May I ask the
minister when it is expected that the legislative body of the West German republic will have this matter up for ratification?


I do not know whether I can answer that question. It is hoped that these documents will be submitted to all the parliaments concerned with the least possible delay and that ratification will be accomplished before too long. When that will be is of course in the hands of the legislatures of the various countries.
(For text of protocol, see appendix, page 2656.)


The house resumed, from Monday, May 26, consideration in committee of Bill No. 206, to amend the Excise Tax Act-Mr. Abbott- Mr. Beaudoin in the chair.
On section 4-Repeal.
Section 4 refers to schedules I, II, and III to the bill. On page 8, as part of schedule III, there is reference to the four drugs which were added last year to the list. In view of the interest of the house in what I would hope will some day be an extension of that list, I wonder if the minister would acquaint the committee with the experience thus far of the department in connection with the administration of the act in so far as these four drugs are concerned.


The officials of the Department of National Revenue will be here in a moment, but so far as I am aware no difficulty has been encountered in administering the act with respect to those particular drugs. Possibly the Minister of National Revenue has some other information. He confirms what I have just said.


I think the information which the minister has given to the committee will help to dissipate the fears which some hon. members seemed to have or which apparently were entertained by the government in connection with exempting drugs of this kind. Without proposing to launch into a debate on the subject may I express the hope that in the light of the past year's experience with these four drugs the government will give serious and early consideration to an extension of this list to include other similar drugs.
There are many people who are under a heavy burden of expense as a result of being required under medical advice to take certain forms of drugs constantly. Some of these drugs are exceedingly expensive and in the case of chronic sufferers who are under heavy
[Mr. Pearson.)
expense it seems to me that there is a clear case for an extension of the exemptions in the field of drugs.


I should like to place on the record a short memorandum dealing with the operation of the Excise Tax Act. I am not doing this in the hope that anything can be done at the moment but simply to have it on the record for consideration. It points out an anomaly which exists according to the way in which merchandising is done.
Under the existing sales and excise tax regulations, the base upon which taxes apply is the price at which the merchandise is sold by the manufacturer. This is known as the ad valorem method of tax calculation.
Under this method a tire manufacturer who sells a special brand tire to a tire merchandiser accounts for his tax on the basis of his selling price which probably takes the form of a cost plus a profit factor. The special marketer then does not pay these taxes on his selling and administrative expenses or on his profit.
The manufacturer that markets his own name brand tire must account for his tax on the higher price at which he sells his merchandise to his dealer trade and thus must pay the tax on both his selling and administrative expense and his profit.
Just what this differential might be in terms of cost plus tax would work out differently but it is our opinion that the special brand marketer is handed about a 5 per cent cost advantage over the standard brand marketer simply as a result of the method of application of tax to the basic buying price.
Thus by the means of use of tax application, the manufacturer finds it actually cheaper to market his products through a marketer who uses other than his own name brand and this seems most inequitable.
As I say, I place this on the record, not in the hope that it will be dealt with today but that it will be considered by the department in due course.


I shall be glad to do that.


Section agreed to.
On section 5-Coming into force.
There is a minor amendment to be made to paragraph 15 of schedule I which I will ask one of my colleagues to move.


I move:
That item fifteen of schedule X of Bill No. 206, an act to amend the Excise Tax Act, be amended by adding after the words "in dry form," in the last line of the said item, the following words:
"except where the mixture or product is advertised or sold for making soft drink beverages or imitations for sale."


The purpose of this amendment is to make the application of the paragraph more clear and to remove any misunderstanding and doubt. Since the first reading of the bill representations have been made by the trade for some such clarification. The additional words remove the doubtful possibility of the tax being applied to mixtures or products which are purchased by soda fountains and other dispensers for the making and sale of soft drink beverages or soft drink imitations. I think the section as it now stands is probably adequate, but we have agreed to the section being amended by the addition of these words.


Amendment agreed to.
Section as amended agreed to.
Schedule I agreed to.
Schedule II agreed to.
On schedule III

Foodstuffs.
I should like to indicate to the minister that we appreciate very much the consideration which the government gave to representations made by the logging and lumbering industry in British Columbia with regard to tires and tubes under section 411 (a). I am sure it will be a matter of great importance to the industry. On page 8 we come to the schedule having to do with marine and fisheries. I note in the first paragraph the following words:
. . . articles and materials to be used exclusively in the manufacture, equipment or repair of such boats.
It becomes a matter of some concern whether the word "equipment" covers fishing equipment on fishing vessels.


I am not sure what sort of equipment my hon. friend has in mind. I do not know whether he means spoons, gear, plugs and that sort of thing. If that is the case, it is not covered by this section. That is not considered as equipment of the boat itself.


I see. The schedule also refers to rope and cordage of cotton, hemp, manila or other vegetable fibre. Has consideration been given to the inclusion of nylon fibre? That is a product that is coming into more frequent use so far as the employment of gill nets is concerned.


I am informed that comes under the description, "other vegetable fibre".


Not nylon.


I am informed that is the case.


On page 7 of the bill there is a reference to nursery stock. Does that refer to plants, bushes and general horticultural nursery stock, or does it refer to animal stock?
Excise Tax Act


It refers to general nursery stock such as my hon. friend outlined in the first part of his question.


Horticultural.


Right.


Schedule III on page 8 includes certain drugs which were being discussed a moment ago by the hon. member for Eglinton and the Minister of Finance. May I remind the minister that when this matter was discussed on the budget resolutions his parliamentary assistant indicated that certain precise drugs were being studied to ascertain whether or not the list of exemptions might be extended to include them. The drugs set out in the schedule as it now reads include ACT'H, cortisone, insulin and radium. The parliamentary assistant said, as recorded at page 1996 of Hansard lor May 8, 1952:
Some of the recent drugs which have been suggested for exemption include substitute blood plasma, aureomycin and streptomycin, and vitamins of high concentration. The minister is giving continual study to these requests and as the opportunity offers the list of drug exemptions is extended.
Will the minister indicate at what stage in this continual study he has arrived so far as these specific drugs are concerned and any others that he may be studying?


The stage is that generally speaking it is only the more expensive drugs which have been included here. We are advised by the Department of National Health and Welfare when there are drugs that it is desirable for people to have and which have got beyond the experimental stage and can properly be included in this list. I have forgotten which ones they were, but in the course of the budget preparation this year we did consider some other drugs. We have had representations with respect to a number but it was felt that no additions should be made this year.


I should like to ask the minister to have the officials of his department consider the item of rope and cordage of cotton, hemp, manila or other vegetable fibre. The only size that is exempted is rope not exceeding one and- a half inches in circumference. That would be rope half an inch in diameter. That rope is used to a great extent by lobster fishermen but it is of very small size. With modern fishing equipment there is a lot of rope of larger size that is used to the same extent as the smaller rope would be. I suggest that the size of the rope be increased. There is probably more of the larger rope used in the fishing industry than the smaller type. I am not clear on the question asked by the hon. member for Comox-Alberni. Would it be possible for the minister to give us some idea of the

Excise Tax Act
type of fishing equipment that would be exempt? It mentions boats and articles and materials to be used exclusively in the manufacture, equipment or repair of such boats. Then in the last paragraph it mentions sinkers, and floats including trawl kegs, when for use exclusively in the fisheries, not including these articles for sportsmen's purposes. I would think that particular section might be changed to cover any materials used exclusively in the fishing industry.


I will certainly see that my hon. friend's remarks are considered before the next budget. As he is probably aware, the language used in this schedule with respect to fishing equipment is the same language that has been in the act for a great many years. There has been no change. As he will see from the schedule, the addition this time is preservatives for use exclusively for treating fishing nets, ropes and lines. The committee will appreciate that, where a material can be used for a number of other purposes other than fishing, difficult problems of administration may arise. It is for that reason that it is necessary to be fairly precise in the language of the section in order to see that material which should be subject to tax is not exempt ostensibly because it is going to be used for fishing.


I gather from the minister's remarks that, so far as commercial fishing gear is concerned, it is general government policy to exempt it from sales tax since we are competing in the markets of the world.


I am informed that practically all of it is exempt now.


That is the general policy for which the government is striving?


As a general statement that is true, yes.


Getting back again to cotton and hemp rope, would steel rope, which is used today in many cases in place of hemp, also be exempted?


I would have to look into that more carefully. I am informed it might be if it were a hawser on the boat and was carried as part of the equipment on the boat.


On page 7 there is a reference to internal combustion engines for farm purposes. The internal combustion engine is used extensively by our fishermen, and it is not included in the part of the schedule on page 8 having to do with marine and fisheries. Would the minister take into consideration making the same rule apply to fisheries as to farming?


I am informed it comes under the item in the schedule we were discussing a moment ago which reads:
Boats bona fide purchased by fishermen for use In the fisheries, and articles and materials to be used exclusively in the manufacture, equipment or repair of such boats.


Schedule agreed to.
Preamble agreed to.
Title agreed to.
Bill reported.
When shall this bill be read the third time?


Now, by leave.


the third reading of the bill.
Bill read the third time and passed.


the second reading of Bill No. 205, to amend the Income Tax Act.


Before this bill is read the second time I want to make a few comments. This bill of course introduces amendments to the Income Tax Act in order to give effect to some of the budget resolutions. I think it would be well for us to consider for a few moments the terms of this legislation, in the light of Liberal party policy. During recent weeks we have heard a great deal of the way in which the government ignored the wishes of the House of Commons-I shall have more to say about that later. We have heard very few Liberal speakers during the past few weeks having much to say on the announced official policy of the Liberal party, possibly because of the extent to which fiscal policy is ignored in the amendment that is now before the house.
I have before me a copy of a resolution that was adopted by the national Liberal convention in 1948. I think it was No. 14 on the agenda. It is headed, "Sound fiscal policy." The resolution in part has this to say:
The tax burden should as far as possible be distributed equitably and in accordance with ability to pay. In reducing taxes first consideration should be given to easing the burden of the lowest income groups.
I want to contrast with that resolution the minister's consideration as expressed to this house on former occasions, and as exemplified in the amendments before us.
According to official Liberal policy, in reducing taxes first consideration should be given to easing the burden of the lowest income groups. When the minister was introducing his budget resolutions, as a matter of fact when he was introducing his budget, his first

consideration was not that of the lowest income groups, certainly his first expressed consideration was not for that group. The one group for which the minister expressed deep concern, as reported in Hansard at page 1252, was given in these words:
Quite frankly, I am concerned that conditions make it necessary to maintain in our tax structure rates as high as this on business profits.
If you read that budget speech you will fail to find anywhere in it any consideration for the income tax payer in the lowest income group, such as is expressed in these words for the tax on business profits.
In keeping with the minister's consideration, as expressed in his budget speech, he does provide some small measure of relief for a certain group of corporations. As a matter of fact, one tax reduction-if it can be called a tax reduction at all-that was proposed by the minister was not proposed for those in the lowest income groups, but was for a certain group of corporations. The measures proposed by the minister would place a ceiling of 43 per cent on the tax paid by that special group of corporations under the Income Tax Act.
I said earlier, and I repeat, that neither I nor any of us in this group feel the same concern for the corporations' need of tax relief as does the minister or as in fact do the members of the official opposition.
The statistics presented by the dominion bureau of statistics in a booklet entitled "National Income" show us that in 1951 corporation profits before taxes were paid were $2,850 million, the highest in Canada's history. These gross profits were $400 million greater in 1951 than in 1950, a percentage increase over 1950 of 16 per cent. The dividends paid to Canadians in 1951 amounted to a flat $300 million, again the highest dividends paid to Canadians in any year in our history.
The undistributed profits of all these business concerns are included in the dominion bureau of statistics figures. The undistributed profits in 1951 amounted to $710 million, and were exceeded by only two other years in our history, namely 1948 and 1950. The profits retained in Canada after payment of taxes and after the distribution of dividends outside of Canada amounted to $1,037 million, again the highest profits retained in Canada by Canadian business in the history of our country, the highest on record.
It is in the light of these statistics that we feel the minister's concern was slightly misplaced; that instead of being concerned for those who, according to the national Liberal convention, should have his concern, he was much more concerned for the interests of the corporations and their taxation.
Income Tax Act
Corporation taxes collected by the minister in 1951 exceeded his own estimates by about 12 per cent; and the minister himself admitted during his budget speech that much of his surplus, which has been so much criticized across the country, resulted from the excess of corporation taxes over the minister's own estimates.
If you compare the position of corporations in regard to taxes in Canada with that other great capitalist country to the south, the United States, you will find that Canadian business and Canadian corporations come off fairly easily. In the United States corporations pay a regular federal tax of 52 per cent, apart from their state corporation tax, plus an excess profits tax of 30 per cent. It is estimated that the average United States corporation pays a 60 per cent corporation tax, as compared with Canada's top federal corporation tax of 43 to 45 per cent, or a top of 52 to 54 per cent when provincial corporation tax and old age security tax are added.
It is in the light of those facts, Mr. Speaker, that I am of the opinion that the minister not only ignores the wishes of parliament, but feels sufficiently secure to completely ignore the resolutions by the national convention of his own party. There is no such concern expressed in the minister's speeches for those in the lower income groups as I have pointed out was expressed on behalf of the corporations. There was a phony decrease announced. At page 1254 of Hansard for April 8, 1952, the minister said:
. . . the average taxpayer will pay 6 per cent less than he would otherwise have done under the income tax law as it now stands.
That is at the time the minister was speaking. The minister did not feel that it was necessary to mention the fact that the Income Tax Act as it then stood had not been in effect for a full year, nor did he point out that the so-called 6 per cent reduction in the average income tax actually meant an increase in the 1952 tax over that actually paid in 1951. The minister's concern for corporations took the form of some slight relief granted, but his concern for the lower income groups, to whom his party's annual convention called attention, took the form of an increase in the 1952 taxes over those imposed in 1951, and that without taking the special social security tax into consideration.
As proof of that, of course, it has been pointed out that a single person with an income of $2,000 paid $165 in taxes in 1951, while in 1952 the same person with the same income will pay $175. A married

Income Tax Act
man with an income of $3,000 and without any children is in exactly the same position. Whereas his 1951 tax was $165, his 1952 tax will be $175. As though the minister wanted to add insult to injury so far as those in the lower income tax groups were concerned, he has not been content with raising the income tax for those groups but he increases the tax in the lower brackets at a higher rate than he does in the upper brackets. For example, a married man without children earning $3,000 of income finds his 1952 tax increased over his 1951 tax by 12 per cent. A married man without children in the $20,000 income bracket finds his 1952 tax increased only 6 per cent over his 1951 tax.
Before this bill is adopted, Mr. Speaker, I believe it is worth calling attention to these facts, and the extent to which the minister can ignore the so-called sound fiscal policy of the national Liberal convention. I submit that the minister's disregard of the policy expressed by that same convention may be seen in the 2-2-2 formula for financing old age security. We are told that 42 per cent of the funds necessary to finance old age security will come from the sales tax, a tax which is particularly burdensome to those in the lower income groups. It would seem to me that if the minister had the same concern for those in the lower income groups that he showed for the corporations, he would at least have made some concession, either in a reduction in the sales tax or in some other adjustment in his 2-2-2 formula. We are to Id that 16-1 per cent of the necessary funds to finance this old age security will come from the personal income tax, only 14-9 per cent from the corporation tax and 27 per cent from the general revenue fund.
The removal of the $60 maximum payment, and a graduated income tax for the support of the old age security program, would have been much more in line with the policy enunciated by the national Liberal convention than is the policy which the minister is following today. There is no reduction in the sales tax, but a slight reduction in corporation taxes. Apparently the wishes of the national Liberal convention can be disregarded by the minister with the same abandon as are the wishes of the House of Commons. I need only refer in passing to the minister's disregard of the express wish of the House of Commons in the matter of the 4 per cent floor on deductions for medical services.
At this point I might say to the minister that in my opinion the government made a mistake in rejecting the express wish of parliament in that matter. While the minister may argue that it was not a directive, that parliament merely suggested the minister

should give consideration, nevertheless there is no question in the world but that was the express wish of parliament and that it represented what parliament wanted done. The minister ignored them. Many of us who have followed the debates and the discussions during the recent by-elections must have been impressed by the fact that there was no single more telling argument against the Liberal government and the Liberal policy than the minister's rejection of the wishes of parliament in the matter of the removal of that 4 per cent.
It was unfortunate, of course, that the C.C.F., who introduced that measure, received little benefit from it during the by-elections. It would be just asking too much of ordinary human beings, of course, to give credit to political opponents during the heat of an election campaign. But during that campaign I discovered that the official opposition, from their criticism of the government for ignoring the will of parliament in the matter of that 4 per cent, were able to gain more effect than from their criticism of any other measure.
Possibly the government is still capable of learning something from the course of events. While it is asking too much to expect the minister to make any changes in the amending bill which is now before us, it may well be that we shall find-and we shall certainly hope to do so-some relief for those in the lower income brackets when the next budget is presented, particularly if that should be a pre-election budget.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I do not like to delay the progress of the house by dealing at length with the various legislative measures under consideration and therefore my remarks will be very brief.
I wish to say at the outset that I have always liked to comment on the subject of income tax, as a representative of the wage earner. You know that, from the time I have been elected to this house, I have always shown the greatest interest in the welfare of the wage earner and the problem of income tax.
Just lately, I happened to read the report of the 65th general annual convention of the Montreal chamber of commerce. One of the sections of the report, section 8, deals with matters of federal jurisdiction. Here is an extract from that section:
Revision of the Income Tax Act.
The chamber wishes the federal government to base the Income Tax Act upon the following princinles:
1. The taxpaver must benefit from an income tax exemption at least equal to the minimum amount required to insure his family's livelihood.

2. All taxpayers must be treated alike with respect to the income tax levied on the income above that minimum amount.
Everybody will agree that I have always advocated these two principles for the benefit of the taxpayers I have mentioned.
Owing to the fact that the cost of living index, which had already hit the 125-1 per cent mark, still had a tendency to rise even higher, I asked the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott) as early as July 1946 to put the basic exemption back at the $1,200 level for single taxpayers and at $2,000 for married people.
I brought up the subject again the following year when expressing my views on the budget; the statement I made at that time is to be found on page 3344 of the English Hansard of May 22, 1947. I had then quoted figures to show that due to the exemption allowed at that time, much lower than the one in effect nowadays, the single person whose annual income was $1,200 had a deficit of $99 and that this deficit amounted to $215 when the taxpayer with an annual income of $2,000 was a married man with two children. At this time, the cost of living index was still rising; a jump of 8 per cent had brought it to 133-1 per cent.
And as before and for the same reasons I renewed my appeal to the government, in March, 1948, since the cost of living had by then reached 150-8 per cent.
Mr. Speaker, any member who belonged to the working class before he came to this house can much more readily understand that group's plight and that is why I made those comments in March 1949. On their behalf I asked the Minister of Finance to show greater consideration for that section of our population. I did ask for a higher basic exemption, namely $1,500 for the single taxpayer and $2,500 for the married man, and I dare say that those amounts would not have been excessive, considering the fact that the cost of living index had then reached the 159.2 per cent mark.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance looks upon the past year with great satisfaction. Our minister obviously is very busy and he cannot meet middle class people as often as he would like. On the other hand, he is in touch continually with his financial advisers and I am led to believe they know how to give him a rosy outlook on life.
I am the more convinced of the fact from having been made acquainted with the Income Tax Act and the exemptions it allows. There is no encouragement for wage-earners. With their family burdens and the 55704-165J
Income Tax Act
present taxation they can hardly contemplate with much satisfaction, in the light of this legislation, the past year and the year ahead.
The minister has stated once again that our difficulties stem from international affairs. We knew that and, as he pointed out, whether we like it or not, we must unfortunately bear with it for the sake of enduring peace.
Mr. Speaker, I have already indicated the deficit of these middle class people for 1947, when the cost of living index stood at 133 per cent. But at the end of 1951, the cost of living index had risen to 191 per cent. These people must also have been affected by the rise.
I do not wish to elaborate any further on the matter. I feel I have said enough. I dare hope our commitments will not be so heavy in the future and that at the next budget my remarks will be kept in mind with a view to allowing the wage earner of Canada a sufficient exemption to provide for the minimum of income required to sustain his family. This income, unfortunately, he has not today.
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, I have been looking Bill No. 205 over carefully and have been unable to find an item which appeared in the Trade News of April, 1952. It is a short item and I will just put it on the record. It is headed: "Taxation Ruling" and reads as follows:
Canadian deep-sea fishermen, operating as coadventurers on a share of the catch have been authorized by the Department of National Revenue to average their earnings over a five-year period for income tax purposes, and also to deduct their away-from-home food and accommodation expenses. This applies to all deep-sea fishermen in Canada including captains, engineers and cooks, as well as those fishing on schooners, trawlers and draggers under the general form of agreement in common use in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island. This agreement provides for the sharing of catch returns. The individual fisherman will still be required to file his income tax return each year and at that time will pay the tax owing, but at the end of five years he can work out the average of his net earnings and obtain a refund if he is entitled to one.
The privilege to average earnings only applies if the following stipulations are made: the fishermen must file their returns for the previous year by April 30 for each following year, and in the last year of the five-year period they must file their election to average their returns for the previous five years by April 30 following the last taxation year.
I want to point out to the minister and to the house that among those who are selected for this consideration mention is made of captains, engineers and cooks of fishing schooners, trawlers and draggers. In the county of Charlotte from which I come we

Income Tax Act
have a class of fishermen called freighters of sardines. Many of those who are freighting sardines are at the same time engaged in the catching of sardines and in other branches of the fishing industry. For some years the department considered that they were bona fide fishermen, and they were given exactly the same privileges in the matter of averaging income as were the fishermen I have mentioned. But during the last two or three years it has been decided that they should not be given this privilege; and in the office in Saint John, where these men would file their income tax returns, they have been denied this privilege of averaging.
Also the away-from-home cost of living and accommodation has been denied them for two or three years, while it has been given to men in other branches of the industry. For the information of the house I should like to put on record a description of "farming" as applied to this measure. We find that farming includes-
-tillage of the soil, livestock raising or exhibiting, maintaining of horses for racing, raising of poultry-
And so on. When one considers that a gentleman like Austin Taylor on the Pacific coast can run all over the country with his hay burners, and the fact that he is being given the privilege extended by this bill, one wonders at once why fishermen of the description I have given are not considered at the same time.
This is a serious matter. As I said at the outset, consideration was given for some time to this problem; but under present-day conditions fishermen are being denied the privilege of averaging income or of deducting away-from-home living expenses. The men I have in mind operate usually two to a boat, and some of the boats are 50 to 100 feet long. They are big freighters, and usually carry a crew of two. These freighters are away from home nine-tenths of the time. Many of the crew were fishermen for years, and did nothing but fish. However, owing to their qualifications as navigators they have been chosen to operate in this particular branch of the industry. They work on a share basis; none of the men mentioned would be on wages or salary, but rather on a share of the profits.
I would ask the minister and his officials to give this matter serious consideration, because in the minds of those who have been denied the privilege there is the thought that discrimination is being shown. They are bona fide fishermen; their incomes fluctuate in exactly the same way and to the same extent as other men engaged in the industry. If the sardine catch is good, their incomes increase; if the sardine catch is low, their

incomes diminish. Over a five-year period their incomes would fluctuate to the same extent as those of the other fishermen I have mentioned.
Then, I have pointed out that their away-from-home expenses have been denied them. I was on the water a great many years myself, and I realize that away-from-home expenses are, as a rule, much greater than the expenses when one is at his own home. Perhaps only a very few of us are fancy cooks, the majority having to depend on food in a ready-to-eat state, which costs a great deal more than it would at home. I would ask the minister to give this matter his serious consideration, because these men should be given exactly the same treatment accorded the others in the industry.
As I say, when I see the definition of "farmer"-


That is only a loophole section, to prevent the hobby farmer from getting excessive taxation relief.


I do not know what a hobby farmer would be.


E. P. Taylor.


It uses the expression "maintaining of horses for racing".


I can assure my hon. friend that the purpose of the amendment is to plug a loophole, not to extend a benefit.


I am not yet aware where this section comes in. As I said, there is comment in the Trade News of April 1952, and a very fine description of the ruling that applied a few years ago. However, that was changed two or three years ago with the result that there has been a good deal of dissatisfaction. I feel that the men I have mentioned, who make their living exclusively on salt water, should be given the same consideration as draggers and trawlers, and others who are mentioned in this item.


Mr. Speaker, on the theory that the constant dripping of water will eventually wear away a stone I shall once again direct the minister's attention to a few observations I made to his parliamentary assistant. First of all, I must say that I was very interested in hearing the hon. member for Shefford (Mr. Boivin), a Liberal member, make a plea for the increasing of the exemptions to $3,000 for married persons. It is interesting to note the effect of by-elections on the succeeding day. I support the member in his plea and I am sure that many members on the opposite side of the house were also pleased to hear this first Liberal member make this plea. I fully expect to see him followed by a succession of hon. members before this debate is over.
I think there are sound grounds for bringing more equity into our income tax structure by doing what the great trade union bodies have asked the government to do and which great numbers of people in this country expect them to do, that is to raise the exemption for married people to $3,000 and for single persons to $2,000. I am not going to add much to what I said before, but I do think that when one realizes the cost of living and the circumstances that exist today with regard to housing, rent and all the things necessary to maintain the human body, it is a most reasonable request on the part of those who have made it. I have not the slightest hesitation in supporting it.
Once again I suggest to the minister that he give consideration to the expressed will of the house in the resolution that was adopted and which asked him to consider eliminating the four per cent floor under deductions for medical expenses. I think it was the hon. member for York South (Mr. Noseworthy) who said that a great majority of the people think the government and the minister acted improperly or wrongly in not recognizing the expressed will of the house and giving effect to the resolution moved by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles). Many of my constituents have written to me on this particular point-not only members

Income Tax Act
of my own party, but members of all parties
__and have expressed concern that the
minister should ignore the wishes of the house in this connection.
Before going on any further may I say that I was pleased to hear the hon. member for Calgary East (Mr. Harkness) make a plea for the granting of a deduction for the cost of maintaining a housekeeper in the case of illness and where a husband was left with dependent children. I know of a number of cases in my own constituency where the circumstances are tragic because of the burdens placed upon husbands. In several of the cases I know of, these men are working steadily at reasonably good wages but because they have to keep housekeepers and stand the additional expense of their maintenance they find the burden almost unbearable. I do think that consideration should be given to people in these circumstances. I know personally of three or four cases where men have used up their life savings in order to meet these costs and are now going into debt.
Once again I bring to the minister's attention a matter which I brought to the attention of his parliamentary assistant. I refer to the allowance of travelling costs incurred by workers at the Consolidated Mining and Smelting Company who live anywhere from five to twenty miles away from their employment. These men have no other option but to live where they do. If they want to find a house to live in, if they want^ to have a place in which to bring up their families, they must live at varying distances from the plant.
When I broached the matter before, the parliamentary assistant's reply was that the government considered these expenses as being normal expenses. As I said before, I do not think you can deem expenses which run as high as $20 to $30 a month as being normal expenses. These workers must bear this cost as they are forced to travel from ten to forty miles per day back and forth from their employment. I suggest that the minister give consideration to exempting transportation costs incurred in going to and from employment when they are in excess of 25 or 30 cents per day. That would eliminate the ordinary street car or bus fares or cases where only short distances are travelled by motorcar and would at the same time be fair to people who must travel as much as ten to forty miles a day.
I have personal knowledge of the fact that these men travel mostly in buses owned by co-operative societies which have been formed
[Mr. Herridge.l
by themselves. These successful transportation co-operative societies have large capital investments in buses, cars and things of that sort. These societies worked all during the war and they are now providing transportation for these workers at cost. They are performing a good service to the community and the country by reducing expenses to their present point. I am quite sure that if these transportation services were being undertaken by private companies the expenses of the men would be almost doubled. Through co-operative action, through rank and file action by the men themselves, everything possible has been done to lower the cost of transportation. It has been reduced practically to cost and I do ask the minister to give consideration to my suggestion that transportation expenses to and from work above 25 or 30 cents a day be allowed as deductions for income tax purposes.
When the parliamentary assistant was dealing with the resolution I brought up the question of the allowance as a deduction of expenses incurred in forest conservation work. I had proceeded for some time and then I was told that I was out of order. It was suggested that I should bring the matter to the minister's attention on the second reading. I refer to companies and individuals who have rendered great service to Canada by spending money for the benefit of future generations.
They have carried on forest conservation work by planting trees, by thinning timber, by building trails and roads for fire protection. This policy has been advocated by the dominion government and by the provincial governments. It is getting increasing support throughout the country and more and more companies and individuals are carrying on this work at this time. I know of many small holders of timber limits in my own district who throughout the years, have spent a considerable amount in maintaining their forest holdings.
I think companies and individuals should receive some consideration for what I would term an acceptance of their social responsibility. They are spending money now from which they will receive no return in their lifetime; they are making an investment for future generations. I repeat that that sort of social responsibility should receive some consideration and I do urge the minister to consider allowing deductions up to a certain point for money invested by companies or individuals in the work of forest conservation and the maintenance of a great capital asset of this country, our forest resources.
The argument that I am presenting seems so logical from my point of view, possibly

because I have lived in the bush all my life, that I cannot understand its not receiving consideration. When the minister replies I would like him to tell me if under the present law and regulations arrangements have been made with any companies to permit deductions for the cost of carrying on forest conservation work in the way of building roads and trails, planting of trees and so on. I cannot understand why any government would fail to provide the necessary incentives to this worth-while work.


Mr. Speaker-


Mr. Speaker-


The
hon. member for Greenwood.


Mr. Speaker, I will not keep the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Bryce) very long from what he desires to say to the minister because I am not going to go over ground I have gone over before, however much the minister might like to hear me do so again. Passing the income tax bill is more or less like rubbing salt in the wounds, and I do not propose to drag out that pleasure unduly. I do not think it is necessary to argue any further that the public does not like the budget because I think even the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Fournier) would agree that what happened yesterday gives us a very considerable amount of evidence-


Don't take that for
granted.


-that it is not the most popular thing in the world. However, I am not going to dwell on that. Indeed, I am going to stay with the minister for a moment by saying that when he tells us, as he does, that we have passed laws providing for the expenditure of large sums of money and that having passed these laws we have got to find the money, I do not think there is much answer to that except to be sure that the minister and those associated with him are keeping expenses down as low as possible. I do not propose to spend much time on that either.
Various figures have been mentioned, some of which seem to stand out, and I shall refer to a few in passing. There is a figure of $46 million for what is called removal expenses which seems to me atrociously large although I want to point out that a good deal of that is for the movement of the troops. Then there is another figure of some $17 million for publicity of various kinds, and I have not got language strong enough to express my feelings about that. It just seems to me to be
Income Tax Act
out of this world because we all know what it includes and we are very critical of a great deal of what it includes.
Then there is a third item of $4,900,000, nearly $5 million, which I have mentioned more than once, for telegraphs, telephones and so on in the Department of National Defence. To me that is an outrageous figure. However, when we look at this thing objectively I think we have got to face the fact that if we want a really big saving-


I do not want to interrupt my hon. friend, but is he discussing the principle of the Income Tax Act?


Oh, yes,
because one of the principles of the act is to be sure that you are not raising more money than you need to raise. I think the minister will agree with that.


I had no real thought that I could stop my hon. friend, but he has already delivered his lecture so many times that I thought I might be spared on this occasion.


The minister does not know how lucky he is because my speech is only going to take five minutes instead of forty. It is really very ungracious of him to try to interrupt me because he may stimulate me to go on and on. I merely want to say that one place where there is a hope that a real saving can be made is in connection with defence expenditures.


I really think, Mr. Speaker, that it is stretching the principle to which I have alluded very far to bring in defence expenditures on the second reading of a bill to amend the Income Tax Act.


Far-fetched.


The minister is very ungrateful because I am going to tell him where he can save some money.


My hon. friend will have at least a dozen opportunities later in the session when he will be able to discuss such matters. I respectfully suggest that he endeavour to keep himself within the rules of the house.


Order. I rather think that the minister's point is well taken. I would ask the hon. member to attempt to adhere to the principle of the Income Tax Act.


I will attempt to do so, Mr. Speaker, and I hope I will be more successful than you and the minister think I have been up to now. In any event, I am almost through. I merely wish to point out one thing, and I think perhaps the minister will agree with me because if I succeed

Income Tax Act
I am sure he would be the first one to approve of it. We still have the defence estimates to consider, and I am going to suggest now, as an example of the kind of thing we should keep in mind, that when these estimates of hundreds and hundreds of millions and even billions of dollars come forward this year we should ask with more det