Bill No. 239, respecting the Burrard Inlet Tunnel and Bridge Company.-Mr. Sinclair.
Bill No. 240, respecting the Sisters of Charity of the House of Providence.-Mr. Henderson.
Bill No. 241, respecting a certain patent application of the Garrett Corporation.-Mr. Richard) (Ottawa East).
Following the changes made on November 25, 1951, in the Montreal-Granby-Waterloo service, via Marieville, what arrangements have been made by the presidents of the Canadian National and' the Montreal and Southern Counties Railway unions concerning the old employees of the Montreal and Southern Counties Railway?


Prior to the change in service, negotiations were carried on with representatives of organized labour who represent the employees concerned. The interested labour organizations could not reach an agreement between themselves and the new service has been manned by employees of the Canadian National Railways. This action has not resulted in any reduction in the number of train service employees of the Montreal and Southern Counties Railway.


1.	Was the film "Royal Journey" made as the exclusive property of the national film board?
2.	In what width or widths is the film produced or being produced, and do they include 35 mm. and' 16 mm. film?
3.	If so, what are the terms of the contracts or arrangements made with commercial firms, giving their names, for distribution of the 35 mm. film?
4.	Does any such contract contain a time limitation on the production, use or distribution of the 16 mm. film?
5.	Is the 16 mm. film to be made available for showing in churches and schools in the various communities throughout Canada? If so, when?
6.	Is the 16 mm. film for sale?
7.	If so, what is the price quoted, and when will it be available?
8.	Have any exclusive rights been given?
9.	If so, what are the terms?


1.	Yes.
2.	The film was produced in 16 mm. and 35 mm. widths.
3.	To date agreements have been negotiated with four distribution companies:
(a)	Columbia Pictures of Canada, Limited, Toronto, covering 35 mm. theatrical distribution in Canada. This contract runs for two years from December 21, 1951. The board receives 65 per cent of the gross revenue from exhibition of the film and pays for the prints used.
(b)	United Artists Corporation, New York, covering 35 mm. theatrical distribution in the United States of America and its possessions. This contract runs for three years from April 1, 1952. The board receives 65 per cent of the gross revenue from exhibition of the film and pays for the first 100 prints used.
(c)	General Film Distributors, Limited, London, covering 16 mm. and 35 mm. theatrical distribution in the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland, Isle of Man, Channel Islands, Eire, Gibraltar and Malta. This contract runs for five years from January 1, 1952. The board receives 60 per cent of the net revenues from exhibition of the film. Print costs are a first charge against gross revenue.
(d)	J. Arthur Rank Overseas Film Distributors, Limited, London, covering 16 mm. and 35 mm. theatrical distribution throughout the world excluding the western hemisphere and these territories granted to General Film Distributors, Limited, as set out in 3 (b). The agreement will run for five years. The board will receive 70 per cent of gross revenue and will pay for the cost of prints.
4.	Yes.
5.	Yes. On November 1, 1952.
6.	Not at present.
7.	It will be available for sale after November 1, 1952.
8.	No exclusive sales rights for the 16 mm. prints in Canada have been given.
9.	Answered by No. 8.


1.	Has the national film board during the last three years made any film or films dealing with the nutritive value and/or food content of Canadian agricultural and/or fishery products?

Questions
2.	If so, what were the names of these films, when were they produced, and with what product or products did they deal respectively?
3.	On whose authority, at whose request, and for what purpose were these films, if any, produced respectively?


1.	Yes.
2.	Films. Teeth Are To Keep-1949; Carrots, celery, salads, apples and other fruits, whole wheat bread and milk are all represented as helping to keep teeth in good condition.
Filmstrips: Brush Up On Your Teeth-1949; Cheese, milk, fruits (apples and raisins), vegetables (carrots and celery) are shown as among foods which help to maintain healthy teeth.
Ten Little People And Their Teeth-1949; Shows children drinking milk in preference to soft drinks, and eating apples in preference to candy.
Rural School Lunches-1950; Milk, meat (or fish, eggs, cheese or beans), whole wheat bread, fruit and vegetables are shown as constituents of a good school lunch.
Vitamin D Fair-1950; Fish liver oil, whole wheat cereals, whole wheat bread, milk, meat, eggs, vegetables and fruit are recommended in a good diet for growing children.
What Breakfast Did For Emily-1951; Tomato or citrus fruit juice, milk, whole grain cereal, toast made from whole wheat bread, and butter comprise the breakfast on which Emily thrived.
A Good Breakfast-1950; Tomato and citrus fruit juice, vitaminized apple juice, melon, strawberries, apples, blackcurrants and other fruits, eggs, bacon, oatmeal, wheat germ and rolled oats are among the recommended foods.
3.	These films were produced at the request of the Department of National Health and Welfare for audiences of parents, teachers and school children.


What equipment and furnishings were declared surplus and destroyed in naval stores. Esquimalt, British Columbia, during the months of November and December, 1951, and January, 1952?


No surplus equipment and furnishings were destroyed by naval stores, Esquimalt, B.C., during the months of November and December, 1951, and January, 1952, but were handed over to Crown Assets Disposal Corporation for disposal.


1.	Has the government negotiated with, or is it now prepared to initiate negotiations with, the United States government, in order to determine

whether or not a large-scale, long-term firm agreement is feasible for exchange of natural gas between Canada and the United States?
2.	In the alternative, is the government prepared at this time to urge that the United States authorize export of American natural gas to southern Ontario, in a volume equal to that of Alberta gas (ten billion cubic feet yearly) now being exported to defence industry in Montana, and for at least a similar short-term period (five years) ?


1.	No. The principal supply of natural gas is controlled by the government of Alberta and the Canadian government has no natural gas at its disposal that could be used to implement any such agreement, if made.
2.	The Canadian government has made representations on behalf of the Union Gas Company's application to import natural gas into Ontario.


1.	Has the federal government given consideration to the setting up of exchange stations along the international border between Canada and the United States to assure travellers of both countries fair exchange rates on their respective currencies?
2.	If so, with what result?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	What officer or officials of the Department of National Revenue are responsible for the censorship or banning of books seeking entry into Canada?
2.	What qualifications do they possess for these important duties?


1 and 2. No officer is responsible for the determination as to what books shall be classified under tariff item 1201. Before any books are so classified they are passed upon by the Minister of National Revenue personally.


Referring to answers made by the then minister of railways and canals on May 7, 1925, and May 25, 1925, Hansard, pages 2928, 3479, 3480 and 3481, of 1925:
1.	What are the names and the values of each of the pieces of machinery which were returned from the workshops of the Canadian National Railways at St. Malo, Quebec city, to Riviere du Loup?
2.	When did such transfer take place?
3.	What are the names and the respective occupations of the employees of the Canadian National Railways who were transferred from St. Malo,. Quebec city, to Riviere du Loup?

4.	On what date did each of said transfers take place?
5.	What are the names and the values of each one of the pieces of machinery which were at the Canadian National Railways shops at Riviere du Loup (a) immediately after the transfer above referred to in paragraph 1 took place; (b) on May 1, 1952?
He said: This question was drafted in the English language. In the first paragraph I used the word "returned" with regard to the names and values of the pieces of machinery that were returned from the shops of the Canadian National Railways at St. Malo, Quebec city, to Riviere du Loup. In French the word "transportees" is used instead of the word "retournees". I should like to have the words "ont ete retournees" used instead of "avaient ete transportees" in the first paragraph. Then I should like to amend the third paragraph by adding the word "back" after "transferred" so that it will read, "who were transferred back from St. Malo, Quebec city, to Riviere du Loup" in English. In the French language the third paragraph should read:
Quels sont les noms et les occupations respectives des employes du National-Canadien qui sont revenus de Saint-Malo, ville de Quebec, k la Rividre-du-Loup.


Stand.


The question being called:
What is the total of travelling expenses and living allowances paid each Canadian member of the international salmon fisheries commission since 1937?
He said: I rise again on a point of order. This question belongs to the hon. member for Leeds.


This is my question.


Stand.


1.	Have orders been placed for the Department of National Defence for boudoir, table, trilight and bridge lamps?
2.	If so, how many such lamps have been ordered?
3.	Have tenders been called for a supply of these lamps?
4.	If so, has any tender as yet been accepted?
5.	What is the estimated cost of these lamps?
6.	On what basis are they to be issued to the services?


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to
Inquiries of the Ministry the Minister of Public Works. Can he make a report to the house on the four-hour elevator incident in the Peace Tower yesterday, and will he tell us something about the inspection service and whether or not precautions will be taken so that this sort of thing will not happen again?


On Sunday May 18 at approximately 3.30 o'clock in the afternoon elevator No. 1 carrying thirteen passengers and the elevator operator left the first floor level and stalled at about 25 feet down. The maintenance crews worked for a period of four hours in order to raise the elevator back to the upward position when the occupants of the car were released. The car is ordinarily known as having a capacity of 1,500 pounds, which is spoken of in the industry as being a 10-passenger car. An examination of the car showed that the emergency safety device had come into operation owing to the overload, and this particular device could not be released under such conditions until the car was taken back to the upward position which, as stated, required a period of about four hours.
The car was in charge of one of our regular elevator operators, Mr. Charles Michaud, who has operated the car for a period of two years. Yesterday previous to the incident the car was working satisfactorily. While there is a card in the car saying that the load is to be nine people, the elevator operator used his own discretion in estimating the load with regard to the weight of the people rather than the number, feeling that he had not exceeded the 1,500-pound limit. In this particular case the load was heavier than the operator estimated, and this caused the safety device to automatically come into action and stop the car. The service maintenance contract for the care and successful operating of the machine is under the Otis Fensom Elevator Company, who were the manufacturers thereof.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Has any communication been received from the United States government that the embargo against Canadian cattle will be lifted within two months if there are no further outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease?

Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts


Messages could have come to someone other than myself. I have seen no such message, but the law of the United States is that the embargo can be lifted two months after the certificate of final clearance is given by the United States secretary of agriculture.


that the house go into committee of supply.


Mr. Speaker, today I intend to present a motion such as is made possible at this stage of the proceedings of the house. It is one which I hope will receive consideration from members on all sides of the house having regard to its subject matter and also to the importance of the subject at a time when we actually have before the house the consideration of estimates for the Department of National Defence which it is anticipated may come close to $2J billion with the supplementary estimates that will be submitted later. Without going into the details of any matters now before any committee of the house, it is only necessary to draw the attention of hon. members to the fact that since this subject was last discussed only a few days ago attention has been drawn to still further examples of widespread theft and looting of government property in military establishments across this country.
If these things were happening in an isolated camp, or even in one or two camps, there might not be the same reason for returning once again to a subject which goes to the root of the confidence which can be placed by members of the house and the people of Canada in the administration of a department which is seeking an allocation of public funds that will amount to almost half of the total raised by taxes from the people of Canada during the coming year. Members of the house have been well aware for some time of the concern that has been expressed in the press and elsewhere about losses, thefts, incendiary fires and looting in government camps and storehouses throughout the country.
Our attention was directed to this subject very dramatically by the nature of the thefts that occurred at Petawawa. Since that time there have been further thefts in Ottawa, Montreal, Halifax, British Columbia and elsewhere throughout Canada, all of a nature which suggests a complete break-down of the
[Mr. Diefenbaker.l
administrative supervision of public property by the Department of National Defence. Nor is it simply a case of this concern being expressed by laymen. It would seem that this concern is being expressed in equally forceful language by those in uniform. The Calgary Herald of May 13 reports the contents of a letter written by Colonel J. S. Ross, officer in charge of administration, western command, to the heads of branches and staff, to the heads of services and to units and subunits under his authority. As reported in the Calgary Herald of that date the letter contains the following statement by Colonel Ross:
The adjutant-general has expressed sincere concern at the apparent laxity revealed by the current scandals at Montreal and Petawawa. The trials resulting from these episodes may bring substantial penitentiary sentences to guilty parties.
However, such action will not necessarily redeem lost confidence in the army by the minister, the members of the house, the press or the general public.
There have been numerous incidents of a similar nature, all of which indicate a very distinct lack of higher level supervision. Further, it is apparent that some of the younger officers have not grasped the fact that they are custodians of crown property, and that their action in becoming involved in various fraudulent enterprises displays a moral laxity which can only be described as shocking.
The most recent scandals involve officers and men in the sale of government stores and the appropriation of government stores for their own personal use.
It is of the utmost importance that such irregularities be curbed forthwith. Accordingly you are directed to impress on all officers under your command the necessity for increased vigilance and good personal example.
Drastically increased supervision is to be exercised immediately.
Unit, subunit and detachment commanders are to fully understand their personal responsibilities.
The line of responsibility within your organization is to be clearly defined so as to ensure a clear-cut disciplinary course in the event of slackness or dishonesty coming to light.
Heads of services, units, subunits and detachment commanders will be answerable for future irregularities developing within this command.
That is the end of the quotation in the Calgary Herald of May 13 from a letter attributed to Colonel J. S. Ross. I have pointed out that I am reading from this newspaper report, and that is my only source of information in regard to this letter. I would point out, however, that unless it is disclosed that such letter was not written by the officer in charge of administration, western command, then this house has reason to pay particular attention to certain words contained in that letter written by an officer occupying a position of considerable responsibility in the Canadian armed forces.
May I refer hon. members to one particular sentence in the letter-and I quote again: "There have been numerous incidents of a similar nature, all of which indicate a very

distinct lack of higher level supervision". That quotation suggests reasons why hon. members of this House of Commons should seek in every way in their power to bring about reforms which will examine with the most complete and searching inquiry every detail of the supervision, protection and accounting in relation to these vitally important public stores.
These are not just ordinary stores. These are not simply valuable pieces of public property. This is property which is part and parcel of the costly and vitally important preparation for the defence of Canada in case our security should be threatened. Therefore any method that is followed should be one which will assure that supervision either at the lower or at the higher level, as mentioned by Colonel Ross, will be examined dispassionately, judicially and completely.
Since this matter was first under discussion in the house during the present session, not only have there come to the attention of hon. members and the people of Canada incidents in particular camps, but there have become available reports of theft, looting and fires, some of them incendiary, which have resulted in the last two years in a loss estimated by the Department of National Defence at a figure of more than $7 million. There may be some question however as to whether those figures in themselves even approach the actual value of the losses to the people of Canada. It will be recalled that the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Claxton) spoke of losses at Farnham as being in the neighbourhood of $3,500. If the accounting methods of the Department of National Defence report a loss of only $3,500 at Farnham, then the statement given of the total loss as in the statement prepared by the department, showing a loss of more than $7 million, should contain figures very much higher than it actually does.
What prompts me to raise this question with some sense of urgency this afternoon is that within the last few days it has been disclosed that the individual who was asked to undertake some form of inquiry into what had occurred at Petawawa is not actually in Canada at this time. One of the reasons why this in itself should call for immediate attention is that Colonel Currie's reputation, both as an accountant and as a man of great personal integrity and ability, did convey to the public a measure of confidence when the statement was made that he had undertaken to do this work.
No one would question either the accounting ability or the personal integrity or the high standing, in the esteem of Canadians who know him, of Colonel Currie, whose
Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts name was placed before us as the man who had been asked to carry out certain inquiries about which we are not too clearly informed.
It has been pointed out already in this house that, no matter what Colonel Currie's personal standing may be, that in itself is no substitute for an inquiry conducted under appropriate terms of reference which would give the inquiry the opportunity to go into every detail of the situation which has been described in such forceful terms by Colonel Ross in the letter quoted by the Calgary Herald. Since it has been stated that Colonel Currie has left Canada and is in England, and that this was with the knowledge and permission of the Minister of National Defence, and that such inquiries as are being conducted are being carried forward by his staff, then it does seem appropriate that we should examine with the utmost care just what measure of authority the staff in Colonel Currie's office really have to conduct an inquiry into laxity in administration which, according to the letter of Colonel Ross, if that is correctly reported shows a distinct lack of high-level supervision over government stores.
When the Minister of National Defence was asked under what authority Colonel Currie has been appointed to conduct an inquiry he replied that it was under section 4 of chapter 43 of the statutes of Canada, 1950, volume I, at page 473. This is known as the National Defence Act. Section 4, which is the section the minister put forward as the statutory provision under which Colonel Currie acquired his authority through a letter from the minister, reads as follows:
The minister shall have the control and management of the Canadian forces, the Defence Research Board and1 of all matters relating to national defence including preparation of civil defence against enemy action, and shall be responsible for the construction and maintenance of all defence establishments and works for the defence of Canada.
That is the whole section and it contains no reference, by implication or otherwise, to an inquiry of any kind. This is the section which says that the minister shall have the control and management of the Canadian forces. Under the authority of that section the minister has written to Mr. Currie to ask him to do certain things at the Petawawa camp. It was said before, and it should be repeated, that under the letter written to Mr. Currie by the minister, Mr. Currie has no authority whatever to call for the production of documents, to compel the attendance of any witness or generally to do any of the things that are essential to the conduct of an inquiry such as I am sure most Canadians thought had been initiated when they read the announcement by the minister. The section merely says that there will be a minister.
Mr. Speaker, without getting away from the real consideration which should be in the mind of every member here, may I suggest that this does reflect the superman complex

Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts
with which we seem to be dealing so frequently in this house. There is a minister appointed, and according to him he has the authority to do anything, therefore it is not necessary to bother about the public Inquiries Act or any other act that was designed by this parliament to authorize the kind of inquiry which should be under way at this time. In fact, one might almost hear the minister say, in the words of Gilbert and Sullivan:
The law is the true embodiment,
Of everything that's excellent.
It has no kind of fault or flaw,
And I, my lords, embody the law.
The minister is appointed. He is in charge of the establishment, and therefore he embodies the whole law, and his wish expressed in a letter to Mr. Currie is adequate to conduct an inquiry, which certainly would be one of the most important inquiries conducted in this country if it were carried forward with the measure of authority which such an inquiry should possess.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I am going to present a motion, and in doing so I wish to refer to certain arguments which indicate an attitude toward inquiries provided by the public Inquiries Act which seems to be strangely inconsistent, not only with the attitude of this government on other occasions but also with the history of inquiries of this nature both here and in Great Britain, from whose records we gain so much when we seek precedents of value in dealing with matters of this kind. When it was suggested on another occasion that an inquiry under the public Inquiries Act should be conducted, the Minister of Defence Production (Mr. Howe) belittled the suggestion that an inquiry of this kind could serve any useful purpose. He stated on an earlier occasion that a group of experts had been brought in from Chicago.


Order. I gather that the hon. member is referring to another debate during this session. If it took place during this session, I request that he do not do so.


I had no intention of quoting, but in any event I can put forward my argument without any further reference to what was said on another occasion. The attitude has been adopted on a number of occasions that the calling in of experts is not what is helpful in producing reforms. At the time that matter was under discussion I did not have the opportunity of replying because I had introduced a motion. If I had I would have pointed out that on a number of occasions the failure of people brought in without full authority has been demonstrated, and that is exactly what should be in the minds of hon. members in this house if the arguments which have been put forward against (Mr. Drew.]
the appointment of a body to inquire under the public Inquiries Act are to be regarded as valid. Those arguments themselves demonstrate the unsatisfactory nature of inquiries conducted without the appropriate authority to obtain evidence, to obtain the production of documents, and that is exactly what has been suggested in this house and elsewhere. It has been suggested that, no matter how high the standing may be of any individual or group of individuals asked to inquire into certain matters of importance to the public, that inquiry can produce no satisfactory result if such individual or individuals do not find themselves cloaked with adequate powers under the public Inquiries Act.
Any suggestion that it is a derogation of the authority and responsibility of members of the house to suggest the appointment of an appropriate body to conduct a public inquiry under the public Inquiries Act is surely answered by the fact that this government has on so many occasions seen fit to appoint bodies to conduct inquiries into matters which ultimately could only be dealt with by this house and by parliament, and have, in fact, claimed a substantial measure of credit for adopting that course.
May I, Mr. Speaker, anticipate the possibility that we would once again hear any suggestion that it would be a derogation of the responsibility of the members of this house and of parliament to express their opinion that an appropriate body should be appointed under the public Inquiries Act. May I point out the occasions on which the appointment of such a body has been of vital importance not only here but at Westminster, from which we draw so many of our valuable precedents.
I think it may be worth while pointing out that our whole present system of public accounting and the presentation of accounts and reports to parliament is the result of the recommendations of a royal commission appointed in 1831 by the parliament at Westminster to inquire into their general methods of accounting, the preparation of accounts and, generally, the business methods of the government in relation to those subjects. Not only were the reforms effected at Westminster which produced their modern system of accounting but since we became, to use words that have been so often employed, "the transcript of Westminster", we adopted the same methods that were the result of recommendations of a royal commission in 1831.
Then when we are told that our treasury system is so perfect that it could gain nothing from such an inquiry, may I remind hon. members that another commission appointed two years earlier by the House of Commons

and parliament at Westminster conducted an inquiry into treasury matters-it was known as the treasury commission-and our present treasury methods are largely the result of the recommendations of that commission.
Then, to bring the examples closer to the subject matter under discussion, I know that most members will recall-and most certainly the Minister of National Defence will do so- the Esher commission of 1904, which was a judicial commission headed by Lord Esher and which made recommendations that resulted in a complete reorganization not only of the British army but of the department of national defence and of the allocation of tasks within the department of national defence. May I remind the hon. members who have not recently read the findings of the Esher commission-when there is any suggestion that the appointment of such a commission is a derogation of the responsibilities and duties of members of parliament-that the Esher commission even went so far as to recommend what duties the prime minister of Great Britain should perform in relation to the supervision of national defence, and that commission outlined generally the duties of ministers, the duties of the general staff, of the adjutant general's branch, of the quartermaster general's branch, and of the whole military organization. Those recommendations brought about reforms without which it would never have been possible for the United Kingdom to go into the war of 1914 with an organization which was capable of performing the great services it rendered to Great Britain and to the whole free world.
Here in this country we have had commissions which have dealt with subjects that most certainly come under the authority and the responsibility of members of parliament at some point. Only a few days ago, I have reason to believe, approval was expressed on both sides of the house of an indication that the government proposes to carry out another recommendation of the Massey commission. The very fact that the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) was making this announcement indicated that this subject is one which must be dealt with by parliament if it is to be dealt with effectively. I have seen no suggestion that there was any derogation from the authority and responsibility of members of parliament when the Massey commission was appointed to inquire into subjects which must be dealt with by this House of Commons and by parliament if the recommendations are to be implemented.
Then at a time when we have reason to examine the estimates of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation it perhaps is appropriate to remember that the Canadian Broadcasting
Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts Corporation is simply the Canadian broadcasting commission under a new form and that the Canadian broadcasting commission was set up as a result of the recommendations of a royal commission appointed by the government of Canada. In addition, there are a number of members who will recall that a royal commission conducted an inquiry into certain episodes connected with customs in this country, and that, as a result of the recommendations made at that time, there have been for a great many years no major scandals connected with customs.
There also have been a number of commissions appointed to deal with railways, shipping and other matters of the kind. In every single case those commissions were called upon to deal with subjects which ultimately would call for examination by the House of Commons and parliament if anything effective was to be done.
May I point out what a strange conclusion we would be led to if we accepted the proposition that the government has on some occasions put forward. If the government believes that it is a derogation of responsibility to appoint a royal commission to inquire into something that relates to the duties of government, then what does the government say about its appointment of a royal commission to inquire into the irrigation project and the power project in Saskatchewan which has been requested so frequently and with such vigour by the members on this side of the house?
If the government does not think that such a royal commission should be appointed, surely it is to be hoped that this thought was not in their minds when they appointed such a commission to deal with that tremendously important project at a time when the members of this party, and of all other parties in the house, were urging the government to act, and to act promptly, to carry forward this great and very beneficial undertaking.
No, Mr. Speaker, the history of royal commissions is a history of inquiries which have produced many of the major reforms in our administrative system, as well as in the detailed duties of government and of parliament. Granted, there have been in this country and in other countries royal commissions which have not done all that was expected: the fact remains nevertheless that over the years most of the major reforms in the organization of government, in the reorganization of military services, have been the result of inquiries of this kind. It was in fact because of the inquiry conducted by what was known as the Otter commission that there was a re-organization of the militia in Canada prior to the great war, which
2332	HOUSE OF
Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts made it possible for the Canadian forces at that time to take such an effective part so early in the first world war.
I have mentioned the 'history of these commissions to anticipate any suggestion that an inquiry under the public Inquiries Act would be any derogation of the responsibilities, duties and authority of the members of this house, and at the same time to urge the hon. members on both sides of the house to approach this subject with a recognition of the fact that each one of us should be seeking some method by which confidence will be restored in a department which is seeking approximately half of all the heavy taxes which will be imposed upon the people of Canada at this time, and which has the responsibility for preparing our defence forces in the hope that their effectiveness, along with the effectiveness of the defence forces of other free nations, may in fact avoid the necessity of employing these forces again at any time in the future for war itself.
How can the members of this house, the members on either side of this house, say to the people of Canada that they are confident that everything is being done, when step by step what has been done challenges our confidence in every way? No matter what view may have been expressed on other occasions, any arguments I have put forward as to the arguments raised against royal commissions are put forward only with the hope that arguments raised on other occasions may not be raised at this time against what seems to me to be the only possible device by which we can get a satisfactory inquiry that will restore confidence to this house, yes, restore confidence in the minds of the members on both sides of the house, and in doing that restore confidence to the people of Canada that something effective will really be done, and that if, as Colonel Ross is reported to have said, there is in fact a distinct lack of higher level supervision we shall know where that lack of supervision really is, no matter how high it may be.
I am sure that the members of this house have confidence in the chief of the general staff, in the chief of the air staff, in the chief of the naval staff. I am sure that they have confidence in these officers who are responsible for the strictly military aspect of our defence problems. But, Mr. Speaker, no matter where the break-down may have occurred, I think the members of this house and the people of Canada are greatly in need of restored confidence right up the line in those duties which have to do with accounting supervision and protection.


The Minister of National Defence is well aware that for several years efforts have been made within the Department of National Defence to bring about a more efficient method of accounting. I am sure the Minister of National Defence is aware that there have been suggestions that a central accounting organization which also had the most modern type of accounting methods, adjusting its inventory as any business would, would be able both to direct more effective supervision of accounting duties and at the same time to report on any problem relating to accounts in a manner which does not now seem to be possible.
Surely the members of this house must have been impressed with the length of time that, on a number of occasions, it has taken to provide information to the defence expenditure committee, as well as to this house, in regard to details which could have been provided within a few hours if the same accounting methods were in operation in the Department of National Defence as would be required in any big business in this country today.
Over and over again an almost plaintive story has been told of the number of officials required and the length of time that would be involved in preparing details of something that should have been available simply by examining the end entries under any effective system of accounting that was consistent with modern accounting practices. Surely it is something about which the Minister of National Defence can agree without being indignant that it might even be hinted that the Department of National Defence could be improved in any way. Surely the time has come when the constant recurrence of these thefts, losses and incendiary as well as other fires should have impressed upon the Minister of National Defence-even if it were only to reassure himself personally that everything is being done that should be done-that an inquiry of this nature would certainly be justified.
Both in the Supreme Court of Canada and in the supreme courts of the provinces are judges of great reputation, men who served in one war or the other with great distinction. I can think of certain judges who had experience in both wars. I am not suggesting that they alone would be highly qualified, but at least some of them would have available in their own memories a knowledge that would be extremely valuable in approaching a problem of this nature.
The people of this country have indicated through the press and in other ways that they want reassurance, and this government has on many occasions indicated its own belief in

the procedure provided by the Inquiries Act, and it is for that reason that I propose to present this motion. I ask the Minister of National Defence, in his own interest from the point of view of avoiding constant requests of other kinds, and also all members as representatives of the people of Canada, to indicate their desire that this subject be dealt with by a judicial inquiry. Now that we learn that the inquiry, which is not really an inquiry as that term is ordinarily used, is nothing more than an office accounting procedure because of the absence of Colonel Currie in England-that absence in itself indicates an extended delay before any satisfactory answers can be given to this house and to the people of Canada-I am proposing that a judicial inquiry at the very highest level, such as has brought about great reforms in the past, should be instituted to deal with something which now relates to the whole subject matter, not only of accounting but of the national defence of this country.
With a department which is going to spend in this year alone such fabulous sums as those before us, with a department which is responsible for preparing the defence of Canada and our common participation under the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, we should be assured of an administrative system, of an internal organization and of supervision of accounting which will guarantee that we have in this country as efficient and as effective an organization dealing with that vitally important matter as can possibly be made available. Therefore I move, seconded by the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon): '
That all the words after "that" to the end of the question be deleted and the following substituted therefor:
"the government should consider the advisability of undertaking a judicial inquiry into the organization of the Department of National Defence and without restricting the generality of the foregoing, to investigate the accounting, inspection and administrative supervision of public property by the Department of National Defence with particular reference to losses of property by theft, looting and fire; the nature of supervision over the army stores and as to whether there has occurred any dereliction of duty on the part of any of the personnel of the said department whose duty it is to safeguard the public property of Canada.
The judicial body thus appointed to have all the powers of a royal commission under part I of the Inquiries Act, chapter 99, of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, to make findings and recommendations and to report the same to parliament."


Mr. Speaker, the leader of the opposition (Mr. Drew) has based his appeal to this house to adopt this motion on charges of "wholesale looting" in the Department of National Defence. He has made this charge
Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts before. He made it first on April 21 when he moved the adjournment of the house to discuss a matter of urgent public importance. He repeated it when he spoke for the first time on this subject on May 1. He repeated it in a broadcast of the program "The Nation's Business" over the trans-Canada network on May 6.
This charge is a serious charge. So far as I can learn from the speech of the leader of the opposition this afternoon it is based on thefts at Petawawa, Ottawa, Montreal, Halifax and in British Columbia. He seemed to derive some comfort and support from the fact that Colonel Ross directed a letter to the staff subordinate to him urging a more careful supervision. Why, this letter was the right kind of letter for an officer in command of men to write. That kind of letter has been sent through the years every time there is occasion. This is the kind of action that should be taken by commanding officers and in so far as anything that is brought to my attention is concerned, I see that it is taken.
I do not suggest that the leader of the opposition has said this, but the implication of these wholesale charges of wholesale looting is that great quantities of stores, out of all proportion to the value of the stores concerned, are being removed wholesale from the warehouses, storerooms and depots of the Department of National Defence and the armed forces. He himself used a figure of over $7 million as the amount of loss through theft and fire. That would be a very large figure but that is not in accordance with the facts before the defence expenditures committee. I will come to that in a minute.
What are we concerned with in the Department of National Defence and the three forces? We are concerned with an operation involving real estate valued at something over a billion and a half dollars, with equipment, supplies and stores having a value of perhaps another billion dollars, quite apart from ships and aircraft.


What did the minister mean by "real estate"? Does he mean the purchase of land, and so on?


Buildings and land, but the land we occupy is not nearly as valuable as the buildings.


The minister mentioned a billion and a half for real estate.


A billion and a half for real estate and something approaching a billion dollars for stores, equipment, and the like. I have made as careful comparisons as I can on the basis of the information available on the subject of fire losses. As I said in
2334	HOUSE OF
Military Establishments-Fires and Thefts the house a few days ago, we compared the experience of the Department of National Defence with the experience in six major cities in Canada. The experience in the Department of National Defence for the years 1950 and 1951, the last for which we have figures, was about the same as it was in 1949. The incidence of loss through fire in the Department of National Defence was just half as great on a fair basis of comparison as the loss to civilian property in these principal cities despite the fact that in national defence we are engaged in operations using inflammable and explosive materials, despite the fact that the camps and air stations are located at isolated centres and do not have the advantage of mutual protection, and despite the fact that a large part of the property is of wartime construction and is highly inflammable and very difficult to extinguish once a fire has started.
I ask the leader of the opposition or anyone else to establish before the defence expenditures committee that the rate of loss by fire in the armed forces is higher in proportion than it is in civilian life. This is a fair comparison, and no figures have ever been put before me which disclose the contrary. The leader of the opposition referred to the number of fires of incendiary origin. So far as it has been established in a court of law, there has only been one fire of incendiary origin. That was the last fire at Plouffe park and the soldier responsible was sentenced to two years less a day. Every fire is investigated by fire marshals and by the special officers of the R.C.M.P. In some cases civilian investigators are brought in. I suggest that to have one proven case of arson for the whole Department of National Defence in the last five years is far smaller than the record of arson in civil life.
The amount of loss by theft is not the gigantic figure mentioned by the leader of the opposition or implied through his reference to a figure of over $7 million. A return filed before the committee on defence expenditures gives a summary of losses due to theft or fraud, fire and other write-offs for the three services from April 1, 1950, to March 31, 1952, a period of two years. Losses due to theft or fraud less the amount recovered came to $85,809.75. I think every hon. member of the house has enough information from his own experience of fires and fire losses, of theft and losses by theft, and particularly with respect to property like that in the Department of National Defence and the services involving camps where construction is going on and large stores widely distributed among almost a thousand units throughout


the country, to realize that a loss of $85,000 odd in two years by theft or fraud is extremely small.
I have the figures on prosecutions for theft in the civil courts in cases where civilians were convicted, cases where servicemen were convicted and also cases where servicemen were convicted by courts martial for the same offence. The last period for which we have figures is from October 1, 1949, to September 30, 1950. In the civil courts charges in which civilians were convicted totalled 6,643. The number of servicemen convicted in civil courts was 94, and the number of servicemen convicted in courts martial was 31. The total male population of Canada between 18 and 45, which are the ages corresponding to those of practically all members of the armed forces, was 2,722,201 at that time. The mean population of the armed forces during that period was 61,799. The incidence of theft by civilians was -23 per cent and the incidence of theft by servicemen was -20 per cent, so that on the only figures that have been put before me the record of service personnel is better than that of civilian personnel.
Put in another way, during this period the service population was 2-22 per cent of the male population between the ages of 18 and 45, but service personnel were convicted either by civil courts or courts martial of committing 1-9 per cent of the offences of theft committed in the country, considerably less proportionately than the civilian population. In the armed forces today there are over 97,000 individuals. Employed in civilian occupations by the Department of National Defence and the armed services there are another 40,000 civilians making a total population employed full time of 137,000 people.
It is no part of my reply, Mr. Speaker, to say that the 137,000 are all perfect. Unfortunately, in such a large group there are a considerable number of individuals who have been tempted to do wrong. When we find them out we prosecute them; and we have I believe in the provost corps and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, which make investigations into every loss in which theft or fraud is suspected, a group comparable in efficiency and honesty with any group of civil or other police in this country.
That we should have any losses is deplorable. It must not be taken in any way, shape or form that, in making this reply, I am endeavouring to whitewash or to show complacency about the present situation, anything that has happened or anything that may happen. Our job is to use every means possible so as to ensure that the utmost care is

taken in safeguarding public property and in preventing loss, whether it be by fire, theft, fraud or any other means.
Toward that end from time to time we have the assistance of officers of the treasury. We have of course within the department itself an internal audit with a travelling group of auditors. We have the control of the Auditor General, to whom these audit reports are sent; and also from time to time we engage outside assistance to look into the question of systems and the like. We have the advantage of making comparisons with the systems and results in other countries, and in particular the United States and Great Britain. The