On the order for motions:
Before motions are proceeded with, Mr. Speaker, there was a question on the order paper yesterday which I was unable to answer. It is question No. 2 today. I think it would be important in the public interest that the hon. member for Brant-Wentworth (Mr. Charlton) should have the answer to that question. I ask the consent of the house to table it now.


Agreed.


The question is:
1.	Is vesicular stomatitis a reportable disease under the Animal Contagious Diseases Act?
2.	Did Saskatchewan officials of the health of animals branch put the farm of Leonard Waas, McLean, Saskatchewan, under any form of isolation or quarantine? If so, on what date?
3.	Were there any test animals injected in the Regina area? If so, what animals were used?
4.	If horses were used, were there any positive reactions? If so, on what date, and to whom was it reported?
5.	Did any officers of the health of animals branch in Saskatchewan refuse to accept specimens of infected material from private veterinarians? If so, on what date, and for what reason?
6.	Have any suspicious clinical symptoms been reported by health of animals branch inspectors at either of the Regina abattoirs? If so, what was the report, and on what date was it received?
The answer is as follows:
1.	No.
2.	Yes. The federal health of animals branch at Regina put the Waas farm under quarantine on December 3, 1951.
3.	Yes:	2 horses on December 3, 1951; 2 cattle,
2 swine, February 18, 1952; 2 horses, 1 steer, February 24, 1952.
4.	Yes. In the case of December 3 test, positive to vesicular stomatitis indicating that the disease was not foot-and-mouth.
In the case of February 24 test, negative to stomatitis indicating the possibility of foot-and-mouth disease. Reported to Ottawa.
5.	Not to the knowledge of either the Regina or Ottawa offices of health of animals division.
6.	Yes. On December 31, 1951, stomatitis was reported in Burns abattoir, Regina.


On behalf of the Secretary of State for External Affairs I table herewith copies, in English and in French, of the report on Canada's activities in connection with the food and agriculture organization of the United Nations during 1951.


On the orders of the day:
Is the Secretary of State for External Affairs able to give the house the result of his investigation into the question I raised a week ago today, with regard to Canadians who were held at the Buffalo airport surrounded by a cordon of police?


A report on that matter came in yesterday afternoon, and I hope to be able to make a statement on it tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of National Defence whether any British-made Centurion tanks have been acquired by Canada, and, if so, how many have reached this country by now?


We have been trying to get all the Centurions we can, and so far have received enough to meet the requirements of the 27th brigade in Germany. In addition we have received a limited number, five, for training purposes in Canada. More are expected.


Are these Centurion tanks that are coming to Canada to be used entirely for training purposes, or, as reported, are they also to be used as models for their production in Canada?
382	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the, Ministry


No. No consideration is at present being given to the production of tanks in Canada.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direot a question to the Minister of National Defence. Are this morning's press reports true that the submachine gun used by Jackson, the bank robber, was stolen from the defence forces? Has he checked into that matter? What steps are taken to see that guns of that kind are not used for that purpose?


I had not heard of this before the hon. member brought it to my attention. I have seen pictures of the guns, and they do not look like military types. Of course, a careful check is made of military types, but a large number were disposed of by War Assets subsequent to the war.


When War Assets sold those guns, they were not sold to individuals, were they?


No.


How would they get into the hands of individuals?


On the orders of the day:
Will the Minister of National Defence make a statement with respect to the employment of civilians at the permanent air stations across Canada?


The hon. member's question does not give me sufficient indication of the kind of statement he wants. I have not heard of anything of any such employment as he refers to.


On the orders of the day:
I understand that this morning the Minister of Resources and Development made an announcement of a new subsidized housing project for the city of St. John's. Would the minister indicate the location, and any other details he has available?


As I recall them, Mr. Speaker, the details are that the
[Mr. Harkness.l

project is for 152 units under section 35 of the National Housing Act, under which the federal government pays seventy-five per cent of the costs of construction and operation, and the provincial government pays the remaining twenty-five per cent. The development is taking place on land which was already assembled under the same section of the act by the two participating parties.


What is the location?


I do not have the precise location before me at the moment, but I can give it to the hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Has
the government or the Minister of Resources and Development received protests from individuals or groups of purchasers of houses built under the terms of the National Housing Act, to the effect that builders are failing to comply with Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation building standards? If so, what action is being taken?


The hon. member for Mercier (Mr. Monette) brought to my attention one alleged instance in which it was said that the houses did not conform to the specifications laid down by the National Housing Act. I should make it clear that, as in other cases, the purchaser of a house has a responsibility to satisfy himself that the house meets the specifications, and, as I recall, in all these instances the purchasers did satisfy themselves in that respect. Any recourse, therefore, must be to the contractor.


The house resumed, from Wednesday, March 12, consideration of the motion of Mr. E. W. George for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Fair, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Bryce.
In the few
minutes I have at my disposal, Mr. Speaker, I can only summarize briefly the serious circumstances under which some of our fishermen are endeavouring to survive. I should like to suggest to the house a course which I believe this government should follow in order to relieve the situation and at the same time demonstrate a policy of equality to all primary producers.

At this point I again wish to make one or two comparisons. The first item I have noted is the $65 million payment that was made to the wheat producers of western Canada. During the past few years the province of New Brunswick has made great progress in the way of better roads, better schools, social services and the like. This has greatly increased our public debt. The amount of $65 million would pay nearly two-thirds of the provincial debt of New Brunswick. For comparison again, I may say that the subsidy payment made by the federal government to the province of New Brunswick under the tax agreement would be about one-fifth of the amount I have mentioned. In other words, the $65 million payment that was made to the wheat producers would be five times the annual amount which is paid to the province of New Brunswick under this subsidy agreement. I point this out to indicate that enormous amounts of money have been used for one purpose, namely, to assist the agriculture industry.
In reply to a question asked by the member for Digby-Yarmouth (Mr. Kirk) on Tuesday last, the Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Mayhew) stated that Newfoundland was the only province from which provincial representations had been made for assistance in connection with the disastrous storms we have had during the past winter. The statement may have been meant to indicate that when assistance is required the federal department usually works through the provincial governments. On the last page of a publication entitled "Agricultural Assistance", I notice the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) speaks of assistance given to the berry industry in British Columbia. The last paragraph reads as follows:
They came to the government-
That is, the British Columbia berry producers.
-and asked us to guarantee their accounts at the bank to an extent which would permit them to get fertilizer-


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, much as I disagree with the hon. member, I should like to have a little order so that I can hear him. He does not know what he is talking about, but I should like to hear him.


For the benefit of the hon. member, I shall repeat what I said.
They came to the government and asked us to guarantee their accounts at the bank to an extent which would permit them to get fertilizer, which is the same thing the apple growers were concerned with; then to get baskets or boxes in which the berries are placed when picked, and then to secure barrels in which the berries would be finally placed to be shipped. They said that unless they could
The Address-Mr. A. W. Stuart get this advance, under the conditions then existing they would not be in a position to deal with the situtation which would develop. So we gave them that guarantee.
There is no suggestion there that any cabinet minister from the government of British Columbia approached the Department of Agriculture in Ottawa. There is little doubt in my mind that some of the details may have been ironed out afterwards by provincial and federal representatives. I make this point to indicate again that in case of an emergency some people can get assistance within a very short time, while it would seem to take others a considerable length of time.
Another point I should like to make is that the Minister of Fisheries has stated that a representative of the government of Newfoundland will be in Ottawa to discuss the problem of storm damage. I fail to understand why with seven federal members from Newfoundland, it is necessary for provincial representatives to come to Ottawa to place these facts before the department. I can only speak for myself, and I am not patting myself on the back, but I feel I am as well qualified to state the facts as they really exist as any provincial member in my county. The members of the provincial legislatures have problems of their own, and the members of provincial cabinets are also busy men. I must say that I fail to understand why it is necessary for provincial representatives to appear in Ottawa to place these facts before the department concerned.


May I ask the hon. member a question?


Will the member wait until I finish?


Order. A question cannot be asked except when a member yields the floor.


As I stated in my remarks last night, certain branches of the fishing industry are today greatly in need of financial assistance. I am not suggesting an outright gift by the government such as has been applied in many other instances, except in cases of an extreme nature. I do strongly suggest, however, that long-term loans be made available to those engaged in the fishing industry at moderate rates of interest, and with as little red tape and inconvenience as possible. This I believe to be a reasonable request under the circumstances I have outlined-and I might add that the circumstances have not been in any way exaggerated.
I trust that the government and the cabinet will investigate this matter that I have brought to their attention, because in the county from which I come the situation is

The Address-Mr. A. W. Stuart extremely serious. There are hundreds of fishermen there this spring who were unable to make a living last year; in fact, there are hundreds of them who went into debt. After a very stormy winter, with their credit exhausted, it will be utterly impossible for them to build their structures this year in order to carry on the fishing industry. Without financial assistance of some kind, many of these men will be obliged to leave their homes, which they have built "the hard way" over the years, and to seek employment in some other part of Canada. It will be utterly impossible for them to carry on with conditions as they are at the present time.
I have just this remark to make in closing. Going back through ancient history, I find that nearly two thousand years ago the humble fishermen were the chosen people. I regret that I must acknowledge, however, that in Canada, at the present time at least, they have failed to maintain that enviable status.


May I ask the hon. member a question?


Has the hon. member consent?


Yes.


Having regard to what he said as reported at page 378 of Hansard, in his attack on agriculture, may I ask him in what province they fish for twelve months out of the year?


I shall be pleased to answer that question. The question that the hon. member for Fraser Valley (Mr. Cruickshank) asked me was, I suppose, in connection with the importation of edible oils.


Oh, no.


What was it?


Perhaps I had better quote what the hon. member said.


Quote it, if you
please.


The hon. member has probably forgotten what he was attempting to say, incorrectly. This is what he said:
I did not go out on the water for six or eight months, and then take my family south for the winter.
This is at page 378 of Hansard of yesterday. Then a few lines farther down he said:
I was on the water twelve months of the year . . .
I should like to know in what county or province they fish 365 days out of the year.


That is a simple question to answer, and I am pleased that the hon. member brought this matter to my attention. In the county that I represent,


fishermen are fishermen; they are not farmer fishermen. They are fishermen and they go on the water, in various branches of the industry, twelve months of the year. During this past winter, when the weather has been terribly blowy and cold, and they have had extremely severe weather conditions to face, they have produced thousands and thousands of hogsheads of sardines.


Would you like to know the amount in dollars?


Well, I do not have that figure.


I can tell you.


No; I do not believe you can, because I do not believe they have any records yet of the catch of sardines down in that county.


I have.


In that county we produce fishermen, and they continue producing for twelve months of the year.


Mr. Speaker, might I ask the hon. member a question? He suggested that as a result of the storm damage the government of Newfoundland proposed to send a minister to Ottawa, and he wondered why that was being done-I presume in view of their having five Liberal members here, including a cabinet minister. Is that the suggestion?


Mr. Speaker, my suggestion was that if the same problem had occurred in connection with the Department of Agriculture, I do not believe it would be necessary for provincial representatives to come here in order to get assistance. With seven members here from Newfoundland I would feel quite sure that they would be in a position to place the facts before the interested department just as well as could any provincial representative that might come from Newfoundland. That is exactly what I meant.


No liaison.


Order.


Just an attack upon the farmer.


Mr. Speaker, in the first place I should like to apologize to the hon. member for Charlotte (Mr. Stuart) for my attempt to intervene in his interesting speech after what I can only describe as a false start. I should also like to explain to the house that I had not intended to participate in this

debate, because I thought it was understood that there would be an opportunity shortly for a discussion of external affairs and at that time I would be in a position to make a general statement. I still hope to do that, and to do it in the near future.
I rise today, however, Mr. Speaker, because of a speech made in this house yesterday by the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell), the leader of the C.C.F. The terms of that speech, I thought, left me no alternative but to take part in this debate in an attempt to answer some of the specific statements which he made yesterday and which it would not be possible for me to deal with in that same specific way if I were intervening in another debate later in this session.
Yesterday the hon. member challenged- and that was the word he used-me, or indeed anyone else, I think he said, to prove that the statements which he had made were inaccurate, unfair or misleading. He also challenged me-although I do not think he used that word in this connection-to prove that certain statements which I had made, not in this house but over the air the night before, were, as he termed them, or some of them, "gross inaccuracies". It is with those statements of his, and with nothing else, Mr. Speaker, that I wish to deal today.
I may say that I found it somewhat difficult to understand the hon. gentleman's indignation and his use, in reference to what I said over the radio in the address to which I have referred and to myself personally, of such words as "deliberate smears"; I also found it somewhat difficult to understand the statement that I and others were attempting to silence him and that he and his party had been accused in this broadcast of supporting communism-indeed, that my style in this talk was that of a senator from Wisconsin known as Mr. McCarthy, in the sense that I was attempting to prevent anybody-by this broadcast, presumably-from expressing an honest opinion by labelling him, and I quote, "subversive, communist, enemy of the state or what you will." As I said, I found it a little bit difficult to understand the vigour of this language in respect of a statement which I made about a report of the council of the C.C.F. party-a report about which, I may say, I felt at least as strongly as the hon. gentleman felt in his remarks yesterday. I think I had more justification for my feeling, as I shall do my best to show. Incidentally, Mr. Speaker, when the hon. gentleman spoke previously in this debate he said this, and I 55704-25
The Address-Mr. Pearson quote from page 177 of Hansard of March 6:
The Canadian government itself should be criticized for agreeing to policies which if carried through to a logical conclusion will we believe endanger the economic and social welfare of the world.
Then he went on to say that he believed that is exactly what the Kremlin wants and what the Kremlin is banking on. In other words the hon. gentleman stated that we, this government, were following policies that the Kremlin was banking on. Now, if I so desired I could, I suppose, characterize an inference of that kind by some fairly strong words, but I do not think it is necessary. Nor do I get unduly excited about the use of such terms in a debate of this kind.
As for attempting to frighten the hon. gentleman into silence in this house, which he suggested, and which I think is at least unfair to himself, the broadcast to which he had objected had nothing to do with his own statement in this house. Indeed, as it happened, the broadcast was recorded before he made that statement. As a matter of fact, his speech in this house-apart from his reference, which I admit he certainly made, to his strong support for that statement-was one thing, and not one about which I was prepared to get too excited; but the C.C.F. council's statement was something else again, as I will try to show; and I think, Mr. Speaker, that it justified the words I said about it in the broadcast.
Of course, in using these words I was not accusing him or his party of being communist; nor does he have to defend himself, as he dramatically stated yesterday, against the charge of communism. Nobody that I know of is accusing him of that, and that kind of counter-attack is really not good enough. It merely, I believe, throws a smoke screen around the real issue in this matter. The real danger as I see it, and as I pointed out in my broadcast on Tuesday night, is that the policy of his party, as it was stated in that council declaration, will play straight into the hands of communist propaganda. We have known all along, of course, that a stage would come in our defence build-up when the danger from the Soviet union might appear to be slackening, and when the burden of taxation for defence expenditure would weigh heavily upon us. That was certainly bound to be a difficult moment for the alliance we are trying to build up, and at that time there would be a very real temptation to let down our efforts. I suggest that that temptation may be more difficult to resist in this country after the statement of the C.C.F. party.

The Address-Mr. Pearson
Then, Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman made another statement yesterday which, if it had been accurate, would, I think, have been very dangerous to our continuing effort under NATO. He talked about-he did it in a very few words, and did not make any great point of it in his statement-German rearmament and what we had decided on that subject at Lisbon. What he said, Mr. Speaker, and may I say it quite bluntly, was entirely without foundation. Indeed, the decision taken at Lisbon on this subject was precisely the opposite of that which he stated it to have been in his speech yesterday; and I quote from his words at page 368 of Hansard:
And yet the NATO people at Lisbon were preparing to rearm Germany before any agreement regarding integration had been reached.
That was one of the most difficult and delicate discussions we had at Lisbon-the relationship of German rearmament to western defence and to NATO generally; and the decision we took in. the matter, Mr. Speaker, was exactly the opposite to that which was suggested by the hon. gentleman. We decided that participation of Germany in the defence of the west will not take place until after political arrangements for the federal republic's association with the European defence community have been concluded and the European army formed which, in its turn, would be a part of the NATO forces under General Eisenhower. Until that stage has been reached-and it has not yet been reached-there is no NATO decision approving any kind of German rearmament in the sense of recruiting a single German for service under the NATO plan. I think it is important to put the record straight on that matter at once.
May I return, sir, to the C.C.F.'s statement? Here is what it had to say in its first paragraph:
While continuing to support Canada's participation in NATO.-
And I gladly acknowledge that assertion.
-the C.C.F. is opposed to certain recent developments in this organization.
Then it went on:
NATO policies seem to have fallen completely under the control of the military to the exclusion of necessary social and economic considerations in the building of western collective security.
I repeat: "completely under the control of the military." That, Mr. Speaker, is not an accurate statement, and I think I am in a position to speak on this matter with some authority, because I attended the meeting at Lisbon at which this result is supposed to have ensued. I assure the house that that result did not ensue, and NATO has not

fallen completely under the control of the military. If it had fallen completely under the control of the military I doubt very much whether Canada would be very anxious to participate in its activities.
But what was meant in this statement by the "military"? Another paragraph in the C.C.F. council's statement throws some light on this matter of what is meant by the "military". A later paragraph in the statement reads as follows:
A halt must be called, before it Is too late, to the control of NATO by the military and by certain American influences which jeopardize the peaceful and defensive objectives which brought the organization into being.
That paragraph does not say that we should be on our guard against any tendency in this direction, any tendency to be too aggressive, to be too bellicose, to be too provocative. It says: We must stop the control of NATO by the military. If this were merely a cautionary statement against these tendencies I would most heartily support it. Indeed, in the broadcast to which the hon. gentleman referred and to which he took such strong exception, I said-and I quote from this broadcast:
I know-and you know-that if NATO ever showed signs of becoming aggressive, or militaristic, not only Canada but other members would strongly oppose such tendencies. I would go further and say that if the policy of the United States, or of any other country with which we are associated were in our opinion unwise or wrong or too provocative, it would be the duty of a Canadian to express his opposition to that policy in friendly but frank language, always remembering, of course, the tremendous burden of responsibility for the defence of the free nations which the United States is bearing and' that the communists gloat over and exploit every sign of division and disagreement inside our coalition.
Now, to return to the C.C.F. statement, it goes on to say in its second paragraph, and I quote:
This development-
Presumably military control and, by reasonable inference, United States military control.
This development culminated recently in the decisions taken at Lisbon to provide approximately 50 divisions in western Europe by the end of the year and 90 to 100 divisions by the end of 1954, the program to cost a reported $300 billion.
I do not know where the C.C.F. got that figure of $300 billion. However, that is something else. Then the paragraph goes on:
These decisions are irresponsible and disastrous. They are irresponsible because the military objectives set, both for armaments and personnel, are incapable of being reached. They are disastrous because the very attempt to reach the impossible objectives would break the economies of every European nation, member of NATO.
That is, they are irresponsible because the objective, according to the C.C.F., is incapable

of being reached. In fact, the governments represented at Lisbon, including the governments of the United States of America, the United Kingdom and France, did not agree that these objectives were incapable of being reached. We all admitted there in our discussions that it might be difficult to reach them-and indeed that economic and financial factors might intervene to prevent it-but we believed that they were not incapable of being reached. We agreed that we would make every effort to reach them. That was the decision of the governments represented there, the decision which the C.C.F. party claim to be irresponsible.
And then these decisions are disastrous, so the C.C.F. say, because even if we attempt to reach the goal set we would break up every European member of NATO-even if we make an attempt to reach the goals which the fourteen governments set at Lisbon as the minimum necessary for the defence of peace. They say if we attempt to reach those objectives we will break almost all the European states who are members of NATO.
Because they take that position in regard to these objectives, the persons who wrote this statement argue that we should oppose those decisions.


Will the minister read the next sentence?


I shall be glad to do it. The next sentence, I think, after the one in which it is said that the attempt to reach this objective would be disastrous, reads:
As the London Times has stated', the Lisbon program "contains the maximum amount of provocation with the minimum of deterrent effect."
That is the viewpoint of the London Times, on the press release issued from Lisbon. We heard about it yesterday, and the hon. member is entitled to his opinion, as indeed the London Times is entitled to its opinion. But the C.C.F. statement does say that the Canadian government, and presumably the Canadian people, should oppose these objectives which we consider to be the minimum necessary for the defence of peace.
Now, in the light of that statement in the broadcast I gave the other night I said the following-and I should like to put it on record:
The communists, however, claim that there is no possible danger of aggression from Soviet Russia, because the communist bear is really a dove of peace, and therefore the fact that we are trying to build up our collective strength in NATO is proof that NATO is an aggressive military alliance.
55704-25J
The Address-Mr. Pearson
Then I went on to say-and this is the sentence to which the hon. member took the most violent objection:
It is sad to see that the C.C.F. seem to be moving towards this position.
I based that statement on their council's, release of a few days before. In the next sentence I went on to say:
The statement issued on Wednesday last by their national council charged that, and I quote, "NATO policies seem to have fallen completely under the-control of the military." They found proof for this strange assertion in the fact that at Lisbon we decided on a program of 50 divisions for western Europe by the end of 1952, and 90 to 100 divisions, including Germany, by the end of 1954. These decisions the C.C.F. council described as "irresponsible and disastrous." That is exactly how the Kremlin would describe them. The C.C.F. then urges Canada to oppose vigorously the armaments goals set at Lisbon which they claim represent increases in the military program.
Then later in my broadcast I added this:
The members of NATO at our recent meeting were very conscious, I can assure you, of the necessity of stressing the defensive character of their military plans, of the economic and social implications of their defence policies, and of the longer term social and economic purposes of NATO in building up the Atlantic community.
We knew that to do too much too soon in defence preparation would cause distress and perhaps domestic disturbances which would play into the hands of those who threaten the peace. But we knew also that if there is an easing of tension in Europe at. the present time, it is mainly due to the growing military strength of the NATO countries and their demonstrated determination to stand together in defence of peace. Surely, then, this is no time to sabotage the policies that have brought this improvement.
To designate the growing strength of our North Atlantic coalition, as it is expressed1 in present NATO military programs, which even when they are completed will, in the face of Russian might, be barely adequate for defence; to designate this defence build-up as "irresponsible and1 disastrous," as the C.C.F. have now done, is I think itself irresponsible.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I ought to say a few words about this program.


Should not the hon. member read the next paragraph from our statement, which does modify the position which he says is the C.C.F. position? I think he wishes to be fair.


You made your speech.


Which "next paragraph"?


The one which says:
The C.C.F. urges that Canada should vigorously oppose the armaments goals set at Lisbon. The increases in the military program must be dropped and a substantial proportion of the total sums involved should be diverted from crippling-


Yes, I will do that.


-and excessive military preparedness to necessary economic rebuilding in Europe and elsewhere.

The Address-Mr. Pearson


I was going to quote it later; I was referring to a previous paragraph, but I shall put it on the record1 now. The third paragraph reads:
The C.C.F. urges that Canada should vigorously oppose the armaments goals set at Lisbon. The increases in the military program must be dropped and a substantial proportion of the total sums involved should be diverted from crippling and excessive military preparedness to necessary economic rebuilding in Europe and elsewhere. Only in this way can there be any real achievement in respect of article II of the NATO agreement.
The validity of that paragraph and the validity of the position taken in it depends, I suppose, to some extent upon whether the military program we are now talking about in NATO is an increase, and whether the expenditures under that program will -be crippling.
I would refer first to the nature and extent of the program upon which we agreed at Lisbon, but before doing so I would1 like to add just one word about what we members of NATO, we countries in the NATO coalition, are up against. The only potential enemy we would have to face, of course, is the U.S.S.R. The power of the U.S.S.R. on land, as expressed in terms of divisions, is probably anywhere from 175 to 225. No one knows the exact number. That is what we are up against.
According to NATO plans, to meet this threat we are trying to build up in 1952 a program of approximately 50 divisions for all of western Europe-and, to quote the words of the Lisbon resolution on the subject, as they were quoted yesterday by the hon. member, "in appropriate conditions of combat readiness by the end of 1952." According to the C.C.F. statement and, indeed, according to the statement of the hon. member yesterday that is an increase over previous NATO military programs. I have already stated, and I repeat, that it does not represent an increase. On the contrary, it represents a decrease from our previous plans. I shall do my best to prove that I am accurate in saying that. I realize that in making that statement I have sources of information available to me which may not be available to the hon. gentleman.
Referring to the previous program and the way in which it was changed at Lisbon, the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar said:
First of all, let me say that I have never heard any mention of the number of divisions in this house or any support requested for any number of divisions.
The hon. member is quite accurate in that statement. The number of divisions in the previous program was never made public. Considerations of secrecy made it impossible

for us to disclose this fact in the house. But if that had not been disclosed, if the hon. gentleman says that he did not know what the previous program was, that he never heard any mention of the number of divisions, how can he at the same time say that the program which we have declared represents something that he did not know anything about?


That was based on the communique itself.


I suggest that when you are in the dark you should be very careful about taking steps of that kind. However, to be fair to the hon. gentleman I must say that he did produce in his statement yesterday some information on which no doubt he based his assertion, although I think his information was wrong and therefore his assertion was misleading. He said that on November 25 last the New York Times had given figures which showed that the Lisbon program must be an increase because the figures they quoted there and the figures we gave at Lisbon were different. He referred also to a distinguished reporter of the New York Times, Mr. James Reston, who had made a certain statement on December 5.
The hon. gentleman is entitled to rely on those figures if he wishes, but I tell him that those figures do not represent the NATO official program as we agreed to it over a year ago and as we altered it at Lisbon. The NATO military program to which we were working before Lisbon was, I assure the hon. gentleman and I assure the house, a bigger one than that which we agreed on at Lisbon. I wish I could give the house exact figures of the military plans of a year ago in terms of divisions and aircraft, but I have made inquiry to see whether that is possible and I find that those figures still cannot be disclosed at this time without the consent of the governments concerned. But I give my hon. friend my assurance that these figures represent a greater military program than that at Lisbon.
I could have shown those figures confidentially to the hon. gentleman, as indeed I should be glad to show them to any hon. gentleman in the house, if he had asked me about them. If he had waited or if his party had waited before issuing this release until I had made my own statement on the results arrived at at Lisbon, I would have given the same information in regard to the program that I am giving now.


We got in touch with your
office, I may say, before that statement was put out.


The hon. gentleman also
tried to argue that our program was greater

at Lisbon by quoting from our press communique. He has already murmured about this this afternoon. He quoted words which indicated that we admitted, according to that communique, an increase of defensive power. Of course we admitted in that communique that what we had worked for at Lisbon was an increase of defensive power, but that is something very different, although the hon. gentleman did not seem to be much impressed by the argument which I tried to make on it briefly yesterday, from saying that our program at Lisbon was increased over the previous program.
Let me say now, not speaking in diplomatic language which the hon. gentleman has some difficulty in understanding, as I have-I try to avoid it-let me put it in simple language. If you decide on a military program to increase from five to ten, and later you alter your target from five to nine, there is still an increase over the five but there is a decrease from the ten which you had previously agreed to try to reach. That is exactly what happened at Lisbon. Of course we are increasing our forces, but that is something very different from increasing our program. I put it in that plain form so that the hon. gentleman will understand what I am trying to say.


I might be able to.


What are those NATO plans, and how were they reached? I am talking now about the Lisbon program. They were reached after discussion between the temporary council committee, the defence ministers and the military committee representatives. The temporary council committee which dealt with this matter for the council consisted, not of generals, not of militarists, but of Mr. Averell Harriman, Mr. Jean Monnet and Sir Edwin Plowden.
Our present program is the result of the discussions between the temporary council committee and the military people, as submitted to and approved by the council. I can give the house, if it needs it, assurance that in those discussions the military did not dominate the situation. The program that eventually resulted from those discussions was probably lower than that which the military would have liked to have.
Hon. members will recall that at the NATO meeting in Ottawa it was agreed to set up this temporary council committee for the purposes of reconciling military goals with political and economic capabilities of the member nations. It was recognized at that time, and indeed it was recognized at Lisbon, that there was real danger that in meeting our military goals we might overstrain the
The Address-Mr. Pearson economies of the NATO nations, particularly of some of our European partners who are still suffering from severe economic strains and stresses brought about by what they have gone through in the last ten or fifteen years. It was recognized by the North Atlantic council that military considerations alone should not prevail, that the military did not have control of this organization, but that we should attempt to maintain a balance between defensive military preparedness and the economic and financial stability of the member states. That remains our purpose, and it remains a continuing problem.
I submit that it is not fair to the NATO organization, and the work being done by the temporary council committee and other agencies of that organization to reconcile economic and military considerations, to suggest that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is now under the control of the military. As a result of the discussions at Lisbon the temporary council committee issued a press statement, and I quote a sentence or two as follows:
By its resolution on the T.C.C. report, the North Atlantic council agreed on specific policies and plans for building NATO defensive strength during the present year. NATO nations agreed to provide approximately fifty divisions in appropriate conditions of combat readiness and four thousand operational aircraft in western Europe, as well as strong naval forces. It further provided a definite program for taking measures this year necessary to increase the defensive power of NATO in following years.
The language in that paragraph has been referred to by the hon. gentleman, by the London Times, by the London Economist, by the London Spectator, by the London New Statesman and Nation and by lots of other people. I take no great pride in that language. Indeed I think it justifies some of the criticism levelled at it. I am rather sorry it got out through the press section in that somewhat ambiguous form. It was written, I might say, not by diplomats but by press officers.
That was the first time in the history of NATO that the council had ever disclosed such figures, in terms of numbers of divisions and aircraft, even approximately. The house will understand that I have to be pretty careful about what I say in interpreting figures, because we do not want to give any information unnecessarily to those who can benefit by it; but of course those sentences do not mean that by the end of 1952 there will necessarily be fifty divisions ready for immediate action. What we have done in this decision is to lay down firm goals for that number, which at the end of the year will be in various stages of readiness, and to the accomplishment of which every member state involved will do its best.

The Address-Mr. Pearson
That had been already explained. It the hon. gentleman has been fortunate enough to read Mr. Truman's statement in Washington the other day and Mr. Eden's statement in the British House of Commons, he would have found that they explained quite clearly what those statements about fifty divisions actually meant, at least as far as they could go in explaining it without giving information which should not be given out. In his statement in Washington on March 6 Mr. Truman said:
By the end of this calendar year, General Eisenhower's command is expected' to have at its disposal a formidable force-including some fifty army divisions, about half of them on active duty, and some 4,000 military planes-and a sound base for further build-up in 1953 and 1954, These forces, joined by those of Greece and Turkey, will bring within measurable distance the time when even the most foolhardy man in the Kremlin will not dare risk open attack.
Mr. Eden spoke in the House of Commons on February 28 last, and also dealt with this point. If the hon. gentleman had been fortunate enough to read his statement it might have cleared up some of his doubts on this subject. Mr. Eden was being asked questions in the house, and he said:
The third question was about the number of divisions. I think that this is a matter we may well go into during the debate. Possibly the contradiction is due to the fact that of those fifty divisions mentioned, only a certain proportion are or were said to be active divisions at present in the line in Germany. A number of others are reserve divisions at various stages of notice.
In the light of this explanation of what the program of fifty divisions means, I hope the hon. gentleman will not think an attempt to reach that objective will cripple the economies of the European countries. I hope that after further consideration he may even approve this objective, now that he knows more about it, as something which the members of NATO should do their best to achieve as the minimum necessary for defence.
Just a few words more, Mr. Speaker, and I am finished. I am trying to find out, trying to clear my own mind, as to what the policy of the C.C.F. party is in the light of this statement. The first paragraph of that statement said the party approves and will support NATO, but then it lays down certain conditions for that support; and I think the hon. gentleman will agree when I say they are conditions. One is that the armaments goals I have been talking about, which all the governments at Lisbon agreed were necessary for defence in the present situation, should be reduced and we in Canada should vigorously oppose them. Another condition, and I quote from their statement, was "a substantial proportion of the total sums involved should be diverted from crippling and excessive military preparedness to neces-

sary economic rebuilding in Europe and elsewhere;" and finally "a halt must be called, before it is too late, to the control of NATO by the military and by certain American influences."
Well, I ask myself the question: will qualified support, conditional support of that kind strengthen NATO at a time when the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is our strongest bulwark for peace, and when defence weakness is the greatest provocation to aggression? If that aggression should occur, then what chance shall we have in NATO, in the United Nations or anywhere else to promote that economic and social progress about which we have all spoken so many times, and as to the importance of which we all sincerely agree? What chance will any of us have to promote that economic and social progress which remains an objective of NATO second only-but still second-to acquisition of that minimum strength necessary to prevent war?
The NATO coalition is going to have difficult days ahead, as I have already indicated. It is going to be a tough problem to balance economic and military considerations, especially as the sense of urgency, the immediate danger of attack, the sense of crisis has, I think, lifted somewhat. If that is so; if there is an easing of the tension, I suggest, as I have suggested earlier in this statement, that it is due to the political solidarity and the growing defensive strength of our only political organization based on military plans which are now, I reiterate, somewhat reduced as compared with what they were a year ago. If we halt or slacken in that defensive effort, the very making of which has brought about the easing of the situation that we have seen; if the sacrifices which are necessary become more difficult or even impossible because people are told that our goals are incapable of achievement or unnecessary, then indeed we shall have something to worry about and this whole inspiring concept of a coalition for peace may come tumbling to the ground.
If that happens, then very shortly we shall have again the atmosphere of crisis and fear, almost of agony, from which I think we are slowly but steadily emerging. It will descend upon us again; and if that occurs, no one in this house or outside, no one even in the party the leader of which spoke yesterday, will be referring to a military program of the kind we are now planning as either irresponsible or disastrous.


After having listened to the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar (Mr. Coldwell) yesterday, and to the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. MARCH 13, 1952
Pearson) today, it has become quite apparent that in a political sense at least our local cold war has concluded. Hostilities are underway. It is not my intention this afternoon to become involved in that discussion. I do say, however, that to me it underlines the importance of trying to organize and arrange a debate on external affairs; yes, an orderly debate. In the course of the debate on the speech from the throne one member will discuss external affairs, others will discuss a multitude of other subjects, and then someone else will come back to external affairs, making the discussion anything but orderly. I repeat that I think in future we should try to arrange an orderly debate on this subject.
Before proceeding may I, as others have done, extend my congratulations to the mover (Mr. George) and seconder (Mr. Gauthier, Lake St. John) of the address in reply to the speech from the throne. Each carried out his assignment in commendable fashion, I thought; and I use the word "assignment" advisedly since the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) recently took strong exception to the word "task". We expected that the mover and the seconder would recount the many admirable qualities of their own constituencies, the virtues of the people who reside therein, the state of the industrial life, and would also portray the many beauties of the scenery. It was more or less expected also that they would commend the government for what has been done to date, and would express unwavering conviction that what it will do in the future is bound to be of the highest order. In that we were not disappointed. While we can agree with what they said about their own constituencies, we find it slightly more difficult, if not impossible, to agree with all of the references that were made to government policy. While I am able to sympathize with the mover and seconder in the sense that they made rather dramatic efforts to make their constituencies appear to be the best in Canada, in view of the many attributes of my own constituency I could not but feel extremely sorry for them.
I could not help recalling those great Rocky mountains which are found in the western section of my constituency; could not but recall the grand rivers, the resorts, the lakes, the foothills of those rockies with their splendid soil; the mills, the mines, the fine beef and dairy herds and the rolling wheat fields. I could not but say to myself, if either of the hon members had the opportunity of visiting the Red Deer constituency, probably they would be quite dissatisfied with their own.
The Address-Mr. Shaw
I do not intend to make more than passing reference to my own constituency, but it w