Third report of standing committee on banking and commerce.-Mr. Cleaver.
I should like to lay on the table two copies im French and in English of order in council P.C. 174 of 1953, passed this morning, which provides that the Associate Minister of National Defence appointed under section 6A of the National Defence Act may in addition to the Minister of National Defence exercise and perform all the powers, duties and functions of the Minister of National Defence, unless and until the governor in council otherwise directs.
This order in council revokes order in council P.C. 4553 of November 24, 1952, whereby the Solicitor General was authorized to exercise jointly with the Minister of National Defence certain of the powers and iperform certain of the duties and functions provided under the defence act.
I table at the same time two copies of the order in council whereby the Hon. Ralph Campney was this morning appointed Associate Minister of National Defence.


1.	How many prefabricated houses are being constructed at Gander?
2.	Where were the materials purchased and what was the cost per unit?
3.	What is the estimated final cost per unit?


With respect to Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation:
1.	24.
2.	Prefabricated house packages from H. Newsum Sons and Company Limited, Lincoln, England, at $4,547.25 per unit f.o.b. Gander, Newfoundland.
On site work, i.e., foundations, plumbing, heating, erection, firm price contract to Eastern Woodworkers Limited, New Glasgow, N.S., at $7,954.73 per unit.
3.	$12,502 per unit.


How many persons from each province have taken civil defence courses at federal expense?


To December 31,	1952,	2,562 persons
attended civil defence training courses at federal expense as follows: British Columbia, 201; Alberta, 200; Saskatchewan, 81; Manitoba, 186; Ontario, 412; Quebec, 470; New Brunswick, 74; Nova Scotia, 120; Newfoundland, 21; Prince Edward Island, 15; federal employees, 58; armed services personnel, 24; R.C.M.P. personnel, 13; miscellaneous-from industry, etc., 25; total, 2,562.


1.	Has the government given any consideration to the discharge or cancellation of outstanding dominion seed liens?
2.	If so, what decision has been arrived at?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


1.	Has the department of health of Ontario requested any assistance from the national health grants for county health units?
2.	If so, how many new units have been established with federal assistance?
3.	How many units established prior to 1948 have been given assistance for extending their services?
4.	What is the total amount approved by the federal government for these purposes in the fiscal year 1952-53?


1.	Yes.
2.	7.
3.	20.
4.	$434,235.37.


1.	What assistance is given by the Canadian government to emigrants coming to Canada from Britain, Ireland and the European countries for passage to Canada?

Questions
2.	What assistance, if any, is provided to establish them in rural and urban centres in Canada?
3.	What difference, if any, is accorded to emigrants from oriental countries?


1.	Interest free loans, to cover minimum ocean fare and inland transportation in Canada, are granted to immigrant workers who are eligible by virtue of their occupations and who are unable to defray the cost of their transportation to Canada from Britain, Ireland and certain European countries. These loans are available to the dependents of immigrants coming from the flooded areas of Britain, Belgium and Holland when the head of the family is eligible by virtue of his occupation.
2.	Immigrants have available the facilities of the settlement service of the immigration branch, Department of Citizenship and Immigration, and of the national employment service, Department of Labour.
3.	Assisted passage loans are not granted to immigrants coming from oriental countries. They have available the assistance referred to in part 2 above.


What is the cash value of all species of fish landed in each county of Prince Edward Island, during the years 1951 and 1952?





Species	Prince County	Queens County	Kings County	Totals	$	$	$Cod	25,352	27,916	44,210	97,4781,512	12,002	13,514Hake	4,441	14,460	23,226	42,127Flatfish	391	89	3,595	4,075Herring	47,551	8,390	10,946	66,887Mackerel	19,291	16,288	4,215	39,794Smelts	44,934	37,944	13,484	96,362Other fish	892	2,452	2,195	5,539Lobsters	689,680	310,300	700,774	1,700,75455	1 323	1,378Clams soft shelled	3,227	3,414	4,813	11,454Quahaugs	177	820	4,505	5,502Oysters	56,062	14,480	672	71,2141,100	3,680	4,780Fish livers	2,012	1,004	2,201	5,217Total	895,165	439,069	831,841	2,166,075Cod	29,832	15,214 996	52,446 52,100 66,062	97,49253,096 93,5589,658 220	17,838	34,998 9,461 4,656 20,096 1,866	35,21831,386 10,958 37,712 1,116	2,124 15,032	42,97130,64637,898	95,706Other fish	1,792	4,774709,941	389,620	790,090	1,889,6511,880 30,142 2,007 86,467 9,830 1,540	340	14,577 4,059 37,165 2,600	16,7974,834	39,0352,578	41.75026,188	115,255327	2,442 1,490	12,599628	3,658
962,689	515,409	1,094,108	2,572,206
				
1 Value of fish landings includes the value of fish consumed by fishermen from his own catch which amounts are not segregated. Therefore the actual cash received by fishermen (which is assumed to be the "cash value" referred to in the question) is not available. In relation to the total value of landings, the value of that portion consumed by fishermen is very small.
veterans' insurance
1.	How many applications for veterans' insurance
were received between October 15,	1952 and
February 1, 1953?
2.	How many policies were issued during that period?
3.	Have any premiums been collected for policies not issued during that period?
4.	If so, what is the amount of these premiums?


1.	547, from October 15, 1952 to February 1, 1953, both dates inclusive.
2.	589.
3 and 4. Amount of premiums (including one remittance of $1,000) which accompanied applications received from October 15, 1952 to February 1, 1953, both dates inclusive, where the policy was not issued during that period: $1,428.55.
CIVIL defence grants
Questions
3.	Has there been any redredging done at Tracadie gully, since 1935?
4.	If so, (a) in what years were such operations carried on; (b) what amount of money was spent therefor in each and every year?
5.	Has the Department of Public Works received any complaints, about the condition of the Tracadie breakwaters and gully, and representations stressing the urgency of redredging the said gully and effecting major repairs to the said breakwaters?
6.	If so, (a) have the necessary inquiries, investigations and surveys been made by departmental engineers; (b) when were they made; (c) what was the nature of the reports made by departmental engineers as a result of such surveys, inquiries or investigations?
7.	Is the Department of Public Works aware that the said breakwaters are presently in a state of almost demolition and the entrance to the Tracadie harbour almost completely blocked?
8.	Are any plans for the redredging of the said entrance or gully and for repairs to the said breakwaters presently under advisement by the Department of Public Works?
9.	If so, (a) what is the nature and extent of such plans; (b) when will a start be made to correct the serious situation now prevailing at Tracadie gully?





How many provinces have taken advantage of the federal civil defence grants program and in what amounts?


Four provinces-British
Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba-have submitted projects under the federal civil defence grants program.
The quota available to each of these provinces and the value of the projects submitted by them are as follows:
Province
Value of Project
*Quota Submitted
British Columbia .$ 132,000	$ 70,000
Alberta	
85,000	5,000Saskatchewan	....	66,000	48,000Manitoba	
83,000	47,000
*The quota has been worked out for each province on the basis of 8 cents per capita of the province and an additional 6 cents per capita per federally designated target area. The method of disbursement is on the basis of the federal government matching expenditures by the provincial governments on a dollar for dollar basis.


1.	What was the total cost of the breakwaters constructed, and of the dredging done at Tracadie, Gloucester county, New Brunswick, about some twenty years ago?
2.	What amounts of money have been expended for repairs and maintenance of the breakwaters at Tracadie, in each and every year, since the year of their completion to date?
1. (a) $183,459.08; (b) $26,881.06.
2.	Construction
work related
Year	Maintenance to improverepairs	ments and
repairs
1934	
$ 16.76	$ Nil1935	
Nil	Nil1936	
399.75	1,009.181937	
Nil	253.501938	
Nil	74.951939	
294.95	Nil1940	
184.35	8,858.481941	
69.95	14,785.401942	
Nil	Nil1943	
2,585.56	Nil1944	
3,189.29	Nil1945	
49.95	Nil1946	
767.83	Nil1947	
388.90	Nil3.	Yes.4.	(a)	(b)1937	
$24,981.041938	
26,543.461939	
20,554.081940	
9,747.215.	Yes.6.	(a) Survey under way; (b) winter survey authorized; (c) report not yet received.7.	Yes.8.	Matter will be considered.9.	Please see answer to No. 8.
External Affairs


1.	How many immigration officers are there in (a) Great Britain; (b) each of the European countries?
2.	What are the names of such officers and their respective locations, salaries, qualifications, and dates of appointment?


1.	What are the names of the lawyers and notaries residing in the district of Roberval, who have acted as agents for the different departments or boards of the federal government, during each of the fiscal years, 1947-48, 1948-49, 1949-50, 1950-51, 1951-52 and from April 1, 1952 to December 31, 1952.
2.	What amount of fees has been paid to each of them and in connection with what services?


1.	How many farms are there in each province of Canada?
2.	How many income tax inspectors or farm assessors are there in each province of Canada?
3.	What was the 1951 cash income from the sale of farm products, by provinces?
4.	What was the 1951 average cash income per Earm, by provinces?
5.	What was the total cost of the income tax inspectors or farm assessors, in each province?


The house resumed, from Wednesday, February 11, consideration of the motion of Mr. Pearson:
That items Nos. 85 to 104 inclusive of the main estimates, 1953-54, be withdrawn from the committee of supply and referred to the standing committee on external affairs, saving always the powers of the committee of supply in relation to the voting of public moneys.
Mr. Speaker, when the
house adjourned yesterday I had almost completed my review of international developments. It had become almost a review of the development of collective security arrangements around the globe. In any such review-and I ended it yesterday with consideration of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-I think it is clear that there is one important area of the world where collective security arrangements are most conspicuous by their absence. I am referring to the Middle East. That is a gap, and an important one, in our efforts to defend ourselves and the free world collectively.

It is, I think, clear that that gap is not likely to be closed by Middle East defence and security arrangements until the political relationships between some of the countries in the Middle East are happier than they are, unfortunately, at the present. That is only one reason why I think the house will have welcomed the announcement today that an arrangement has been concluded between the government of the United Kingdom and the government of Egypt covering the future of the Sudan, which should be a step forward in stabilizing that whole area. It will also have been made clear, I hope, that all these separate collective security arrangements really hang together. They are in a sense interdependent.
Yesterday I finished my discussion by dealing with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. That organization, as we know, is a limited association of fourteen states whose responsibilities under the treaty extend only to a clearly defined area. Meanwhile it is becoming increasingly clear that it is communist world strategy to attempt to drain away the strength of the western democracies by military and quasi-military action in the Far East and other places and by fomenting disturbances in the Middle East and in Africa. The communist threat then is on a global scale, and no exclusively regional approach to that threat will be sufficient. The policies required to meet it must be world-wide too. Asian problems are linked with European problems, as has been so clearly demonstrated in the case of Indo-China.
Therefore, while each of the NATO partners has its own particular and necessarily limited commitments, it is essential, I think, that in the formulation of their plans-and this is becoming increasingly recognized in NATO-they should take account of their implications in the global setting. Before that can be done by NATO, I think it is fair to say that the strength and the progress of the NATO effort will have to be linked in some satisfactory fashion with the move towards greater European unity.
Last June when I reviewed the European scene I spoke in some detail of the treaty constituting a European defence community which had been signed at Paris on May 27 by representatives of the governments of France, the federal republic of Germany, Italy and the Benelux countries. At that time there were reasonable grounds for hoping that the treaty would be ratified and in force by the end of 1952. Unfortunately that hope has not been fulfilled. In both France and Germany hesitations and doubts

have emerged and persisted, arising perhaps out of the conflict between hopes for the future and memories of the past. These have resulted in disappointments and delays which have possibly caused more surprise and impatience in some quarters than they should have. After all, the decisions to be made in this matter are not easy ones and they involve renunciations of sovereignty that would have been unthinkable even fifteen or twenty years ago.
Those of us who criticize Europeans for being so slow to come together, and who sometimes are tempted to draw what may be misleading historical analogies in urging them to do so, should ask ourselves how readily we would welcome similar renunciations of sovereignty on our own part. Yet while we should understand the hesitations and the difficulties, we should also, I think, clearly realize the desirability, indeed possibly the necessity, for the right decisions to be made soon so that Europe can combine its strength with ours for security and progress. In the darkly menacing picture of our world today, the ancient quarrels of Europe are not important enough to occupy the foreground. The picture must be looked at, I suggest, from a new perspective.
It is unwise to underestimate the depth and sincerity of the national feelings involved, but what alternative is there to European unity of some kind for defence and, indeed, for Europe's very existence? The question that Europeans and ourselves will have to answer is: Is there any solution more acceptable to the parties concerned than the European defence community which is now before them for consideration?
The concept of a European army is a bold and original one which will not be easy of quick realization. But I think it is the best and safest proposal yet made to bring Germany into the western defence system, without which there cannot really be an effective collective defence of western Europe. That it involves risks I would be the last to deny. Recent evidence of pro-nazi activities in West Germany points up one aspect of this risk. But there is no course in this matter without risk. We live in times which are not calculated to bring comfort to the timid, and a new world cannot be built in Europe on a foundation of ancient wrongs.
Between now and the eventual ratification of the treaties, I am confident that the statesmen of the free world will find solutions to the difficulties which the European defence community faces, particularly in relation to such problems as the Saar and Indo-China.
The latter problem of Indo-China, which we touched on yesterday and which is so
External Affairs
important to the free world, was publicly recognized as such at the December meeting of the North Atlantic council; and I think it is at the root of French fears and hesitations in Europe at the present time. Incidentally, yesterday the hon. member for Peel (Mr. Graydon) asked me if I could secure information about the number of French forces in Indo-China at the present time. The figures which I have been able to obtain show that there are 164,500 troops of the French union in Indo-China now, a decrease of some 20,000 in the last few months. That excludes, of course, forces raised locally in that area. In our understandable preoccupation with Korea we may sometimes forget the magnitude of the French effort in this part of the world. We may not even be aware that French casualties during operations in Indo-China have been approximately 90,000 wounded, killed and missing-and of that figure 40,000 have been killed. It is understandable, then, that in the plans for closer European defence unity, in which Germany will participate, the French still have very much in mind the diversion of their defence effort necessitated by the situation in Indo-China.
The additional protocols which the present French government has said it intends to negotiate before it accepts the European defence treaty are meant, in part, to take into account France's overseas commitments and to allay the fears of the French 'people arising out of these overseas commitments and their relationship in turn to the new commitments that they are being asked to assume in Europe. The strong and expressed desire of the French government to see the United Kingdom associate itself more closely with the European defence community is also, I think, to some extent a reflection of France's feeling that she cannot safely put her whole endeavour into the European army so long as she is committed in Indo-China.
It will be recalled here that the United Kingdom, which is already making such a big contribution to European defence and, indeed, to the defence of freedom generally, has already taken a number of steps in the direction of a closer association with the European defence community. I am sure that we hope that she may find it possible to take even further steps to that end which will not prejudice, of course, her commonwealth and overseas interests and responsibilities.
We, in Canada, have given evidence of our strong concern, I think, with the defence of Europe-which is our own defence-both by the pledge and by the presence of our forces

External Affairs
in Europe and by our program of mutual aid. Moreover, Mr. Speaker, by signing and giving parliamentary	approval	to	theNATO-EDC protocol, we have recognized the direct importance to us of the European defence community arrangements themselves. By that protocol, we in Canada assume, as members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,	reciprocal	obligations	for	defence along	with the	European	defencecommunity.	When we talk about	the
community and express our opinions oh it we are talking about something with which we are already connected by our actions here. There is provision in this protocol for mutual consultations between the councils of the two organizations; provision for joint sessions whenever one or the other deems that desirable; and arrangements for the closest co-ordination on the technical level. In that sense, if these European defence arrangements become operative they will bring Germany not merely into association with the European defence army but into association with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
So, the unity and the defence of Europe are not matters to which we give an Olympian blessing from a distant shore. In whatever final form the European army becomes a reality, its officers and men will have Canadians as comrades-in-arms since we share a common aim, which is the defence of freedom. We shall all be united, I hope, behind the shield of NATO.
Although the European army, then, has not come into being, European integration is making encouraging progress in other respects. In fact, the day before yesterday an event of very real symbolic and practical importance in the development of European integration took place; and I am referring to the proclamation establishing the common market in western Europe for coal under the terms of the Schuman plan, to be followed in April by the common market for steel. By these arrangements a start has been made in eliminating customs barriers and price discrimination in these vital materials over a vast area inhabited by millions of people. Today the European coal and steel community begins what should develop into close and fruitful European collaboration in the economic field.
In the conception and in the working out of this new supranational body, because that is what it is, Europe owes a great deal to the brilliance and energy of M. Jean Monnet, the first head of the high authority of the Schuman plan, and also to the courage and initiative of M. Robert Schuman himself. M. Schuman has shown a remarkable capacity for reaching out to new concepts and bold

designs. There are still many obstacles to overcome in the development of European integration, but the very fact that we can speak of the possibility of such integration at all is due in large part to M. Schuman's unsparing efforts to reach an understanding with the neighbours of France beyond the Rhine. I have every confidence that his distinguished successor as foreign minister of France, M. Bidault, will continue this task with equal success.
Such, Mr. Speaker, is the picture very roughly and inadequately sketched, and with many omissions, some of which I have no doubt will be pointed out in the course of this debate.
The picture continues to give cause for concern, but in some respects it is, I think, a shade brighter than when I spoke last June. Uncertainty and anxiety still darken the general design. We still live in a world which is groping for unity and peace. It is true, and we have been reminded of it with increasing vehemence recently, that the leaders of Soviet communism are prepared to offer the world "unity" and "peace", but what unity, what peace and at what price? If it is simply the acceptance of Soviet domination, and the relinquishing of our liberty, that price is too high and there can be no bargaining on that basis. For us, and for all people who value freedom at its true worth, that is a price which we shall not pay. But there is no reason for despair. We must, and I am sure we can, with patience and perseverance and the right use of our growing strength, discover another and a better way of finding a durable peace within the framework of freedom.


This motion is made for the purpose of referring the estimates of the Department of External Affairs to the standing committee bearing that same name. At the outset of my remarks this afternoon I want to deal with one or two matters which I feel ought to be the subject of discussion, deliberation and decision by that committee when it is convened. As you are aware, Mr. Speaker, the standing committee on external affairs is unique in our parliamentary institution, because it is one of the few committees which are privileged to deal with the estimates of a department. It has, of course, taken on a unique characteristic in that the estimates are largely discussed in that committee rather than in the committee of the whole house.
I want to point out to the house, if I may, one of the things which I feel the standing committee on external affairs ought to deal

with at this session or the session immediately succeeding. It is a matter which arises all too soon, and concerns the revision of the United Nations charter itself. When the San Francisco conference brought in its recommendations, which were later embodied in the charter of the United Nations, there was a section which called for review, change and amendment of the charter itself.
If we turn to article 109, section 3, we find these words:
If such a conference has not been held before the tenth annual session of the general assembly following the coming into force of the present charter, the proposal to call such a conference shall be placed on the agenda of that session of the general assembly, and the conference shall be held if so decided by a majority vote of the members of the general assembly and by a vote of any seven members of the security council.
During the San Francisco conference discussions, there were a number of proposals made with respect to the length of time the charter should be in force before it came up for review. In the first draft of the conference decision, I believe the time was set at fifteen years and later changed to ten. Of course, there is another proviso which gives the general assembly the right, at any time prior to the ten-year period having expired, to call a conference for this purpose if a two-thirds majority of the members say so. I believe that public attention will be riveted upon the expiration of the ten-year period because there is in Canada, as there is in many parts of the world, a great desire to have the United Nations charter reviewed and brought up to date. I believe that if there ever was an organization that ought to keep abreast of the times, both as to its deliberations and as to its structure, the United Nations is that organization.
I know that much water has gone under the bridge since 1945. When the charter was set up it was designed to work in a one-world structure. Instead, it has been compelled to work in a two-world structure, split right down the middle. This fact has brought many ramifications in its trail, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization as well as other branches which one need not mention at this stage. I believe it must have become evident to all that there is a great need now for the whole charter to be reviewed in the light of the circumstances in which we find ourselves today. For that reason, I am going to make this suggestion, and I make it because Canada gave the. lead before and Canada should give the lead again.
There was before the San Francisco conference the Dumbarton Oaks proposals relating to the organs of that United Nations 68108-119
External Affairs
Organization. In the recommendations of the Dumbarton Oaks committee, which were the basis of discussion for the San Francisco conference itself, there was a tiny chapter concerning economic and social co-operation. When the Canadian delegation got to San Francisco they began to work upon the enlargement of those proposals, and upon what they thought was an important part of the work of any world organization, the economic and social aspect. Within a few weeks of the summoning of that conference, the Canadian delegation brought forward a rather enlarged draft proposal which was then submitted to the conference itself. The basis, of course, of the conference deliberations was the Dumbarton Oaks proposals, and it was necessary to have a good number of nations support the Canadian contention that these proposals ought to be considered along with the Dumbarton Oaks proposals themselves. That was done, and the bases of the discussion of economic and social cooperation in that conference were not only the Dumbarton Oaks proposals but the Canadian draft as well. The Canadian draft was much more extensive, more practical and certainly much more effective.
It finally came to pass that the San Francisco conference voted to include very largely the Canadian proposals rather than the draft Dumbarton Oaks proposals in the United Nations charter. In other words, there were more words, more expressions and more clauses in that section of the United Nations charter put there by Canadians than by any other nation in the world. Those of us who were delegates felt very proud at the time. It gave us some pride in having given a lead to the world in connection with that matter. I believe the time has come for this Canadian parliament to give a lead again, a lead which I feel is very appropriate from the standpoint of Canada herself.
First, I should like to see the standing committee on external affairs deal with this matter, and if it is felt that there should be a special committee set up, drawn from the membership of the standing committee, that is all right, because I have no particular ideas about the structure of the committee. I think no time should be lost in having the committee go over the entire charter of the United Nations, review it thoroughly, and have full discussions and deliberations with respect to it so that well before the expiration of the ten-year period the Canadian delegation at the United Nations Organization meetings will be able to come before the world and to say:	We have given study to
the revision of this charter; these are the results of our deliberations and our careful

External Affairs
consideration of it; and we as a delegation present it to the United Nations for approval, rejection or amendment.
I am going to make that suggestion as a help to our Canadian delegation. I do so with one thought especially in mind. If the United Nations Organization is worth preserving-and with every bit of conviction at my command I say that it is-then it ought to be worth the time of the members of this house who are interested to give study to it so that it would be an improved and modernized version of the charter that would be presented by the Canadian delegation, at the appropriate time, to the general assembly of the United Nations Organization. I leave that thought with the house in the hope that it will be regarded as a constructive suggestion aimed at improving not only the United Nations Organization itself but also as a step towards permanent peace.
I also want to deal, if I may, with another matter which came before the standing committee on external affairs on previous occasions. I refer to the passport situation. I am sure that matter will be dealt with again during the present sittings of that committee. I think it was in 1950 that the question of passports to those who wanted to leave this country for purposes that, to say the least, were rather suspicious, came before that committee for consideration. There were a number of members on all sides of the house who took an active interest, and the committee itself showed keen concern with respect to the deliberations that ensued. For instance, in the report of the 1950 standing committee on external affairs one finds these words:
Your committee recommends that the Department of External Affairs actively re-examine at once the question of the issuance and revocation of passports granted to Canadian citizens whose loyalty to alien systems of government take priority over loyalty to ours.
That was a matter that was debated in the committee. Later on in the report of the 1952 committee on external affairs, a follow-up of that question was made:
That ways and means for dealing more effectively with Canadians whose sympathies appear to lie with countries behind the iron curtain and who travel freely between Canada and those countries should be kept continually in review.
I want to bring that matter to the attention of the house at the moment because I think it is one which is engaging the attention and the concern of a good many Canadian citizens today. I was interested in hearing what the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) said or is reported to have said at Guelph in connection with the matter of witch-hunting. I think

all members of this house who are possessed of good common sense will agree that witchhunting is not a thing that is part of the character of our own Canadian people. It is not the kind of thing that Canadians are in favour of. Moreover, it is a thing that I think Canadians will revolt from at every opportunity. But I want to say this. While emphasizing the statement that there must be no witch-hunting, we must be careful that we do not lean backwards in the other direction. I think there should be a close vigilance with respect to those who have been, during these years, deliberately blurring the loyalty line between Canadians and other nationalities abroad who have a different way of life from ours. I think it would be unfortunate if we encouraged that kind of blurring of Canadian loyalty in the days that lie ahead by any statement that would indicate that we are not in any way fully vigilant with regard to the problem in that connection.
In the United States, of course, there are something like six stages which must be gone through before a passport is issued. Perhaps those stages would not be applicable to our own nation and I am not suggesting that they should be. But there has been a tightening up of the regulations across the line, and perhaps this committee ought to consider how far we in Canada can go to meet the situation and at the same time preserve all those elements of freedom to which we have from time to time declared, and will continue to declare, our adherence.
I must say that I have nothing but contempt for Canadian citizens who are prepared at any time to sell out their own team for another. I think that a Canadian citizen has a right either to play ball with his own land or to go to some other land where he thinks he	can	play ball better.	In theUnited States not so long ago-and I am sure it could apply to many other countries as well-in the realm of sport-in basketball, I think it was-a national furore arose over the fact that men had sold out their own team. Still I think it is important that we bring to the attention of the Canadian people that there are in Canada those who are selling	out their	own team.	In allfairness to those others who play on the team and	to	whom	we owe a	greaterresponsibility than we owe to those who would sell	us	out, I	tjiink we ought to
consider carefully just how far we allow passports and the great privilege of Canadian citizenship to go to those who admit, in some instances, or who have admitted that they

owe a higher loyalty to another government and another philosophy of life than they owe to our own.
I think that those are matters which ought to come before the standing committee on external affairs. It seems to me that the time has come when we must give careful consideration to how far we can go in connection with this matter. When I make those suggestions I want to make it perfectly clear

and I think everybody in this house would want to have it made perfectly clear- that our elementary desire is to see that the freedom of the individual is a thing that always must come first; but I want to point out that there comes a time when we perhaps have to consider whether or not the freedom to destroy freedom itself has to be curbed to the extent required.
I just want to pass on, if I may, to another point which I think has been dealt with by the external affairs committee in previous years and which I think deserves attention again on this occasion. In previous years, during the sittings of that committee, the question of the international service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation came up for review. In one of the reports of that committee it was indicated that some closer liaison should be effected between the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's international service, which beams their programs to other countries, as you know, the external affairs department, and the minister responsible for the policy which is beamed to those other places.
I know one of the steps the government took in connection with that was to take the Hon. Jean Desy, who is one of the very able diplomats in the foreign service, and to put him on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's international service. When the external affairs committee is set up, Mr. Desy ought to be brought before that committee. We ought to know what is going on in connection with our international service. There are certain questions that come to my mind which ought to be made clear to the Canadian people. First of all, what is the over-all policy and purpose of the international radio service? Second, how closely is it tied in with the minister and the Department of External Affairs? Third, to what minister are Mr. Desy and his staff responsible, and what department determines the policy so pursued? Fourth, if he is serving two masters in connection with this matter, then the committee ought to know. Fifth, does our policy mesh, for instance, with the "Voice of America" program and the British Broadcasting Corporation's international service? In that connection we ought to be told whether
68108-119i
External Affairs
those services are being duplicated and where the duplication arises. More than that, if the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's international service is attempting to follow both of them, it will have to be a masterpiece, because they do not always follow each other. It is important because this country may have to give the lead in seeing that there is a synchronization of the type of beaming of programs that goes on to other countries behind the iron curtain. It would be unfortunate if there was a babel of voices reaching to those very vulnerable areas to which we are trying to direct our attention today.
In addition to that, what do we hold out to Europe? In these international broadcasts do we hold out the lure of containment or liberation, or what is our exact line of policy which we hold out to them from time to time? What steps has the government taken in line with our NATO policy of unification to get closer to the single voice idea? For instance, I should like to see the committee have the opportunity of hearing the recordings of these international broadcasts that are beamed to certain countries. We should have some samples of the programs so recorded because, it seems to me, in all our domestic work we watch the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation very closely. But I do not think anybody in the house has the slightest idea what is beamed by our international service to other countries of the world. I think that is important. It is something that ought to be opened up. The public ought to know exactly what the facts are. We can then decide whether the policy which is being pursued is an effective and apt one for Canada to pursue at this time.
I come to another point that I think will have to be considered by the standing committee on external affairs. This is a matter which has arisen by virtue of the Auditor General's report. On page 21 of the Auditor General's report the Department of External Affairs comes in for some comment. I wish to take the time of the house to read the paragraph which deals with an alleged irregularity. It is No. 49 in the Auditor General's report on the page I have just mentioned. This is what Mr. Watson Sellar says:
Who Is a Canadian citizen within the ambit of vote 90? That is the question which causes attention to be drawn to an unusual case which resulted in a $3,620 charge to that vote, which reads: "To provide for relief of distressed Canadian citizens abroad". Annually, parliament provides a sum ($20,000 in 1951-52) for the relief of Canadians who, for one reason or another, are destitute in foreign lands and are regarded by Canadian representatives abroad as persons who, in the interests of Canada's international repute, . . .

External Affairs
I emphasize that:
-who, in the interests of Canada's international repute, should be assisted or brought back to Canada. No person may, as a right, demand financial assistance, and ordinarily advances take the form of loans, though recovery is not invariably effected.
Among those assisted in 1951-52 was a naturalized Canadian of Polish origin who returned to Poland in 1949 at the expense of the Polish government. Subsequently he applied to the Canadian legation in Warsaw for financial assistance in order that he might return to Canada.


A good citizen now.


I continue:
He undertook, in writing, to repay any money advanced, after his return to Canada. Pending the obtaining of an exit visa, the legation made advances for hotel accommodation and meals. On October 27, 1951, the Polish government informed the legation that no exit visa would be issued, and on November 16 further advised that prior to leaving Canada the man had applied at the Polish legation in Ottawa for admission into Poland as a repatriate. This statement was confirmed by the man himself on November 23. Nevertheless, advances continued to be made to cover expenses until January 19, 1952. In all, the man's expenses were paid during the period from July 1, 1951, to January 19, 1952, but it is the propriety of the payments after November 23 which is of concern.
Perhaps the amount tor all his hotel accommodation and meals ought to be in question as well, but the Auditor General does not mention that at this time. Certain questions come to one's mind, and they will of course have to be answered by someone in authority in connection with this. First, what definition does the department use as to who is a Canadian citizen when relief is extended to Canadian citizens abroad, because this seems to be an unusual situation for the ordinary Canadian citizen to find himself in? Second, the committee should be told who is the man that received this aid in that year and how much he obtained. In addition to that, what is the state of collections generally in connection with this account that is from time to time utilized for Canadian citizens abroad? When the government is answering that question I should like to know why this particular person who got this money wanted to go to Poland in the first place and what reasons he gave to the government here for wanting to go. If I may say so, it ties in with what I have said before, that we must not allow a lot of looseness in people running all over the world under the cloak of Canadian citizenship and then finding themselves hard up and the Canadian government having to put up money. That does not sound sensible to me. But on the other hand I am only asking a question so that the government will have time eventually to answer it.
In addition to that I should like to know why the Poles were anxious to get him be-

hind the iron curtain. They paid his fare to get him there; that is what they did. We did not pay his fare for him to go there, we just looked after him once he got there. The next thing I should like to know is, why were his expenses paid from November 23 to January 19, 1952, after he and the Polish government had said that he had applied at the Polish legation in Ottawa, not as a Canadian going over on a trip but as a Canadian who wanted to go back to his own country and stay there as a repatriate.
I would think that, having looked at that situation and having in mind what the Auditor General has said, it would seem that whoever that party is-I hope we shall not be denied too long being told who he is-he has perfect justification to laugh up his sleeve at the government here for being able to extract so much money, so easily for so little. I think it is important that this matter be investigated at once. After all, if I may be permitted to interject something facetious in the middle of a most serious comment, if horses on the payroll by proxy is bad, I do not think we want any Warsaw sympathizers to get on the gravy train as well. I think that is something we had better be careful about. I want to leave that with the minister for his rumination and consideration. I think I may say that, as far as the committee is concerned, these are four matters which I fancy will take up some time when it finally convenes.
I want to come, if I may, to the question of our position in Canada with respect to the change of government in the United States of America. I am afraid I cannot congratulate the minister upon his exhaustive review of United States policy in the Far East, but I do congratulate him upon his dexterity in tiptoeing through the tulips on some of these things. I think he did that very well. I want to deal with these matters, perhaps not very exhaustively, but because I think it is important that some reference be made in our Canadian parliament to the situation brought about by the change in the United States government.
Along with others in the house I was in the United States during the presidential election campaign. I think those of us who were there gained an indelible impression of what happened and of the factors and features of that campaign, things which did not always reach beyond the borders of the United States. United States policy seems to me to have stiffened rather materially as has been indicated by President Eisenhower in his state of the union address, and I think it may properly be said that this is a

direct result alter all of the feelings of the United States people as one found them expressed during the election campaign.
At that time some newspapers said that there were three main things concerning the United States people prior to and during the election itself-Korea, corruption and communism. I am not going to attempt to deal with domestic matters in the United States because it is none of my business, nor perhaps are some of the foreign policy decisions that may be made from time to time; nevertheless, I think there is some indirect interest and sometimes a very direct interest in Canada in what is going on, particularly in the minds of those who are legislating with respect to the leadership of the world, as the United States is now doing.
One could see during that election campaign that the patience of the United States people was wearing pretty thin. After all, that is a nation which does not take too well to stalemates. More than that, I think one can say that its national emblem will never be a snail. Against that background I think we have to assess the position in which we find ourselves now in connection with the stiffening of United States policy, both in Europe and in the Far East. After all, we must not forget that the United States people have been pretty well provoked, pretty well annoyed and pretty well exasperated by the stealthy under-the-table aggression of the Soviet republic down through these years.
I think one can very readily understand the position that they took. After all, General Eisenhower as President of the United States is not just entirely responsible to the British nor is he entirely responsible to Canadians, nor is he entirely responsible to other countries. He is partly responsible to his own people as well, if I may put it in that way. As you know, his own people demanded something more firm and positive in the way of policy in the interests of peace itself. I think we can connect the ending of Formosan isolation with that desire for positive action which was indicated so far as the state of the union speech was concerned.
I think most of us in this parliament, in looking at the situation from the common-sense point of view, will say that a firm and positive policy, rather than a policy of hesitation and appeasement, brings peace rather than war. I think there are two good illustrations of that to be found without going very far back into history. One of the first is the Berlin blockade when there was no hesitancy and no appeasement. A strong and firm stand was taken at that time.
External Affairs
In addition there is the NATO alliance, which the minister endorsed again this afternoon, and which of course we all endorse. That is another example of what I mean. The NATO alliance was a pretty positive action to take. It was a stiffening of our position right across the board. There were many people who thought it was dangerous, that it might provoke war; but instead of that I think most of the apostles of peace today will say that NATO has had a very great stabilizing effect and has been responsible largely for the advance we have made toward a peaceful world.
One hears from time to time about the provocation caused by United States moves in the Far East and the like; but we should not forget that if we want to find real examples of provocation all we need do is to follow the sordid story from the absorption of Poland at the close of this war down through the peace in the Balkans, to Hungary, Czechoslovakia, China and then to Korea. We find there a period in which provocation reached its highest level in the world's history.
While there may be criticism from time to time of the position which the Americans take on matters of such a delicate nature as this, nevertheless I think it is important that we realize that Canadians had better not be too thin-skinned about the whole question of our relationships in the free power community. I think that at no time should we be hesitant about putting our best foot forward and raising our voice in consultations with respect to the formulation of policies. But after the state of the union message was delivered by President Eisenhower I was not one of those who thought that there was anything in that speech for the Canadian people or the Canadian government to be worked up about. I think what the minister has said in his speech rather indicates that perhaps we are not alone in holding that view. It seems to me that so far as Canada is concerned we have some responsibility in connection with the question of consultation, if you like, because there will be many Canadians who will say that we were not consulted about the deneutralization of the straits between Formosa and the Chinese mainland.
There may be perfectly good reasons why we should have been consulted; but on the other hand let us not forget that, despite the fact that the minister never seems to have entirely agreed with us, we on this side of the house have been callin