On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in releasing in November last the report of the combines commissioner relating to the fine paper industry, I stated that the matter would be referred to counsel for opinion and I would make a statement later as to prosecution. The matter was referred to Mr. Norman L. Mathews, Q. C., of Toronto who has advised that in his opinion the evidence justifies prosecution of some or all of the manufacturers and some or all of the merchants mentioned in the report. The exact parties will be determined as the evidence is further examined in detail in the course of preparation for trial. Mr. Mathews has been instructed to proceed with prosecutions.


Bill No. 317, for the relief of Joyce Elizabeth Purves Jones.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 318, for the relief of Marjorie Euretta Adams Mattinson.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 319, for the relief of Myrtle Norma Epps Stewart.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 320, for the relief of Joseph Alexandre Hyppolit McLish.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 321, for the relief of Taschereau Pierre Charles Joseph Rodier.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 322, for the relief of Berniece Gertrude Doran.

Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 323, for the relief of Florence Mildred Fine Crelinsten.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 324, for the relief of Gerard Richer.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 325, for the relief of Thomas John Rivet.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 326, for the relief of Dorina Perelroizen Wallerstein, otherwise known as Dorina Perlraizen Wallerstein.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 327, for the relief of Gabriele Laure Josephine Girard Steinbach.-Mr. Winkler.
Bill No. 328, for the relief of Reine Cesarine Berthe Laborgne Deyglun.-Mr. Winkler.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Secretary of State if he will please have inquiries made to find whether he can expedite the tabling of a return to an order of the house passed on February 11, as noted on page 237 of Votes and Proceedings for that day, which had previously been requested and asked for by myself, with regard to the maintenance of private lists. The order has been outstanding since February 11 and I would appreciate it if it could be expedited.


I shall be glad to do all I can to get the order for the hon. member as quickly as possible.


On the orders of the day:
May
I direct a question to the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Claxton). Will the same general conditions apply to the agreement between Canada and the United States of America with respect to the use of Torbay airport as outlined in the minister's statement of December 5, 1952, relative to Goose Bay airport?


Since the hon. member sent me notice of this question this morning, I have looked at Hansard for December 5, 1952 but so far have not found any reference to Goose Bay or Torbay in its pages. However, a statement was made by me in the house on November 28, 1952, and perhaps that is the one to which he refers. It appears on page 174 of Hansard. I believe the answer to the hon. member's question is to be found in a statement made by my colleague, the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, then acting as Secretary of State for External Affairs, which appears in Hansard for December 16 at page 741. In the course of that statement he tabled an agreement between Canada and the United States regarding the lease of land at Goose Bay to the United States. This agreement, and the conditions contained in the agreement, apply only to Goose Bay and not to Torbay. As I understand the question, and in the light of my explanation, the answer would be no, because the lease to 68108-226
Inquiries of the Ministry which I have referred, which governs conditions existing between Canada and the United States regarding Goose Bay, does not apply to Torbay.


May I ask one supplementary question? Are there to be any similar conditions to apply with respect to Torbay?


No, the conditions are quite different. The lease at Goose Bay is for a period of 20 years and covers a fixed portion of land on which the United States is authorized to erect buildings, subject to certain conditions. In the case of Torbay no lease has been entered into, but there has been an arrangement under which the United States air force occupies certain buildings belonging to the government of Canada, on the conditions agreed to from year to year.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State. June 2 having been proclaimed a statutory holiday, will the government intimate to the management of industries that June 2 is intended to be observed as a statutory holiday in Canada and that wage earners should not suffer the loss of a day's pay?


Mr. Speaker, the law with reference to the proclamation of statutory holidays is to be found, as the hon. member knows, upon the statute books. That is the law of the land and presumably various organizations, business and otherwise, will govern themselves accordingly. I do not know of any penalty for the infraction of this statute.


On the orders of the day:
desire to direct a question to the Minister of Transport, but since he is not in the house I shall direct it to the Acting Prime Minister. Has the government or the Minister of Transport refused permission to the Northumberland Ferries Limited to operate a third boat on the Wood Island-Caribou route in order to provide an interim service pending replacement by a new boat which is to be constructed by the federal government? If this statement is correct, as reported in the press, we should know why permission was not granted.

Position of Agricultural Industry


In the absence of the Minister of
Transport, I would suggest that this be taken as notice of a question which will be answered later.


On the orders of the day:
wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce or possibly the Minister of Agriculture as Acting Prime Minister. Would he say whether the government is in a position to make any report as to whether or not the international wheat conference in Washington has arrived at an agreement?


I would like to take the question as notice.


The house resumed, from Monday, March 23, consideration of the motion of Mr. Fournier (Hull) for committee of supply, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Diefenbaker.
rise to support the amendment. I believe that it will be essential, I think it has been essential as a matter of fact for a long time, that every attempt should be made to achieve some relationship between the costs of production and the prices received for farm commodities in this country. I have always believed that that cost price relationship, which we sometimes call parity prices, is one that will be of tremendous interest to producers in this country, not only in the immediate future but in the days to come.
Over the past year we have seen the costs of production on all our farms of every type rising, and at the same time we have seen the prices of many farm commodities decreasing more rapidly than even farm costs have increased. As a matter of fact the study of the farm prices index for the past year issued by the dominion bureau of statistics indicated an almost startling decline in farm prices generally. From the beginning of 1952 to the end of the year the decline in farm prices was no less than 14 per cent, taking all farm commodities produced in Canada, and at the same time the cost of production of our farms as well as the cost of living on the farms was increasing. The composite index, for example, of farm costs, exclusive of August, 1951, was 237-8, and the
[Mr. McLure.)

living cost as of August, 1952 was 243-4. The index of farm prices at December, 1951, stood at 286-2, and at December, 1951, it stood at 244-0. Of course, the index is in some ways deceptive because it is based on a period when farm prices were unusually low prior to 1939.
We can see these costs of production I think rather clearly if we stop for a moment to examine the 1939 taxes on land and buildings owned in Canada, that is land and buildings largely on the farm. They totalled $19,200,000 in 1939, and by 1949 they had increased to $39,100,000. In 1950 they had risen to the tremendous total of $58,500,000, an increase in taxes on farm land and buildings of over 200 per cent. I think that in a general way that is indicative of the difficult taxation problem on the farms.
Then, if we look at the cost of farm machinery we find tremendous increases as well. The high cost of farm implements in this country has been a matter for discussion in this house over a long period of years. We had an investigation into the high cost of farm machinery in 1936 and-1937. Recommendations were made to the government of that time, but nothing worth while has been done to control the tremendous costs of these machines. In 1945, jumping to the last year of the war, a ten or twelve-foot self-controlled combine could be purchased for $2,800. Today the same combine costs approximately $6,000. Now, one can see from this example, taking the cost of one farm machine, the extent to which farm costs of production have increased over the last several years.
A week ago the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner), speaking in this house, indicated rather clearly that agriculture was fairly prosperous; yet in the same speech he told us that not more than 10 per cent of the farmers of eastern Canada made enough money to pay income tax and not more than 15 per cent of the western farmers made enough money to pay income tax either. As a matter of fact, his figures were rather high. A check of the figures indicates that the number of farmers paying income tax, east and west, will be considerably below the 10 per cent and 15 per cent mentioned by the minister.


If I may be permitted just
to correct one word, I should like to do so.


Yes.


I do not think I contended that the farmers were prosperous. I said that they are better off than they had been before; that is all.


I will take that phraseology from the minister, that they are better off than they had been before. But from what the minister said I think the inference was that they were in a pretty fair shape just now. However, I will take what the minister says, namely that they are better off than they have been. As a matter of fact, is that not an admission that over the years we have regarded agriculture in this country as a depressed industry, when we talk about the returns of the farmers today and when all we can say is that they are better off than they have been in bygone years?
That brings us to the purpose of an amendment of this description. As I understand it, the purpose of the amendment is to urge the government and this House of Commons-because I am not placing the responsibility wholly on the government-to endeavour to promote in this country policies that will give more stability of income to our farmers. Over a number of years I have watched the policies that have been put into effect in some other countries and I have come to the conclusion-and it is a conclusion that I came to some time ago

that we shall never have a prosperous agriculture in this country until we had something more than floor prices, some system of guaranteeing to the farmers that over a period of time they will receive certain minimum prices for the products they were producing or, in other words, some form of forward pricing for farm commodities. As a matter of fact, we have had a floor price on butter now for two years. That is good. That is a step on the way to a wider policy, I should hope, as time goes by.
Over the last year we have seen the fluctuations in the prices of beef cattle. Of course in the marketing of cattle there is not the same type of orderly marketing as there is in the marketing of grain. I readily admit that the difficulties are greater. Grain can be stored but when a beef animal is ready to go to the market, that is approximately when that animal must go to the market. I readily admit that there are perhaps greater difficulties in connection with cattle marketing, but I believe that a policy could be produced-at least a board of livestock commissioners could be set up-Which would give to our livestock producers a better guarantee of stability of returns for a stated period of time than they have had over the past number of years.
If we are going to give this stability to farm prices, and if we are going to find a relationship-as ultimately we shall have to- between what it costs to produce farm commodities and what the farmer gets for 68108-226J
7, 1953
Position of Agricultural Industry them, then of course we have got to think also in terms of marketing those products. This afternoon I am not going into the marketing problem except to say this. An examination over a period of years indicates that the policy we have been pursuing over the past few years-that of relying to a greater extent than in the past on the American markets-is one that is going to cause our farmers and this country a great deal of difficulty in the near future.
Before I came down to the house this afternoon I looked over some extremely interesting figures, showing the percentages of trade during the period from 1920 to 1952, and I found this fact to be exceedingly interesting. Immediately after the first world war in 1920 we find the United States taking from us a fairly high percentage of our farm products. We find exactly the same thing after this second world war. But when we get between the two wars, and particularly in the depression period, we find that the relative positions of the United Kingdom and of the United States were most marked in this way: the United Kingdom took a fairly high percentage of our farm and other products and the percentage of our farm products taken by the United States dropped drastically during those years.
If we examine the whole story of the attempt to market Canadian products abroad, we find that the only stable market we have ever had is the one we had for a large number of years in the United Kingdom and in western Europe. Consequently the resolution moved the other day by my hon. friend is a resolution calling for more stability in farm prices; and if we are going to achieve that stability in farm prices, we have to have some stability in the markets in which we shall dispose of our farm products. It seems to me that this house has got to reconsider this whole problem of international marketing, and that we have got to consider ways and means of enabling our customers in those markets that we have had throughout the years to earn a sufficient number of dollars in our country to buy those basic supplies upon which they must depend both now and in the years to come.
This afternoon I am not going into tariffs and all that kind of thing, but it seems to me that one of the problems we have to consider is how we are going so to lower our tariffs that those countries that will buy our farm commodities will be able to get sufficient dollars in our country in order to buy those commodities. After all, I know that in the last few years a great deal of stress has been placed on the development of our minerals, on
3560	HOUSE OF
Position of Agricultural Industry the high returns we receive by the export of our forest products and so on. Yet I venture to say that minerals gradually become depleted and oil wells gradually peter out and forests are denuded; but if we take care of the top six inches of soil and farm that soil properly, we shall have a permanent resource that will bring to this country, both from our own domestic market and those abroad, returns for generations yet to come.
It seems to me that there is no more important problem facing this country than that of achieving stability of the agricultural industry. These fluctuations over the years have been a bugbear to our farmers. A week ago we were discussing an amendment to the Canadian Wheat Board Act. It was an amendment designed to continue that board until 1957. That is good. The farmers of the prairie provinces for many years fought for a wheat board and for some stability in the marketing of their own grain, and finally they achieved success. Today there is not anyone, I think, who is informed who will dare to suggest that the prairie farmers want to go back to the old hit-and-miss system of the open market and the grain exchange. They want to continue the stability thus obtained, but of course they want a fair return for their labour.
When we talk of stable prices we want something like uniform prices both in the domestic market and in the overseas markets. One of the most unfair features of our wheat marketing problem over the last number of years is the fact that our farmers have got less on the domestic market for wheat to be consumed in Canada than they might have got had that wheat been sold beyond our borders. But in spite of the criticism that can be levelled against the manner in which the marketing of grain in Canada has been carried on, there is no doubt whatsoever that our farmers expect that every attempt will be made to continue long-term international agreements for the wheat growers, and I believe that similar long-term agreements should be attempted as soon as possible and whenever possible for other basic farm commodities.
You only have to look at the situation regarding pork, bacon, and particularly cheese and dried and condensed milk at the present time to realize how essential those markets are, and what difficulties the loss of overseas markets creates not only for the agricultural producers, but indeed for the whole of our country and the whole of its economy. I want to emphasize again that the agricultural industry is and must remain a basic industry in this country. That has been the story of Canadian development over the years. With the high costs today there is a danger that

COMMONS	_
many young men and women who would like to take up farming, not only as a means of life but as a way of life provided that they could see sufficient returns, are unable to do so. One of the evidences of this instability in agriculture is the number of deserted farms we see here and there, and in the prairie provinces the loss of our rural population, particularly in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and to an extent even in the province of Alberta where tremendous development is going on at the present time. That also accounts for the consolidation of the farms into large units which are being established. Because of the high price of farm machinery, farmers must have enough land to provide a profitable unit to maintain the machinery that is necessary today to replace the labour of other days. Therefore I join with other hon. members in this house in support of the amendment. It is an amendment along the lines of many that we in this party have moved in the house over the years. We believe of course in planned trade. We believe even that when we cannot get dollars for the farm commodities that we could ship abroad and other people could use, we might take the sterling that they have and re-invest it in the backward areas of the sterling region and wait until we can get dollars or goods, in the meantime using our own financial machinery to pay decent and proper prices to the producers of this country. That is being done in some other parts of the world, and I believe that it could be done here provided that we had the will to do it.
I thus want to say both on my own behalf and on behalf of those associated with me that we give very warm support to the amendment moved by the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker).


Mr. Speaker, we have had much talk of objectives in respect of stable agricultural prices, but very little talk as regards techniques. There must be some way of doing things, but nothing has been said about how these things can be done.
Broadly speaking, we have to decide whether we shall expand production in accordance with our resources and then devise an effective method of getting our surpluses into *yie hands of the needy of the world, or whether we shall restrict production in conformity with our own people's financial consuming power, giving only incidental consideration to the wants of less fortunate peoples of 'the world. In either case, we must aim at stable prices and markets.
Various techniques are being experimented with today. As an example, may we contemplate the United States methods in respect of her sugar industry?

What are some facts about the sugar industry of the United States? How much sugar does the United States require annually? About 100 pounds per capita, about 8 million tons. Where does the United States obtain her sugar? From mainland production through beets, 1,700,000 tons; through cane, 500,000 tons; from offshore United States' areas, namely, Hawaiian islands, Puerto Rico, Virgin islands, altogether about 2 million tons; from Cuba and the Philippines,
3,700,000	tons; from other foreign countries, small lots.
How has this apportionment of supply to the different sources been arrived at? It is by reference to special circumstances that surround the United States. Cuba is peculiarly an American problem. Some details to make this matter clear I will set forth later in this talk. The Philippines, too, are a special American problem. In the Philippine Independence Act of 1936 it was provided that the Philippines would be guaranteed a quota of not less than 982,000 tons of raw sugar a year. The Hawaiian islands, the Virgin islands, and Puerto Rico are looked upon by the United States as domestic cane areas, though not part of the United States mainland.
When, and by reason of what events, did the United States begin to deal with her sugar supply problem in an orderly manner? We are dealing with ours in an unorderly manner! The question can perhaps best be answered by reviewing certain facts about Cuban history in respect of sugar. What are such facts? Here they are: Cuba from before 1776 was an important supplier of sugar to the United States. Cuba, historically, has been a one-crop, a sugar economy, 90 per cent of her exports being sugar. Up until 1930 Cuba had always exported more than 70 per cent of her sugar to the United States. Even before her gaining independence from Spain, Cuba had geared her economy to the markets of the United States of America.
There were, resulting from the Spanish-American war, unique political ties between Cuba and the United States.
The Platt amendment to the army appropriation bill dictated by the United States in 1901 as a condition of United States military evacuation of Cuba after the Spanish-American war, permitted the United States to:
Exercise the right to intervene in the preservation of Cuban independence, the maintenance of government adequate for the protection of life, property and individual liberty.
In addition to these there were special economic ties between the United States and
Position of Agricultural Industry Cuba. The United States and Cuba in 1903 ratified a reciprocal treaty which decreed:
That the duty on sugar from Cuba should be 20 per cent less than the full duty rate.
This measure has been in effect continue ously ever since. Finally, American investment in the Cuban processing industry, as well as in the Cuban plantations, is very large.
Cuba suffered a most unhappy experience after world war II. There was agricultural depression in the twenties, as in the thirties, which caused the United States to raise her tariffs on sugar three times, presumably to protect her own continental cane and beet sugar industry. This caused the development of an expanded sugar industry in United States offshore possessions-the Hawaiian islands, Puerto Rico and the Virgin islands. This development was greatly at Cuba's expense. From 1902 to 1929 Cuba had supplied almost one-half of the sugar requirements of the United States, averaging
3,832,000	tons, from 1926 to 1929. During the years 1930 to 1933 Cuba's proportion fell to less than 30 per cent, averaging 2,287,000' tons during the period 1930 to 1932.
There developed an overproduction of sugar. World production averaged in the period 1923-25 the amount of 26-1 million tons. In 1928-30 it was 31-3 million tons. The world price of raw fell from 4 cents per pound, New York price minus duty, to less than 2 cents per pound. In 1932 it fell to less than 1 cent a pound. The Cuban price in 1932 averaged -7 cent per pound.
The development of overproduction of sugar in the years 1925 to 1937 is indicated by the annual carryover each year. From the 1939 brief of the eastern Canadian cane refineries I quote the following tabulation, as it is set out in section 47 of that brief:
1925 , 5,320,398; 1926, 5,766,898; 1927, 5,689,749; 1928, 6,124,050;	1929,	7,500,794;	1930,	8,881,086;	1931,10,740,024;	1932,	10,896,824;	1933,	9,888,462;	1934,9,468,861;	1935,	8,128,421;	1936,	7,352,179;	1937,
7,172,779.
Cuba, as I said in my speech on March 16, had a settled policy of reducing her production "costs" far enough to permit her always to enter the United States market. Cuban prices lower than 1 cent per pound, and sales disastrously reduced, brought her economic ruin and revolution in 1933, with the expulsion of President Machado, followed by extremely unsettled political conditions.
These occurrences were cause for much concern in the United States.
Then there developed a Cuban refining industry, and the many troubles resulting therefrom. Concerning the development of

Position of Agricultural Industry the Cuban refining industry from 1926 on, may I read again from the 1939 cane refiners' brief, section 85, where it says:
For years prior to 1926 there was a refined sugar industry in Cuba which supplied a portion of the home market but was a negligible factor in export trade. In 1926, however, a series of causes operating together brought about a rapid expansion. Production rose from 50,000 tons in 1925 to 427,000 tons in 1931 and exports grew in the same period from 4,000 tons in 1925 to over 380,000 tons in 1931. During that period there was little change in the figures of home consumption in Cuba.
Then the United States Department of Agriculture stated "By 1933 it had become evident that the tariff was no longer adequate to ensure either a healthy domestic industry or a dependable source of foreign supplies".
May I now deal with what the United States did about the Cuban sugar situation, to remedy it? First, in respect of Cuban raw sugar: From 1930, on, various agencies of the United States government studied the sugar problem with great earnestness. The federal farm board called a conference of continental sugar producers. Resulting from this conference the federal farm board established a sugar beet and sugar cane advisory committee. This group met with the board on several occasions during 1930 and 1931. The Agricultural Adjustment Act was passed on May 12, 1933. Under the A.A.A. auspices an industry conference was convened in Washington in June of 1933. Within three weeks this group presented a draft marketing agreement which became known as the sugar stabilization plan.
This sugar stabilization plan (1) allocated a quota to each of the areas supplying sugar to the United States; (2) provided for establishing a minimum price for raw sugar, such price to be determined by formula; (3) called for an increase of production in homegrown sugar, both beet and cane. Disagreement among interested parties caused action to be deferred, but everyone learned that there was, in respect of sugar, a real problem, difficult of solution.
On February 8, 1934, the president sent a message to congress asking for legislation to achieve certain objectives. From the statement of two of these objectives, I quote the following:
1.	To maintain the existing acreage of sugar beets in the continental United States;
2.	To increase returns to domestic growers.
This message became the basis of orderly management of sugar in the United States. There followed the first of three sugar acts, the third of which is now in force and will be until 1956.
[Mr. Blackmore.l
The first of these was the Jones-Costigan act, approved on May 9, 1934, and often called the sugar act of 1934.
This sugar act did the following:
1.	Defined both sugar beets and sugar cane as basic agricultural commodities-and it is high time this was done in Canada!
2.	Required the appropriate governmental official to determine upon a national consumption estimate as a basis for arriving at quotas.
3.	Provided for a quota to be allowed United States domestic producers of both beet and cane sugar, greater than the production of any previous year, except 1933, the record year of United States sugar production.
4.	Provided for a quota to be allowed to Cuba, the Philippines, the Virgin islands, the Hawaiian islands and Puerto Rico.
5.	Provided for giving payments to participating growers.
6.	Imposed a half cent per pound processing tax on all sugar consumed in the United States and its territories.
Then came the sugar act of 1937. It embodied the main provisions of the sugar act of 1934, with some elaborations and modifications. Instead of the half cent per pound processing tax, this act had an excise tax of one-half cent per pound.
And then came the sugar act of 1948, which has since been extended to December 31, 1956. It set out the following quotas:
Continental beets increased from 1,550,000 tons in 1934-1937 to 1,800,000 tons in the 1948 act. It will be noted that provision was thus made for an expansion in the beet sugar industry.
Then, secondly, continental cane increased from 260,000 tons in 1934-37 to 500,000 tons in 1948. And it will be noted again that there was a provision for expansion! And it is time something like that was done in Canada! Then came Hawaii with 1,052,000 tons; Puerto Rico, 910,000, increased to 1,080,000 for 1953; and the Virgin islands at 6,000, increased to
12.000	for 1953. The total for 1953 equals
4.400.000	tons. The figure for the Philippines is 982,000 short tons raw value. Including the Philippine quota the total for 1953 therefore equals 4,400,000 tons plus 982,000 short tons raw value.
Cuba's quota equals 98-64 per cent of the total United States consumption requirement after the 4,400,000 United States domestic quota and the 982,000 short tons raw value Philippine quota are subtracted from the total United States consumption requirement determination.

It is provided, however, that Cuba's share of the total consumption requirement of the United States must not fall below 28-6 per cent as was stipulated in the sugar act of 1937. Foreign countries other than Cuba and the Philippines were to get 1-36 per cent of that total. The sugar act of 1948 provided for payments of about $2.50 per ton in the case of beets, and a little over $1 per ton in the case of cane but there were several considerations upon which payments were based. The following is to be found in Lamborn's "Highlights of the Sugar Act of 1948, and 1951 Amendments" at page 14:
The base rate of payment shall be 80 cents per 100 pounds of sugar or liquid sugar, raw value.
We now come to what the United States did about the Cuban sugar situation to remedy it in respect of direct consumption sugar or refined sugar. All of the acts have severely restricted imports of direct consumption or refined sugar. In the 1934 act Cuba was limited to some 418,000 tons of refined, about 22 per cent of her total quota. Hawaii was limited to 26,000 tons, Puerto Rico to 133,000 and the Philippine islands to 80,000, all of which tends to show how careful the United States is about letting refined into her gardens to destroy them.
In the 1937 and 1948 acts Cuba received
375,000	tons as a quota and the Hawaiian islands and Puerto Rico about the same as in 1934. The quota for the Philippine islands in the 1948 act was set at 59,920 tons.
In the 1937 act it was provided that the refined quota provisions would expire one year before the act itself. The refined provisions did expire in February, 1940, and for some months there was a free flow of refined sugar into the United States, limited only by the total quota. However, when later in 1940 the act was extended, the limitations of refined sugar imports were again imposed. That should be a warning to us!
What might be safely recognized as being the achievements of the quota system as embodied in and applied through the United States sugar acts of 1934, 1937 and 1948? The following accomplishments must, it seems, be conceded:
1.	The sugar acts have defined both sugar beets and sugar cane as basic agricultural commodities.
2.	They have lent stability to sugar prices to the advantage of both producers and consumers.
3.	They have tended to increase domestic production of sugar from both cane and beet.
4.	They have improved the general economic position of Cuba.
7,	1953
Position of Agricultural Industry
5.	They have provided some stability to the economies of the Philippines, the Virgin islands, the Hawaiian islands, Puerto Rico and other lands.
6.	They have enabled the United States to reduce the tariff on sugar 1J cents per pound without prejudice to her own economy.
7.	They have enabled the United States to prevent Cuba from sending into the United States economy enough sugar, raw and refined, to deprive all other countries of the privilege of sending in any of their sugar and so sharing in the United States market.
8.	They have made government sugar policy more acceptable to all concerned than has been the case under any other system of management.
Now what of the matter of price? Listen to this quotation:
While prices to farmers producing beets and cane are more than double those of the pre-war years, they have lagged behind the rise in the prices of almost all other farm products.
Then, another quotation:
. . . sugar prices have lagged far behind the rapid upward movement of the index of all food prices.
As a result of the deep and concerted study of the whole situation affecting sugar, United States representatives formed some settled convictions of importance to Canada. Certain of these are:
1.	No nation can afford to permit its domestic sugar industry to be destroyed, impaired or even threatened.
2.	No nation can afford to permit unregulated importation of refined sugar into its economy.
3.	The means most useful and fair in regulating the sugar situation of the United States, and presumably in Canada, is the quota system as illustrated in the United States sugar acts of 1934, 1937 and 1948.
I think the general conclusion that all careful thinkers will come to might be expressed thus, that Canada would probably be best able to encourage her producers and protect her consumers of both beet and cane sugar by the use of the quota system determined and administered under a sugar act, like the United States sugar act of 1948, regulating by statute the amount of sugar, both raw and refined, permitted to enter her economy from each indicated source of supply.
There is one matter that does need attention before we leave the general aspect of the whole question. During 1952 a number of marketing irregularities developed into which I do not propose to go. For those who

Position of Agricultural Industry may wish to examine this matter scientifically, these irregularities are discussed well in an article entitled "Competitive Practices Sharpen in Sugar Industry Marketing" in the February 13, 1953, issue of the Journal of Commerce. These marketing practices have rendered it impossible for the United States to keep out certain sugar shipments which have been sent to her shores, in a satisfactory way. Thus there has been an amount of interference with stability of prices in the United States during 1952.
It looks as though, if one were to have an ideal act, one would have to have a sugar act similar to the one of 1948, and also have associated with it the essential features at least of the Canadian order in council P.C. 181 under which it was possible for the government to fix for tariff purposes the minimum price of sugar in the land of origin at a certain set price. Under it the set price was $2.30. The order in council, as hon. members will recall, was passed in January, 1932.
I think perhaps hon. members would be interested in certain quotations concerning the working out of the sugar acts of the United States. I have a quotation from the article by Mr. C. F. McCarthy to which I have already referred and in which he reports a speech made by Philip E. Jones, sugar branch official of the department of agriculture of the United States at a recent meeting of the national federation of beet sugar growers in Billings, Montana. I quote from Mr. Jones' remarks as quoted in Mr. McCarthy's article:
The sugar act of 1948 and the predecessor acts have operated to the benefit of many groups which participate in the production, processing and consumption of sugar. Incomes of sugar beet and sugar cane growers have been substantially increased, as have wages of field workers ini all United States areas. Sugar prices paid by the consumer have remained moderate. Increases in domestic production have been restricted but domestic production has not been permanently reduced. Foreign supplying areas have benefited from increased prices obtained for those quantities of sugar marketed under United States quotas and they have shared in our expanding total sugar requirements.
Growers now obtain a much larger proportion of the consumer's sugar dollar, largely because of the more stabilized conditions under which the industry operates, and because of the continued efforts on the part of sugar mills and refineries to improve their processing efficiency. As a result of these conditions, mill and refinery costs have not reflected the full impact of the general price inflation which has occurred in the last fifteen years. Processors generally have operated profitably and at the same time have been able to increase substantially the proportion of total sales income paid to growers for sugar cane and beets.
I give a number of quotations now from a work which I hardly feel free to name. It is


an unpublished study by an eminent Canadian authority of the conditions in the United States under these acts. It is a study made in 1952, not yet available generally but I have access to it. Here are some of the quotations:
During the operation of the Jones-Costigan act the duty on Cuban sugar was reduced from 2 cents to -9 cents.
I quote again:
While one could expand at length the history of the 1948 sugar act operations, it may suffice to note finally that the tariff was again reduced in this period. Under the general agreements on tariffs and trade the duty on Cuban sugar was reduced, effective January 1, 1948, from '75 to -50 cents per lb. The full duty rate was reduced from *9375 to -6785 and later to -6250 cents per pound.
And:
... it seems most improbable that any substantial reduction in tariff could have been achieved in the absence of specific alternatives such as the sugar quota system.
Again I quote:
After three years of the Jones-Costigan act the consumer paid only from one-tenth to two-tenths of a cent more per pound for sugar than at the beginning of the operation.
And:
Further, the quota system continued to raise the American price from one-half to one cent per pound over the price which would have prevailed in the absence of quotas.
I continue:
Until mid-1950 the quota system yielded the U.S. price of sugar up to 1-6 cents (generally less than one cent, however), higher than the world price due to quota effect alone. With the world' price of sugar rising rapidly from about $4.50 per hundred early in 1950 to nearly $8.00 in mid-1951, the quota premium situation was reversed and rendered into a quota discount. This protection for American sugar users extended almost continuously from July 1950 through 1951. While it was generally in the neighbourhood of one-half cent a lb. it did reach more than two cents per lb. in the midsummer of 1951.
And again:
Sugar prices during this period gave unmistakable evidence that the quota system could be employed to the advantage of the American consumer.
And:
... in terms of price, certainly not in other ways, however, the American consumers and industrial users have generally been brought closer to world sugar price levels than they were before the introduction of the quota system.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I wish to make just a comment or two in a general way on this quota system. Not very long ago one of the members of the house, and I will not name him, made a statement to the effect that the quota system was a restrictive system. He said that quotas were the most restrictive of all trade measures that could be practised. Well, it is evident from the account I have

given of the quota system in the United States under the 1934, 1937, and 1948 acts that the quota system has not been restrictive to trade in that nation in relation to sugar.
One can obtain an illustration from the green and red lights on the street. When you come to a red light it means stop-and it does mean stop. That, however, does not restrict traffic. That actually makes it possible for traffic to be more free and more rapid than it could possibly be without red lights.
I suggest that a quota system, which might look like an absolute prevention or an absolute measure forbidding trade, actually, under the circumstances which have obtained in the United States, has been a measure making for freer trade.
We might also talk about lower tariffs. We have a number of men in our government offices who have a sort of craze over trade and low tariffs. They will be greatly comforted to discover that, under the quota system and these three acts in the United States, they have lowered the tariffs in a way that might have been impossible if it had not been for the quota system.
There are a great many people who talk about non-discrimination in trade. Some statements have been made by certain members in this house to the effect that they want trade to be just as free as the wind. They did not use just those words, but if there were other words to describe anything freer to express the thought they would have been using those other words.
I ask hon. members how long trade in respect of sugar in Canada will be free if we have Cuban sugar entering unrestricted into our market. I have already referred to that in my speech.
If we let Cuban sugar come in here, refined sugar, there will not be another nation on the face of the earth which will send one pound of sugar into Canada. Anyone who sees non-discrimination in trade in that prospect must have coloured glasses of a kind that I have not yet seen.
I do not hesitate to recommend to those who have authority in respect of sugar in Canada that they should give most careful thought to this matter of the quota system as it has been used and applied in the United States sugar acts of 1934, 1937 and 1948.


Mr. Speaker, I am speaking in support of the amendment which was moved by my hon. colleague, the hon. member for Lake Centre (Mr. Diefenbaker) on March 23, and I think it would be well if the amendment were read
Position of Agricultural Industry to the house now, because it was moved over two weeks ago. The amendment reads:
That all the words after "that" to the end of the question he struck out and the following substituted therefor:
"in the opinion of this house consideration should be given by the government to the advisability of introducing during the present session legislation to provide floor prices for agricultural products at such levels as to ensure producers a fair price-cost relationship."
Now, to use an oft-quoted, slang term, Mr. Speaker, I think that the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) has been viewing the whole situation from a little pink cloud through rose-coloured glasses. I realize, however, that there is probably a good reason for this ultraoptimism and arrogant attitude. We are told that there is going to be an election before the snow flies; and probably the minister is just getting wound up for the campaign. At page 3225 of Hansard for March 23 the minister, in referring to farm prices, had this to say:
I am not going to try to guess what they will be ten years from now, but I am going to make the statement that so long as this government is in power, and so long as the policy we have been following throughout the last ten years is continued, prices will go down less than they would under any other kind of policy that could be established in this country by any other government.
I have always been taught that no one is so good that he can never be replaced. History is very interesting but it is only interesting when told truthfully and when facts are stated. It is rather tiresome for those of us on this side of the house to hear members from the government side keep repeating and repeating what happened in the 1930's and how this government has improved the situation since that time. I want to remind members on the government side of the house that the depression or crash, as they called it, occurred in 1929 and the election at which the Liberal government was defeated did not take place until July 1930. Anyone who suspects that the Conservative government in power between 1930 and 1935 was the cause of the depression is certainly not conversant with the facts.
On page 3218 the Minister of Agriculture in referring to parity and I will quote his words:
The only objection I have to the word "parity" is that I seldom know what people mean when they use it.
There is an interjection:


They don't, either.
And then:


I do not understand what they are really talking about when they use the word.
Now, Mr. Speaker, it is rather odd to find that the minister himself, when speaking to
3566	HOUSE OF
Position of Agricultural Industry the federation of agriculture in Victoria on January 27, makes use of the word "parity". If he cannot understand what other people mean, why would he want to use the word himself?


I explained what I meant before I used it.


The explanation was rather dim. I was there and I heard the minister. Even if that is the case, the minister uses the word "parity" in his own speech, even though he claims he does not understand what other people are talking about when they use it.
Referring to this speech I want to say something which is rather beside the point for the moment. There is a mistake in the figures the minister used in this speech and that mistake was transferred to Hansard of March 5, 1953, page 2663. The minister used the average annual volume of production for cheese as 20,023,000 cwt. I believe he has added a zero which should not be there.
Following up the use of this word "parity" we find that when the Liberal government took over in 1935 farm prices were said to be then about 20 per cent below parity. Now, after all this bragging we have heard about what the Liberal government has done in this country we find that in 1940, after five years of Liberal government, the parity was reduced to 23 per cent for farm products. Then, in 1941, when this government froze the prices of farm products, parity had dropped to a low of 30. Now, Mr. Speaker, that condition does not agree with so many of the statements we have heard in this House of Commons during the past several years.
It is often the case that pre-election statements are quite different from post-election statements. In 1935, I believe it was, the Minister of Agriculture had a famous dodger that he used before the campaign. I should like to quote what was on that dodger. It reads:
Dollar wheat will give you a job and enable you to own your own home. Dollar wheat will pay for your light and water and give you a telephone. Dollar wheat will pay your grocery bill and buy boots, shoes and clothing for the whole family. Dollar wheat will provide a surplus for a rainy day. Vote Liberal.
Now, what happened? In 1935, before the Conservative government was defeated, the price of wheat was 87-5 cents. In 1938 the Liberal government announced a price for wheat of 60 cents a bushel. There was so much concern out west about the price going so low that the government was forced finally to pay 70 cents. The fact still


remains that the announced price in 1938 was 60 cents. The price in 1935, Mr. Speaker, was 87-5 cents.
In addition to that, before the 1935 election the Liberals boasted that they would increase the export market tremendously. What are the facts? During the period 1932 to 1935, the export of wheat was 832 million bushels, and from 1936 to 1939 it was 707 million bushels, showing quite a reduction in those years. I have taken the trouble to look up the figures for exports to Great Britain. I have a list here of all the exports from 1920 to 1950, showing the exports of each product for each year. I am going to use the years 1929, 1934 and 1936. I think they are very fair. The 1929 figure would be while the Liberals were in power; the 1934 figure would be after three years of Conservative power; and the 1936 figure would be after the Liberals were back in office. This list is as follows:
Product	Year	Quantity Bbls.Apples-Fresh 	1929	866,0031934	3,057,8971936	2,202,053 Lbs.Apples-Dried 	1929	32,7501934	988,1251936	399,100 Cwt.Beef and Veal, Fresh 	1929	661934	76,763Bacon and Ham, Shoulders and	1936	24,420Sides 	1929	329,7541934	945,5971936	24,420Cheese 	1929	1,025,3871934	714,1331936	528,781Milk Powder, Whole 	1929	36,6311934	40,0741936	33,083Milk, Condensed 	1929	16,2951934	11,2181936	3,633 Lbs.Honey 	1929	346,2711934	1,853,0931936	1,542,807 Cwt.Pork, Fresh, Chilled and Frozen	1929	4,7071934	8,2331936	15Pork, Dry Salted 	1929	9,3241934	8,4211936	2,128Pork, Pickled in Barrels 	1929	1411934	1,0271936	275
That last figure was the result of two years of Liberal regime, so I hope we have heard the last of the boast that the Liberals have done so much to keep