Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of personal privilege which arises from a series of articles published in the Toronto Telegram on Wednesday, April 22, and subsequent dates.
I have known Harvey Lunam, proprietor of the Lunam Construction Company, for many years. In 1945, when I purchased a hotel, Harvey Lunam advanced me moneys which I repaid him in full in 1947, when I sold the hotel. Subsequently, I accommodated Harvey Lunam by exchanging cheques with him. That was one of his methods of financing when he was hard pressed for funds to meet his obligations. All those cheques were honoured by the banks on which they were drawn. I exchanged cheques with him over a period of nearly three years, from the middle of 1948 to the middle of 1951. He gave me cheques and I gave him covering cheques. I received no benefit and suffered no loss from these transactions. I did it to help an old friend.
The Lunam Construction Company, in response to public advertisements by the dominion government, tendered successfully and was awarded contracts to construct public works. In each case the company was the lowest bidder and met all of the conditions of the invitation to tender. I had no direct or indirect interest in the Lunam Construction Company, and have none now. I never profited from the Lunam Construction Company or from the public treasury.
This house will recall that I was elected in 1949. I did not believe that in continuing to help my friend Harvey Lunam I was violating the spirit of the law as it is applicable to members of the house. Fuller knowledge of parliamentary practices brought me to realize that the combination of circumstances might create false impressions, and I discontinued cheque exchanging.
It is worth mentioning that most of the buildings involved are not located in my constituency. It is also noteworthy that it
was almost one year after I stopped exchanging cheques with Harvey Lunam that following a serious automobile accident he failed to meet his obligations.
I deny any intentional wrongdoing and I repeat that I did not profit in any manner or fashion from my dealings with Harvey Lunam or the Lunam Construction Company.
I have enjoyed the friendship and camaraderie of my fellow members of the house. That I shall always prize.
I thank my constituents for the privilege of serving them, which I believe I did conscientiously and with credit. They were always uppermost in my thoughts and I spared no effort on their behalf.
We are now nearing dissolution. Consequently, I choose to place myself in the hands of my constituents. They will understand and have an opportunity to return me.
Regretfully, I tender my resignation as a member of the House of Commons.


The hon. member for Qu'-Appelle having given in his place in the house notice of his intention to resign, I shall immediately after such notice has been entered by the Clerk in the Journals of the house, forthwith address my warrant under my hand and seal to the chief electoral officer for the issue of a writ for the election of a new member in the place and stead of the hon. member who has resigned.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the statement that has been made, I would ask the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) if it is his intention to inform the house now as to what steps he proposes to take to deal with the relationship of the Department of Public Works to this transaction which has just been discussed.


Mr. Speaker, the Department of Public Works is competent to deal with the transaction between that department and the Lunam Construction Company and has been doing so. In view of statements that there are unpaid suppliers of materials and subcontractors, I am rather surprised that no proceedings have been instituted by those so-called creditors against their debtor. I understand that, when this Mr. Lunam met with this accident and ceased to carry on with the completion of his contracts, those
4510	HOUSE OF
Mr. A. E. Dewar-Resignation contracts were taken over by the department in conformity with the clause of the contract. I understand that there were several of those contracts, that with respect to some of them they will be completed and there will be from the contract price and the deposits a surplus available.
That situation presents a difficulty. It will not be up to the department to determine what will be the priorities with respect to claims on this surplus or what payments to creditors should be made. It would seem to me that this was an appropriate case for the placing of the affairs of this unfortunate contractor under the Bankruptcy Act where there would be a trustee who would take possession, who would receive all the claims and would then prepare, in the way provided by the act, a distribution of whatever is available in accordance with the priorities which prevail in the province of Saskatchewan and in accordance with the rules laid down in the act.
I have heard it said that it was intended to assert a claim for something beyond the contract price because of delays in supplying some of the equipment that had to be installed. That is something which a trustee would be quite competent to deal with. If there were grounds for such a claim and for submitting that claim, it would have to be considered. I am credibly informed that there were delays that had not been foreseen in procuring and supplying some of the equipment that had to be installed. It would not be the first time that that has happened, and it would not be the first time that that kind of a claim had to be dealt with. But it is generally stated and believed that this contracting firm is not capable of discharging its liabilities.
If that is the case, it is something which I think should be dealt with by the courts. The Bankruptcy Act contains all the provisions required to deal with that matter in a manner that would perhaps not satisfy all the creditors but which would treat all the creditors with equal justice and on the basis of the rules with respect to priorities recognized under the act.


Mr. Speaker, I would suggest
to the Prime Minister that he inform himself with regard to something that is a matter of common knowledge, namely that this man Lunam had failed to complete similar contracts in 1948 in Regina and that the Great-West Life Assurance Company had been compelled to take over, with serious difficulties for subcontractors on that occasion; and that these contracts were made subsequent to that time, with knowledge of this situation, unless there was a complete absence
TMr. St. Laurent.]

of any consideration of the qualifications of the man.
I submit that this is not something to drop here. I think the government's responsibility is quite clear to inform us as to what steps are being taken to ensure that contracts will be completed. Here there was a notorious failure to complete earlier contracts by Lunam in that area; and on top of that, these contracts are entered into with that warning or with that knowledge, and with the results that we have seen during this session.


Mr. Speaker, may I say
that the hon. gentleman is much better informed than I am. This is the first time I have heard the suggestion made that this contracting firm had failed to complete contracts in 1948 and had involved the Great-West Life Assurance Company in any way whatsoever.
The contracts that are let by the government have to be let in a manner provided by the statutes adopted by this parliament; and the government is always subject to severe criticism-and rightly so-if the low tenderer who complies with the conditions for tendering is not awarded the contract. When it is felt that it would be imprudent to award a contract to the low tenderer, the matter is brought before council; and I can assure the hon. gentleman that when it is brought before council there must be extremely serious grounds to induce the members of council to depart from the principle that a low tenderer who has complied with the conditions and who has made the required deposit should be awarded the contract.
It does happen. Not long ago there was a tender that was lower than the one of the tenderer to whom the contract was awarded; but the invitation for tenders contained the stipulation that the tenderer would have to satisfy the department that he had had previous experience in similar undertakings. This was a company that was just entering the field in Canada, composed of gentlemen who claimed that they had had experience in similar work in other countries, but they had no experience in similar work in this country. We finally came to the conclusion that they did not comply with the requirements, they did not satisfy the department that they had the required experience. But this requirement that the contracts be awarded to the low tenderer is on the whole a wise one, and that the low tender on all these jobs can be disregarded only when there are good grounds for doing so, the sufficiency of which the government has to take the responsibility of justifying to this house.

I am unaware that there had been any indication before this that the Lunam contracting firm was not a firm that should be considered when its tender happened to be the lowest, and it had complied with the other conditions of the invitation to submit tenders.


I submit that there must be other considerations, and I lay before the Prime Minister my suggestion that in view of the fact the statement to us this morning makes it clear that the kiting transactions were in relation to the government business, there should be a select committee appointed to inquire into this whole transaction. There are a number of questions on the order paper at this time that indicate the nature of the inquiries which should be pursued, and I suggest that that would be the proper way in which to deal with this subject.


Perhaps the hon. gentleman would tell me whether this 1948 contract was with the federal government or with private interests.


I am not suggesting it was a contract with the federal government. I merely-


Oh, oh.


Order.


I pointed out that this was a contract where this man was known to have failed to complete his undertaking. I made no suggestion that it was a government contract. I said the Great-West Life was called upon to take over, and by that very fact indicated the place where the contract had been established.


Might I be permitted to ask the Prime Minister a question? He referred to the fact that these contracts had been awarded on the basis of the lowest tender. It is not a question of the lowest tender; it is the question of the fact that this man or his company-
Som


Question.


Order.


Don't you want the truth?


This man or his company was paid the amount of the contract without the Department of Public Works insisting that the subcontractors would be paid to the extent of $200,000. Why was this man paid when these subcontractors' accounts were not paid, and the department should have insisted on it. The Prime Minister also mentioned that there would be a surplus when
29, 1953
Mr. A. E. Dewar-Resignation it was completed. That was not the statement of the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Fournier). The debts are $200,000 at least; the assets are nothing. In these circumstances, is it not right that the government should do something because of the fact that they failed to assure themselves that these accounts were paid before they paid Lunam, and protect those honest suppliers?


I did not say that there would be an over-all surplus after all the debts of the contractors were paid.


Before any debts were paid.


I said my information was that, with respect to several of these contracts, they would be completed at a cost that would be less than the amount that was still unpaid by the government, including the deposits that had been made.


A surplus of $3,000, is it not, on all accounts?


Are we going to debate this?


Mr. Speaker, on a question of personal privilege, I think we would do well to think of the great words of the Divine Teacher when He said:
He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone . . .
My personal privilege is that I dare not cast a stone, because I have been guided by the advice of a personal friend. I have been widely accused of the sin of idolatry because of my admiration for a man who is the champion cutter of red tape in Canada, the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe).


Since the
beginning of our work on the criminal law committee, which is revising and consolidating the Criminal Code, I, as chairman, have received numerous letters and telegrams, most of which have not been of a complimentary nature. In the past few days, Mr. Speaker, I have received some 70 telegrams, all in the French language, addressed to me as chairman of the industrial relations committee. I am not, and never have been, chairman of the industrial relations committee. I therefore take much pleasure in sending these telegrams to the hon. member for Edmonton East (Mr. Macdonald), who has been chairman of that committee.

Questions


Third report of special committee on broadcasting.-Mr. Robinson.
Eighth report of standing committee on banking and commerce.-Mr. Cleaver.
A message from His Excellency the Governor General transmitting supplementary estimates for the financial year ending March 31, 1954, was presented by Hon. Douglas Abbott (Minister of Finance) and read by Mr. Speaker to the house.
I move that the estimates be
referred to the committee of supply. I am sure the house will be pleased to know that the amount of these supplementary estimates is less than the amount that has been presented to the house as supplementary estimates in the last seven years.


Starting to save, eh?


Another election budget.


This is cyclical budgeting.


Motion agreed to.
1.	When were last tenders called for rural mail route number 4, Pugwash, Nova Scotia?
2.	When were tenders received, giving (a) names of tenderers; (b) amount of each tender?
3.	Who held the previous contract, stating amount?
4.	To whom has contract been let, stating amount?


1.	January 8, 1953.
2.	January 30, 1953.
(a) and (b) John Miller Earl Mundle, Pugwash, $965; Gerald Ernest Langille, R.R. 4, Pugwash, $1,000; Roy Murray Langille, R.R. 4, Pugwash, $1,400.
3.	Mr. Morrell Langille, $1,000.
4.	Mr. Langille withdrew his notice of termination and, as a result, the contract was renewed with him at $1,000.


1.	Did the Ottawa Sentinel edition of March 9, 1953, carry a regular recruiting advertisement of the Canadian army?
2.	If so, how much was paid to this publication for printing such advertisement?
3.	Was the publication of this advertisement authorized?
[Mr. Brown (Essex West) .1
4.	Is it the intention of the Department of Naitonal Defence to pay for such advertisement?
5.	If not, for what reason?


1.	The Ottawa Sentinel edition of March 9, 1953, carried an advertisement purporting to be a regular Canadian army recruiting advertisement.
2.	No payment has been made.
3.	No.
4.	No.
5.	Advertisement unauthorized.


1.	By provinces, how many employers have been penalized for failure to remit tax deductions promptly, since the first day of January, 1951?
2.	What is the total amount of the penalties that were imposed?


1. Statistical information is not available in respect of the number of employers penalized for failure to remit tax deductions promptly.
The statistical information available covers the number of penalty assessments issued both for late remittance of tax deductions and for late filing of information returns and is available for the period from 1st December, 1952. Such information for the period from 1st December, 1952 to 31st March, 1953 is as follows:
Province	Number
Newfoundland	 106
Prince Edward Island	 40
Nova Scotia	 162
New Brunswick	 160
Quebec	 2,690
Ontario	 7,110
Manitoba	 279
Saskatchewan	 92
Alberta	 1,641
British Columbia	 1,255
Yukon	 20
13,555
2. No statistical record available.


1.	Did government agencies hold surplus stocks of cheese, bacon, eggs, butter, potatoes, apples or any other agricultural products on March 1, 1953?
2.	If so, what was the quantity and value of surplus stocks of each product held on March 1, 1953?


For a copy of all letters, telegrams or other correspondence, since the first day of February, 1952 and to date, which have passed between the Department of Public Works and representatives of any department of the federal government in the city of Regina or elsewhere in the province of Saskatchewan, and the replies thereto, in connection with efforts to locate Mr. Harvey Lunam of the Lunam Construction Company Limited.


Mr. Speaker, while the hon. member was away on Monday this motion was called and I stated that, looking over the files, there were no letters, telegrams or correspondence covering this subject.


I wish to thank my hon. friend for having allowed this to stand. I have looked back over the records of the house and I find that the proper course under the circumstances is to pass the order and then the minister makes an immediate return. So I would ask that it be passed, and then the minister can make a return that there are none, by a simple statement.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.


For a copy of final or any other statements regarding the payment to subcontractors in connection with the contracts awarded to the Lunam Construction Company of Regina.


Once more, would the hon. member clarify this. Is it statements from the Lunam Construction Company to my department that he wishes to have?


I want statements in connection with payments to subcontractors, whatever statements there were. I presume there would be statements by one of the officials of the department-an architect, or a superintendent of works. That is what I am anxious to get-as well as any statements that may be O.K.'d by officials.


What appears on the file is a progress report giving the amount due to subcontractors and the work done, and materials delivered. This is signed by the contractor. We have no dealings whatever with the subcontractors. The contract is between two parties. We have no dealings with other people. If those are the statements the hon. member wants, I will have this file looked up and, as soon as possible, bring down the reply.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.
Inquiries of the Ministry


For a copy of progress reports signed by dominion public works architects, Saskatchewan, in connection with contracts awarded to the Lunam Construction Company of Regina.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to ask a question of the Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Sinclair) or, in his absence, his parliamentary assistant. Has the department received a telegram from the Prince Edward Island fisheries federation endorsed by the Prince Edward Island fishermen's association, and also by 2,200 lobster fishermen, 40 packing plants and employees demanding immediate rescinding of new carapace measurements for lobsters? This is important, as the fishing season opens immediately.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for having given me notice of his intention to ask this question. I received a similar notice of intention from the hon. member for Kings (Mr. Kickham). The telegram to which the hon. member has referred has been received by the department.
On March 26, in reply to a similar question by the hon. member, I made a full statement giving reasons why the new carapace measurement was necessary. Since then no new reasons have been advanced to warrant a change. Elsewhere in the maritime provinces the season has already opened, with the new carapace measurement being used.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. Has the government's attention been called to a press dispatch of about ten days ago respecting subventions on coal? Secondly, is the government prepared to report on whether there is to be an increase in subventions on coal mined in western Canada either for the use of the railways or for other industrial or domestic purposes?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for having given
4514	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry me prior notice of his question. The particular news item to which he has referred has been brought to my attention. I have no comment to make, other than that the news item is just speculation-probably an educated guess.


What do you mean by that?


The railways since 1938 have been paid a transportation subvention to the extent of 5 mills per ton mile with a maximum of $3 a ton, for Canadian coal used on company service, to make such coal competitive with American coal at the same coaling points.
The Canadian National Railways, in recent years, has claimed that this 5 mills per ton mile is not a true assessment of their costs. At present a study is being made of the Canadian National Railways' costs by an independent commissioner, under the direction of the dominion coal board and the Department of Transport. Until that investigation is completed, the Canadian National Railways is continuing to buy coal in the same quantities as last year, and the dominion coal board is assisting in order to give the maximum tonnage available to all operators affected.
At the present time the government does not intend to increase subventions either for the railways or for the movement of domestic and industrial coal, unless this investigation should show that the railways are not being adequately paid.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he has received a telegram from the farmers' union of Saskatchewan with reference to the grain handlers' strike at Vancouver and suggesting once more the calling together in Ottawa of representatives of the companies and the labour unions, both being authoritative representatives. I should like to know also what the prospects are of an early settlement of this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I am not in a
position to answer offhand with precision the hon. gentleman's question. There have been telegrams that have come to my office and I would have to look at them again to see what is the date of the last one and what are its terms. With respect to whether or not consideration has been given to the


suggestion of bringing the men and the operators together in Ottawa, there are negotiations in process which are being handled by the Department of Trade and Commerce and the Department of Labour. I have had progress reports and am hopeful that these negotiations will bring about a settlement of this strike. I am rather disappointed that it has not come about as yet. The negotiations and the reports that I have received have led me to believe that there would be agreement even before today.


It is very close then.


I understand that it is
very close. It would not be helpful to suggest anything that would occasion further delay by having the forum of the discussions changed.


That is the most helpful
statement yet.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on what is really a question of privilege, but in addition perhaps I might get an answer from the Minister of National Defence. I have received a copy of the Crown News, which is distributed throughout the first commonwealth division. The issue I have is that of Friday, November 28, 1952. Although it was posted on November 30 I received it only about two weeks ago. Perhaps I am speaking also on a question of privilege concerning the leader of the C.C.F. party. This publication contains news from different parts of the commonwealth and under the heading "By our Maple Leaf Reporter" I find the following:
Votes of "no confidence" in federal parliament.
The leaders of the socialist and C.C.F. parties, Mr. Coldwell and Mr. Drew, both put down motions of no confidence in the government on Wednesday. The socialist leader said that in its failure to begin a national health scheme, the government had not fulfilled its pledge to the people. Mr. Drew attacked the government on the grounds of wasteful defence expenditure. Government extravagance, he said, was the cause of the very heavy taxation the people had to bear.
I do not question the accuracy of the last part of that statement. While I take no offence in regard to any inaccuracies in this, I do believe that perhaps we might expect that news communications which are distributed among our troops in Korea and which purport to be on the basis of reliable reports from the different nations in the commonwealth might bear a little more relationship

to the actual political divisions within this house and throughout the country.


have not yet received a copy of this publication. I can assure you that when I do I shall keep it as a fairly interesting souvenir.


Apparently my apologies are due to both hon. gentlemen. However, we have no direct responsibility for the publication of this periodical which is issued by the division for distribution to the troops of the commonwealth serving in it. I think it is within the knowledge of hon. members that political appellations do not mean precisely the same in all parts of the commonwealth. For example, Liberal in Australia means a rather different thing from what it does in Canada.


They are really Tories.


As they are here.


My recollection is that the Canadian content of this publication is derived from the Canadian Press. I am sure the Canadian Press would not make that error. In some line of communication from the Canadian dispatch to the Crown News this error must have crept in. I shall write a letter to the editor myself.


While political names may have different connotations, it does seem to me that our young men in Korea and elsewhere might expect, in references to political parties in Canada, to have names reported as they are used here. I would ask the minister if there is not a Canadian public relations officer on the staff of the Crown News.


There may be; I do not know.


I should like to say that judging from the developments in the last Saskatchewan elections I think the description is fairly accurate.


Perhaps we can now understand why there is some measure of confusion when the right hon. minister makes an interjection such as he has. I have not yet received from the Minister of National Defence a reply to my question.


The Prime Minister in 1949 said that the C.C.F. were Liberals in a hurry.


I answered my hon. friend. I said that I did not know and I shall be glad to find out.
Excise Tax Act EXCISE TAX ACT


the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 225, to amend the Excise Tax Act.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I might say a word of explanation as to these amendments. They relate only to the time of coming into effect of section 11 of the bill which provides for the allocation of the revenue from taxes on radio and television sets. When the bill went to the other place this section was to come into effect on February 20, the date of the budget changes. The deputy minister of national revenue pointed out that it would be administratively impossible to do that satisfactorily and proposed an amendment which was made at my request that the effective date should be April 1 rather than February 20. Of course there is no change in the amount of the tax received; it is simply a change in the date on which the allocation will be made.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the house
is glad to have the assurance which the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott) has just given. The reason I rose at the same time as the minister was for the purpose of asking for that assurance. As he has pointed out the amendments made by the Senate to this bill are to section 14. Although there are two amendments, they have just the one effect, namely, to change the effective date of section 11 of the bill which has to do with the separation of excise taxes on radio and television sets.
My concern was that there should be no violation of what I believe is an established principle, namely, that no proposal involving a change in the balance of ways and means can come from any source other than the government. In other words, I believe it is perfectly clear that just as a private member of this house could not move an amendment involving the expenditure of money or a change in the balance of ways and means, neither can Their Honours in the other place move such an amendment. I am glad to have the assurance of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott) that this is simply a change in the date at which an alteration is made in the manner in which certain records are kept and that no change in dollars and cents is involved. On that basis I have no objection to Their Honours making such a change and to the house approving it.
4516	HOUSE OF
Canadian National Railways


I wholeheartedly share my
hon. friend's views as to the right of private members of the other place to make changes in money bills which affect the balance of ways and means.


The minister agrees with
me that they do not have that right.


Yes.
Motion agreed to and amendments read the second time and concurred in.


the second reading of Bill No. 363, to authorize the provision of moneys to meet certain capital expenditures of the Canadian National Railways system during the calendar year 1953, and to authorize the guarantee by Her Majesty of certain securities to be issued by the Canadian National Railway Company.


I have one or two questions to ask which perhaps can be left until we are in committee.


Motion agreed to, bill read the second time and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Robinson in the chair.
On section 1-Short title.
I should like the parliamentary assistant to repeat with
Equipment originally ordered under Financing and Guarantee Act (No. 1)
1951	$ 5,754,000
Equipment originally ordered under Financing and Guarantee Act and the financing thereof under No. 2 act ...	3,055,700
Equipment originally ordered under Financing and Guarantee acts 1951 and 1952 and the financing thereof under 1952 act	 10,340,000
Financing of additional costs of equipment ordered in 1951 and delivered in 1952 over amount estimated in 1952
act	 2,366,985
Equipment ordered under 1952 act	 57,775,000


more detail the explanation that he gave last night. The item with respect to which I am particularly anxious that the house should be clear has to do with equipment. I wish to correct a statement I made last night that equipment was a self-liquidating item. That is only partially true. I wish the parliamentary assistant would explain the exact method by which grants for equipment are made because it is very complicated. When one reads the statement of the railway company one sees that there are authorizations from previous years not fully used, an authorization for the current year, and then an authorization for the forthcoming year, so that they may be able to deal with the situation in the first few months of the year before this annual bill is passed. My understanding-and I think this is important-is that the policy under the bill is to make a fresh start each year, that is to say, all the unused authorities of past years are washed out and we make a fresh start each year so that there is no overlapping period and no chance of misunderstanding between the national railways and the Department of Finance as to just what are the authority and scope of the Canadian National Railways.
That is correct. The composition of the figure of $79,291,685 for obligations incurred prior to 1953 that become due and payable in 1953 is as follows:
(Item 7A-in the budget of the C.N.R. as presented to the committee on railways and shipping)
(Item 7B-in the budget of the C.N.R. as presented to the committee on railways and shipping)
(Item 7C-in the budget of the C.N.R. as presented to the committee on railways and shipping)
(Item 7D-in the budget of the C.N.R. as presented to	the	committee	on	railways	and
shipping)
(Item 8E-in the budget of the C.N.R. as presented to	the	committee	on	railways	and
shipping)
The composition of the $9,959,000 is set out in item 8F of the budget.
tMr. Knowles.]


Section agreed to.
Section 2 agreed to.
On section 3-Capital expenditures authorized.
I should like the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Transport to give some explanation as to how decisions are made with respect to the construction of new branch lines. Are such decisions made by the board of Canadian National Railways or are they made by the government? There is need for additional branch lines in western Canada, particularly in the northeastern part of the province of Saskatchewan. Petitions have been sent to the railway, but apparently the railway company does not feel that it can proceed with branch line construction without government approval. I should like the parliamentary assistant to outline what procedure it is necessary to follow to bring to the government's attention and the attention of the railway the need for this new branch line construction that is so necessary if we are to develop the Carrot river triangle in the northeastern part of the province of Saskatchewan and the northwestern part of the province of Manitoba.


As the hon. member for Melfort knows, as the railway is wholly government owned it cannot spend anything without government approval. That is why these items come before parliament. The budget is approved by the parliamentary committee on railways and shipping. If there is a deficit, the deficit has to be voted by parliament. In so far as branch lines are concerned, they go forward after a recommendation comes to the government from the board of directors of the railroad. Then the government must decide whether or not it is prepared to support the recommendation. Extensions of recent years that can be recalled are the Barraute line, the Kitimat line and the Lynn Lake line. My hon. friend will recall that in each of these instances, when the government accepted the advice of the C.N.R. and decided to ask parliament to authorize the construction of those lines, a separate bill was brought before parliament in each case.


I take it then that the
government itself does not initiate the building of branch lines, but that the initiation must come from the railway company through their asking the government to authorize them to go ahead with the construction of a certain line.


That is correct. Of
course the railway has an expert staff to
Canadian National Railways investigate the possibilities of revenue, estimate construction costs and so on, and after all preliminary inquiries have been made then the board makes its recommendation to the government.


Are there no cases in which
the government initiates the construction of branch lines rather than waiting for a recommendation to come from the board of Canadian National Railways?'


I certainly know of none in recent years.


Now that
this question has come up, would it be possible for the parliamentary assistant to indicate what have been the operating results of the last two or three additions? I am thinking particularly of the Barraute line. I believe we were given an 'estimate a year or two ago indicating that it was expected that it would show an operating surplus, and I should like to know the result if it is available.


I am afraid, Mr. Chairman, that I have not that type of information here. It is the kind of information, of course, we do usually try to get from the officers of the railway when they appear before the railways and shipping committee.


Section agreed to.
Sections 4 to 11 inclusive agreed to.
Title agreed to.
Bill reported.
Shall this bill be read the third time by leave?


By leave.


the third reading of the bill.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.


that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient, in the proposed measure before the house, "An act to provide for the superannuation of persons employed in the public service of Canada'', Bill 334, to extend in the definitions the termination date of world war II from the end of March to the end of September, 1947; to grant election rights to certain contributors for prior part-time service; to make it possible that persons ceasing to be employed on and after January 1,

Public Service Superannuation Act 1953, but before the coming into force of the act may be able, through election, to enjoy improvements in benefits.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Robinson in the chair.


Mr. Chairman, the purpose of this resolution is to authorize certain amendments to the bill which were discussed in the banking and commerce committee, and which were made at the suggestion of the department. My understanding of the procedure is that when this resolution is adopted X move that it be considered in committee of the whole along with the bill, and if that course meets with the approval of the committee now, I suggest we might proceed in that way.


Mr. Chairman, there are one or two questions that perhaps one might ask at this time. I might start with the last of the provisions mentioned in this resolution, namely-
-to make it possible that persons ceasing to be employed on and after January 1, 1953, but before the coming into force of the act may be able, through election, to enjoy improvements in benefits.
The minister will recall that he made a statement, I believe on second reading of the bill, that it was the intention to make the provisions of this legislation retroactive to January 1, 1953, for persons who had since retired. Does this involve any change or addition to the provisions which he announced on that occasion?


No, Mr. Chairman, we were not sure that the wording as it is would cover the case. The proposed amendment is to make sure that the policy is followed.


Now that we have that
point clear, I urge the minister very strongly to consider the point that I made when speaking on this matter on April 16. As the minister will recall. I referred to an answer which he gave to a question which I put to him on the orders of the day last year, that was in June, 1952. At that time it was becoming apparent that the amendments to the superannuation act, promised for that session, would not come before parliament before we adjourned in the early part of July, 1952. I asked him if it would be possible for some of these changes, when they were brought in, to be made retroactive to the date that would have been the effective date had the bill been brought in in 1952.
As the minister knows, he answered in the first place by saying it would not be possible to do that. The answer is recorded
[Mr. Abbott.l

on page 3547 of Hansard for June 23, 1952. Later on that day the minister said this: Perhaps I should supplement the answer I gave the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. It is possible that some of the changed provisions of the Civil Service Superannuation Act could be made retroactive, but I think it is unlikely that all of them could be.
When I asked the question I imagine the minister knew on that occasion what was in my mind. I had in mind the situation that would develop with respect to people who would retire between that date and the time when the new legislation would come into effect. It seemed to me then only fair that, since the changes in the act had been promised in the 1952 session

they were mentioned in the speech from the throne which started the 1952 session-people who retired after the date on which we might have expected that earlier bill to come into effect should get the full benefit of it. If the amending bill had been brought in during the 1952 session, it would have been passed not later than early in July, 1952, and it seems to me that that would be a more reasonable date so far as these people are concerned. I am sure that the minister felt that that was the significance of the answer he gave to me on June 23, 1952. I am disappointed now that he picked a date as late as January 1, 1953.
I could go on, but I do not think it is necessary to do so at this point. I should like to hear from the minister as to why, in the light of his answer to me on June 23, 1952, he did not pick an earlier date than January 1, 1953, for purposes of this retroactivity.


The hon. member's reference to what I said last year is quite accurate. It is possible to do anything. That was the main reason why, later in the day, I corrected my answer to say it may be possible to make some changes retroactive to 1952. However, it was not possible to prepare the act in 1952. It would not have been possible to get it in at any reasonable time during last year's session because the amount of work that has been involved in the revision of this act has been tremendous. After reviewing the situation this year when we finally determined the measure we would recommend, we came to the conclusion it would be neither practicable nor desirable to make the effective date go back beyond January 1, 1953. One must always have a cut-off date in matters of this kind. In view of the fact that this measure was being introduced in March or April, 1953, the appropriate date to make it effective seemed to be January 1, 1953, and that decision was taken.


I quite realize that there has to be a cut-off date. I realize that if the minister had picked an earlier cut-off date, someone from the opposition might have asked for a still earlier one. But it does seem to me that in this case we have a good argument for asking the minister to reconsider. It is true that when he made that answer to my question on the orders of the day on June 23, 1952, all he said was that it was possible that some of the changed provisions of the act could be made retroactive, and he thought it unlikely that all of them could be. Surely it was this sort of thing the minister had in mind. So far as I can ascertain, none of the provisions has been made retroactive to a date back in the last session. I am sorry that the minister takes such a firm position with respect to it because it seems to me that, in the light of the statement he made last June, the retroactive date should be put back at least to June 30, 1952.
In his speech he mentioned the difficulties of administering a matter of this kind. There will be difficulties in administering it with the retroactive date of January 1, 1953. Certainly there is a difference only of degree, not of kind. In ordinary kindness I feel that the minister should have proposed an earlier date.


I should like to ask one
question with regard to the date of the termination of the war. It refers to world war II. Is there any change in the date of termination of world war I? I ask that question because reference is made to world war I.


Clause 2(o) gives the termination date of world war I as being that of the 31st day of December, 1920. We propose to amend clause 2(p), in order to change the date of the termination of the second world war. When we get to committee of the whole on the bill, it will be moved that the words "31st day of March, 1947" be deleted and that the words "30th day of September, 1947" be substituted therefor.


Just as a
matter of curiosity, perhaps, will the parliamentary assistant indicate whether that date was selected as having any relationship to the war or any aftermath of the war or whether it was selected purely as a convenient date for this bill?


The date of September 30,
1947, is the date of the official cessation of active service.


Mr. Chairman, would it not
be better and would it not make for more orderly discussion if we were to elaborate
29, 1953
Public Service Superannuation Act on those points when we are in committee on the clauses of the bill itself?


Shall the resolution carry?
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.


I move that the resolution be referred to the committee of the whole on the said bill.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee to consider Bill No. 334, to provide for the superannuation of persons employed in the public service of Canada.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Robinson in the chair.


The house in committee on Bill No. 334, to provide for the superannuation of persons employed in the public service of Canada, together with a certain proposed resolution to amend certain provisions in Bill 334.
On section 1-Short title.


Mr. Chairman, I should like
first to take this occasion to thank all hon. members who have participated in the debate on this bill in the house and in the discussion in the banking and commerce committee. I was not able to take part in the discussion in the committee, but I am informed that it was a most helpful and useful one. I am also told that during the course of the discussion several members of the committee were impressed by evidence brought before the committee by or on behalf of certain civil servants who were borderline cases in respect of eligibility under parts II and IV of the 1924 act, and who were ruled to be ineligible. This has meant that the superannuation of these individuals is based on their best ten consecutive years of service and not on their last five years of service.
I am also informed that these members of the committee were unable, in the time at their disposal, fully to satisfy themselves as to the essential facts of some of these cases. In response to requests from these members, who are on both sides of the house, I shall be glad to instruct my officials to make a further careful detailed examination of the facts in these cases and to report to me. I need hardly add that if this examination shows that any erroneous decisions have been made, they will be corrected; and if it

Public Service Superannuation Act appears that the bill now before us leaves any substantial injustices in principle unreraedied, I shall be glad to give consideration to ways and means of correcting them.


I should like to make a comment on that matter. I am glad the minister has made this statement, because, as he said, we found ourselves in real difficulty. There was a strong feeling that certain special groups-not large in numbers, and notably some of the officials of the old department of soldiers' civil re-establishment-were suffering from what looked like an inequity. The situation at that time was rather amusing in its way. It seemed as though some of the departments carried on in splendid isolation and without much cooperation. I think it is not an exaggeration to say that the department of soldiers' civil reestablishment at that time sought virtually to run a pension scheme of its own and had sent money from time to time to the Department of Finance, hoping thereby to give this scheme an over-all validity. Their subscriptions were month by month regularly returned. The result was that certain of the employees who, in good faith, had made their pension subscriptions-which were eventually returned to them-for some years felt that they had a status which later on it was suggested they did not have.
The equity of the situation was fully appreciated by the minister's officials and, I think I may say, by the parliamentary assistant who was there. I am glad that the minister has made this statement which, as I understand it, will mean that the situation can be looked into and every effort can be made to bring about equity. The numbers involved are only a few score, so that the actual amount involved is not large.
My recollection also is that it was pointed out that this bill, which we all welcome because it is a great step forward in the relationship with the civil service, nevertheless involves a good deal of constructive work and has a good many new features. I think there was a feeling that it is not like the laws of the Medes and the Persians that can never be changed. As time goes on and this inquiry which the minister, I am glad to say, has referred to, is made, it will be possible to review the situation if equity seems to demand it.
I might just add also-and this refers to one part of the minister's statement-that it was extraordinarily difficult to feel that we had obtained all the facts. There were one or two members of the committee who had made a special study of the facts over the years; but at the end of our deliberations I


think even they felt they were not sure that we had got the last bit of detail affecting those classes. I am glad therefore of the statement the minister has made.


Perhaps I could take a moment of the committee's time to place on record one thing which I think should be said, namely, a word of appreciation for the complete unanimity of opinion, as to the general equity and virtue of this bill, that was shown in the committee's study of it. I am very grateful for that fact. All members in the House of Commons serving on the committee seemed to be completely together in their view as to what should be done. There was one outstanding problem with respect to a relatively small group, and I am delighted with the statement of the minister today. I think that is the best way of dealing with the matter. We got to a stage in the committee where we were not sure of the facts, and it would seem as if the associations and others just did not have all the facts relative to the problem. I refer of course to those employees in the old department of soldiers' civil re-establishment and a small group in the interior department. This assurance of the minister that there will be a detailed examination of the facts in these cases will provide the right way of remedying any injustices that may have been committed.
I also note the statement that if there are substantial injustices in principle not remedied the minister will see that consideration is given to the method of correcting them as well. I think that is a better method than attempting an amendment to the bill at this stage on the information or the lack of inf