Mr. L. Philippe Picard (Bellechasse) presented the first report of the standing committee on external affairs, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, of which I have not given him notice. He may not need any notice because it is the subject of an editorial in the Globe and Mail of this morning. Is any instruction given to the agents of the department abroad to limit to any definite quota the number of immigrants from countries in which they operate?


No.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of the near approach of the Easter recess, can the minister say whether the legislation respecting pensions for disabled persons will be on the order paper before we rise for Easter? If not, will it be on the order paper when we come back?


My hon. friend did not give me notice of this question. The answer is simple. I have already given it three times this session. The fovernment, having initiated this program, will be among the first to see that it is brought in at the earliest possible moment.


On the orders of the day:
should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport. My question is based on the boiling indignation of 3,000 of my constituents at the intent of the Canadian Pacific Railway to terminate steamer service on the Arrow lakes on the 24th day of this month. Has the minister received any communication from any minister of the government of British Columbia urging favourable consideration of any application for a subsidy for the maintenance of steamer service on the Arrow lakes?


The answer to that question is yes. I suppose I should add this: The communication came from the minister of public works of that province, in which he asked whether the federal government would give consideration to the establishment of a service by means of a subsidy. While I have not answered his letter, I am afraid that the answer must be in the negative, because the government gave very careful consideration to that matter some time ago and has decided against it.


On the basis of the minister's answer, I should like to ask a supplementary question. If the government of British Columbia were to take over and operate steamer service on the Arrow lakes, would the federal government give consideration to an application from the government of British Columbia for a subsidy equal to 50 per cent of the loss incurred, or an agreed percentage in the operation of this steamer service until road transportation was available?


If the government of British Columbia will make an application along the lines of my hon. friend's question, I am sure we shall be glad to give it the best consideration possible.
3696	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry DOMINION COAL BOARD


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys? Can the minister inform the house whether he is in a position to bring down the estimates for the dominion coal board before the Easter recess?


Not until after the Easter recess, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, in the absence of the Minister of Trade and Commerce, I put a question to his parliamentary assistant concerning the instructions given to the trade mission going to Spain and Portugal. Can the minister now answer the question?


The purpose of the trade mission going to Spain and Portugal is to endeavour to straighten out trade difficulties in those countries which arise from exchange restrictions and import controls. It is hoped that by negotiation we can clear the avenues of trade so that we can get better results from our efforts in these two countries.


Is there anything in the way of a new trade agreement, apart from the removal of exchange restrictions and import controls, being sought or expected during the course of those negotiations?


That will depend on the attitude of Spain and Portugal toward a new agreement. If an advantageous trade agreement can be worked out, I have no doubt that the trade mission will recommend it to the Canadian government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce, notice of which I sent to his office yesterday. Because of his absence then, he may take it as notice. Is he in a position to make a
(Mr. Chevrier.)

statement concerning the outcome of the meetings held on Thursday and Friday last with Newfoundland and Nova Scotia salt fish operators? If so, will he state the basis on which the operators in the mainland provinces, especially Nova Scotia, will be able to buy salt fish in Newfoundland?


I will accept the question as notice and make a statement later.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question either to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) or to the Secretary of State concerning a certain question of mine passed as an order for return on March 3, and having to do with certain stocks of adulterated butter in the hands of the government. I wonder if I might expect an answer before the butter is disposed of?


Mr. Speaker, I will look into the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to address a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the dust bowl conditions in the grain producing areas in the United States and the lack of grain production thereby, has the minister any plans for stimulating Canadian grain production and assuring domestic grain supplies for Canada during the next two or three years?


Mr. Speaker, I am sorry I
can offer no such stimulation or assurance. Canada has at least one crop in hand which has not been sold as yet, and I might point out to my hon. friend that we never kill the wheat crop in the month of April either in Canada or in the United States.


that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to provide for a revision of the Quebec Savings Banks Act in conformity with the decennial revision of the Bank Act.

Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.


Mr. Chairman, the bill to be
based on this resolution provides for the revision of the Quebec Savings Banks Act under which two savings banks operate, one in Montreal and one in the city of Quebec. The principal features of the bill are: (1) the extension of the bank charters for a further period of ten years to July 1, 1964; (2) a provision, complementary to the proposed legislation in the National Housing Act, to permit these banks to lend money on insured mortgages; (3) an increase in the limit on the amount which the banks may lend on conventional mortgages; and (4) an increase in other investment and lending powers.
I am proposing that, for the first time since 1913, there should be a complete re-enactment of this act and a repeal of the former one. In doing so, this bill follows, wherever appropriate, like provisions in Bill No. 338 relating to the chartered banks, which has recently been given consideration by this house and sent to the banking and commerce committee for further study. Many of the administrative changes proposed in that bill have been incorporated in this one as well. I shall be pleased to give a more detailed explanation when the bill is before the house for second reading, and I propose, after it has been given second reading, to move that it be referred to the banking and commerce committee.


Mr. Chairman, in view of the fact that the minister is going to comment further on second reading and proposes to send this bill to the banking and commerce committee, I shall reserve my comments.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.
Mr. Abbott thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 419, respecting savings banks in the province of Quebec.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


the second reading of Bill No. 419.
He said: This bill provides for the revision and re-enactment of the Quebec Savings Banks Act and for the extension of the charters of the two banks which operate under this act for a further ten-year period.
These banks, one in Montreal and the other in the city of Quebec, are each over 100 years old, having been founded in 1846 and 1848 respectively. They were later incorporated
Quebec Savings Banks Act by special acts and after confederation were granted charters in 1871 which were to continue in force for ten years. Since that time, it has been the custom to enact decennial extensions of the charters concurrent with those of the chartered banks. Their record has been one of steady progress under sound management and today their combined assets amount to more than $225 million.
The operations of the savings banks are in many ways similar to, and in other ways quite different from, those of the chartered banks. Hon. members will recall that changes were proposed in the method of computing and in the level of cash reserves for chartered banks, but I am not proposing similar changes in this bill. The movement of deposits and loans is far less volatile than in the chartered banks, and the present reserve basis has proved satisfactory for these institutions.
Loans on the security of mortgages have been, for many years, a type of investment in which similar institutions in other countries have invested funds. The act was amended to permit our savings banks to enter this field in 1948 and they have since become quite an important factor. At December 31 last they had outstanding almost $7 million in loans of this kind. At present these loans are limited to the equivalent of 10 per cent of a bank's deposit liabilities. In this bill, I am proposing that the limit on conventional mortgages be raised to 20 per cent of deposit liabilities and that, as proposed for the chartered banks, insured mortgage loans under the National Housing Act may be made without statutory limit.
There are also several provisions in this bill which alter and, in some cases, increase the investment and lending powers of these banks. I shall not deal with them in detail at this stage as the changes will be apparent to hon. members as they study the bill, and it will of course be considered in the banking and commerce committee.
As I informed the house a few moments ago, this bill constitutes the first complete revision since 1913 of the Quebec Savings Banks Act, and there have been included all the provisions of the proposed Bank Act which are appropriate to the operation of these savings banks. Some of the more important are provisions relating to: (1) the period in which the banks may carry on business; (2) a method of increasing the authorized capital and the manner in which the bank may dispose of the additional stock; (3) investment restrictions with respect to bank pension funds; and (4) destruction of old records.

Criminal Code
There are, of course, many consequential changes, but these do not require explanation at this time.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I believe that the amendments proposed in this bill will benefit these two institutions, which have served their respective communities so well for more than a century, and will also benefit those who use their services.
As I have indicated, when the bill is given second reading I shall move that this bill be referred to the banking and commerce committee, where I am sure it will receive the careful study it deserves.


Mr. Speaker, again, in view of the fact that the minister proposes to refer this bill to the banking and commerce committee, I shall reserve any comments I wish to make until that time.


Motion agreed to, bill read the second time and referred to the standing committee on banking and commerce.
The house resumed, from Monday, April 5, consideration in committee of Bill No. 7, respecting the criminal law-Mr. Garson- Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.
When the committee rose last evening we were considering group 4, and I shall now call clause 50. Shall the clause carry?
On clause 50-Assisting alien enemy to leave Canada.


I just want to ask a question or two about this clause. I have one or two recent letters here that deal with it. One, in dealing with section 50 (1) (a), has this to say. In order to save time I am not going to read the section.
The same phrase "engaged in hostilities, whether or not a state of war exists between Canada and the state whose forces they are" appears here. The same objections mentioned in regard to section 46 (1) (c) hold here. Further, we object to the shifting of the burden of proof: in this section the accused has to "establish" his lack of intent to assist the foreign state. Traditionally in our criminal law an accused has had the protection of a "presumption of innocence": here the presumption is rather of guilt.
I should like to have the minister's comment with regard to that criticism of the section.


I did not catch my hon. friend's concluding sentence. My hon. friend said "I should like"; I did not hear what he would like.


Order.


The question that was raised was this:
Further we object to the shifting of the burden of proof:
I am talking about clause 50 (1) (a). The letter continues:
in this section the accused has to "establish" his lack of intent to assist the foreign state. Traditionally in our criminal law an accused has had the protection of a "presumption of innocence": here the presumption is rather of guilt.


Mr. Chairman, I thought I had dealt with that question at some length yesterday in reply to the points that were raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. I pointed out that the necessity for the accused's establishing what his intentions were did not arise until after the crown had first proved a prima facie case against him. I dissented from the view which the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre had expressed that there was any shifting of the onus in this section. I said that what the section really did was to spell out that if the accused, although he might have committed some act from which it appeared that he had committed the offence, was able to show that his intent was not to commit it, that would constitute an effective defence.


Clause agreed to.
On clause 57-Offences in relation to members of the R.C.M. Police.
I wonder whether the minister will offer a few comments on clause 57? I believe a few changes have been made from the wording as it was in section 84 of the former version of the code. One is-and I mention this with approval-that the word "wilfully" has been introduced. The only other change of significance seems to be in that the last three lines have been reduced to one line. I take it that the punishments to be meted out for an offence of this kind are on summary conviction and are covered elsewhere in the code. The main question I want to ask is this. Why is it that, in the case of clause 54, no proceedings shall be instituted without the consent of the Attorney General of Canada whereas there is no such proviso in the case of clause 57? Perhaps the minister could indicate not only why that proviso is in one clause and not in the other but could also tell us what is the effect of having that proviso in or out?


The Royal Canadian Mounted Police, as an institution of government, come under the direction of the Attorney General of Canada. In the ordinary routine of laying a charge under this section I would think the charge would presumably be laid on the

recommendation of the commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, which recommendation would be made to his minister who would be the Attorney General of Canada. That would not be true in section 54.


Mr. Chairman, that opens up another question. Why then is the consent of the Minister of National Defence not required in the case of clause 54? I throw out that question to the minister. I still ask him if he can give an answer to my other question, even though he may think it does not now apply: what is the legal significance, in a case like that of clause 54, of having the proviso that the consent of the Attorney General of Canada must be obtained?


The legal significance is that before proceedings can be instituted, perhaps irresponsibly, the case has come to the personal attention of the Attorney General of Canada who, being a lawyer, is able to examine the facts upon which it is alleged that the proceedings can be instituted in order to make sure that the facts support the proposed charges and that no person will be put to the inconvenience of defending such proceedings unless the sufficiency of the evidence has been passed upon by the Attorney General of Canada.


Clause agreed to.
On clause 60-Sedition.
Clause 60 is the first of three clauses dealing with the subject of sedition, seditious libel and seditious conspiracy. We bordered on this subject yesterday when we were dealing with the subject of treason although, as I understand it, there is a distinct difference. The hon. member for Fort William yesterday spoke with satisfaction of the fact that soon after the Liberals came to power in 1935 action was taken to delete the former section 98 from the Criminal Code. Many of us were indeed pleased that that action was at long last taken in 1936. I do not have yesterday's Hansard in front of me in order to make a direct reference to it but, as 1 recall it, the hon. member for Fort William suggested that section 98 had been obliterated completely and I offered the interjection "Not entirely". I rise to explain my interjection and to go on from there.
If one looks at chapter 29 of the statutes of 1936, which was an act to amend the Criminal Code, he will find that section 1 did what the hon. member for Fort William said was done. It repealed in its entirety section 98 of the Criminal Code, chapter 36 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927. Accordingly, these volumes that some of us have which purport to be office consolidations of the Criminal Code as it now exists have a blank between
Criminal Code
sections 97 and 99. There is no section 98 in the code that is at present in force. However, if one looks further into the same chapter 29 of the statutes of 1936 which repealed section 98 of the Criminal Code, he will find that section 4 of that statute added a new subsection 4 to section 133 of the code. Section 133 of the code is the section dealing with sedition. The point I wish to make-indeed the point I had in mind when I made my reply to the hon. member for Fort William last night-is that some of the words that were in the former section 98 were retained in the code by putting them in subsection 4 of section 133. I refer in particular to such words as "who teaches or advocates". I want to make it quite clear that as I read subsection 4 of section 133 of the code as it now stands-


Which code are you referring, to, the new one or the old one?


The old one at that moment. 1-or as I read clause 60 of the bill now before us, it is difficult to take exception to any of the words in either instance, although I do take exception to certain words in clause 62. Nevertheless the fact is that under words like those in clause 60-and these are some of the words that were in the former section 98-some things have happened in this country which some of us cannot forget. I made a passing reference yesterday to what happened in Winnipeg in 1919, and the hon. member for Fort William also made reference-to the events in Winnipeg in that year. I have no intention of recounting the events of the general strike that took place in my city in that year, but I do remind members of the House of Commons that on that occasion some nine or ten citizens of my city of Winnipeg were charged under the Criminal Code with various offences, in most cases the charge being seditious conspiracy.
I referred yesterday to the case of the former leader of this group, who was the former member for the constituency I have-the honour to represent, the late J. S. Woods-worth, who was charged under the Criminal Code of Canada with seditious conspiracy. One of the several counts laid against him in that charge was that he had quoted these words in certain articles which he had written:
Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness which they have prescribed;
To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless! . . .
And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.

Criminal Code
They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
These passages from the book of Isaiah actually got into print in an article over the name of J. S. Woodsworth and, believe it or not, they were included amongst the counts laid against him when he was charged with seditious conspiracy. There was a fifth count against him which had to do with certain articles that had got into type but which had never reached print. They have of course reached print since then. In fact I should like to read at the moment from a book on the life of J. S. Woodsworth by his daughter, Grace Maclnnis.
Count five, "Alas! the poor alien", was one of those articles seized in type. An indication of its nature can be had from its opening and closing sentences. It began: "When is an alien not an alien? Answer:	When he is a rich man, a scabherder, or a scab." And it ended: "If after a fair trial undesirable aliens are found, let them be deported. Meanwhile, how about deporting the profiteers? Everyone knows they are undesirable."
There was another count, count six, containing a quotation from the Right Hon. Arthur Henderson, later a minister in the British cabinet. Entitled, "The British Way", it outlined the platform of the British Labour party together with the comments of Mr. Woodsworth, including the following;
This is the British way, and remember! It is absolutely constitutional!
I should say in passing that the reference in some of these quotations to deportation was of course in connection with a certain amendment to the Immigration Act which was passed rather hurriedly during the heat of the Winnipeg strike. I went to the library yesterday to refresh my memory on that part of the story, with which I was already quite familiar, and despite the fact that I have known the story for many years it did seem rather strange to look at just two pages of the printed Hansard tor June 6, 1919, and to discover that within the compass of those two pages one finds the record of the introduction of a bill which had been passed in the other place, and which was given first reading, second reading, consideration in committee of the whole, third reading and was passed, all, as I say, within the compass of two pages of Hansard for June 6, 1919.
Hon. members may be interested in knowing what the very next item was immediately after that bill had been given its three readings in such a short space of time. The next item recorded in that Hansard was that there was a messenger at the door, namely, the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod. Parliament was in high gear. The bill had been passed in the Senate that same day, before

it came here. It was passed here in less than an hour and the governor general or his deputy was ready to give approval to that amendment to the Immigration Act. Indeed, it was an amendment to amendments that had already been made at that session.
Such was the speed with which parliament acted on that occasion towards people like J. S. Woodsworth and A. A. Heaps, both of whom I mentioned yesterday. Eight others were involved, including William Ivens, John Queen, George Armstrong, R. E. Bray, Robert Russell, W. A. Pritchard, R. J. Johns and F. J. Dixon. These are not men, Mr. Chairman, who can be thought of any longer in this country as guilty of sedition, although a number of them spent time in jail, several of them in Stony Mountain penitentiary or at what was known as a prison farm.
As the Secretary of State pointed out yesterday, the actual case against Mr. Woodsworth was never brought to trial. The reason for that was that the charge against F. J. Dixon was very similar to the one against J. S. Woodsworth and the case of F. J. Dixon was called first. He defended himself in an address to the jury which is one of the masterpieces of the history of our area, and he was acquitted. As a result of his being acquitted, Mr. Woodsworth was informed a few days later that there was a stay of proceedings so far as his case was concerned and that he need not appear until he was advised. Well, he never was so advised, but that stay of proceedings stood for the rest of his life.
I have mentioned the case of William Ivens, one of the few of this group who is still alive. He is living in the city of Winnipeg and is still active and interested in the affairs of this nation. Some months ago I had occasion to make a close study of Mr. Ivens' life in connection with an address I was asked to give. Indeed, it was at a banquet that we tendered him as a testimonial at the time of his seventy-fifth birthday.
I was quite interested in some of the material that is on record, and this relates very substantially to this whole question of what is sedition. My whole point is that we have to distinguish between those who are definitely against the community as a whole, definitely against society, definitely against Canada, and those who are merely seeking or advocating reform. As I suggested yesterday, some of those who have been adjudged criminals by the laws of the land have turned out to be the nation's real patriots.
Just before the incidents of the strike period in Winnipeg in 1919 it appears that Mr. Ivens, who was writing in a publication known as the Western Labour News, said

something rather critical of the Winnipeg Free Press. That goes on all the time and to those of us who live in Winnipeg that sounds like today rather than thirty-five years ago. At any rate, shortly after that the chief press censor for Canada-I need not bother to name him now except to say he was a civil servant-wrote the editor of the Free Press and said something like this: "I note in the issue of the Western Labour News of January 31, 1919, a bitter and unwarranted attack on the Free Press. You might be interested in knowing the record of this man Ivens as revealed by an examination of his writings made at this office."
Then, after using a few epithets and adjectives that were not altogether complimentary, and in my view were quite false and unwarranted, the chief press censor set out to give to the editor of the Winnipeg Free Press some of the quotations from Mr. Ivens' writings which were objectionable, which were seditious, which were terrible. I am going to give one or two of them.


Did he say "seditious"?


He left that to the Free Press. I am sorry I have not the full text of the letter, and I would not want to make that assertion without checking back on it, but certainly that was the inference. This is one of those objectionable quotations:
War will end not by war and not by the professions of the diplomats while war is in progress, but by the establishment of justice on the earth.
Imagine that as an objectionable statement! I can imagine the Secretary of State for External Affairs saying practically the same thing today. He might use slightly different words but he would express those same sentiments.
Here is another quotation:
The imperative call for the statesmen of the world to adjure and utterly repudiate their imperialistic secret treaties and to restate their war aims in conformity with their claims of a war for justice, right and democracy is resounding across the world today.
As I say, it was quotations of that sort that the chief press censor of Canada drew to the attention of the Free Press so that they might answer "this man Ivens". I must digress for a moment to say that I have not been able to find anything in the files of the Free Press during the period following the writing of that letter to indicate they made use of the information conveyed to them by the chief press censor for Canada. By the way, I should just complete briefly my reference to William Ivens by pointing he was one of those who, during the strike of 1919, was charged with seditious conspiracy and upon being convicted was sentenced to jaiL He 83276-234
Criminal Code
came out of jail to take his place in the legislature in Manitoba, having been elected to that legislature while he was still in jail. The same thing happened in the case of John Queen and George Armstrong, if not in the case of others as well.
As a matter of fact, the Minister of Justice will recall being associated with these men as a member of the legislature of Manitoba during the time when he and they were there together. I am sure he will agree with me that they were not seditious characters. They may have given him a lot of trouble-


As a matter of fact, one of them, the Hon. S. J. Farmer, was my colleague in the Manitoba cabinet for two or three years.


I do not wish to spoil the minister's story, but the gentleman to whom he refers was not put in jail.


No, that is right.


He was one of the group who did not happen to have that distinction conferred upon him. John Queen, who was one of those who spent time in jail, was not only in the legislature along with the Minister of Justice when he was there, but for some eight or nine years was mayor of the city of Winnipeg, as was S. J. Farmer shortly after the strike.
It is very easy to talk about these things in retrospect and to say that they will not happen again. I am sure that the people of Winnipeg, prior to these incidents, would not have imagined that these men would be charged with seditious conspiracy and would spend time in jail. It did happen, and some of this language is still a part of the code. I want to say quite frankly that I find it difficult to quarrel with most of the precise wording in the clause that is before us, but I do not like the use of those words "teaches and advocates," because they were in section 98 and have been carried over into this clause 60. I do make a plea for an understanding of this whole situation, and for the realization that we have to distinguish between treachery to one's country and the attempt to win reform, even radical reform. In other words, sedition must be recognized as treachery against the country as a whole and not just opposition to the government that happens to be in power.


Would the hon. gentleman
permit a question? In the remarks he has made within the last two or three sentences, has the hon. member taken into account the provisions of clause 61 of the bill?

Criminal Code


Yes, and that is one of the reasons why I confess that I And it difficult to pinpoint many words in these clauses against which one could complain, although I am against the length of the sentence provided in clause 62. As the minister says, there is a saving feature in clause 61, which purports to make it clear that one can point out errors or defects in various governmental bodies. With the indication we have of the errors and defects across the way, we would have to claim that right whether or not it was accorded to us.
I ask, Mr. Chairman, that this country not forget the incidents to which I have been referring, and that we lean over backwards to keep it clear that opposition to the government that happens to be in power is not treachery or sedition, but rather that there is a place and a need for the reformer, for the real patriot, for the real citizen of the country who sets out to make things better than they are.


Now that my hon. friend has finished his remarks, I rise to a point of order. I would suggest that what we are dealing with here is clauses 60 and 61 of the present bill, which have nothing to do with section 98 that was formerly in the Criminal Code. I am afraid that if we get off into a debate of section 98, which could be such a fruitful subject of discussion, we may talk for a long while and not be on the point at all.


The minister will admit that some of the wording in the former section 98 was, in 1936, transposed to section 133 and is now in clause 60.


I would admit that, but I do not think it has any relevancy to what we are discussing now, because if my hon. friend would look at the case of Rex v. Boucher, decided in 1951, he would agree that most of the points he has been making this afternoon are obsolete.


I should like to ask the minister one brief question on clause 60. I am interested in a definition of sedition as the minister understands it. If the minister will look at clause 60 (1) he will see the peculiar manner in which the definition is stated. It says:
Seditious words are words that express a seditious intention.
And then:
A seditious libel is a libel that expresses a seditious intention.
Again we have sedition defined in terms of sedition. I wonder if for the record the minister could give a definition of just what sedition is, in terms of clauses 60, 61 and 62?


If my hon. friend will look at clause 60 (4) I think he will find on the record the definition he is seeking.


I was going to ask the same question about clause 60 (4). It says, "without limiting the generality of the meaning of the expression 'seditious intention'." And so on. In other words, we do have power under subclauses 1 and 2, but it is worded in such a way that it says that black is black and white is white. That is exactly what it says.


What is wrong with that?


Well, it certainly does not give a description of the meaning of sedition. It just does not make sense.


On that point would the minister give us the significance of the words "without limiting the generality of the meaning of the expression 'seditious intention'." In other words, in clause 60 (4) we find what, indirectly, can be described as a definition of sedition as a conspiracy to carry out a seditious intention, or to teach or advocate the overthrow of the government. I would ask the minister to tell us why it is necessary to have written in this section the words, "without limiting the generality of the meaning of the expression 'seditious intention'."


Well, perhaps I had better attempt to clear up these doubts in the minds of my hon. friends by giving them an example of a case where the words "seditious intention", that are defined in clause 60 (4), were considered. That was the case to which I have already referred. It is a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada in the case of Boucher v. the King, 1951, S.C.R. 265. The main point dealt with in this case was as to whether "seditious intention" included an intention to incite to acts of violence or public disorder in all cases. Excerpts which express the views of the members of the court I shall now quote.
In this instance, the opinion of Chief Justice Rinfret was as follows:
The advocating of force is not the only instance in which an accused could be found guilty of a seditious intention.
That is a minority judgment, as my hon. friend will see as I go along.
Then, this was the opinion of Mr. Justice Kerwin:
The intention on the part of the accused which is necessary to constitute seditious libel must be to incite the people to violence against constituted authority or to create a public disturbance or disorder against such authority. An intention to bring the administration of justice into hatred or contempt or exert disaffection against it is not seditious unless there is also the intention to incite people to violence against it.

Mr. Justice Taschereau stated the following:
Upon application a new hearing was granted and heard by the full court, and in view of the opinions now expressed by the majority, it is settled, I think, that generally speaking, the writings complained of must, in addition to being calculated to promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different classes of subjects, be intended to produce disturbance or resistance to the lawfully constituted authority. But as pointed out by my brother Cartwright, there is another definition of seditious intention which I think must be accepted. I agree with him that an intention to bring the administration of justice into hatred or contempt or to excite disaffection against it, is a seditious intention.
And then, Mr. Justice Rand:
The test is not either the truth of the language or the innocence of the motive with which he publishes it. The test is this: Was the language used calculated, or was it not, to promote public disorder or physical force.
As Mr. Justice Rand indicates, the words in which he specifies the test are taken from the judgment of a British judge, Mr. Justice Coleridge, in the British case of Rex v. Aldred.
Then, Mr. Justice Kellock expressed the following:
It is noteworthy that the draft code of the royal commissioners was not accepted by parliament, and in my opinion, incitement to violence toward constituted authority, that is, government in the broad sense, or resistance having the same object, is, upon the authorities, a necessary ingredient of the intention.
In my opinion, to render the intention seditious, there must be an intention to incite to violence or resistance or defiance for the purpose of disturbing constituted authority. I do not think there is any basis in the authorities for defining the crime on any lower plane.
At the present time, therefore, in England, matter of the character here in question, if made the subject of criminal process at all, appears to be treated as contempt of court, rather than as seditious libel. Such matters may, of course, be regarded from the standpoint of seditious libel if intention of the necessary character be established.
Then, Mr. Justice Estey:
I would clarify my previous reasons by adding that a seditious intention must be founded upon evidence of incitement to violence, public disorder or unlawful conduct, directed against His Majesty or the institutions of the government. With great respect, I am of opinion that in all cases the intention to incite violence or public disorder or unlawful conduct against His Majesty or an institution of the state is essential.
Then, Mr. Justice Locke:
The question remains whether it is accurate to say that "a seditious intention is an intention to excite disaffection against the administration of justice" as stated by Stephen.
The great English commentator:
Only if disaffection be construed as meaning resistance to or disobedience of the law or the authority of the state is it accurate, in my opinion.
I concur in the opinion by my brother Kellock that that portion of Stephen's definition which declares that "the intention to promote feelings of 83276-234J
Criminal Code
ill-will and hostility between different classes of such subjects" is a seditious intention without more, is inadequate as a statement of the common law and I agree with his conclusion upon this aspect of the matter.
Then Mr. Justice Cartwright:
The reasons of my brother Kellock bring me to the conclusion that the definition quoted above ought not to be accepted without qualification, and that before a writing can be held to disclose a seditious intention by reason of being calculated to promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different classes of His Majesty's subjects it must further appear that the intended, or material and probable, consequences of such promotion of ill-will and hostility is to produce disturbance or resistance to the authority of lawfully constituted government.
In my opinion at common law an intention to bring into hatred or contempt or to create disaffection against the administration of justice is a seditious intention, and I do not find anything in the provisions of the Criminal Code to negative this view.
I think it will be seen from these judgments that there is a clear majority of judges on the Supreme Court of Canada who hold that incitement to violence is a necessary ingredient of the offence of sedition. It might perhaps illuminate the matter a little bit further if I were to quote at further length from the judgment of Mr. Justice Rand, which I will now do:
The definition of seditious intention as formulated by Stephen, summarised, is, (1) to bring into hatred or contempt, or to excite disaffection against, the King or the government and constitution of the United Kingdom, or either house of parliament, or the administration of justice; or (2) to excite the King's subjects to attempt, otherwise than by lawful means, the alteration of any matter in church or state by law established; or (3) to incite persons to commit any crime in general disturbance of the peace; or (4) to raise discontent or disaffection amongst His Majesty's subjects; or (5) to promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different classes of such subjects. The only items of this definition that could be drawn into question here are that relating to the administration of justice in (1) and those of (4) and (5). It was the latter which were brought most prominently to the notice of the jury, and it is with an examination of what in these days their language must be taken to mean that I will chiefly concern myself.
There is no modern authority which holds that the mere effect of tending to create discontent or disaffection among His Majesty's subjects or ill-will or hostility between groups of them, but not tending to issue in illegal conduct, constitutes the crime, and this for obvious reasons. Freedom in thought and speech and disagreement in ideas and beliefs, on every conceivable subject, are of the essence of our life. The clash of critical discussion on political, social and religious subjects has too deeply become the stuff of daily experience to suggest that mere ill-will as a product of controversy can strike down the latter with illegality. A superficial examination of the word shows its insufficiency: what is the degree necessary to criminality? Can it ever, as mere subjective condition, be so? Controversial fury is aroused constantly by differences in abstract conceptions; heresy in some fields is again a mortal sin; there can be fanatical Puritanism in ideas as well as in morals; but our compact of free society accepts and absorbs these differences and they are exercised at large within

Criminal Code
the framework of freedom and order on broader and deeper uniformities as bases of social stability. Similarly in discontent, disaffection and hostility: as subjective incidents of controversy, they and the ideas which arouse them are part of our living which ultimately serve us in stimulation, in the clarification of thought and, as we believe, in the search for the constitution and truth of things generally.


I want to thank the minister for putting that information on the record. It will certainly be helpful to laymen like ourselves who have not a very clear understanding of some of these legal terms; but I rise to say that I entirely support the approach to this clause of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. As a matter of fact, Mr. Chairman, I often find that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre can express my thoughts better than I can myself. I should like to ask the minister this question. Formerly the penalty for sedition was two years, and then under certain amendments In 1951 the penalty was increased to seven years. In this bill it is increased to fourteen years. Will the minister tell the committee why there is such a sharp increase in the punishment for the offence which has always been somewhat vague and difficult to define? It seems to me to be very harsh and severe.


In the case of this clause, as in the case of some other clauses that we have examined of somewhat similar character, the recommendations of the royal commission with regard to the penalty here are a reflection of the hardening of public opinion that has been going on for some time, with reference to the seriousness of the offence of genuine sedition when it arises, and I think myself that this hardening is probably quite soundly based when we look about us and see so many countries, happily not on this continent, in which the overthrow of free government was accomplished by seditious methods. In the light of current history any person who is a realist at all can hardly quarrel with a penalty of fourteen years for sedition as interpreted in this judgment which I have just read, which indicates that an essential ingredient is the actual incitement of force and violence against the constituted government. This offence of sedition we are discussing as interpreted by the courts does not infringe upon the freedom of speech to which we have been accustomed in this country for a long time. But where you have people in our midst, although I am happy to say that we have not had very many cases of this kind, as a matter of fact-


How many have there been?


Well, I do not think I can answer that question offhand, but certainly not very many. The group of men in Winnipeg of which my hon. friend spoke earlier this afternoon was by far the largest single group at any one period of time that we have had perhaps in the whole of Canadian history; and since those Winnipeg trials I do not think there has been any similar group anywhere in Canada. But if we were confronted with a genuine, determined and spirited case of sedition embracing the intention to overthrow the state by violence, who is to say that it would be impossible that the circumstances of such a case could not be sufficiently heinous to warrant a maximum penalty of fourteen years? I think that is the test. It does not by any means follow in any of these cases that the judge is going to impose the maximum penalty. The maximum penalty is in the section to give the judge scope to make the punishment fit the crime in these cases where the circumstances are sufficiently heinous.


I, too, appreciate the endeavour of the minister to give us a studied interpretation of the exact meaning of the words "sedition" and "seditious intent." I look forward tomorrow to being able to make a real study of just what the minister did say and the quotations that he put on Hansard. But I have tried to follow the remarks of the minister very carefully, and as a result of doing that I am now distinctly worried about this clause and the meaning or the interpretation of sedition and seditious intent.
I agree wholeheartedly with the minister when he says that if we have a situation where there can be a conspiracy or an intent in this country to overthrow the government by violence, then we need something like this, and that should be the interpretation, and there should be a penalty to fit the crime. But I want to take the minister back, if I can remember this correctly, to all the statements which he read from learned judges. They did not just deal with the overthrow of the government or constituted authority by violence. I can only just take it as I could get it down, but it did amount to this: that there can be a question of seditious intent if one takes the action by speech or by writing; might cause disaffection; that could give rise to disturbance; that could give rise to discontent amongst the subjects; and that could give rise to hostility. These were the words used and quoted. But I would point out that that happens almost every day in labour circles throughout the length and breadth of the Dominion of Canada, because

you give rise to discontent by opposing legislation, and perhaps if you speak of strikes, or discuss or write about something which may cause a disturbance you are definitely giving rise to a situation which may result in hostility between the government and the subjects, and between the employer and the employee.
I believe I know what is in the mind of the minister in regard to clause 61 and with reference to the judgment he quoted. I believe it was Chief Justice Rand who pointed out that these things by themselves in a country such as this, where you have free speech and the right to express your thoughts and views, could not be taken as being seditious unless, as I believe the minister added, they were of such a nature as to actually involve breaking the law. I have not the minister's exact words but I believe what he said was to that effect.
Now, Mr. Chairman, it also happens on occasion that these things are discussed in labour circles, and if that is a correct interpretation of sedition then I know quite a number of well-respected citizens in British Columbia who could be considered guilty of sedition because they are absolutely opposed to a certain act which was introduced in British Columbia. They are doing their utmost to oppose that act and to arouse hostility toward it, and have even gone to the extent of suggesting the calling of a general strike. A general strike is against the law and one could not possibly be held without breaking that law, and therefore those who create hostility and disaffection by opposing the government because of the introduction of certain labour legislation and call for a general strike would be, according to the remarks of the minister, not just guilty of breaking the law but also guilty of seditious intent. That is a very serious thing, but it is the only interpretation we can place upon the remarks made by the minister.


The only thing I can suggest as regards my hon. friend's remarks is that he has misinterpreted mine.


Mr. Chairman, in discussing this group of clauses what I have to say has largely to do with the question of punishment and I believe no