That on Monday, January 25, 1954, and every Monday thereafter to the end of the session, government notices of motions and government orders shall have precedence over all business except the introduction of bills, questions by members and notices of motions for the production of papers.


Mr. Speaker, may I say a brief word on this motion. When a motion such as this reaches the order paper, we realize there is no practical point in objecting to it. I should like to ask the government, however, to recall that when we gave up one of the private members' Wednesdays in December, I think it is fair to say there was general agreement that that would be remembered when the time came to take away private members' days. I hope the government will recall that understanding before it moves too quickly to take away private members' Wednesdays.


I should like to ask a question. When private members' days come along, why is it there are so few members in the house? Why is it that the press takes so little notice of it?


I do not believe we can have any particular objection at this time to the motion, although we do want to go on record as supporting the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) in his suggestion that Wednesdays be left open a little longer. While I am on my feet, I suggest to you, Mr. Speaker, that we are interested in this matter of private members' days being cut off. We like to be as accommodating as possible, but I believe in the ordinary course of parliamentary procedure we are beginning to get away from the important fact that members of parliament, no matter where they sit in this house, have equal status. Each of us represents a body of people who perhaps hold a certain body of opinion.
This is one place in the country where all members are equal. Ever since my first session here I have often deplored the differentiation in our phraseology between government and private members. We recognize, of course, that a government is that officiating body which runs the affairs of this country, but in reality a cabinet minister or even the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent), who takes his seat in this house, has no more right to that seat than a backbencher. He was elected just the same as any other member. I believe that when members introduce motions, resolutions or bills they should have equal prominence with any other bill. I would suggest, therefore, although I do not suppose my suggestion will meet with any degree of approval for a long time, that private members' days should be lengthened and strengthened. They should be strengthened in the sense that any motion, resolution or bill placed on the order paper by a private member should eventually reach a place where it is voted upon. If the house votes in agreement with it, it should be the responsibility of the government to carry it through.
While we are not going to seriously object to the motion at this time, those are my sentiments at least.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
May I
ask the Secretary of State when the government proposes to bring into effect the Trade Marks Act, which was adopted at the last session of parliament.


No decision has been made as yet. The officials of my department are still engaged in drafting the rather complicated regulations. I am informed that when they have been drafted and approved by council they will propose that a proclamation be issued bringing the act into force at some later date. In this way there would be plenty of time for members of the bar, and other interested parties, to familiarize themselves with the new regulations before they come into operation.
135G	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry LABOUR CONDITIONS


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Transport. When he draws to the attention of his minister the question that was put to him yesterday by the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Green) respecting anticipated lay-offs by the Canadian National Railways, will he ask him to give special consideration to the extent to which those lay-offs will affect the workers at Winnipeg, where I understand the largest single group, in the total number of lay-offs, will lose their jobs.


I shall be pleased to bring to the attention of the minister the representations just made by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.
While I am on my feet I wish to answer the question asked yesterday by the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Green) and which was at that time taken as a notice. His question had reference to these lay-offs by the Canadian National Railways. I have looked into this matter and I am told by the management of the railway company that railway traffic has been declining, and that consequently staff adjustments will have to be made according to actual requirements. It is hoped however that traffic levels will soon be restored to the point where the railway company will again require the services of those who may be laid off to meet the current situation.


May I ask the parliamentary assistant what number are to be laid off.


I have no official confirmation from the management with respect to that; but I have learned from other sources that the number is, as I understand it, about 800 for the country as a whole.


And 262 of them will be at Winnipeg.


Has not the department any method of avoiding such heavy lay-offs?


Unfortunately, no.


On the orders of the day:
should like to ask a question of the Minister


of Trade and Commerce. I have not given notice, because a request for this information just reached me by letter a few minutes ago. The question is this: Is the minister in a position to advise the extent to which present quotas at wheat delivery points have been exhausted? What is the probability, particularly in those areas where the acreage is small, of having a further increase of the wheat quota to eight or ten bushels to the acre?


Mr. Speaker, the delivery quota on oats was increased yesterday by a further six bushels per acre seeded to oats. I have no information as to the progress in the deliveries of the general two-bushel quota. However, I shall be glad to make inquiries. I should think however that it would be some time before that particular quota could be increased.
If my memory serves me correctly, the minimum quota for the small producers was increased when the two-bushel quota was announced. I do not remember the exact figure, but I think the minimum is at least 1,000 bushels at the moment. Anyone can deliver 1,000 bushels of any grain. I believe that is the situation, but I shall be glad to make a check and give a statement later.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Transport (Mr. Chevrier) or his assistant. In view of the recent serious waterfront fire in Saint John last Wednesday, January 20, has the government, through the national harbours board, or any other of its agencies, considered providing or assisting in the provision of a fire boat for Saint John harbour?


I thank the hon. member for having given me notice of his question. Apparently the hon. member has reference to the fire which broke out on board the S.S. Mont Gaspe shortly before midnight on January 19, while the ship was docked at pier No. 7 on the west side of Saint John harbour.
This fire, which apparently was caused by a short circuit in the radio equipment, was confined to the chart room and the bridge of the ship, and did not spread to the property of the national harbours board. Since fire protection is a municipal responsibility, no fire-

fighting boat is at present being considered for either the harbour at Saint John or any other harbour in Canada.


May I ask a supplementary question. Does not the national harbours board, or the government, provide a subsidy for a fire boat at Vancouver, and also allow the navy to provide a fire boat at the port of Halifax?


It is true that the national harbours board is paying a subvention of $25,000, I believe, to the municipal authorities in Vancouver to assist them in operating the fire-fighting tug which was built there by the city. So far as Halifax is concerned, during the war the navy had two fire tugs at that point. Some years ago one of them was sent to St. John's, Newfoundland, and the other is still being operated in Halifax, but strictly by and for the use of the navy. There is no other government-owned fire boat in operation in any other harbour in Canada.


1952-53 crop
On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Is he able to add anything to his reply to my question on January 12, as to when final payments for wheat might be made, and to say whether the wheat board accounts for 1952-53 have yet been closed, as a first step toward making final payments?


No, the accounts have not been closed. There has been some discussion between the wheat board and my officers. The position, of course, is that the last crop of wheat is not sold in total. It is hoped that the wheat accounts can be closed early in February, and final payment made. I expect to be in Winnipeg early in the month, and at that time we will try to arrive at a decision.


Would that mean that final payments might be out at the end of February, or in March?


Yes, certainly not later than that.


the
National Housing Act
third reading of Bill No. 77, to amend the acts respecting the Northwest Territories.


Motion agreed to, bill read the third time and passed.
The house resumed, from Thursday, January 21, consideration of the motion of Mr. Winters for the second reading of Bill No. 102, to promote the construction of new houses, the repair and modernization of existing houses, and the improvement of housing and living conditions.
Mr. Speaker, I have just a few remarks to add to what I said last night. They are as follows. In view of the tremendously high cost of building at the present time, and if this legislation is to succeed in providing low-cost housing for people of low and medium incomes, I should like to suggest that the minister might consider setting up a research department in Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation to look into the possibility of finding new types of architecture and revising the present regulations of the corporation in order that new and more advanced methods may be employed in the building of houses with which the corporation is concerned, thus possibly allowing houses to be built at a lower cost.


Mr. Speaker, some of us feel that the real test of the new housing legislation now before parliament is as to whether or not it will help people to get homes who would not otherwise get them. It is our contention that the housing legislation we have had thus far has failed to meet that test. Houses have been built under the National Housing Act. There is no denying that fact. But they have been built mainly for people who would have been able to build or obtain homes anyway. They have been helped to get new homes a little earlier than would otherwise be the case, but the old National Housing Act has not helped people who were not able to help themselves.
It is our belief that the new legislation now before parliament offers little or no improvement on that score. Again, there is no question but that houses will be built under the new housing act and the minister will be able to bring figures before the house from time to time indicating that large numbers of homes have been built under this legislation. But it is our contention from

National Housing Act
a study of the act that there is no change in respect to the basic weakness to which I have already drawn attention. It is still the case that the assistance provided under this legislation will be mainly for those who would get homes or have them built anyway. It so happened that while I was at home in Winnipeg during the Christmas recess I discussed the government's housing legislation with some gentlemen whom I think it would be fair to describe as hardheaded real estate men. They are men whose support of the C.C.F. is doubtful. I imagine they support other parties than ours. Nevertheless they said to me in very clear terms, two real estate men in particular, that in their view the national housing legislation helped only those who would be able to get homes anyway. They pointed out to me that they are collecting rents from a great many people occupying rented houses in cases where the rents are greatly in excess of the monthly payments being made by some people who are buying their own homes. They pointed out to me that the new legislation will not enable those people to become home owners any more than the previous legislation did.
That, Mr. Speaker, is our chief complaint against this legislation. We have already pointed out with respect to the previous housing act that it seemed to be legislation largely designed to guarantee the position of money lenders. We contend that that criticism must be levelled against this new legislation as well. Indeed, as my colleague, the hon. member for York South (Mr. Noseworthy), pointed out yesterday, it goes one step further in taking the alleged risk out of private enterprise which is supposed to be the justification for private enterprise making a profit out of such a matter as housing. As I say, those are our two main criticisms of this legislation. Those are the two main points on which it falls down. In our view it is legislation that takes the risk out of private enterprise, that underwrites and guarantees the position of the money lender, and, on the other hand, though it helps to get houses built, it helps to get them built for people who would get homes anyway.
Having made that main charge against this legislation, namely, that it will not help the people who really need help, may I indicate, even at the risk of repeating some of the points made by colleagues of mine who spoke yesterday, that in my view there are three main stumbling blocks in the government housing legislation which are the cause for it not being of any help to the little people, the people who need help.

The first stumbling block is the high interest rate. We do not know for sure just what that interest rate is going to be after this bill has been passed, but it would appear from what the minister said yesterday as though the figure would probably be 5J per cent. He said yesterday that 5 per cent would be a very nice rate from the borrower's point of view but that he doubted whether money would be available at that rate. On the other hand, he characterized 6 per cent as too high. He pointed out that life insurance companies have been putting their portion of money into joint loans at the rate of 5f per cent, so I deduce from all this that what is up the government's sleeve is a proposal of a 5f per cent interest rate. That is one of the main contributing factors to the high cost of home ownership. Whether you talk about homes of moderate total cost, whether you talk about homes in the bracket the minister was speaking about yesterday when he gave examples involving monthly payments in the $50 range, or whether you talk about homes of a little better quality, right down the line one of the main factors in a high monthly payment, one of the main factors in it taking 25 to 30 years to pay off a mortgage, is the high interest rate.
We of the C.C.F. contend that the government has not faced up to the seriousness of the housing problem, has not recognized it as the social responsibility it is, until it takes steps to bring down the interest rate, and we suggest that it should be reduced to 2 per cent. The hon. member for York South yesterday suggested a couple of ways in which that might be done. One way would be to use money from the Bank of Canada. Another way would be for Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation to lend money directly for home building and for the government, if necessary, to subsidize the interest rate so as to bring it down to 2 per cent.
There may be other ways, but the point we are making is that the challenge is facing the government, if it claims to be interested in housing, if it claims to be really concerned about housing as a social responsibility, to find some way to bring the interest rate down so that the cost of a home for the average Canadian can be brought within the means and capacity of the average Canadian. It is no use prating about the large number of homes that have been built by people who can afford them. It is no use the Liberals getting up enthusiastically and patting the government on the back for bringing in a new housing act unless they are prepared to take this basic step of finding a way to bring down the interest rate so it will be possible for people of average means, of average financial capacity, to own their own homes.

The second barrier to ordinary people being able to take any advantage of housing legislation is the question of the down payment. Of course we welcome the fact that the amount of the down payment is being reduced by the terms of this legislation, but, as the hon. member for York South pointed out yesterday, we feel that the 90 per cent loan provision should apply higher than the government proposes, that it should apply on a value of $12,000 which would bring the loan on such a house up to $10,800.
Not until something has been done to make it possible for people of ordinary average income to get started on the purchase of a home can it be said that the government or the country is really fostering on a widespread scale the idea of home ownership. I shall come later to something that I want to say about rental housing and the need for a government program that will actually provide low-rental housing, but at the moment I am talking about the home ownership aspect of a national housing policy.
With respect to the question of the down payment, I suggest to the government that it need not do any boasting about having reduced the down payment under a certain point to 10 per cent as though that was the last word in down payment legislation. I would call the attention of the government to the fact that President Eisenhower's committee of advisers on housing made a report to the President of the United States on December 15 last. That report contained quite a striking suggestion with regard to the ways and means of helping to provide housing for low income families. I have in my hand a copy of the supplement to House and Home for January, 1954, which contains comments on the report prepared by the President's committee and also the text of the recommendations. One of those recommendations contains this suggestion:
For an experimental period of two years, the federal housing administration should be authorized to insure 40-year, 100 per cent loans up to $7,600 per dwelling unit or up to $8,600 per dwelling unit in high-cost areas as determined by the federal housing commissioner. This special mortgage insurance program, proposed as a new section 221 of the National Housing Act, is designed to meet the housing requirements of low-income families as determined by the federal housing commissioner. Purchasers under this program should be required to make a minimum cash payment of $200 including amounts to cover settlement costs and initial payments for taxes, hazard insurance and similar prepaid expenses.
In other words, there is in that recommendation the proposal for some cash down but only for the purposes indicated. So far as the basic purchase of a home is concerned,
National Housing Act
the recommendation by President Eisenhower's advisers is that under certain conditions there be a 40-year mortgage and no down payment. So I submit that we have not seen the last word in this kind of legislation, that the government is not fostering seriously and earnestly the idea of widespread ownership of homes by the Canadian people.
A few moments ago I said that in my view there were three stumbling blocks to this legislation being of any use to ordinary people, to people with average incomes.
In my view the third stumbling block is the amount or percentage of income required under this legislation before one can qualify for a National Housing Act loan. I said earlier in my remarks that I had discussed this question with hard-headed real estate men in my city during the Christmas recess. I repeat what I said a few moments ago, that two of them told me that their firms were collecting high rents of from $70 to $80 per month, and more, from people who they knew could not afford to pay those rents. But in the light of the government's legislation those same people were told that they could not afford to buy a home under the National Housing Act and pay $55 or $60 per month on the purchase of such homes. Surely that is ridiculous. These hard-headed real estate men in Winnipeg say that neither the former legislation nor the new legislation will help those people.
I have been under the impression for a long time that what my real estate friends told me was correct, but I decided-as a matter of fact I did this only an hour or so ago-to check with the dominion bureau of statistics to see if they had any figures on this question. I found that they had. I found that there will be a booklet or monograph on housing put out in a month or so which will contain many interesting figures on housing in general and on the rental of homes in particular. The officials of the dominion bureau of statistics were able to give me figures over the telephone which substantiated the point I have been making, namely, that there are a great many people in this country paying rents which are higher than what might be considered an appropriate monthly figure for the purchase of a home.
For example, I find that according to the returns of the 1951 census there were 257,225 heads of households in Canada paying rents of $50 per month or more, and there were 162,885 paying rents of $60 a month or more. The first figure represents 23 [DOT] 1 per cent of all renters, the second figure, 14-6 per cent. I sought the figure for my own city of Winnipeg and found that in 1951, 9,360 heads

National Housing Act
of households were paying rents of $50 a month or more, being 30-8 per cent of all renters in Winnipeg, and that 5,285 of them, or 17-4 per cent of the total, were paying rents of $60 per month or more.
Those are the figures for 1951 when the last census was taken, but the dominion bureau of statistics made another survey under date of September, 1953, from which we discover that the situation is getting worse. Unfortunately for my purposes the bureau does not have the 1953 figures for the city of Winnipeg, but it does have figures comparable to those which I just gave for 1951 for the whole of Canada and they also have them for Manitoba as a whole, both for 1951 and 1953. When those figures are studied the picture becomes quite clear.
For example, in September, 1953, for Canada as a whole the number of heads of households paying rents of $50 a month or more had gone up from 257,225 to 391,000, and the percentage had risen from 23-1 per cent to 32-9 per cent. The number of those paying rents of $60 a month or more had gone up from 162,885 to 272,000, with a percentage increase from 14-6 per cent to 22-9 per cent.
In the case of Manitoba, those paying rents of $50 per month or more stood at 12,235 in 1951 or 23-3 per cent of the total, and that figure had gone up to 17,000 or 27-7 per cent *of the total by September, 1953.
In the case of Manitoba those paying $60 a month or more stood at 6,970 in 1951 or a percentage of 13-3 per cent. That figure went up to 11,000 in September, 1953, or a percentage of 18 per cent. As I said before, there are no figures as yet for Winnipeg for September, 1953, but by looking at the increases that have taken place over Canada as a whole and the increases that took place for Manitoba as a whole it is safe to assume that in the case of Winnipeg as at September, 1953, 34 or 35 per cent of the heads of households paying rent were paying $50 a month or more and 20 to 21 per cent were paying rents of $60 per month or more.
I would be the first to admit that some of these people paying these high rents are doing so by choice and for one reason or another do not wish to own their own homes. But there is no doubt in my mind, and my real estate friends back home agree with me, that great numbers of these people paying these high rents would rather be purchasing homes at monthly figures similar to the examples given to the minister yesterday.
Yesterday the minister gave examples to underline the virtues of this legislation, as he sees it, and most of the examples he gave

were in the $50 bracket. But I suggest it is ridiculous that we should have legislation which provides for the purchase of a home at monthly payments in the $50 bracket while its provisions are not available to many persons who are having to pay $60, $70, $80, $90 and $100 a month rent. It is surely adding insult to injury to tell these people who are having to pay rents as high as $80 and $90 a month or more that their income is not sufficient to make it possible for them to undertake the ownership of a home at monthly payments of between $50 and $60 a month.
These three stumbling blocks in this legislation which I have presented are in my view stumbling blocks which stand in the way of this legislation being of any help to the average person, let alone to little people, in the matter of home purchasing. I would strongly urge that consideration be given by the committee that will deal with this legislation to these three stumbling blocks. Three things that must be done are: First, bring down the rate of interest; second, bring down the amount of the down payment and even consider in the case of moderate priced homes for low income families the suggestion made by President Eisenhower's committee of a program involving no down payment; and finally, reduce the amount of income one is required to have in order to become a home owner, so that we do not have the ridiculous situation whereby people paying $80 a month rent are being told they cannot afford to pay for a home at $50 or $55 per month.
I have one or two other suggestions to make as to the shortcomings in this legislation. It seems to me the time has come in this country to consider the principle of open-end mortgages whereby people who have bought homes can get additional money on a mortgage later on after it has been reduced at the same terms that originally applied for the purpose of home improvements or other necessary purchases.
Similarly, I think consideration should be given to the problem of major appliances. In a modern home the heating plant is considered to be a part of that home in this country, but the day has come when an electric stove and a refrigerator are also part of the equipment of a modern home. Many a family that is otherwise able to take on the obligations of purchasing a home under the National Housing Act finds itself strapped because it has not the money to get started with a stove, refrigerator and the other major items that are necessary at the beginning. It is possible for builders to purchase some of

these articles of equipment wholesale or in large lots and get them at less than the retail price, and it seems to me that provision should be made for including some of these articles in the purchase price of a home, and that lending arrangements made in connection with that purchase price should include these essential articles.
Not until consideration is given to matters such as these, which affect ordinary people who desire home ownership, is there room for all the boasting and prating we have had in the house, particularly from the other side.
There are still other shortcomings in the government's proposals. The minister was proud of the fact that he is lengthening the amortization period, and we are glad he is doing so. I took occasion to point out during the election campaign last summer the manner in which the government seemed to be stealing parts of our housing platform. We had, in the main, adopted three points: first, the lowering of the down payment; second, the lengthening of the amortization period; and third, lowering of the interest rates. Reports were leaking out during the election campaign to the effect that the government was going to do something about lowering down payments and about lengthening the amortization period. The only complaint I had about that type of thieving, that stealing of our planks, was that the government did not steal all three of our points and decrease the interest rate as well. As someone is saying behind me, they failed to steal the most important plank in our platform.
But what I intended to say on this point was that any pride the minister has in the fact he has lengthened the amortization period is, I believe, washed out by the type of figure he was yesterday put in the position of having to give to the house. He pointed out that under the present rate of interest on joint loans of 5\ per cent the lengthening of the amortization period to 25 years is going to save the borrower or home purchaser 73 cents per month per $1,000. That is before the rate of interest goes up from 5J per cent to 5| per cent or whatever the increase might be. It appears to me that the increased rate of interest and the increased cost of homes is going to wash out for most people any advantage that accrues from the lengthening of the amortization period so far as monthly payments are concerned.
I suggest, Mr. Speaker, that if that is the case, and if the anticipated advantages of the government's own legislation are going to be washed out by the increased rate of
National Housing Act
interest and the increase in the cost of homes, it is high time the whole proposal was further reviewed.
I need not take much time on one or two other points which have been adequately covered by my colleagues who have already spoken, but I would like to say in passing that we in this group deplore the way in which the government is moving in respect to the provision of money for homes. For some time now we have had part I of the National Housing Act, and we have had joint loans with government money being put in along with the money of the life insurance companies or the lending institutions. That is now being taken away. In other words we are having a retreat from the idea of joint loans into a situation where private enterprise, private lending institutions, are to take over, for all practical purposes, the whole field, at least so far as individual homes are concerned. I noted with some interest that even the hon. member for Eglinton (Mr. Fleming), despite the fact that the Tory party declared at the start of this session that they were going to be more ardent advocates of private enterprise than in the past, also deplored the retreat of the government from the principle of joint loans.
Whatever thinking may be going on in the mind of the hon. member for Eglinton, at any rate we greatly dislike the idea of moving in that direction.
Comments have already been made by members of our group as to the idea of making use of the banks. If the government wishes to have the banks used in that way, we see no serious objection; but we point out that in effect that is giving over to private enterprise the whole field of lending for houses without any suggestion of the kind of interest rates that would make housing possible for average and middle income people. This is simply a denial on the part of the Canadian government of social responsibility in the field of housing.
We feel the same way about this business of insuring mortgages. Again the borrower is being asked to pay the shot. The borrower is having a sum added to what he must pay. Is it for his own protection? No; it is to protect the money lender against default, either by the borrower in case there is something in his own experience over which he has no control or in case there is a depression and the value of homes goes down to the point that it is less than the amount that would still be owing on a mortgage. In other words, out of this legislation the banks are getting not only a new field for investment, underwritten, guaranteed and

National Housing Act
protected at public expense, but as well they are getting insurance against a depression, to be paid for by the people who purchase these homes. Mr. Speaker, with respect to the National Housing Act as we had it before, we have said time and time again that it was not an act to get homes built for people who needed them but was primarily an act to help out the lending institutions. The leopard has not changed its spots. This legislation is just like the legislation we had before. The banks have been substituted for the insurance companies in actual practice, but it is still legislation which helps people get homes if they could have got them anyway, and it makes things bright and rosy for the banks, which are the major lending institutions under this new legislation.
The other major fault with this legislation, in our view, is that it makes no improvement in the section having to do with low-rental housing. As I have already said, we feel strongly that every encouragement should be given in this country to the idea of home ownership. I hope I have made my points in connection with that matter as strongly as possible, having regard to the importance we attach to them. But it is still true that there are many people whose occupations require them to move around. It is still true that there is needed a great deal of rental housing in this country. Most of the people who require rental housing are in average or below average income brackets. My friend the hon. member for "Winnipeg South (Mr. Trainor) is interjecting to say that I have already suggested that there is too much of rental housing. That is perfectly true. I thought I had made it clear just now that our first choice is that there should be home ownership and that we want to encourage the possibility of home ownership for middle, average and even lower than average income people. But there are those whose jobs are such that they cannot be sure they will stay in one place for any extended period of time and for whom rental housing seems to be the only solution. It so happens that most of those people are also the people whose incomes are in the middle or lower than middle brackets, and the only possible solution for them is a low-rental housing program with an element of subsidy in it, to make possible decent housing for them.
I know that some of the private enterprisers in this house-and the place is full of them-who listen to what I am saying will be thinking, in their own minds, that these people over here in the C.C.F. group want public money to go into housing in the form of a subsidy; and that is something which
[Mr. Knowles.l
is anathema, as I say, to many of the private enterprisers in this house. But we take the position that you mark a society's progress by the extent to which it accepts social responsibility for those things which are vital to the life and the well-being of its people. In our view housing is just as important as are education, roads and many other services which we have agreed are a public and social responsibility rather than an individual matter. With all that is in us we deplore the idea that some children are born into this world, in this country of ours, to live in poor, inadequate slum homes whereas other children, who are equally Canadians, are born to enjoy better housing. Just as we have accepted the principle that every child in this country is entitled to the best education the country can provide, we say that the time has come when every child born in this country is entitled to be born into and to live in a good home. We know of no way in which public money could be better spent than by channelling it into ways that will provide for better homes for our children. In our view, Mr. Speaker, the legislation now before us is woefully inadequate. It does not meet the tests which housing legislation in 1954 should meet for the Canadian people.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to say a few words with regard to housing. It is not often that I have had the opportunity of congratulating the minister. I looked through this bill carefully to see if there was not, somewhere in it, something on which I would be able to congratulate the minister, and I found one. I should not say that I found it in the bill, Mr. Speaker; I found it in the minister's quotations when he was speaking. The thing on which I think I should congratulate the minister on this occasion is that at last he has recognized the need for further development in our housing so that those people with small incomes will be able to become possessors of homes. I also think he is right in taking the view that something should be done in the field of credit expansion so that our national resource of homes may be developed without undue interference with the industrial development of this country because, in my judgment, there is room for both developments. The view is prevalent that there is a need for credit expansion in this country. If that expansion is necessary for developing more homes, then it should be provided for. I do not think that we have reached the period in our development when industrial development

either has expanded to the extent that it should reach. I think the two can run along hand in hand.
After having congratulated the minister in that respect, Mr. Speaker, may I speak for a moment about the need for homes; and in this view I think the minister and I are in accord. There is a great need in Canada for homes for those people in the low income groups. Like my friend the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles), I am more concerned with those people in the low-income groups than I am with those people who have a sufficiently large income to build houses of their own or to take advantage of the housing legislation as it existed in the past. In the early part of this session and in the last session I have said that people with sufficient income have no difficulty in procuring houses under the National Housing Act. Those people whose incomes are not sufficiently high to meet the requirements of Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation for loans are the ones who are in need of assistance.
The dominion bureau of statistics has stated that 75 per cent of the people of Canada earn less than $3,000 per year. This is an extremely low income to apply to 75 per cent of our population. If that is true, then I think I am safe in saying that about 50 per cent of our people earn less than $1,500 per year. How are people in that financial category going to be able to take advantage of the legislation as it existed last year or as it will exist under Bill No. 102? It just cannot be done.
In his speech the other day the minister stated that on a $10,000 house with a lending value of $8,000, the down payment would be $1,400. I say that if the statement of the dominion bureau of statistics is true, then only 50 per cent of the people in Canada can take advantage of that.


Would the hon. member permit a question?


Yes.


The hon. member is using the particular statistic put out by the dominion bureau of statistics as an indication that 75 per cent of the persons available for work in Canada get less than $3,000 per year. The statistic does not say that at all.


I was not referring to the unemployed at all. The hon. member is referring to people who are not available for work.


No; the statistic you are using includes in it all persons who earned
National Housing Act
money at any time during the year. For instance, students are included in it if they worked any part of the year.


I think that is a minor consideration because if you take the students out of it entirely the position is practically the same.


No, it is not.


Let us take the general, over-all picture. I am not going to argue with the hon. member for Ottawa West (Mr. Mcllraith) whether their income is down or up $100. The over-all picture is the same, and that is as the dominion bureau of statistics states it.


That is my point: it is as the dominion bureau of statistics states it and not as the hon. member states it.


I shall let you argue that with the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Winters). When the minister was speaking not long ago to the appraisal institute of Canada, he made this statement. The hon. member can argue this with him. The statement appears in a press dispatch of Thursday, April 2, 1953:
Mr. Winters said that not more than one-third of Canada's families could afford new houses- either to rent or to own.
Do you agree with that statement? The hon. member for Ottawa West makes no reply.


He makes no reply because he knows the bureau of statistics statement, but not the other one.


I do not want to get the hon. member into an argument with the Minister of Public Works because I think the minister would wipe the floor with him. I agree with the minister. Then, he goes on to say:
But if enough new houses were not found, he stated, it would affect the people at the bottom of the scale-people who were living in dilapidated and obsolescent houses.
That bears out almost word for word what the dominion bureau of statistics has said, so I take it that what the minister has said is quite correct.


It is.


Then, you have changed your mind in the last few seconds.


No, I have not. I was just trying to point out to the hon. member, as I am sure he wishes me to do, that he was not using the dominion bureau of statistics statement exactly as it was put out. If he will

National Housing Act
just read the item as it was put out, and put it on the record that way, we will be in complete agreement.


The hon. member can put any interpretation on it he likes, but the dominion bureau of statistics statement still stands as it is.


Get some houses for Ottawa instead of patting the government on the back.


A while ago I congratulated the minister when I said I thought he recognized the problem in this country by stating that two-thirds of our families are just not in a financial position to own or rent homes. Then, let us do something about it. Perhaps the minister is in hope, I am sure he is, that this new bill will take care of that problem. I am afraid he is going to be disappointed.
When the minister was speaking the other day he indicated the number of new houses that had been built year by year. When he was speaking on December 16, I think the figures were different slightly from those in his last speech, but not materially. He said that starts in 1950 were 95,000; 1951, 74,000; 1952, 84,000. At that time, he did not have the estimates for 1953, but I think it is about 100,000. He hopes in 1954-I think I am correct in this and I am sure he will correct me if I am wrong-there will be about 105,000 new starts.


I made no prediction, Mr. Speaker. I said there were about 105,000 starts in 1953.


Then, the minister is not sure what this new legislation is going to do.


You are not, either.


No, I am not. The only thing I am sure about is that it is not going to be any better. It probably is not going to meet the expectations of the Minister of Public Works, but it may meet your expectations. I do not know what they are. I have not heard you express them. You should get up and speak on this subject.


I will.


Then, the people of Vancouver will know you are here.


Do not mention Vancouver, say Burnaby.


Where is that? In the past I have been somewhat critical of Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation, but not of the individuals concerned. As I

have said, it is too big a job, it is too scattered for any centralized organization in Ottawa. I have suggested a plan, and I shall repeat it later, how that can be overcome.
One of the great faults I have found with the government-built homes has been the inspection. I believe that is where the whole plan falls down. I am not blaming particular individuals in the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation. Probably they try to do the best they can. How is it possible for a central organization in Ottawa to scatter its work all over the Dominion of Canada and expect to have proper home inspection? It just cannot be done, and it never has been done. A few good homes have been built; I am not contradicting that for a moment. It depends entirely on the local contractor. If he is an honest fellow you will get a good house. In the last few years I have seen some good houses built under Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation, but I have seen a lot of poor ones. In almost every case it comes down to poor inspection.
I am not going to go over the question of poor inspection again. I have gone over it so thoroughly on many other occasions, I am sure the minister knows exactly what I mean. I believe the federal government should get away from this attempt at trying to build houses. I shall give my alternative proposal later.
Under Bill 102 in which the minister is putting so much hope there are two main provisions. The first is that it is going to widen the group of lending institutions to include the chartered banks and the Quebec savings banks. The second is that it will abandon joint loans and substitute insured loans. Probably the minister hopes that it will result in the chartered banks extending credit-and, to a degree, it will. The minister said certain things about the principle of mortgage insurance, as reported at page 998 of Hansard-and I shall read his words now because I do not wish to misrepresent his views. This is what he said:
Under the proposed amendments Central Mortgage will have the power to buy insured mortgages from approved lenders.
And later:
-it is proposed to make insured mortgages eligible security for Bank of Canada advances to chartered banks, as is the present position in respect to government bonds.
In his speech he gave the impression-at least I thought he did-that the people's savings which are deposited in the chartered banks are now going to be used for home building. This cannot be true, because the banks do not lend people's savings directly.

What is going to happen? I said a while ago that this would result in the expansion of credit; and so it will. What is going to happen is that when Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation accepts these insured loans they will be accepted by the chartered banks, and then the chartered banks will use this as eligible security to deposit in the Bank of Canada, where they will be given further credit advances.
When the bank then makes a loan it is an issue of new credit; it is not using the people's savings at all. So the hon. member for Bur-naby-Coquitlam (Mr. Regier) when speaking the other day was, I think, quite wrong when he suggested they were going to use the people's savings for this purpose. That will not be done; it is purely a matter of credit expansion.
One of the particular faults I find with this measure is this. If we are going to use the chartered banks for the purpose of credit expansion, why do we not avoid them and use the Bank of Canada for the same purpose? I shall show later on how I think that can be done.
There is in the bill a provision whereby the down payment will be lessened to a degree, and this may be of some assistance. But, as I said a moment ago, 50 per cent of our people receive less than $1,500 a year. According to the minister's own figures, two-thirds of the people of Canada cannot afford either to own or to rent homes.
If we are both correct-and I think we are -that means that the down payment must be brought down to a point much lower than it was under the old legislation. But that is not going to be done. The down payment of 20 per cent is going to be reduced to 10 per cent. It is to be 90 per cent of the first $8,000 and 70 per cent of the balance of the lending value. In other words, on a $10,000 house, on which the lending value is $8,000, the down payment is to be $1,400 where it used to be $2,000.
Of course, that is a fallacy; you cannot build a home for $10,000. Indeed, the minister himself recognizes that and is prepared to raise the $10,000 to $12,500 or possibly $13,000. I think that is a good thing, because you cannot build much of a home for $10,000.
On his own statement the $8,000 loan would require a down payment of $1,400, representing a reduction of $600. How many people in the bracket to which the minister referred, and to which I, too, have been referring, have the $1,400 required for a down payment? If we are going to attempt
National Housing Act
to improve housing conditions for those people to whom both of us have referred, this legislation cannot possibly do it, without some further adjustment. It just cannot be done.
The income requirements as indicated under the old act are not being changed in this one. There is no change in the 23 per cent relationship between gross income and the monthly payment. That is not being changed; it is being left as it was. And because of that these people are just not going to be able to afford that high monthly payment. In my view that payment is altogether too high.
The bill incorporates the new principle of the single insurance premium on three types of homes, namely home ownership, rentals and conversions. By issuing this insurance premium it is expected by the government that lenders will be more ready to extend loans than they were before. I do not think this will prove to be so. It may result in the chartered banks, which are being brought into the picture, making loans in addition to what was done before. Because of that factor more money will be spe